15-11-2021||India||PM to hand over light combat helicopter to IAF on Nov 19||NEW DELHI Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on November 19 hand over locally produced military hardware, including light combat helicopters (LCHs), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and electronic warfare systems for warships, to the armed forces at a function in Jhansi as part of celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s independence, highlighting the government’s focus on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. The PM will hand over the LCH, designed and developed by state-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, and UAVs manufactured by local startups to army chief General MM Naravane, the defence ministry said in a statement on Monday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the three-day event on November 17. “LCH incorporates advanced technologies and stealth features and is designed to carry out roles such as destruction of enemy air defence, counter insurgency, search and rescue and anti-tank operations. It is the only attack helicopter in the world which can land and take-off at an altitude of 5,000 m with considerable load of weapons and fuel,” the statement said. HAL has not yet got the LCH contract from the defence ministry for supplying the helicopters to the IAF and army, but that has not stopped it from manufacturing the helicopters and delivering them to the two services. Its handing over to IAF indicates the contract will be signed soon. HAL is awaiting a contract for 15 limited series production (LSP) helicopters and expects follow-on orders as the IAF and the army have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs. Of the initial 15 LSP helicopters approved for purchase by the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex defence procurement body – 10 are for IAF and five for the army. Modern Indian warships, including the indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant, will be equipped with the indigenous electronic warfare suite, marking a big step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, the ministry said. The PM will also on November 19 lay the foundation stone of a new ₹400-crore facility of Bharat Dynamics Ltd in the Jhansi node of the UP defence industrial corridor where the public sector firm will manufacture propulsion systems for anti-tank guided missiles. The facility is expected to provide direct employment to 150 people and indirect employment to 500 people. The PM’s participation in the event and his handing over the locally developed military equipment to the armed forces is a message to the world and the country that “we have taken giant steps towards self-reliance in defence,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). The government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence manufacturing sector through a slew of policy decisions including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware. India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in the last two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. The line-up of events in Jhansi includes the PM dedicating to the country 100 new Sainik Schools that will be set up across India over the next two years, and he will also launch the National Cadets Corps (NCC) alumni association. The PM, a former NCC cadet, will be inducted as the first member of the association, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-hand-over-light-combat-helicopter-to-iaf-on-nov-19-101637000602658.html
15-11-2021||India||FIR against 9 in Gujarat for ‘converting’ over 100 tribals to Islam, say police||An FIR was registered against nine persons, including a local man currently living in London, for allegedly luring tribals from a village in Gujarat’s Bharuch district to convert them to Islam using funds collected abroad, police said on Monday.Over 100 tribals from 37 families of the “Vasava Hindu” community, all residents of Kankariya village in Amod taluka of the Bharuch district, were made to change their faith by offering them money and through other allurements, an Amod police station official said.“The accused persons took advantage of the weak economic condition and illiteracy among the members of the tribal community to lure them into conversion to Islam over a long period,” the official said. Almost all the nine accused are local residents barring one who is currently residing in London and identified as Fefdawala Haji Abdul, who collected funds from abroad for the purpose, he said.“The illegal religious conversion activity by Muslim fundamentalists using funds collected from abroad was going on for a long time at the village. The accused persons lured the Vasava Hindu community members by offering them money and other help to convert them fraudulently to Islam by entering into a criminal conspiracy hatched to spread animosity between members of two communities and affect peace,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-9-in-gujarat-for-converting-over-100-tribals-to-islam-say-police-101637000303240.html
15-11-2021||India||FIRs filed against AISA, ABVP day after clash at JNU||A day after clashes broke out between the members of the All India Students Association (AISA) and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on the JNU campus, Delhi Police has registered two FIRs based on the complaints of the two groups on Monday.The FIRs were registered after the two groups complaint against each other following a brawl over using of the students union's room inside the university for a meeting, reported news agency ANI.On Monday, JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh alleged that it is not a clash between two groups, but an assault by the ABVP activists.Narrating the incident, Ghosh said, "A group in the university had booked the students union hall for study purpose on November 11. On Sunday, when the group opened the room, the members of ABVP barged into the room and told the group to vacate the room as they had an internal meeting organised here. When the group objected and I reached there, they started assaulting students who were present there. This is not a clash between two groups, but an assault by the ABVP."Meanwhile, condemning the violence on the campus, the JNU administration, in a press release, said that violence has no place in an academic institution.The press release said, "It has come to the notice of JNU administration that last night some scuffle between two groups of students occurred at the Students Activity Centre in the campus. The students are aware that this venue in the JNU Campus is a common activity/facility Centre for all the students of the University without discrimination, and every student is entitled and free to use the place adhering to the rules of the University. Violence and unruly behaviour have no place in an academic institution, and JNU Administration would strongly disapprove of any kind of violence and disorderly conduct in the campus.""The students are advised to use the common facilities available for them in JNU with a sense of cordiality and responsibility, and in harmony with each other. Nobody should be allowed to disturb the peaceful existence and functioning of others. JNU administration requests all the students not to go by any rumours that may affect the peaceful academic atmosphere in the campus," reads the statement.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firs-filed-against-aisa-abvp-day-after-clash-at-jnu-101636996840603.html
15-11-2021||India||Ahmedabad bans sale of non-veg food items on roads, near schools||Ahmedabad has become the latest city in Gujarat to raise concerns regarding non-vegetarian items being sold on the streets. Stalls selling such items have been banned along public roads and in the 100-metre radius of schools, colleges and religious places, news agency ANI reported.“The execution (of the order) will start tomorrow,” Devang Dani, chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s town planning committee said.Meanwhile, Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel said that the prohibition is not a “question of vegetarian and non-vegetarian” items. “People are free to eat whatever they want. But the food being sold at stalls should not be harmful and the stalls should not obstruct traffic flow,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.
15-11-2021||India||Coimbatore recorded best AQI in past 24 hrs, while this city in Haryana beat Delhi in worst AQI. Check full list||Several Indian cities, especially in the northern parts of the country, are currently feeling the double whammy of mounting air pollution and the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Delhi has consistently been choking in extremely poor air quality. The seriousness of the condition led chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to announce closure of schools, and also 100 per cent work from home in all government offices for a week.The capital’s neighbouring state Haryana has also decided to shut all schools in four districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonipat, till November 17 due to rising pollution levels in the National Capital Region (NCR).The category in which a city’s AQI lies is recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to it, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered to be ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The central department releases 24-hour data on the AQIs recorded by Indian cities every day.List of five cities/towns that recorded the best AQIs in the ‘good’ category in the last 24 hours:1. Coimbatore, Chennai at 182. Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh at 193. Bagalkot, Karnataka at 234. Medikeri, Karnataka at 245. Gadag, Karnataka and Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh at 26List of five cities/towns that recorded the worst AQIs in ‘very poor’ category in the last 24 hours:1. Narnaul, Haryana at 3592. Delhi and Kota, Rajasthan at 3533. Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh at 3514. Jind, Haryana at 3505. Udaipur, Rajasthan at 348||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-delhi-but-this-city-in-haryana-recorded-the-worst-aqi-in-past-24-hours-101636995948718.html
15-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Nov 16, 2019 - Longest bad air spell 2 years, SC seeks answers||People in Delhi breathed ‘severely’ polluted air for the fourth day on Friday, braving the longest spell of hazardous air quality in two years as officials grappled with a crisis that seemed immune to any of their interventions – with a change in weather conditions now being seen as the only hope.The Supreme Court pulled up the governments of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to explain why efforts such as a ban on burning crop residue and odd even vehicle rationing did not help, and ordered scientists to consider installing air purification towers.“Delhi is suffering badly. The AQI inside the room is above 600 today. Outside the room, it is worse. How do people breathe?” the bench comprising justices Arun Mishra and Deepak Gupta said during a hearing when they also ordered authorities in the national capital to clean up the 13 pollution hot spots within a week.The judges also recorded in their order that the Delhi government’s odd-even scheme barely had any impact on the high pollution levels in the Capital, and asked the Aam Aadmi Party government to submit a detailed affidavit underlining what measures it can take further.The hearing came on a day when predictions that pollution would decrease due to a pick-up in wind speed failed to materialise, and pollution forecasters said the situation may not increase by much over the weekend.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the air quality index in Delhi on Friday was 458 – close to Thursday’s 463 and Wednesday’s 456. A number in the 401-500 range is considered severe and the conditions also fulfilled the ‘emergency’ criteria as concentrations of particulate matter crossed the 300μg/m3 (PM2.5) and 500μg/m3 (PM10) thresholds.Such levels are considered hazardous for vulnerable people such as children and the elderly, who run the risk of developing serious respiratory conditions from long exposure. The Delhi government’s counsel, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said odd-even curbs will be more effective without the current list of exemptions but added that it was not possible since public transport infrastructure was inadequate to cope with potential increase in commuters that will be caused if vehicles such as two-wheelers are included.“We are not asking you to stop them but just rationalise the vehicles,” the judges said, adding: “Odd-even is not a long-term solution to the problem. It cannot work with exemptions. Public transport services should be made better. But there hasn’t been much work towards it,” the bench said.The bench also took on record a note submitted by member secretary of CPCB stating 28% of pollution in Delhi was due to vehicular emissions, of which 8% was from trucks, 7% from two wheelers, 3% by three-wheelers, 3% by cars and 1% by low commercial vehicles (LCV).“In cities where odd-even worked, there were no exceptions,” the bench, also hearing a PIL against the Delhi government’s odd-even scheme, said.Justice Gupta gave Italy’s example and said: “There is no exemption under the scheme in Italy and whenever odd-even is notified, public transport is made free for all citizens.”The judges asked the chief secretaries of Delhi and adjoining states to appear on November 25, the second time the top bureaucrats have been summoned to appear personally. The move came after it was told that farm fires had not stopped since the last hearing.The court also directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee to enforce a ban on trucks and three-wheelers running on polluting fuel. “In case it’s found that polluting fuel is used, not only the owner but officials will also be liable,” the judge said, seeking a report in seven days. The bench will hear the matter on November 29.The court also asked IIT Bombay to prepare a road map on the installation of smoke towers, a suggestion that was made by the court in the last hearing. A professor from the institute present in the court said research is underway to install machines that can clear air up to one kilometre. But the bench asked him to look at “bigger machines” that have a range of 10km. The court also said there shall be no trial of the machines and they should be installed directly. The bench gave seven days to IIT Bombay for submitting the road map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisdaynov-16-2019-longest-bad-air-spell-2-years-sc-seeks-answers-101636996462883.html
15-11-2021||India||Senior diplomat Vinay Kumar named India’s envoy to Myanmar||Vinay Kumar, a seasoned diplomat who earlier served as the envoy to Afghanistan, was named India’s new ambassador to Myanmar on Monday.Kumar, an Indian Foreign Service officer of the 1992 batch, is currently an additional secretary in the external affairs ministry. He is expected to take up his new assignment shortly, according to an official statement.He will replace Saurabh Kumar as the ambassador to Myanmar. Kumar’s appointment comes at a time when India is grappling with the fallout of the February 1 military coup in Myanmar, including implications for security in the country’s northeastern states.Kumar, a graduate of IIT-Kharagpur, served as India’s ambassador in Kabul during 2018-20. He also did a stint as joint secretary (South) in the external affairs ministry and in India’s permanent mission to the UN in New York.India has expressed concern at the escalating situation and continued instability in Myanmar and said it will continue to support efforts aimed at restoring the democratic process in the wake of the military coup.In recent years, India forged strong relations with both the civilian government and the military in Myanmar, largely because of security concerns related to militant groups from the northeastern states, some of which were active in the neighbouring country. Following the coup, India has expressed concern at the violence in Myanmar but stopped short of severely criticising the junta because of worries that taking a strong position could push the military closer to China. India has also backed the efforts of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to address the situation in Myanmar.The situation in Myanmar figured at both the East Asia Summit and India-Asean Summit last month, and New Delhi said it would continue to support efforts aimed at the restoration of peace and democratic process in the neighbouring country.India also contributed medical supplies worth $200,000 to Asean’s humanitarian initiative for Myanmar....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-diplomat-vinay-kumar-named-india-s-envoy-to-myanmar-101636995083790.html
15-11-2021||India||‘Want benefits to reach children’: SC nudges Centre, states on PM CARES scheme||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday gave the central and state governments two weeks to report the status of relief granted to children orphaned due to Covid-19 under the PM CARES for Children Scheme after being told that the district magistrates concerned have received 4,148 applications and approved 1,719 requests for coverage under the scheme.“We want to see benefits reach the children. Till now we are just groping in the dark,” the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, directing the Centre to file an affidavit providing details of steps taken under the scheme and the information on the educational status of these children. The bench also ordered the district magistrates and collectors to ascertain the educational status of all children who are eligible for benefits under the PM CARES scheme.The top court’s direction came on a follow-up hearing on a suo moto (of its own accord) petition where the court is considering relief for children who were in need of care and protection on account of Covid-19. The court will take up the case next on December 13.Lawyer Gaurav Agrawal, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae (literally, a friend of the court) complained that no information was available about the children who benefitted from the scheme though it was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 29 May.The PM CARES for Children scheme provided for the grant of educational facilities to children who lost both or single parent/guardian due to Covid-19. The children were also entitled to funding to meet expenses for their education, uniform, books along with health insurance cover under Ayushman Bharat till the age of 18 years. When the children turn 18, they will be entitled to a monthly stipend and will get access to a fund of ₹10 lakh when they attain the age of 23 years. The scheme will also cover the interest burden of an education loan for higher studies of the beneficiary.The bench also considered the plight of street children and directed states to provide information about such children to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on its Bal Swaraj website where a separate link has been created for “Children in Street Situation.”Agrawal said information on the educational status of these children was necessary as the scheme promises benefits over the long run.The bench agreed. “It is the duty of states, especially when money is not paid by them, to identify and provide assistance to these children. The District Education Officer should also inform if there are children who have dropped out of school due to financial distress,” the court observed, asking the states to provide this information within two weeks.Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre said, earlier told the court that out of 4,148 applications received till Sunday, 1,719 have been approved by the district magistrates concerned. She added that bank accounts have also been opened in the names of these children. “If the children have attained 18 years, the account will be opened in their name and if not, a joint account will be opened along with the district officer concerned,” Bhati added.In an affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, NCPCR said the commission has directed states and union territories to share information with regard to street children who are either stay alone or with families on the streets or spend the day on streets while returning in the evening to their families in slums/hutments.Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj appearing, for the commission said, “The number of children in street situation could be to the tune of 15-16 lakh in the country.”A recent survey conducted by the non-profit Save the Children found 73,128 street children in Delhi and 52,426 such children in Mumbai. The survey found over 2 lakh street children in 10 cities – Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nasik, Kolkata, Howrah, Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, and Chandauli, spread across four states, Natraj said.NCPCR recalled that the commission, in November 2020, prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the identification, rescue and rehabilitation of street children. The court directed the secretary of women and development departments in each state to be the nodal officers in implementing the SOP. “The process has to start with immediate action to be taken by DM/Collector for identification of children in street situation and provide information to NCPCR for later stages (specified on Bal Swaraj portal).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-benefits-to-reach-children-sc-nudges-centre-states-on-pm-cares-scheme-101636993422804.html
15-11-2021||India||Rajya Sabha secretariat clarifies Venakaiah Naidu’s absence from Nehru’s birth anniversary event||The Rajya Sabha secretariat on Monday issued a clarification regarding the absence of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu from the event to celebrate former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary, a day after the Congress party criticised it. The secretariat said that the Vice President does not attend ceremonies in the Parliament’s central hall as a “matter of convention.”“Vice President never attends such ceremonies organized in the Central Hall of Parliament as a matter of convention,” news agency ANI reported citing the Rajya Sabha secretariat. The office also said that reports suggesting that Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu skipped the event were “misleading” and highlighted that he had paid his tributes to Nehru on the day.“It was misleading to suggest that Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu skipped the ceremony on Nov 14. The misleading reports have caused deep distress to the Vice President. He was out of Delhi yesterday and paid tributes to the former PM Jawaharlal Nehru,” ANI reported quoting the secretariat.Also read | No minister present at Nehru anniversary event at Parliament, complains CongressHowever, on Sunday, Naidu tweeted his message on the birth anniversary of Nehru. “My tributes to the former Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary today. He will be always remembered for his contribution to building a modern India,” he tweeted.Earlier on Sunday, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh said that the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and ministers were not present during the event. “Extraordinary scene today in Parliament at the traditional function to mark the birth anniversary of those whose portraits adorn the Central Hall. Speaker Lok Sabha absent. Chairman Rajya Sabha absent. Not a single Minister present. Can it get more atrocious than this?!,” he tweeted.“Nothing surprises me anymore. This dispensation is destroying India’s great institutions, including #Parliament one day at a time,” Trinamool Congress parliamentarian Derek O’Brien had said, quoting Ramesh’s tweet.Meanwhile, several Congress leaders paid tributes to the former PM in the Parliament’s central hall on Sunday. “Parliamentarians paid floral tributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, first Prime Minister of India, in the Central Hall of Parliament House, on his Birth Anniversary today,” the Lok Sabha secretariat had tweeted, sharing a picture of the event. Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, party leaders Anand Sharma, KC Venugopal and some other leaders attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-secretariat-clarifies-venakaiah-naidu-s-absence-from-nehru-s-birth-anniversary-event-101636992580102.html
15-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Attack not on me but Hindu religion', says Salman Khurshid and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Attack not on me but on Hindu religion, says Salman Khurshid after house vandalisedFormer Union minister Salman Khurshid on Monday described as an attack ‘not on me but on Hindu religion,’ what he said was vandalisation of his house in Nainital, which took place in the backdrop of the ongoing controversy over his recent book, in which he equated Hindutva with terrorist groups such as the ISIS and Boko Haram. Read more‘Cryptocurrency cannot be stopped but must be regulated’, concludes Parliamentary Standing CommitteeAt the meeting on crypto convened by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, the various stakeholders reportedly came to the conclusion that “cryptocurrency cannot be stopped” but it has to be “regulated”, government sources told reporters on Monday. Read more'He knows exactly what he needs to do' - KL Rahul on Hardik Pandya's exclusion from T20I series against New ZealandAmong notable absentees from the T20I squad named, for the impending three-match series against New Zealand at home, is all-rounder Hardik Pandya, who was part of the T20 World Cup squad. However, vice-captain KL Rahul feels that Hardik is a "smart cricketer" and that he knows how he can make a comeback into the squad for the next series. Read moreRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa are married, share first pics as husband and wife; Priyanka Chopra cannot stop cryingActors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa are married after dating each other for 11 years. The couple tied the knot in Chandigarh on Monday. Read moreMenopause can cause depression. Here are symptoms to watch out forMenopause is the time that marks the end of your menstrual cycle and occurs after you don't get periods for 12 months. A transformative time for women, it usually happens between mid 40s to early 50s. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-attack-not-on-me-but-hindu-religion-says-salman-khurshid-and-all-the-latest-news-101636989409521.html
15-11-2021||India||Purvanchal Expressway will be better than Yamuna E-way. UP govt explains how||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the Purvanchal Expressway, the Uttar Pradesh government promised it will be better than the Yamuna Expressway, currently used by thousands to travel from Noida (in Delhi-NCR) to Agra.The proposed 340km highway will be a boon for eastern Uttar Pradesh, bringing the remote areas of the region closer not only to the state capital but Delhi as well, a top UP government official said.“This will provide additional connectivity to the state capital Lucknow. It will be beneficial to farmers too, who will be able to bring their produce directly to the state capital,” said Awanish K Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Home), Uttar Pradesh.He also listed the features of the new proposed highway that makes it different from the Yamuna Expressway, which became operational in 2012.“Purvanchal Expressway's median is wider by 1 metre than the Yamuna Expressway. It will have CNG stations too,” said Awasthi, who is also the chairman of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), state government's agency responsible for expansion of the expressway programme.“The government is also planning to install charging stations for electric vehicles (EVs) in the future and will invite bids for the same,” he further said, adding that the regular public utilities like petrol pump and public toilets etc have also been planned.The government will also deploy cattle catching vehicles and ambulances (total 16) to cover the entire expressway, which will see regular patrolling by the police. It will also have industrial hubs on both sides, food processing units, handlooms and serve the planned defence corridor.Once the other two signature projects of the Yogi Adityanath government — Bundelkhand and Ganga expressways — are complete, UP will have a network of 1,788km of expressways, the highest in the country.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (Information), added that the total cost of the Purvanchal Expressway — ₹22,000 crore — has been borne by the state government and there is no central assistance. "We have taken loans from the banks," the IAS officer said.He added that the Purvanchal expressway will be connected to the Yamuna Expressway through an Outer Ring Road that is being planned.The Purvanchal Expressway originates from Chandsarai village near the Lucknow-Sultanpur highway. It passes through nine districts Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. It terminates at Haldaria village in Ghazipur district. The six-lane expressway will be expandable up to eight lanes. Once it is opened to the public, the travel time from Lucknow to Ghazipur will be reduced from six hours to 3.5 hours.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has termed the Purvanchal Expressway a highway of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purvanchal-expressway-will-be-better-than-yamuna-e-way-up-govt-explains-how-101636988265471.html
15-11-2021||India||Two terrorists killed in encounter in Srinagar’s Hyderpora: J&K police||Two unidentified terrorists have been killed in an encounter between police and security forces, and terrorists in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area, Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Monday.The encounter started at around 6.30pm and the tweet regarding the killing of the first terrorist came in at 6.35pm, while that of the second terrorist arrived at 8.25pm. “Further details shall follow,” the police added in its latest tweet.
15-11-2021||India||PM Modi to hand over light combat helicopter to IAF on November 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will handover locally produced military hardware, including the light combat helicopter (LCH), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and electronic warfare systems for warships, to the armed forces on November 19 at a function in Jhansi as part of celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s independence, highlighting the government’s focus on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. PM Modi will hand over the LCH, designed and developed by state-run plane-maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), to Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, and UAVs manufactured by local startups to army chief General MM Naravane, the defence ministry said in a statement on Monday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the three-day event on November 17.“LCH incorporates advanced technologies and stealth features and is designed to carry out roles such as destruction of enemy air defence, counter-insurgency, search and rescue and anti-tank operations. It is the only attack helicopter in the world which can land and take-off at an altitude of 5,000 m with a considerable load of weapons and fuel,” the statement said. The HAL has not yet got the LCH contract from the defence ministry for supplying the helicopters to the IAF and army, but that has not stopped it from manufacturing the helicopters and delivering them to the two services. Its handing over to IAF indicates the contract will be signed soon. The HAL is awaiting a contract for 15 limited series production (LSP) helicopters and expects follow-on orders as the IAF and the army have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs. Of the initial 15 LSP helicopters approved for purchase by the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex defence procurement body – 10 are for IAF and five for the army. Modern Indian warships, including the indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant, will be equipped with the indigenous electronic warfare suite, marking a big step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, the ministry said. On November 19, the PM will also lay the foundation stone of a new ₹400-crore facility of Bharat Dynamics Ltd in the Jhansi node of the UP defence industrial corridor where the public sector firm will manufacture propulsion systems for anti-tank guided missiles.The facility is expected to provide direct employment to 150 people and indirect employment to 500 people.The PM’s participation in the event and his handing over the locally developed military equipment to the armed forces is a message to the world and the country that “we have taken giant steps towards self-reliance in defence,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). The government is encouraging self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector through a slew of policy decisions, including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware.India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in the last two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The line-up of events in Jhansi includes the PM dedicating to the country 100 new Sainik Schools that will be set up across India over the next two years. He will also launch the National Cadets Corps (NCC) alumni association. The PM, a former NCC cadet, will be inducted as the first member of the association, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hand-over-light-combat-helicopter-to-iaf-on-november-19-101636987763657.html
15-11-2021||India||Attack not on me but on Hindu religion, says Salman Khurshid after house vandalised||Former Union minister Salman Khurshid on Monday described as an attack ‘not on me but on Hindu religion,’ what he said was vandalisation of his house in Nainital, which took place in the backdrop of the ongoing controversy over his recent book, in which he equated Hindutva with terrorist groups such as the ISIS and Boko Haram.Also Read | Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital vandalised amid book row“I've said in my book that people who do such things don't belong to Hindu religion. Hinduism is a beautiful religion that has given a fantastic culture to this country, and I'm proud of it. This attack is not on me, but on Hindu religion,” the Congress leader told news agency ANI. I've said (in my book) that people who do such things don't belong to Hindu religion. Hindu religion is a beautiful religion that has given a fantastic culture to this country & I'm proud of it. This attack is not on me but on Hindu religion: Congress leader Salman Khurshid pic.twitter.com/PPgnxXIo1wOn Monday, Khurshid took to Twitter and Facebook to share photos and videos from the incident. “I hoped to open these doors to my friends who have left this calling card. Am I still wrong to say this is not Hinduism?” he wrote on Facebook. https://t.co/olsAmUzebQ“This is disgraceful. @salman7khurshid is a statesman who has done India proud in international forums and always articulated a moderate, centrist, inclusive vision of the country domestically. The mounting levels of intolerance in our politics should be denounced by those in power,” fellow Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted. This is disgraceful. @salman7khurshid is a statesman who has done India proud in international forums &always articulated a moderate, centrist, inclusive vision of the country domestically. The mounting levels of intolerance in our politics should be denounced by those in power. https://t.co/OQFBoN1PgwThe police have booked a total of 21 people, including one Rakesh Kapil, in connection with the incident. “Strict action will be taken against the perpetrators,” ANI quoted Neelesh Anand, DIG (Kumaon) as saying.While leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological mentor, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), have condemned Khurshid's remarks, Congress leaders, too, have distanced themselves from him. Ghulam Nabi Azad said that comparison of Hindutva with jihadist ideology was ‘factually wrong and exaggerated.’ Harish Rawat, meanwhile, remarked that ‘wise men should avoid making such statements.’Salman Khurshid has drawn this analogy between Hindutva and ISIS-Boko Haram in his book ‘’Sunrise in Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times.' In it, he wrote that ‘classical Hinduism known to sages and saints is being pushed aside by robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years .’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-not-on-me-but-on-hindu-religion-says-salman-khurshid-after-house-vandalised-101636985081901.html
15-11-2021||India||Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital vandalised, 20 booked||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital’s Ramgarh was allegedly vandalised on Monday following controversy over his book in which he has compared Hindutva with terrorist groups Boko Haram and ISIS. The police have booked 20 people in the incident, officials said.Bhupinder Singh Dhoni, in charge of Bhowali police station in Nainital district said that the caretaker of Khurshid’s house in Ramgarh has filed a complaint. “According to the complaint, some people were protesting in front of Salman Khurshid’s house. One of them threw some inflammable material into the house due to which the wooden door caught fire. We are looking into the matter,” he said.Dhoni said they have booked 20 people in the matter, including one Rakesh Kapil and 19 unnamed.Dhoni said the accused have been booked under sections 147 (rioting), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also Read | Attack not on me but on Hindu religion, says Khurshid after house vandalisedSharing photos and videos of the incident on Twitter and Facebook, Salman Khurshid wrote, “I hoped to open these doors to my friends who have left this calling card. Am I still wrong to say this cannot be Hinduism?”Khurshid’s book ‘Sunrise over Ayodhya’, has sections wherein he compared Hindutva with terrorist groups Boko Haram and ISIS. In a chapter titled ‘The Saffron Sky’ in the newly launched book, Khurshid has written, “Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.”Saints and seers and many leaders in Uttarakhand have condemned the statements in Khurshid’s new book, some in Haridwar even sought an apology from the senior Congress leader.Congress national general secretary and former chief minister Harish Rawat on Friday said Khurshid should correct his statements and avoid making any such comparisons that strengthen venom spewing forces in the society. Rawat said, “This can be Salman Khurshid’s personal view but Congress and we all don’t agree with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-s-house-in-nainital-vandalised-amid-book-row-101636984641967.html
15-11-2021||India||‘Cryptocurrency cannot be stopped but must be regulated’, concludes Parliamentary Standing Committee||At the meeting on crypto convened by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, the various stakeholders reportedly came to the conclusion that “cryptocurrency cannot be stopped” but it has to be “regulated”, government sources told reporters on Monday.This is the first such meeting called by the Standing Committee, and it saw the participation of representatives of crypto exchanges, block chain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), among others. However, none of the stakeholders could decide on a regulator for the burgeoning crypto industry, in spite of agreeing that a regulatory mechanism was necessary.“There was a consensus that a regulatory mechanism should be put in place to regulate cryptocurrency. Industry associations and stakeholders were not clear as to who should be the regulator,” the source told news agency ANI.The panel, headed by Jayant Sinha, also discussed the importance of ensuring “security of investors’ money”, one member also expressed concern over the publication of full-page ads on cryptocurrencies that appear in national dailies.Sinha had said that the committee called “stakeholders from across the industry including operators of major exchanges, members of CII as well as academics from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad, who have done a very thorough study on the crypto finance.”The experts and academics from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad in the panel are reported to have “said that cryptocurrencies are some sort of investors' democracy”, sources said.Digital currencies have been creating ripples all over the world and the apex court of India had nullified a Reserve Bank of India circular banning cryptocurrencies.For their next step, the committee wants government officials to appear before it and address their remaining concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cryptocurrency-cannot-be-stopped-but-must-be-regulated-concludes-parliamentary-standing-committee-101636984162668.html
15-11-2021||India||Govt tweaks Fundamental Rules, clears path to extend tenure of ED, CBI chiefs||The Centre on Monday amended the Fundamental Rules to bring the rulebook in line with the two ordinances promulgated on Sunday to give the chiefs of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) an extended term of up to five years.The Fundamental Rules, an overarching set of rules, apply to all civilian government servants.Monday’s amendment to the rules was necessitated in view of the two ordinances signed off by President Ram Nath Kovind. The ordinances say that the CBI and ED directors can now get an extension of up to three more years beyond their fixed tenure of two years, one year at a time.ALSO READ | Terms of CBI, ED chiefs may be extended to five yearsMonday’s order, signed by department of personnel and training joint secretary Satyajit Mishra, said: “Provided also that the Central Government may, if it considers necessary in public interest so to do, give extension in service to the Defence Secretary, Home Secretary, Director of Intelligence Bureau, Secretary of Research and Analysis Wing and Director of Central Bureau of Investigation appointed under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) and Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement appointed under the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (45 of 2003) in the Central Government for such period or periods as it may deem proper on a case-to-case basis for reasons to be recorded in writing, subject to the condition that the total term of such Secretaries or Directors, as the case may be, who are given such extension in service under this rule, does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective Act or rules made thereunder, under which their appointments are made.”Under the existing provision of the Fundamental Rules first introduced in 2005, Union home secretary and defence secretary, and chiefs of CBI, Intelligence Bureau (IB), Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), are entitled to a maximum tenure of two years beyond their retirement age. For cabinet secretary, the upper age limit was set at 64 years.ALSO READ | Petitioner in case that led to min 2yr term for CBI chief upset over new ordinancesIn December 2010, the special provision enabling grant of the extension beyond the retirement age was extended to the foreign secretary also. An official statement issued on December 1, 2010 said, “This is in view of the assignment of Foreign Secretary having increasingly acquired critical dimensions from the national security and strategic perspective, and the need to ensure continuity and swiftness in the decision-making process.”Monday’s notification, however, did not mention the foreign secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-fundamental-rules-clears-path-to-extend-tenure-of-ed-cbi-chiefs-101636977054196.html
15-11-2021||India||2 Delhi-based journalists, arrested for social media post on Tripura violence, granted bail||A magistrate court in Tripura’s Gomati district, on Monday, granted bail to two Delhi-based journalists, arrested for their social media posts on the recent incidents of communal violence in the state. The two, Samriddhi Sakunia and Swarna Jha, were arrested by the Tripura police from a shelter home in Karimganj, Assam, during the early hours of the day, their employer had said.“The bail to the two female journalists has been granted on bail bond of ₹75,000 each. The court has asked them to appear before Kakraban Police Station where the case was registered. After questioning, they would be released,” news agency ANI quoted advocate Pijush Biswas, appearing for the duo, as saying.“Our reporters Ms Samriddhi Sakunia and Ms Swarna Jha have been arrested by Tripura Police today at around 12.55 AM from shelter home in Assam's Karimganj after securing their transit remand. They are being taken back to Tripura where they will be produced before Udaipur magistrate court,” HW News said in a tweet. “Senior Advocate Pijush Biswas shall be personally appearing for them on behalf of HW News Network. We are pressing for immediate bail and release of our journalists,” it further said.Also read | Two journalists reporting on Tripura violence arrestedOn Sunday, HW News said that the two journalists were served FIR by officials from the Fatikroy police station in Tripura after a complaint by a local VHP member for allegedly “maligning” the image of the state and the organisation. “However, after the due legal process, both the journalists were allowed to leave the hotel,” HW News said.The two were detained by the Assam police, on request by the Tripura Police, earlier on Sunday night on their way to Silchar airport, according to a report by news agency PTI. “We have been detained at the Nilambazar police station, Karimganj, Assam. We were informed by the officer in-charge of Nilambazar PS that SP of Gomti District gave the orders for our detention,” Sakunia tweeted on Sunday.Earlier on November 11, Sakunia shared a video of the mosque which was reportedly affected due to violence and tweeted, “Darga Bazaar: On 19th October at around 2:30 am, some unidentified people burnt down the mosque in Darga Bazaar area. People in the neighborhood are very upset with the fact that now they don't have any place nearby to go and pray There's no other masjid nearby.”However, VS Yadav, Director General of Police, Tripura, in a press release said that the posts by Sakunia were not true and promoted a sense of hatred between communities, according to a report by PTI.“In this social media post, she posted a video of her visit to the half burned prayer hall damaged by mischievous fire in the house of one Rahamat Ali of Hurijala, PS Kakraban on 11/11/2021 to claim that one holy Quran was burned in the incident occurred on the night of 19/10/2021 which refers to Kakraban PS Case No. 74/2021 U/S 436 IPC. This is contrary to the findings so far revealed in the course of investigation as the presence of no such damaged books/documents was brought to the notice of investigating officer and fire service staff who extinguished the fire,” PTI reported quoting an excerpt from the police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-delhi-based-journalists-arrested-for-social-media-post-on-ttripura-violence-granted-bail-101636981349545.html
15-11-2021||India||RSS worker’s two-wheeler rammed, stabbed to death in front of wife: Kerala cop||Thiruvananthapuram: An activist of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was repeatedly stabbed to death allegedly by workers of the Social Democratic Front of India (SDPI), the political wing of the Popular Front of India, in Elapully in Palakkad on Monday, police said. The incident took place on Monday morning when 27-year-old A Sanjith was travelling with his wife on a two-wheeler. The assailants, who were in a car, first rammed the motorcycle and when both fell on the road, they got out and repeatedly stabbed him in front of his wife. He died on way to the hospital. His wife suffered minor injuries in the fall.Palakkad superintendent of police R Viswanadh said a special investigation team has been constituted and police have some information about the assailants.He said the murder appeared to be a fallout of tension prevailing in the area between local RSS and SDPI workers. Police suspect that assailants slipped to neighbouring Tamil Nadu after the murder.BJP district president K M Haridas said it was a well-planned political murder. He said an attempt was made on Sanjith’s life in June last year.BJP state president K Surendran has condemned the murder and sought strict action against perpetrators of the crime.“Police are too soft on SDPI goons who have been carrying out cold-blooded murders. If culprits are not arrested immediately, the party will launch an agitation,” he said in state capital Thiruvananthapuram.Opposition leader VD Satheesan also condemned the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-worker-s-two-wheeler-rammed-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-wife-kerala-cop-101636979061709.html
15-11-2021||India||‘I don’t pay attention to such things': Nitish Kumar on Kangana Ranaut's ‘bheek’ remark||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday refused to wade into the controversy over actor Kangana Ranaut’s recent ‘bheek’ (alms) remark, saying that people making such comments should not be given any attention. Speaking to the media, Kumar said that such statements should only be made fun of.Also Read | Kangana says India got ‘real freedom' in 2014. Varun Gandhi says, ‘Madness?’“All this is nonsense. In fact, I’m surprised that these things are published in the first place. We don’t know who will say what. Should we even take notice of such things? Who doesn’t know when the country became independent?” the Bihar chief minister is seen saying in a clip shared by various news channels. He added that people may have an opinion on an issue, but it should not be given any importance.Also Read | Complaint filed against Kangana Ranaut for 'India got real freedom in 2014' commentThe JD(U) leader further said that comments like the one made by the National Award-winning actor should, in fact, be mocked. “We are living in the age of social media. If someone says something, people on social media will respond to it. Some people are used to making comments such as this. I don’t pay attention to them,” Kumar remarked. Ranaut recently stoked a major controversy when she told a news channel that India became free only in 2014. “…blood will flow. But it should not be Hindustani blood. They knew it and they paid a price. Of course, it was not freedom but bheek (alms) and we attained real freedom in 2014,” she said.Police complaints have been filed against her, while Opposition parties have demanded that the government revoke her Padma Shri, which she received recently. However, reacting to this, Ranaut said that she will return the award if someone could enlighten her about what happened in 1947.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut offers to return Padma Shri if proven wrong about freedom comment, asks 'which war took place in 1947'Though the statement has been condemned by almost everyone, veteran actor Vikram Gokhale supported Kangana, saying that the country was ‘given’ freedom. “Many people were mute spectators when our freedom fighters were hanged. These included many senior leaders who did not save the freedom fighters,” Gokhale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-says-does-not-pay-attention-to-remarks-like-kangana-s-bheek-comment-101636973703799.html
15-11-2021||India||CPI(M) to hold countrywide protests on Dec 1 against attacks on minorities||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) on Monday announced country-wide protests on December 1 against the attacks on minorities. In a statement issued a day after a two-day meeting of its Politburo ended on Sunday, the party expressed grave concern at the growing attacks against Christians and Muslims allegedly by organisations affiliated to the Sangh Parivar or ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) affiliates. It said the attacks amounted to an assault on India’s Constitution. “The CPI (M) calls upon all its units to observe December 1 as a day of protest against attacks on religious minorities and their Constitutional rights.”The CPI (M) blamed BJP leaders for instigating the attacks by promoting “highly communal” messages. It added the messages provoked “violence in many instances”. The party referred to anti-Muslim violence in Tripura in response to violence against Hindus in Bangladesh.Also Read: Wholesale inflation soars to five-month high of 12.54%BJP spokesman Tom Vadakkan rejected the CPI (M)’s charges and added they were an attempt to slam the BJP and its ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. “The Left wants to create disturbances in the country to ensure that they come back to power and in this thirst for power, they will go to any length.”The CPI (M) separately denounced the two ordinances allowing the Centre to extend the tenures of the chiefs of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). “Both the CBI and ED have been functioning as the political arm of the ruling party to advance its agenda. Leaders of opposition parties are regularly targeted,” it said. “This step is meant to further subvert the autonomy of these agencies and to make the key officers more pliable.” The CPI (M) demanded that these ordinances be rescinded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-to-hold-country-wide-protests-on-dec-1-against-attacks-on-minorities-101636976361461.html
15-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cong leader wants parties to move SC against ordinances on CBI, ED, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Parties should challenge in Supreme Court’: Manish Tewari on Centre's ordinances on CBI, ED chiefsOn Sunday, the central government brought two ordinances to extend the term of directors of the two federal agencies for up to five years. Read moreDelhi adds 2,569 dengue cases, highest since 2015 outbreakThe 100-bed fever ward at Lok Nayak hospital is always 80 to 90% full, with the hospital admitting 20 to 30 dengue patients every day, a senior doctor said. Read moreT20 World Cup: No Indians in ICC's 'Team of the Tournament', Babar Azam named as captainThe Babar Azam-led team comprises three from Australia, two each from England, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and South Africa and only one from New Zealand. Read more‘Why didn’t Priyanka Chopra get it?' Kavita Kaushik questions Kangana Ranaut's Padma Shri, forgets PC got it in 2016On Monday, actor Kavita Kaushik took a dig at Kangana Ranaut's Padma Shri honour and said, Priyanka Chopra should have got it instead. Read moreHonda launches Grazia 125 Repsol Honda Team Edition, oozes sporty appealHonda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt Ltd on Monday has announced the launch of Grazia125 Repsol Honda Team Edition. Read moreEasy home remedies for dealing with dry hair in winterWith the drop in temperature, your hair may stop absorbing or retaining enough moisture which could make them lackluster, fragile and brittle. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-leader-wants-parties-to-move-sc-against-centre-s-ordinances-on-cbi-ed-and-all-the-latest-news-101636972491549.html
15-11-2021||India||Widely publicise President’s preamble reading: Parl affairs sec tells I&B ministry||Parliamentary affairs secretary Gyanesh Kumar has written to the ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) asking it to widely publicise the reading of the preamble by President Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of the Constitution Day on November 26.In a letter to the I&B secretary Apurva Chandra, Kumar said the event will be attended by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ministers, and Members of Parliament. The event will be shown on the Parliament’s Sansad TV, Doordarshan, and streamed via online portals.“As you are aware, our country is celebrating 75 years of independence as Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav this year. In order to commemorate the day of the adoption of our Constitution on the occasion of Samvidhan Diwas (Constitution Day) is also being organised with Jan Bhagidhari on a mega scale,” wrote Kumar. HT has seen a copy of the letter.The letter asked the I&B ministry to inform all attached offices about the reading of the preamble with the President, which can be done via readpreamble.nic.in. The preamble will be read in 23 languages including English. A quiz on the Constitution will also be organised.Also Read: Universities told to translate all literature into Indian languagesIt has also recommended that webinars and other activities may also be organised by the I&B ministry to mark the occasion.“We are also developing another portal for ministries and departments to upload an action plan of activities to be undertaken by them and reports of the number of participants,” Kumar said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widely-publicise-president-s-preamble-reading-parl-affairs-sec-tells-ibministry-101636973901290.html
15-11-2021||India||Wholesale inflation soars to five-month high of 12.54%||India’s wholesale inflation quickened to a five-month high of 12.54% in October from a year ago, as higher energy and power costs stoked broad-based prices, from basic non-food items to cars, official data released on Monday showed.The surge in the wholesale price index or WPI, which measures what producers charge retailers, follows a rise in retail prices. Last week, the consumer price index for October came in at 4.48%, compared to a 4.35% rise in September.Monday’s data showed core wholesale inflation, which excludes volatile categories of food and energy, and is an indicator of how entrenched prices are, touched an all-time high of 11.9% in October.A global supply squeeze has weighed on prices in several key economies, with the US consumer inflation hitting a three-decade high in October, prompting analysts to expect more than a transitory phase of globally elevated prices.Supply and shipping constraints, rising demand for goods and services as well as higher wages weigh heavily on the global economy. These developments have been a drag on the Indian economy, too, which imports key raw materials and components to meet internal demand.Also Read: Retail inflation sees marginal uptick, factory output faltersA shortage of semiconductors, or the ubiquitous chip, has crippled the production of a range of goods, from cars, appliances, and mobile phones to television sets.Chipmakers are struggling to make enough of the vital component and there are no quick fixes, analysts say. That could mean Indian factories and consumers are buckling up for higher costs, already evident during Diwali sales.The latest data showed wholesale inflation in manufactured products, the biggest category in the WPI index, climbed 12.04% in October, compared with a rise of 11.41% in September.Prices continued to be driven by higher energy costs. According to the WPI data, fuel and power inflation surged 37.2% in October against a 24.8% rise in September.Food inflation, though still subdued, increased to 3.1% in October from 1.1% in September due to the high inflation in edible oils and fruits. “Edible oil inflation at 32.6% in October 2021 continues to be very high, but has declined from the record 51.9% in May 2021 due to import duty cuts and the arrival of Kharif crop,” said Sunil K Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research Ltd.Indians spent a staggering ₹1.25 lakh crore on consumer goods during the Diwali festive blitz, according to the Confederation of All India Traders. But they faced a shortage of home appliances and electronics, which were priced higher by up to 12% compared to a year ago, according to data from the Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wholesale-inflation-soars-to-five-month-high-of-1254-101636972701540.html
15-11-2021||India||HC refuses relief to student who lost IIT-B seat to technical glitch||The Bombay high court has refused to grant relief to a student from Ghaziabad, who lost a seat at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay for failing to make online fee payment in time due to a technical glitch in October, saying he failed to register his grievance before the deadline.A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and justice Abhay Ahuja on Friday rejected Prince Jaibir Singh’s petition. Singh moved the court contending he secured All India Rank of 25,894 and Scheduled Caste Rank of 864 in the JEE Advanced and was allotted the seat. He said on October 29, he uploaded the required documents on a portal and tried to pay the seat acceptance fee the next day, but could not because of technical errors. He said he attempted to make the payment several times.Singh said he tried to contact the authorities through phone and e-mail but in vain. Eventually, on November 1, he went to the office concerned and requested the authorities to allow him to make the payment. But IIT officials expressed their inability to help him. Singh urged the court to direct the authorities to accept the fees and process his admission.Advocates Rui Rodrigues and advocate DP Singh, who appeared for the ministry of education, opposed the petition pointing out the admission process is computerised. They added non-payment of the acceptance fee in time implies a rejection of the offered seat. The candidate is thereafter not considered for further allocation. Rodrigues submitted Singh’s seat was allocated to the next eligible candidate and now no vacant seat was available at IIT Bombay.Also Read | Bharat Varsh lost one of the brightest stars on horizon’: Maharashtra GovernorRodrigues referred to the Supreme Court’s directive asking courts not to issue directions asking the authorities to act contrary to their rules.The high court accepted his arguments and refused to grant any relief to Singh. “The Petitioner indeed appears to be a meritorious student... The Petitioner did not register his grievance with regard to his failure to make payment by online mode before 12.00 noon but instead registered his grievance on 31/10/2021 after 12.00 noon i.e. after the entire activity/ process was finally closed/shut,” said the bench. It added Singh by not availing of the redressal in time has entailed the consequence of rejection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-relief-to-student-who-lost-iit-b-seat-to-technical-glitch-101636970900967.html
15-11-2021||India||‘Parties should challenge in Supreme Court’: Manish Tewari on Centre's ordinances on CBI, ED chiefs||Congress leader Manish Tewari suggested on Monday that political parties should approach the Supreme Court against the two ‘illegal’ ordinances introduced by the Centre to extend the tenure of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) from the present two, to up to five years. “This ordinance is a message to the officers that if we (Centre) have appointed you, and if you keep working as per our orders, keep harassing the Opposition, your tenure will be increased year after year. All parties should jointly approach the Supreme Court on this,” Tewari said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read | Centre brings ordinance to extend the tenure of CBI, ED chiefs up to 5 yearsThe ordinances, he said, were ‘illegal’ as these were in violation of the top court's verdict from the Jain Hawala case of the 1990s. “These contradict the Supreme Court's Jain Hawala Case verdict in which it announced CBI, ED directors' tenure at two years so that the government at the Centre does not force the two agencies into any wrongdoings,” Tewari said.
15-11-2021||India||Army jawan arrested for sharing info with Pak’s ISI: Bihar ATS||An Army jawan has been arrested for leaking sensitive information to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The arrest was made by the anti-terror squad (ATS) of the Bihar police on Sunday, a report in HT's sister publication Live Hindustan said.The man, identified as Ganesh Prasad, was arrested with the help of Khagaul police in Patna and military intelligence. He was posted in Pune at the Medical Corps in the Army.Prasad was reportedly in touch with a woman agent of ISI and was honey-trapped by her when he was posted in Jodhpur.According to the report, the woman befriended Prasad by pretending to be a medical staff of the Indian Navy. During interrogation, Ganesh reportedly admitted to sharing information with the woman, including the number of units attached to the army hospital.A case has been registered under the Official Secrets Act against Prasad and he is being interrogated at Khagaul police station in Patna city.Police have also confiscated his mobile phone. A forensic team will be examining the phone to know what all Prasad shared with the ISI agent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-jawan-arrested-for-sharing-info-with-pak-s-isi-bihar-ats-101636967818915.html
15-11-2021||India||Tribal society ignored as those in power since independence priortised politics: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it was for the first time since Independence that the culture of the tribal society and its contribution towards freedom struggle and nation-building was being proudly honoured and remembered.He said very little was known about the tribal society because those who governed the nation for decades after independence prioritised their selfish politics. “For decades the tribals' culture and capability were ignored, even after comprising around 10 per cent of India's population. Their issues, education and health meant nothing for them,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The PM was addressing a gathering after paying floral tribute to legendary freedom fighter from the tribal community Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary at Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas Mahasammelan in Bhopal. “Today, India is celebrating its first 'Janjatiya Gaurav Divas,” Modi said.He further said some people were surprised when discussion on tribal society's contribution towards nation-building came up. “They cannot believe that it had a big role in strengthening India's culture. It is because the nation was either never told about it, was kept in the dark or very limited info was given on it,” said the PM, who is also scheduled to inaugurate the redeveloped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station that was previously known as Habibpur station.He said development work was taking place in 100 aspirational districts which remained backward during earlier regimes.Earlier, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said neither the British nor the Congress had given Rani Kamlapati, a Gond queen, the appropriate status in history.Congress questioning that why Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas Mahasammelan is being organised. They say it's waste of money. Some people,who used to say that BJP govt is anti-tribal, are going to court. Now they are perturbed. They spend crores on hero-heroines, on events like IIFA: MP CM pic.twitter.com/oOlz4ZbgNB“It was PM Modi who renamed Habibganj Railway Station after Rani Kamlapati,” he said.He further hit out at the Congress that it said questioned the organisation of the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas Mahasammelan. “They say it is a waste of money. Some people, who used to say the BJP government is anti-tribal, are going to court. Now, they are perturbed. They spend crores on hero-heroines, on events like IIFA,” Chouhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-time-since-independence-tribal-society-being-honoured-pm-modi-101636966667412.html
15-11-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in Arunachal: official||Three terrorists of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang (NSCN-K-YA)’s Yung Aung faction were killed in an exchange of fire with Assam Rifles personnel near the India-Myanmar border at Khogla in Arunachal Pradesh’s Longding district on Monday, an official said.“I have been informed by the commanding officer of Assam Rifles at Khonsa that three cadres of NSCN-K-YA were killed in the encounter that took place around 8 am on Monday,” Longding deputy commissioner Bani Lego told HT over the phone.There was no statement from the Assam Rifles yet on the incident and no clarity on whether any member of the armed forces sustained injuries.Also Read: Why the BJP is doing well in the NortheastThe three were killed days after an ambush near the Myanmar border in Manipur left five soldiers, including a colonel, his wife, and their eight-year-old son, dead on Saturday.The Revolutionary People’s Front, a group under which the People’s Liberation Army Manipur operates, jointly claimed responsibility for the ambush along with the Manipur Naga People’s Front.The ambush came at a time when the security situation in the Northeast had improved significantly in the army’s assessment, and a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers is underway there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-arunachal-official-101636966280771.html
15-11-2021||India||7 Bihar cops injured in attack ahead of 7th phase of panchayat polls||At least seven Bihar policemen were injured, four of them grievously, in an attack allegedly by the husband of a mukhiya and his men ahead of seventh phase of panchayat elections in East Champaran district on Sunday evening. A police team led by sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Chandra Prakash came under attack at Juwafar village under Chhauradano police station in Raxaul subdivision while patrolling the area ahead of the seventh phase of panchayat elections in Chhauradano block. “We spotted a large gathering at the house of incumbent village head of Juwafar panchayat, Anu Jaiswal. As we were enquiring about the reason for the gathering, a group of villagers started pelting stones at the police team, injuring four cops and causing minor injuries to some others,” said Manoj Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) of Chhauradano police station. He added that a police vehicle was damaged in the attack. Also Read: Apex liquor body writes to Bihar govt, asks for withdrawal of prohibition“We had information that a wine party was going on at mukhiya’s residence on the eve of the elections,” said a police personnel, refusing to be identified.Four of the seven injured police personnel were undergoing treatment at a government hospital at Chhauradano. East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha, said, “A key accused Sonu Kumar (husband of the village head) has been arrested, while search was on to arrest the other accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-bihar-cops-injured-in-attack-ahead-of-7th-phase-of-panchayat-polls-101636965860756.html
15-11-2021||India||UP agrees to appoint former HC judge to monitor Lakhimpur Kheri probe||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday agreed to the appointment of a former high court judge from outside the state to monitor the ongoing probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which at least eight people were killed in October. The state government has now requested the top court to suggest a name of a judge to oversee the probe.Earlier, the Supreme Court directed the state to appoint a former high court judge and suggested names of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ranjit Singh to oversee the investigation, marred by allegations of negligence. The court said “it needs one more day's time as it's considering former Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Rakesh Kumar Jain or others," according to ANI. The court has also ordered the state to also include some more senior police officers in the Special Investigation Agency (SIT).At least four farmers and a journalist were among those who were killed on October 3 near the Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh. Agitated farmers say that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son -- Ashish Mishra -- was inside the vehicle, when the killings took place. However, the Union minister and his son denied any wrongdoing.The police have so far arrested 13 accused, including Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, in connection with the case. Meanwhile, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) is preparing to intensify the agitation against farm laws and is planning countrywide protests to mobilise farmers against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against three farm legislation since November last year. The top court in January this year, stayed the laws, hence blocking its implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-agrees-to-appoint-former-hc-judge-to-monitor-lakhimpur-kheri-probe-101636964866171.html
15-11-2021||India||Turkey to admit Indians vaccinated with Covishield or Covaxin without quarantine||Indian nationals travelling to Turkey will no longer be required to undergo mandatory quarantine from Monday if they are fully vaccinated with either Covishield or Covaxin. A statement issued by the Turkish embassy on updated quarantine arrangements for travellers from India and Nepal said that from November 15 onwards, passengers will have to submit a negative PCR test taken up to 72 hours before arrival. Travellers with vaccine certificates for two doses of Covid-19 vaccines approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization (WHO) or Turkey will be exempted from mandatory quarantine, according to the statement. However, passengers who cannot provide a vaccine certificate will be quarantined at their residence or declared address in Turkey. On the tenth day of quarantine, they will be subjected to a PCR test and the quarantine will be ended if the result is negative. Turkish ambassador Firat Sunel said in a tweet: “Passengers submit (-)PCR test & vaccination certificate only. Both Covaxin & Covisheild accepted. Children (btw.12-18) with parents need (-)PCR test only, no PCR test requirement for below 12.” Also Read | Ladakh stand-off: India, China continue to stand groundTurkey has joined the growing list of almost 100 countries with which the Indian government either has an agreement for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates for travellers who are fully vaccinated with nationally or WHO recognized vaccines, or those exempting fully vaccinated Indian citizens from travel-related restrictions. The list of “Category A” nations includes 99 countries, including Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Egypt, Iran, Israel, Mauritius, the Philippines, Singapore, Sudan, the UK, the United Arab Emirates and the US. The indigenously developed and manufactured Covaxin was accorded emergency use listing (EUL) by WHO on November 3. Covaxin and Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca vaccine, are the two main jabs used in the country’s immunisation programme. Certain countries had accorded national regulatory clearance to Covaxin even before the vaccine’s clearance by WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkey-to-admit-indians-vaccinated-with-covishield-or-covaxin-without-quarantine-101636963280680.html
15-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Shivraj Singh Chouhan takes stock of situation ahead of PM's visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of PM Modi’s MP visit, Shivraj Singh Chouhan takes stock of situationMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is keeping an eye on all the arrangements made by the state government to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read MoreAISA, ABVP students clash in JNU, several injuredSeveral students injured in Sunday's clashes inside Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), are being treated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, news agency ANI has reported. Read MoreTwo journalists reporting on Tripura violence arrestedA Tripura Police team arrested and brought two Delhi-based women journalists to the state from Assam on Sunday night after they were booked for promoting “communal hatred” during their reporting on the October 26 communal violence. Read More'Unfair decision': Akhtar unimpressed as Warner named 'Player of the Tournament', wanted honour to go to Pakistan batterFormer fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar, who was in attendance for the T20 World Cup final on Sunday between Australia and New Zealand. Read MorePrithviraj teaser: Akshay Kumar plays 'Hindustan ka sher' in first promo; Manushi Chillar and Sonu Sood make appearancesYash Raj Films has released the first teaser of their upcoming film Prithviraj, based on the life of legendary warrior Prithviraj Chauhan, played by Akshay Kumar. Read MoreOla Electric scooter S1 ride review: Hyper charge into India's EV spaceNo other electric scooter, perhaps, has created as much buzz, as much hype and has managed to craft such a fan following before even officially hitting roads as the Ola S1 and Ola S1 Pro electric scooter. Read MoreMalaika Arora shares yoga asana for winters to keep body warm and strong: Read more hereThe winter season is here, which means it is time to tuck ourselves inside the blankets to keep our bodies warm. Read MoreArmy chief Gen MM Naravane begins maiden 5-day Israel visit; what's on the cardsIndian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is in Israel on his maiden 5-day official visit. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-shivraj-singh-chouhan-takes-stock-of-situation-ahead-of-pm-s-visit-and-all-the-latest-news-101636959678997.html
15-11-2021||India||Can a battery replace petrol in your next car?||Considered to be the future of mobility, electric vehicles (EVs) have become much-talked-about amid the rise in petrol and diesel prices. More choices are also now available in showrooms compared with a year ago. This has sped up the progression of EVs into genuine options for prospective buyers. But how do these really work, and how different are they from the cars with internal combustion engines that have been driven all along?What exactly is an EV?EVs are not plug-in hybrids or mild-hybrid powertrains, which are generally referred to as hybrid cars. A pure EV has batteries powering a motor, which gets the wheels moving instead of petrol or diesel. An EV can be plugged into a charger when this battery runs low on charge much like a phone or laptop. Instead of a fuel tank to fill up, you need to plug the car into a charger to charge the battery again.How are EVs charged?There will usually be three places where you would plug in your EV for charging—at home, work or along the way. This differs on the basis of carmakers. But users may get the option of a standard (slower) charger or a fast one by default. These can be connected to any 15 amperes (15A) power sockets. MG Motors India provides the option of the portable charger (charges 100% in up to 18 hours) as well as a fast charger (chargers 100% in up to 8 hours).Carmakers, infrastructure companies, and power suppliers are installing larger and fast chargers at public charging zones. These can charge an almost discharged EV battery up to 80% in around 60 minutes.How many km can an EV go on a single charge?That depends first on the battery size and capacity. For instance, the Hyundai Kona has a 39.2 kWh (kilowatt-hour) battery and claims to have a range of around 452 kilometers per complete charge cycle. The Tata Nexon EV has a 30.2 kWh capacity battery with a range of around 312 km. The MG ZS EV has the largest battery size (44.5 kWh) and 419 km range.How powerful are the electric motors?Much like petrol and diesel cars, the higher up you go in the price range, the more power you will get. The MG ZS EV, for instance, delivers a maximum of 142.7 PS (or Pferdestärke, which is German for horsepower) while the Hyundai Kona delivers 136 PS of power. Tata has rated the Nexon EVs motor at 129 PS. The luxurious Jaguar I-Pace has about 400 PS of power.Also Read | Amazon Fire TV 4K Max: Still offers more than Android TV streaming stick rivalsYet, it is the delivery of the torque, which enables much faster acceleration than most petrol or diesel engines. The Kona is rated to deliver 395 nm (or newton-meter) of torque and claims to do a 0-100 km/h run in 9.7 seconds. MG claims the ZS EV can do the same in 8.5 seconds. Tata claims 9.9 seconds for the much more affordable Nexon EV. The Jaguar I-Pace is 0-100 km/h in 4.8 seconds.EVs are nothing like hybrids?EVs do not have an engine working alongside the battery power to move a car along. It is just the electric motor drawing power from the battery to drive you along. EVs do have a feature called regenerative braking, also known as kinetic energy recovery system, which captures some of the energy expended when the vehicle is braking or slowing down, to top up the battery. This may not be much in the larger scheme of things and would not necessarily drive up the remaining range on the same battery charge, but every ounce of charge matters when you are on the road.Can an EV work for everyone?EVs may not work for everyone. It is hard to imagine anyone driving more in a city daily than what these EV battery stats claim. You may experience battery anxiety if you get caught up in an unending traffic jam. For those who travel outside the town or long distances regularly, you will need to check if there are enough public charging points along the way. In case you need to top-up the EV battery during the journey—some routes and national highways would have it, most would not, at least yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-a-battery-replace-petrol-in-your-next-car-101636960160601.html
15-11-2021||India||Two journalists reporting on Tripura violence arrested||A Tripura Police team arrested and brought two Delhi-based women journalists to the state from Assam on Sunday night after they were booked for promoting “communal hatred” during their reporting on the October 26 communal violence. People aware of the matter said the two, Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha, employed with a Delhi-based news channel HW News Network, were at Radhakishorepur police station in Gomati district. They were expected to be produced before a court on Monday after preliminary interrogation.The two were detained in Assam’s Karimganj district on Sunday following a request from the Tripura police. Accordingly, a Tripura Police team went to Assam. But the two refused to go with the team at night. As per Section 46 (4) of the Criminal Procedure Code, no woman can be arrested after sunset and before sunrise except in unavoidable circumstances. Later, another team went with a court’s permission and arrested the two.An officer said the two were supposed to talk to police in Agartala before leaving the state. But instead, they left for Assam without intimation. He added they posted a few videos on social media, showing a purported burnt prayer hall and a half-burnt Quran in the Gomati district, which is suspected to have been manipulated.HW News Network called the detention of the two on Sunday harassment and targeting of the press as part of Tripura Police and the government’s attempts to prevent journalists from reporting the facts.Also Read: PM Modi transfers ₹700 crore to Tripura PMAY-G beneficiaries at virtual eventOn Sunday, Sakunia and Jha were booked after one Kanchan Das accused them of delivering an “instigating speech” against the Hindu community and the Tripura government during their meeting with a few Muslim families at Palbazar in the state’s Unakoti district on November 13.The two were booked under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on the ground of religion), and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code.The two were on their way to Silchar when they were detained in Karimganj, close to the Assam-Tripura border. A Tripura Police officer said the journalists were not allowed to leave the state.In a tweet on Sunday, Sakunia said a police team was deployed outside the hotel in Unakoti district, where she and her colleague were staying, and the two were not allowed to leave the premises on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-journalists-reporting-on-tripura-violence-arrested-101636959560197.html
15-11-2021||India||Mercury drops to - 4 °C in Pahalgam, zero in Srinagar||Night temperature again touched zero degree Celsius (°C) in summer capital Srinagar on Monday though it was better than Sunday when it had dropped to -0.9°C.The daily weather register of the meteorological department in Srinagar said the lowest night temperature of -4°C was recorded in south Kashmir’s Pahalgam resort on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, the lowest so far this season in the Valley. The maximum day temperature in Pahalgam was 15.3°C on Sunday.The second coldest weather station in the valley was Khanbal in south Kashmir where a temperature of -2.6°C was recorded during the night while it was 13.8°C during the day on Sunday.North Kashmir’s ski resort of Gulmarg saw lowest day temperature of 8.4°C on Sunday while the mercury dropped to -1.6 °C in the night.Srinagar saw zero degree night temperature on Monday after having fallen below the zero mark to reach -0.9 °C on Sunday night for the first time this season. For the past few days the valley has been witnessing foggy mornings.Also Read: Mercury in Srinagar dips below zero for first time this seasonOfficials said the foggy conditions were due to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. The temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance disrupts the dry weather condition, the weather department said. “Weather will most likely remain dry till the 20th. A feeble western disturbance is likely to affect the region between November 21 and 23, which may cause light to moderate snow over higher reaches, especially in northern parts of Kashmir,” said Sonam Lotus, director Jammu and Kashmir MeT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-drops-to-4-c-in-pahalgam-zero-in-srinagar-101636959020292.html
15-11-2021||India||SC on Delhi-NCR pollution: Emergency meet, work-from-home, an appeal to farmers||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and state governments of the national capital region (NCR) to address within 24 hours the five chief causes of air pollution -- construction activities, power plants, industries, transport and road traffic -- and submit an action plan by Wednesday morning when the case will be heard next.Stating that stubble burning was not the chief contributor to the rising levels of pollution in Delhi-NCR as it was being made to perceive, the apex court directed the Centre to convene an emergency meeting on Tuesday of all stakeholders, including representatives of the governments of Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. A bench, headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana, further asked the Centre to consider a work-from-home option for its employees.Also read | ‘Ready for full lockdown in Delhi to curb pollution, however...’: AAP govt to SCIt also urged the governments to persuade the farmers to stop stubble burning for the next two weeks as air pollution reached a level in the region which is considered hazardous to the health of citizens in the past few days."So far, as stubble burning is concerned, broadly affidavits state that their contribution is not so much except for two months. However, at present a good amount of stubble burning is taking place in Haryana and Punjab," the bench, also comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant, said.Giving an earful to the Delhi government, led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the apex court said it is "passing the buck to Municipal Commissioner." "This kind of lame excuse will force us to hold an audit of the revenue you are earning and spend on popularity slogans," the court also said.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-on-delhi-ncr-pollution-emergency-meet-work-from-home-appeal-to-farmers-101636958448057.html
15-11-2021||India||Indian Railways bookings service shut for 6 hours till Nov 21. Details here||The Indian Railways has said it will close its reservation system for six hours every night till November 21 in order to normalise passenger services and revert to pre-Covid times in a phased manner."The activity will be performed starting from the intervening night of November 14 and 15 to the night of November 20 and 21, starting at 23:30 hours and ending at 0530 hrs," the railways ministry said on Sunday.The ministry that the move will enable the upgradation of system data, new train numbers and other work."Since a huge amount of past (old train numbers) and current passenger booking data is to be updated in all mail/express trains, this is being planned in a series of carefully calibrated steps and implemented during night hours in order to minimise the impact on ticketing services,” it said.Passenger Reservation System (PRS) services like ticket reservation, current booking, cancellation, enquiry services, among others, will not be available during these six hours.All other enquiry services, including 139 services, will continue uninterrupted, the ministry noted. The railways will ensure advance charting for the trains to start during the affected timings.The Indian Railways has said it will discontinue the 'special' tag for mail and express trains and revert to pre-pandemic ticket prices with immediate effect.The curbs introduced in view of the pandemic such as temporary restrictions on concessions, bedrolls and meal services, would continue to be in effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-bookings-service-shut-for-6-hours-till-nov-21-details-here-101636955093973.html
15-11-2021||India||CBI and ED appointments that triggered controversies||On Sunday, the Centre brought two ordinances to extend the tenure of the Crime Investigation Bureau (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) directors for up to five years, triggering opposition allegations that it will further hurt the autonomy of the investigative agencies. Here’s a look at some of the appointments to these agencies that have recently sparked a row.Special director of the ED, Vineet Agarwal in April 2021 transferred Satyabrata Kumar, the leading officer in the probe against businessman Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi. Within hours, ED director Sanjay Mishra revoked Satyabrata Kumar’s transfer, saying Agarwal was not authorised to transfer him on his own. Officials in the anti-money laundering probe agency said the government interpreted Agarwal’s action as an effort to interfere in the crucial Nirav Modí probe and decided to send him packing.Rishi Kumar Shukla was named CBI director three days after former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath removed him as the head of state police chief in February 2019. Congress’ Mallikarjun Kharge, who was part of the selection panel, opposed his appointment by citing Supreme Court judgment and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that listed seniority, integrity, and experience in investigating corruption cases as prerequisites for the job of CBI director. He claimed that Rishi Kumar Shukla was inexperienced in handling anti-corruption cases. In the end, the objection was overruled.Also Read: Terms of CBI, ED chiefs may be extended to five yearsRakesh Asthana’s appointment as CBI’s special director in 2016 was opposed by non governmental organisation (NGO) Common Cause. The NGO claimed that Asthana allegedly accepted favours from Gujarat-based Sterling Biotech and Sandesara Group of companies when he was Surat police commissioner in 2011. But the court dismissed the challenge to Asthana’s appointment.Ranjit Sinha’s appointment as CBI chief in December 2012 too triggered a controversy with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding that his promotion be put on hold citing a Rajya Sabha panel’s recommendation that a collegium should select the CBI chief. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal also questioned the “secretive manner” in which the government chose Sinha and called him a “tainted person”. However, the government said that the selection was done in a fair manner and that the Prime Minister had the authority to decide on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbiand-ed-appointments-that-triggered-controversies-101636954580012.html
15-11-2021||India||RSS worker stabbed to death in Kerala's Palakkad district||A worker of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was hacked to death in front of his wife in Kerala’s Palakkad district on Monday morning.The deceased, identified as S Sanjith (27), was waylaid by a gang around 9am when he was riding his wife to work in the Mambaram area of the district.BJP district president KM Haridas blamed the Social Democratic Party of India, political wing of Popular Front of India, for the death.Police said Sanjith, hailing from Elappully, received more than 50 stab wounds. Tension has gripped the locality following the murder and police were keeping a strict vigil. An investigation has been launched to trace the accused who fled the scene after the incident, they said.The BJP said the assailants followed Sanjith in a vehicle, hit his two-wheeler and when he fell down they hacked him to death in front of his wife.Condemning the killing of the RSS worker, BJP state president K Surendran said it was a "planned murder" and blamed the failure from the part of the police and Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in letting such incidents happen in the state.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-kerala-s-palakkad-101636953925075.html
15-11-2021||India||Sikkim expected to get rail connectivity by 2023: official||Sikkim is expected to get rail connectivity with the rest of India by 2023 as the 44.98-km long Sevoke-Rangpo railway line is set to become operational within two years, an official has said.“The Sevoke-Rangpo rail line would become operational from 2023,” said Anshul Gupta, the general manager of the North-East Frontier Railway, after visiting the project site at Sevoke, around 20 km from Siliguri in West Bengal. “Despite the difficult terrain, land-related hiccups, and very difficult land strata, the project would be completed in 2023.”Then railway minister Mamata Banerjee laid the foundation stone for the project in 2009 and the project was supposed to be completed by 2015.Railway officials said that the Prime Minister’s office and the Railway Board have set December 2023 as the project completion target.An official from the Indian Railway Construction Company, which is implementing the project, said that 30% of the work has been completed.Also Read: NIT Sikkim’s permanent campus to be ready within next 3 years: MoS EducationThe line, which will connect West Bengal and Sikkim, was estimated to be completed at the cost of ₹1,339.48 crore. But because of the delay in the construction, the cost has escalated to more than ₹5,000 crore.While 41.54 km of the railway line falls in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts of West Bengal, the remaining portion of around 3.44 km will run through Sikkim.The project includes 14 tunnels, 17 bridges, and five stations, which include one at Teesta in Kalimpong district that would be underground. At least 86% of the route will pass through 14 tunnels out of which 13 tunnels are in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-expected-to-get-rail-connectivity-by-2023-official-101636952720449.html
15-11-2021||India||Have tea with Dalits, make them understand…: UP BJP chief to party workers||Swatantra Dev Singh, the head of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Uttar Pradesh unit, has called on party workers, mostly belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) and upper castes, to spend time with Dalits and convince them that votes were cast on the basis of nationalism and not money, region or caste.Singh, who addressed two gatherings of the party -- OBC Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan (Society Representatives of OBCs) and the Vaishya Vyapari Sammelan (Vaishya Traders Society) -- on Sunday, said workers should have tea at houses of 100 Dalits in their locality and convince them to vote for the BJP in the upcoming Assembly election in the state.  “Have tea with 100 Dalits and make them understand that votes are cast on the basis of nationalism, and not on the basis of caste, money or region,..." the state unit chief said.#WATCH | "...Have tea with 100 Dalits and make them understand that votes are cast on the basis of nationalism, and not on the basis of caste, money or region,..." UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told party workers at an event, yesterday pic.twitter.com/CaIg9dGl5KAn Indian Express report said Singh further explained how workers should perceive the party and the workers’ acceptance among the members of the Dalit community. He said that if someone was offered tea at a Dalit household, it meant their stature was “okay”. If cashew was offered along with tea, it would mean the acceptance has grown.“And, if he offers lunch along with tea, then it is confirmed that the family has got associated with the BJP. If you visit a home for 10 days and you are not offered tea and driven away, then keep trying to get tea offered there. You have to visit a thousand times. Your visits will make the party stronger and you will also become a tall leader,” Singh was quoted as saying in the article.“I am appealing to you. You go among your communities, but also have tea at least once in over a thousand houses of Dalits, the exploited and the deprived families,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-tea-with-dalits-make-them-understand-up-bjp-chief-to-party-workers-101636952317601.html
15-11-2021||India||Petitioner in case that led to min 2yr term for CBI chief upset over new ordinances||The petitioner in a landmark Supreme Court judgement in 1997 that led to structural changes in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), including a minimum two-year tenure for the agency’s director, has expressed disappointment over ordinances empowering the Centre to appoint the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate chiefs for up to five years.“Any investigative agency can never be 100% independent; they are always puppets in the hands of the government. But there was an effort by some of us to make sure that some autonomy was granted to the institution and we were able to achieve this with the help of the Supreme Court. But gradually it is feeling that we are back to square one and there is total control with the government. There is hardly any autonomy left,” said Vineet Narain, the petitioner.The 1997 judgement in the Vineet Narain vs Union of India case, popularly known as the Jain hawala case, was intended to shield the CBI director from outside interference and make the post more transparent.Narian said in the changed scenario, fair and objective investigation cannot be expected.Also Read: Opposition slams move to extend the terms of ED, CBI ahead of parliament meetIn a tweet, lawyer Prashant Bhushan also criticised the ordinances. “Shocking & malafide! An attempt to further subvert the independence of the CBI & ED.”Opposition parties have hit out at the move wondering why the ordinances were issued ahead of the Parliament winter session that begins on November 29.Former National Investigation Agency head Navneet Wasan backed the ordinances saying a longer tenure and appointment by a robust and objective process will be better for efficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petitioner-in-case-that-led-to-min-2yr-term-for-cbi-chief-upset-over-new-ordinances-101636952119818.html
15-11-2021||India||‘Online filing of ITR glitches resolved': CBDT chairman||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Sunday said that all glitches and hiccups with regard to the online filing of I-T returns have been resolved.JB Mohapatra, Chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes, said, "All the glitches and hiccups with regard to the filing of income tax returns have been resolved. On an average 2.5 lakh income tax returns are being filed per day."While inaugurating the Taxpayers' Lounge at IITF, 2021 at Pragati Maidan in Delhi, the chairman said, "Around 2.5 crore ITR has been filed and by December, we expect the numbers to go up to 4 crore."Mohapatra said, "Taxpayers' Lounge at IITF seeks to promote an environment of trust between the Department and the taxpayers as also to educate them about the initiatives taken by the department in recent times."Various activities like assistance in applying for PAN/e-PAN, Aadhaar-PAN linking and PAN related queries, assistance in e-filing and form 26AS (tax-credit) related queries and providing taxpayer information Series brochures on various topics are available both in e-format and paper format at taxpayers lounge.Along with the Chairman, members of the CBDT, the Principal Director General of Income Tax (Administration and Tax Payer Services), the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (CCA), New Delhi and other senior officers of the Income Tax Department were present during the inauguration of taxpayers lounge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-filing-of-itr-glitches-resolved-cbdt-chairman-101636949010422.html
15-11-2021||India||YouTuber arrested for filming video inside Nidhivan Raj during night in Mathura||Police on Sunday arrested the admin of a YouTube channel for allegedly shooting a video inside ‘Nidhivan Raj’ in Vrindavan here during night a week ago, officials said.According to a popular belief, Nidhivan Raj is the holy place where Radha and Lord Krishna play ‘raas lila’ during the night and no one is allowed to enter the place at that time.Gaurav Sharma, who runs Gauravzone YouTube channel, was arrested from his Delhi residence, police said“While Sharma has been sent to judicial custody, efforts to nab his associates are on,” Superintendent of Police (City) Martand Prakash Singh said.Also Read| Delhi Youtuber arrested for posting video of his ‘flying’ dogDuring interrogation, Sharma admitted that he shot the video at the ‘holy’ place during the night of November 6 along with his cousin Prashant and friends Mohit and Abhishek, police said.Sharma uploaded the video on YouTube on November 9. However, he had to deleted it after priests protested against the shooting of a film inside the ‘holy’ place.An FIR under section 295A of the IPC and section 66 of the IT Act was registered in Vrindavan police station following a complaint by Rohit Goshwami, the priest of Nidhivan Raj, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youtuber-arrested-for-filming-video-inside-nidhivan-raj-during-night-in-mathura-101636949160649.html
15-11-2021||India||Power nap enhances cognitive performance: AIIMS-Patna study||A study at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has found that a power nap during the day enhances human cognitive performance, especially calculative ability or execution of skilful tasks like driving, etc. The pilot study conducted on 68 healthy male and female volunteers in the 18 to 24 years age group found that those who took a short nap performed significantly better in solving problems and completing the task in comparison to those in wakeful rest period. “Both slow wave sleep, also referred to as deep sleep, as well as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, a stage when a person dreams in sleep, during the day time nap has shown significant impact upon the uncompleted numerical logical tasks, suggesting the nap being a useful behaviour for cognitive enhancement,” said Dr Kamlesh Jha, a co-author and additional professor, department of physiology at AIIMS-Patna. The scientific report co-authored by Dr Ramji Singh, the then professor of physiology and currently the director of AIIMS-Kalyani in West Bengal, Dr Yogesh Kumar, additional professor, and Dr Abhilasha Mishra, senior resident in the department of physiology at AIIMS-Patna, has been published as an original research paper in the International Journal of Scientific Research, in September 2019. “This is a mid-term outcome. We want to continue with our study and will request for government funds for research. We will like to broaden the scope of study by including more volunteers so that we get a robust outcome,” said Dr Jha. Also Read: Apex liquor body writes to Bihar govt, asks for withdrawal of prohibitionIn the pilot study, all the participants, divided into two groups, were given a standard set of Sudoku, a number game based upon logical thinking, with graded difficulty levels. Each group participants were given 10-12 minutes for each level. When they got stuck at a certain level of difficulty, the test group was allowed to take a nap whereas the other group was allowed to take wakeful rest. After spontaneous awakening or wakeful rest for one hour, the participants were given the same set of Sudoku at the same level where they got stuck earlier and responses were checked whether the particular level has been completed successfully or not. “In the control group participants, who stayed awake, out of 37, only six were able to solve the given Sudoku task while 31 could not. In the test group participants, who slept, out of 31, as many as 16 accomplished the task, while 15 could not,” said Dr Jha. “On further comparison of solvers and non-solvers from the control group that stayed awake with that of slow wave sleep group, which went in deep sleep, 13 out of 18 participants, who attained deep sleep, could complete the task successfully while five of them could not,” he added. When a comparison was made between those who stayed awake to those who attained rapid eye movement (REM) sleep,13 were able to complete the Sudoku task successfully whereas 12 could not finish the task. Summing up the study, Dr Jha said, “Usually nap has got a negative psycho-social stigma and is unacceptable in most of the circumstances, especially at work places. Our study has attempted to throw some light over its potential usefulness in the cognitive task performance enhancement. Further study with bigger data base could be more conclusive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-nap-enhances-cognitive-performance-aiims-patna-study-101636949119601.html
15-11-2021||India||'Birsa Munda ji's contribution will always be remembered': PM Modi on tribal hero's birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday tweeted a message on the occasion of the birth anniversary of tribal leader Birsa Munda. In his message in Hindi, PM Modi wrote Munda ji "always struggled to protect the interests of the tribal society, while giving a sharp edge to the freedom movement.""His contribution to the country will always be remembered," he also tweeted.The government is celebrating the birth anniversary of the tribal freedom fighter as Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas. To mark the occasion later in the day, PM Modi is scheduled to visit Madhya Pradesh on Monday, where he will inaugurate multiple initiatives for the welfare of the tribal community.Born on 15 November in 1875, Birsa Munda's role in the freedom struggle changed the course of modern India’s history. He is known for mobilising the tribal community against the British and forcing them to introduce laws protecting the land rights of tribals.In his all-too-short life, Munda ji brought about seminal changes in the lives of tribals across the country. He died at the age of 25 in 1900.PM Modi also greeted the residents of Jharkhand, which was formed on Birsa Munda's birth anniversary in 2000. The Prime Minister noted that the state enjoys a historical identity and has a distinct culture and wished that the land of Birsa Munda advances further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/birsa-munda-ji-s-contribution-will-always-be-remembered-pm-modi-on-tribal-hero-s-birth-anniversary-101636947660282.html
15-11-2021||India||Heavy rainfall expected across southern India||Heavy rainfall was expected in Kerala, coastal Karnataka, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, south interior Karnataka, and Goa on Monday under the influence of a low-pressure area over the central Andaman Sea, a cyclonic circulation over south interior Karnataka and adjoining north interior Tamil Nadu, and a cyclonic circulation over the southeast Arabian sea. Some of the places will continue receiving rainfall until November 18.Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and coastal Andhra Pradesh received rainfall last week under the influence of another low-pressure area. The current low-pressure area will move northwestwards and become a well-marked area over the Andaman Sea and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal on Monday. The system will then continue moving northwest-wards to the Bay of Bengal and concentrate into a depression by November 17 and south Andhra Pradesh coast by November 18, according to the India Meteorological Department.Also Read: Rains slow down Tamil Nadu vaccination campaignThe cyclonic circulations are likely to persist for another day. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Maharashtra-Goa on November 17.Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the Andaman Sea and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal on Monday and west and east-central Bay of Bengal until Thursday.The minimum temperatures were separately expected to increase in Northwest India by 2 to 3 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-across-southern-india-101636947739646.html
15-11-2021||India||Mumbai aiming for full vaccination, Delhi's daily tally down again: Top updates||The coronavirus pandemic situation in Mumbai and Delhi—the worst-hit cities across India during the second wave in April and May this year—is currently under control.Mumbai has recorded 760,329 cases, 737,930 recoveries and 16,292 deaths due to the viral disease. Active cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra’s capital city are 2,823. On the other hand, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has climbed to 1,440,424 including 25,094 deaths, 349 active cases and 1,414,981 recoveries.Also Read| Active Covid-19 cases in India fall, lowest since June 2020Mumbai and Delhi, which are among the most populated cities in India, have not seen a major spike in their Covid-19 cases and deaths in recent months. However, experts have said it paramount to not lower the guard against Covid-19 given the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic, which many have said will affect children the most.Here are the latest updates on Covid-19 in Mumbai and Delhi:MumbaiDaily cases of coronavirus disease in Mumbai have remained below the 300-mark except on November 10 when 339 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. However, the daily toll has only been in the single digits.According to recent data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), there has not been a spike in cases despite the rise in the number of Covid-19 tests.City mayor Kishori Pednekar said last month that the third wave of the pandemic is not over yet and all virus-related protocols have to be followed.Meanwhile, on November 13, Mumbai achieved 100% first vaccination dose coverage and the civic body is aiming towards fully inoculating the entire adult population.DelhiIn the national capital, daily cases on November 12 stood at 62, the highest single-day spike since August 8. While, two more deaths were seen on the same day, after a gap of nearly three weeks. Before that, Delhi reported a Covid-related death on October 22.However, since Saturday, the daily cases have come down again. No death was reported on Saturday while one patient succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.Experts have warned that as the recent surge in cases is at a nascent stage, it is important for the Delhi government to keep a close check on numbers, ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed and there is an increase in testing, contact tracing and vaccination, Hindustan Times reported on November 12.So far, authorities in the national capital have tested 30,084,879 samples for Covid-19 while the vaccination coverage has exceeded 2.12 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-aiming-for-full-vaccination-delhi-s-daily-tally-down-again-top-updates-101636942601065.html
15-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to launch multiple initiatives for tribals today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to visit MP today, launch multiple initiatives for tribalsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Madhya Pradesh and launch several initiatives for the welfare of the tribal community on Monday, on the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda, which the Centre is celebrating as Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas. Read MoreFire breaks out in Delhi's Nangloi, four injuredFour were injured in a fire that broke out in Delhi’s Nangloi area on Monday from an LPG cylinder. Read MoreDelhi govt to submit proposal on lockdown to SC today to tackle air pollutionThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi will submit a proposal on imposing a lockdown and its modalities to the Supreme Court on Monday in view of the rising air pollution in the Capital. Read More'I called Langer and told him Davey would be Man of the Tournament: Finch thanks Warner's IPL snub for 'poking the bear'Sport is a great leveller. A couple of months ago, David Warner could not find a place in the Sunrisers Hyderabad XI in the IPL 2021. Read MoreStep inside Aishwarya Rai-Abhishek Bachchan's Maldives resort where villas cost ₹10 lakh a nightAishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan have touched down in the Maldives to ring in their daughter Aaradhya Bachchan's 10th birthday. Read MoreKourtney Kardashian's passionate birthday wish for Travis Barker gets cute comments from Khloe, Kim KardashianThe Keeping Up With the Kardashian's alum Kourtney Kardashian is celebrating her fiancé Travis Barker's birthday with an adorable wish. The reality TV star took to her social media page to wish the musician on his special day, which comes a month after the couple's romantic beachside engagement. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-launch-multiple-initiatives-for-tribals-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101636946702277.html
15-11-2021||India||Historian and writer Babasaheb Purandare dies at 99 in Pune||Respected writer, historian and theatre personalityBalwant Moreshwar, popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare, died at a private hospital in Pune early on Monday following a brief illness, the hospital said in a statement.Purandare (99), popularly called ‘Shiv Shahir’ (Shivaji’s Bard) for his work on 17th century Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji was recently diagnosed with pneumonia for which he was undergoing treatment, according to doctors at the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital.“Purandare breathed his last at 5:07am. The final rites will be performed by 10am,” stated the hospital in a statement.On the morning of his demise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a series of tweets, remembered Purandare as “witty, wise and with rich knowledge of Indian history”, and that he had the honour of interacting with him “very closely” over the years. He also recalled having addressed his centenary year programme earlier this year.“I am pained beyond words. The demise of Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare leaves a major void in the world of history and culture. It is thanks to him that the coming generations will get further connected to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. His other works will also be remembered,” one of PM Modi’s tweets said. In July, he entered his centenary year and was greeted by a host of leaders from various fields including politics, cinema and literature.Raja Shivchhatrapati, Purandare’s hugely popular two-part magnum opus on Shivaji, written in Marathi, was first published in the late 1950s and has since been a staple in Marathi households, going through numerous reprints over decades.Born on July 29, 1922, at Saswad near Poona (now, Pune), Purandare was fascinated by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj from an early age and wrote essays and stories which were later published in a book form, ‘Thinagya’ (Sparks).Also Read: Curfew in Maharashtra’s Amravati expanded to four towns as BJP stages protestOver eight decades of his writing and theatre career, Purandare delivered more than 12,000 lectures on Chhatrapati Shivaji, studied all the forts and history of the Maratha Empire, making him an authority on the subject.He penned and directed a historical play ‘Jaanta Raja’ (1985), a theatrical magnum opus performed by over 200 artists, translated and enacted in five languages, and has clocked over 1,250 stage shows in Maharashtra, Goa, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and the USA.Among his prominent works are the monumental two-volume “Raje Shivchhatrapati”, “Jaanta Raja”, “Maharaj”, “Shelarkhind”, “Gadkot Kille”, “Agra”, “Lal Mahal”, “Purandar”, “Rajgad”, “Panhalgad”, “Sinhagad”, “Pratapgad”, “Purandaryanchi Daulat”, “Mujaryache Mankari”, “Fulwanti”, “Savitri”, “Kalawantinicha Sajja”,He was conferred the Maharashtra Bhushan award in 2015 and the country’s second-highest civilian honour Padma Vibhushan in 2019.Shivachhatrapati Pratishthan led by Purandare has undertaken Shiv Shrushti (Shivaji memorial) project at Ambegaon near Katraj and it is in the final stages.Purandare also has had his fair share of controversy for his portrayal of Shivaji, with outfits like the pro-Maratha Sambhaji Brigade and even some Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders accusing him of distorting history with a malafide intent.The Sambhaji Brigade, which had vehemently opposed the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government’s decision to honour Purandare with the Maharashtra Bhushan award, alleges that Purandare’s works on Shivaji were given a “casteist” and “communal” spin.After turning 99, Purandare said in his interview to Hindustan Times: “I may be old but not old in my thoughts, hence I understand what the new generation is looking at and [I am] eager to understand them more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historian-and-writer-babasaheb-purandare-dies-at-99-in-pune-101636946959553.html
15-11-2021||India||‘Pained beyond words’: PM Modi condoles historian Babasaheb Purandare’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed his condolence on the death of historian and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare, popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare.Doctors at Pune’s Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said that Purandare died in the morning after a brief illness. He was 99.“I am pained beyond words. The demise of Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare leaves a major void in the world of history and culture. It is thanks to him that the coming generations will get further connected to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. His other works will also be remembered,” PM Modi posted on Twitter.“Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare was witty, wise and had rich knowledge of Indian history. I had the honour of interacting with him very closely over the years. A few months back, had addressed his centenary year programme,” he also wrote.
15-11-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality continues to be ‘very poor’ on Monday||Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday morning with data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showing that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 341. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 330, which was also in the very poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The hazardous air quality persisting in the capital since Diwali also led the government to close schools in the city till November 20 and order all government employees to work from home till Wednesday. Construction activities are also banned till November 17.The share of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 (particulate matter) pollution was 12% on Sunday with effective farm fire count standing at 3,445.Also Read: Delhi govt to submit proposal on lockdown to SC today to tackle air pollutionOn Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said, “Implementation of lockdown for the next two days with restrictions in anthropogenic activity emitting pollutants, air quality may improve a little but likely to remain in very poor category for the next two days if stubble burning share does not increase. AQI is likely to deteriorate from 16th night onwards due to calm wind conditions predicted by SAFAR. On 17th, it is likely to be in the upper end of very poor category.”Meanwhile, Delhi is likely to experience shallow fog on Monday as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 10 degree Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 27 degree Celsius in the city. The maximum temperature was 28.1 degree Celsius on Sunday and the minimum temperature was 10.1 degree Celsius – three degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-continues-to-be-very-poor-on-monday-101636945039392.html
15-11-2021||India||Parliamentary committee to meet crypto industry players today||A parliamentary committee on finance is likely to hold a meeting of top stakeholders of the crypto industry on Monday, according to multiple reports. The meeting, reported to be a closed-door one, will have participants from top crypto exchanges, members of the Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC) among others.This is the first time that the committee has invited industry stakeholders to formally have a discussion on the industry. It also comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on the way forward for cryptocurrency amid concerns over its misleading claims of huge returns on investment.According to multiple news agencies, the government made a consensus that "attempts to mislead the youth through over-promising and non-transparent advertising have to be stopped." "The government is cognizant of the fact that this is an evolving technology, it will keep a close watch and take proactive steps. There was also consensus that the steps taken in this field by the government will be progressive and forward-looking," news agency PTI reported on Saturday.It further said that the government will continue to speak to experts and other stakeholders of the industry on the issue. Since the issue cuts across geographical borders, the government also felt that it will require global partnerships and collective strategies.Saturday's meeting was an outcome of a consultative process as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Union ministry of finance, the home ministry did an elaborate exercise in which global and Indian experts were consulted and global examples and best practices studied.On Wednesday, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das reiterated his views against allowing cryptocurrencies saying they are a serious threat to any financial system since they are unregulated by central banks.The Supreme Court in early March 2020 nullified the RBI circular banning cryptocurrencies. Following this on February 5, 2021, the central bank had instituted an internal panel to suggest a model of the central bank's digital currency.RBI announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency, in the face of the proliferation of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin about which the central bank has had many concerns.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-to-meet-crypto-industry-players-today-101636943244283.html
15-11-2021||India||Kerala’s Sabarimala temple to reopen from today amid strict Covid-19 norms||The Sabarimala temple in the Pathanamthitta district of Kerala will reopen from Monday for the two-month-long Mandala-Makaravilakku festival. The hilltop shrine dedicated to Lord Ayyappa will open on Monday evening and people will be allowed for obeisance from Tuesday.At first, the temple will open for the 41-day Mandala puja festival which will conclude on December 26. It will open again on December 30 and darshan will be allowed till January 20th for the Makaravilakku festival.State health minister Veena George said on Sunday that the department has made elaborate arrangements for pilgrims to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).State authorities have insisted that people have to either produce a full vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours if they wish to visit the shrine. An official told news agency PTI on Sunday that all devotees should also produce their Aadhaar cards.Security will be tightened in and around Sabarimala given the Mandala-Makaravilakku festival."At the state level, special meetings were convened in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki districts to coordinate the activities. The health department officials are being deployed at treatment centres from Pamba to Sannidhanam," health minister Veena George was quoted as saying by ANI on Sunday.“The services of expert doctors from medical colleges are ensured in Pamba and Sannidhanam. These centres will be operational from Monday,” she added.She said that emergency medical centres and oxygen parlours were being set up at five locations along the journey from Pamba to Sannidhanam.The health minister also said that anyone experiencing excessive heartbeat, shortness of breath or chest pain during the journey to the temple, should visit the emergency centres on priority, adding that trained staff nurses and other medical facilities are available here throughout.Specialised dispensaries have also been set up in Sannidhanam, Pampa, Nilakkal, Charalmedu (Ayyappan Road) and Erumeli, Veena Geroge said on Sunday.Meanwhile, trekking to the Sabarimala temple will be allowed only through the Swami Ayyappan Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-sabarimala-temple-to-reopen-from-today-amid-strict-covid-19-norms-101636937361684.html
15-11-2021||India||Heroes of our time: Meet Indians making a difference||In times of bad news — disaster and distress in Chennai, smog in Delhi, the Yamuna covered in toxic foam — the Padma Shri awards handed out this week were a reminder, even in such an age, of the power of one. On the list were people who picked a mighty mission and persevered with it. You’ve seen the pictures. You’ve heard the names. Read on to see what some of the winners who have largely remained away from the spotlight achieved and howJaswantiben Popat, Maharashtra - A cracking good success storyYou may not know her name, but you will definitely have heard of her brand.Jaswantiben Popat, 94, is one of the seven co-founders (and the only surviving one) of Lijjat Papad. These women struggled together, 62 years ago, to set up Shri Mahila Udyog Lijjat Papad, which now employs 43,000 women.On Monday, when the Padma Shri so lifted her spirits, she missed her sisters , her grandson’s wife Nitu Popat told HT. “She always says, they are not employees, all women working at Lijjat Papad are owners.”Nitu says the seven women started out with ₹80 in capital. Once all their housework was done, they would gather on a building terrace in south Mumbai, knead the dough for their papads, and lay it out in discs to dry. Their product was so good, it grew organically into a company larger than they could have imagined, helping thousands more women gain some measure of independence.“Jaswantiben still visits the Girgaum branch and attends meetings,” says Ramnik Nathwani, the company’s public relations officer.Crafting healthier rice, wheat - Chintala Venkat Reddy, TelanganaHe was going to meet the President and Prime Minister at Rashtrapati Bhavan! That was Chintala Venkat Reddy’s first thought when he heard that he had been awarded a Padma Shri.Reddy, 71 and based in Hyderabad, is India’s first independent farmer to receive an international patent. In February this year, he patented his innovation for producing foodgrains (particularly the widely consumed rice and wheat) that are enriched naturally with Vitamin D, making them more nutritious. He also secured another international patent for his technique in soil swapping to improve soil fertility.A farmer who opted out of formal education in Class 11, Reddy has worked his marvels through painstaking experiments conducted, over 10 years, in his own fields at Alwal in Telangana. He used various nutrient-enhancing compositions such as carrot extract, maize flour and sweet potato extract, which increase Vitamin D content in plants when applied during irrigation. In some cases, the seed of the crop must also be soaked in these extracts before sowing.Already, private seed companies have approached him, he says. But Reddy does not want his work commercialised.“These awards and appreciations give me immense satisfaction. But the real satisfaction will come when people across the country benefit from my work,” he says. “If the Indian government can take this technology into fields, India can export grain enriched with Vitamin D to the world.”The seed saver - Rahibai Popere, MaharashtraWhen her grandson kept falling ill as a child, Rahibai Popere decided to trace the problem to its roots. “I realised we had to resume organic farming,” she says. “It is at that point that I started conserving indigenous seeds.”That was 21 years ago. Since then, Popere, 57, a farmer and mother of four, has created a seed bank of 154 varieties of native grains and vegetables in her village of Kombhalne, in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra.Initially, people made fun of her, she says. “I had to convince people that what I was doing had value. My home was small and I didn’t have proper space for my conserved seeds. There was a time when I used to cry at night, but in the morning I resumed work.”At social gatherings, she would gift saplings to other women. She reached out through NGOs and self-help groups. Her mission is healthy eating, conservation of indigenous foods, and revival of crop diversity.“Now my work has reached many and I get invitations to speak or people visit my home,” says Popere, speaking over phone from Delhi where she received the Padma Shri on Monday. Anyone who comes her way leaves with lessons in organic farming, biodiversity and wild food resources.Her efforts are now supported by the Pune-based BAIF Development Research Foundation, a non-profit that has set up seed banks in Palghar and Nandurbar districts. Thousands have availed of seeds from the collections traceable back to Popere.Her village, meanwhile, still has no good roads and sporadic water supply. This came up in her brief interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“I have invited Modiji to my village,” she says.A hero who rose from tragedy in Bhopal - Abdul Jabbar, Madhya PradeshFor Abdul Jabbar, as for so many others, the Bhopal gas tragedy never ended.Until his death in 2019, aged 62, Jabbar fought to help those who suffered health crises and were denied compensation after breathing in the toxic gases released during an accident at the Union Carbide factory in Bhopal in 1984. He has now received the Padma Shri posthumously; his wife Saira Bano accepted it on his behalf.Jabbar was 27 and lived 1 km from the site at the time of the disaster. After rushing his mother and brother to safety, he returned to save others.Jabbar lost his mother and brother that night. He lost 50% vision; he would struggle with heart and lung conditions for life. But he worked in the area for 15 days without a break. His work would continue long after.Jabbar fought Union Carbide for compensation in street protests and in court. He fought to have the definitions of who was eligible for compensation expanded to include, for instance, widows and daughters of men who died.He launched an NGO and a vocational training centre where trainers taught women to use computers and stitch clothes. He rushed people to hospital himself, when the effects of the gas tragedy surfaced, sometimes decades later, in horrific ways.“The people respected Jabbarji because he was a most honest activist,” says activist Rachna Dhingra. “Even the officials respected him. He always turned up if someone was in trouble. He never stopped working for the people.”No tusk too daunting for the elephant doctor - Kushal Konwar Sarma, AssamAs a child, Kushal Konwar Sarma was often scolded for abandoning his homework to spend time with Lakhi, an elephant who lived with the family for part of the year, in Barama village, Assam.It was his love for Lakhi, though, that led to him becoming a veterinarian, then a veterinary surgeon.Decades later, elephants are now legitimately his life. He’s known across the state as the elephant doctor, and was recently awarded the Padma Shri for his efforts to save the lives of pachyderms in the wild.“I was always very comfortable with domestic elephants, but I felt I could get close to wild ones too. In 37 years, I’ve treated other animals, but my priority is always pachyderms,” says Sarma, 60, now also a professor and head of surgery and radiology at the College of Veterinary Science in Guwahati.Sarma has performed an estimated 2,000 surgeries on elephants so far, and treats about 700 a year. He also works with NGOs to educate people about non-violent ways of dealing with human-elephant conflict, a big problem in Assam.“I’ve known Sarma for nearly 30 years. Despite his vast experience, he treats every new case with a fresh outlook and is always sincere,” said Bibhab Talukdar, who heads the wildlife NGO Aaranyak.“His involvement was key in translocating 22 rhinos from Kaziranga National Park and the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary. The Padma Shri honour to him is very well-deserved.”Even on his visit to Delhi, he ended up rolling up his sleeves. A pachyderm at the zoo needed its tusks removed. One of Sarma’s former students Abhijit Bhawal, now chief veterinarian there, called and asked if he could help.“He’s a very busy man but he’s always full of enthusiasm to work with elephants,” says Rathin Barman, joint director of the conservation NGO Wildlife Trust of India.Finding new life, dancing to a new tune - Manjamma Jogati, KarnatakaWhen Manjamma Jogati, 64, walked past Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other dignitaries towards Indian president Ramnath Kovind on Monday, it was already one of the most iconic moments for her community. Then, she stood before the President and blessed him by holding the fringe of her sari over his head. A community long shunned and relegated to the margins was at centrestage.Manjamma Jogati was born biologically male in mineral-rich Ballari, to parents who were so concerned that she “acted like a girl” that they tried a range of offerings and rituals to “cure” her. Distraught, she attempted suicide in her teens. When she survived, she was told to leave the house.On the streets of Ballari, alone, she saw a young man dance with a deity on his shoulders. That was what she wanted, she realised. To be free, to perform, to be her true self.She made her way to Kolar in southern Karnataka, where she worked at a small restaurant. She met Kaalavva Jogatti, from whom she learnt the art of Jogati, a ritual folk dance in Karnataka performed by members of the Jogappa transgender community in Karnataka.The Jogappa is a tradition of gender-fluid holy women who are born biologically male and believed to be possessed by the goddess Yellamma. They are seen by devotees as a special link with the goddess.Manjamma Jogati now began performing as part of Kaalavva Jogatti’s troupe. Eventually, she took over the troupe when her guru died. In 2019, she became the first transgender person to be appointed president of the Karnataka Janapada Academy, set up to promote folk art in the state.Manjamma was awarded the Padma Shri for her contribution to the arts. But her success also throws light on a community of people still compelled to beg on streets or forced into sex work because most means of employment remain closed to them.That struggle continues. “You can give the Bharat Ratna, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri, but how do we change mindsets,” says transgender activist Akkai Padmashali. The government needs to act to recognise and protect the rights of the transgender community, Padmashali adds.A school from oranges - Harekala Hajabba, KarnatakaSometime in the late 1970s, a tourist walked up to Harekala Hajabba and asked the price of his oranges. He sat and gaped, not understanding a word. The foreigner tried again, but of course that didn’t help. A passerby explained what was being asked.On his way home, Hajabba told himself this shouldn’t happen to his children, or any children. There was no school in Hajabba’s village of Harekala-Newpadpu, and therefore no place to learn English. He decided he would change that. It was an impossible dream, given that he was earning about ₹80 a day from the orange stall at the time, but he began to save up.“My wife would ask me how many years it would take to build a school with little money I was saving. But however long it took, I wanted to build that school,” he says.It took Hajabba more than two decades. The Harekala-Newpadpu village school opened to students on June 17, 2000. Government funding has provided a boost and a high school section was opened in 2007. From 28 students, it now accommodates a total of 175, all the way to Class 10.Hajabba, now 66, feels that more than his savings it was his perseverance that realised the dream. “I knew that it would be difficult to do it on my own, so I went to a lot of people asking for help. In most of the cases, they came forward when I told them what I was doing.”His Padma Shri, he says, he merely received on behalf of his village and all those who made the school possible. “I’m just an orange seller. I can’t say that I built that school because it is not possible to build a school with the savings I had. The school was built because so many people donated,” he says.The making of a superhero - Narayan Debnath, West BengalIn a time of strife, he gave the nation a cheery superhero. Legendary comic creator Narayan Debnath, 97, received a Padma Shri this year, for his artistry and for the joy his work has brought to generations of Indians. He created the long-running and much-loved Bengali comic series Handa Bhonda in 1962. It followed the adventures of two mischievous boys and their bad-tempered uncle.Then, during the 1965 India-Pakistan war, he created Bantul The Great, a man of extraordinary power. Bullets bounced off him; he could not be defeated. The ongoing war featured in the comics too; Bantul chased away Pakistani tanks and brought down fighter jets with a lasso.Today, Debnath can’t hear very well. “Sometimes he speaks very softly and incoherently. He is bedridden,” says his youngest son Tapas Debnath, 55. His work still speaks. It tells tale of a simpler time when fun was an afternoon annoying the neighours, and when all of India came together in times of trouble.Debnath created other characters too, a detective, an adventurer; he wrote horror tales too.Born and raised in Howrah, West Bengal, his family ran a business detailing gold jewellery, but he only ever wanted to draw. His talent was not formally schooled; Debnath signed up for an art degree but did not complete it. The love he had for pencil and ink never waned. He was drawing until as recently as three years ago, his son says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heroes-of-our-time-meet-indians-making-a-difference-101636935218760.html
15-11-2021||India||UP's Kanpur reports 123 Zika virus cases so far, active cases at 96||Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur has reported 123 cases of Zika virus so far and out of which 96 are active, a senior official has said."One case of Zika virus was reported in Kannauj and three in Lucknow. We are taking necessary steps and doing contact tracing,” additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, according to news agency ANI.The first Zika case in Kanpur was detected on October 23 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer tested positive for the Zika virus. The number of cases has increased over the past few weeks.Also read | Containment zones to be created in Zika affected areas of LucknowLast week, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with officials of the health department in Kanpur to review the Zika virus situation in the city. Adityanath has directed the state’s health department to ensure strict surveillance and to undertake frequent and extensive door-to-door sanitisation and fogging drives to prevent mosquito breeding.The Union ministry of health and family welfare also rushed a high-level multidisciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh after the first case of Zika virus disease was reported in Kanpur.Also read | Experts find unprecedented density of Aedes mosquitoes in Kanpur’s ChakeriThe health ministry said in a statement that the multidisciplinary team was deployed to assist the state health authorities for control and containment measures of Zika virus disease. The team comprised an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi.The ministry said that the team will work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether its action plan for Zika management is being implemented. It will also recommend necessary public health interventions for the management of Zika in the state, the statement also said. Also read | Zika virus in UP: Symptoms, treatment and other things to knowOfficials have said that teams from the state health department have been undertaking sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying and identifying those with fever, screening seriously ill people and pregnant women, to check the spread of the disease. Health officials have also been asked to step up surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing for the Zika virus.It is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito, which bites during the day. Symptoms of the disease include mild fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise, or a headache.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-kanpur-reports-123-zika-virus-cases-so-far-active-cases-at-96-101636937234916.html
15-11-2021||India||To further boost governance, 77 ministers divided into eight groups||In a major push for a hands-on approach to governance, the Modi government is planning to rope in young professionals, seek suggestions from retiring officials and make the best use of technology for project monitoring, besides various other steps to be overseen by eight different groups comprising of members from the entire Council of Ministers, sources said.The 77 ministers have been divided into eight groups to develop technology-based resources, create a pool of professionals for recruiting in their teams and other similar initiatives to be adopted in the offices of all ministers' offices to bring more transparency and further improve and efficiency of the Modi government, the sources said.This exercise of dividing the ministers into eight groups was done following 'Chintan Shivirs' (brainstorming sessions) of the entire council that were chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with each meeting lasting for nearly five hours.A total of five such sessions were held - one each on Personal Efficiency, Focused Implementation, Ministry Functioning and Stakeholder Engagement, Party Coordination and Effective Communication and the last one was on Parliamentary practices.The last brainstorming meeting was also attended by the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.All these meetings primarily focused on improving the efficiency and the delivery system of the Modi government. The forming of groups is another step in that direction, broadly focusing on overall improvement in the governance by making ministers more hands-on approach, the sources said.All the 77 ministers in the council are part of one of these eight groups, each comprising nine to ten ministers with one Union minister designated as a group coordinator, sources said.Developing a portal in each minister's office that gives updates on the performance of the Centre's flagship schemes and policies, a dashboard for monitoring decisions made by the respective ministers and a system to schedule meetings and managing correspondence are among the tasks assigned to these groups.They have also been asked to create profiles of all districts, states and ministries and develop stakeholder engagement programmes.One of the groups has been assigned to set up a mechanism for creating a team of at least three young professionals with command over research, communication and other key areas, the sources said.Similarly, a group has been assigned to create a portal that maintains feedback and experiences of the retiring employees, sources said.Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur are among the ministers who are the coordinators of their respective groups, the sources said.They have been given this responsibility so that they can share the good practices of their respective offices with other cabinet colleagues.Most of the ministers who had given presentations during the Chintan Shivirs have been given the responsibility of coordinating their respective groups.Meanwhile, for attending these brainstorming sessions, Union ministers on the instruction of Prime Minister Modi did carpooling with their cabinet colleagues from different ministries and hailing from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-further-boost-governance-77-ministers-divided-into-eight-groups-101636934683899.html
15-11-2021||India||Kids in north India are vulnerable to pollution||North India is in a haze. Delhi has closed schools after briefly opening them. Many other states and cities have not even taken action. Children are the most vulnerable of our populations, susceptible to permanent lung damage. Yet, lakhs of children will not benefit in any way by staying at home anywhere. About 30 to 40% of a city’s population lives in informal settlements. Inevitably, children step out to play on a day off from school. Scolding them won’t help.State governments must invest in science-based protocols that can be implemented by schools, illiterate parents and the children themselves. For example, when should schools shut down? What AQI is too much for children to leave home? What should children be doing when their school asks them to stay home? Amongst the poor, online education is not something that occupies them all day, and nor does it keep them indoors. With poor parental oversight, especially as both parents work in many cases, what can students be taught about looking after themselves? Schools should stay focused on sports-related exposure too. From morning PT to Sports day, all exposure children to toxic air. We need SOS helplines for children’s health too.We must not delay developing and imaginatively communicating to children and their caregivers how they can look after themselves if they live in sub-standard housing with minimal resources. This adaptation should be an urgent first step that should have been taken a long time ago.(The writer is founder and director, Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kids-in-north-india-are-vulnerable-to-pollution-101636929565504.html
15-11-2021||India||UGC seeks action against Bihar University VC||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has written to the union ministry of education to take “appropriate action” on a complaint received against Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Mahatma Gandhi Central University (MGCU), Motihari, Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, for allegedly violating central university norms and ministry’s directions.Sharma’s term as the V-C of MGCU ended in February this year after which he was given an extension by the ministry of education (MoE) until his successor is appointed, for which the process is underway.In a communication sent to the ministry of education on November 10, UGC under secretary (central university) AS Sajwan said, “I am hereby directed to enclose herewith a copy of complaint/ representation received through email against the vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi Central University (MGCU), Motihari, Bihar, and request you to take an appropriate action in the matter as MoE is the appointing authority and enquiry against a vice-chancellor comes under the purview of the MoE.”The UGC referred to the complaint dated October 20 by social activist Alok Raj addressed to the secretary of the commission and also marked to ministry of education officials as well. The complainant alleged that despite ministry of education’s direction (dated October 9, 2014) that prohibits acting vice chancellors (including those on extension) from taking important decisions including amending the statutes; bringing new ordinances or amending the ordinances; appointment of permanent faculty and creation of new posts, among others, Sharma took such decisions during an academic council (AC) meeting held on October 9.According to the complaint, some of the matters discussed by the acting V-C Sharma during the AC meeting included establishment of two new centers; starting of “self finance scheme” from this year onwards and confirmation of services of six professors and six associate professors. “According to the central university act, 2009, only the executive council (EC) has been empowered for confirmation of services. The Academic Council has no role in the confirmation of services,” the complaint added.Earlier in May last year, the Chancellor of the University Mahesh Sharma, had approached President Ramnath Kovind requesting an inquiry against the VC for allegedly violating the Central Universities Act. When contacted on Sunday, the Chancellor said, “The President, as the visitor of central universities, had promptly acted on my complaint and asked the ministry of education to take necessary action. However, I am still waiting for that to happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-seeks-action-against-bihar-university-vc-101636928075323.html
15-11-2021||India||Kodava push to ‘protect’ community’s culture and values||The setting is almost always the same in most Kodava weddings. On the first day of a traditional two-day wedding ceremony, a significant section of men are dressed smartly in suits while closer relatives to the marrying couple are in traditional “Kuppiya Chale”.Most of the married women in a saree, draped in the unique “Kodava style”, and a mix of traditional and modern jewellery. Much of the conversations oscillate between English and Kodava Thakk and range from local news to global developments over one -- mostly one of many -- alcoholic beverages.Most Kodava weddings now feature wine, Irish coffee and a range of sweet and savory from the local cuisines and with a twist from a slightly anglicized aunt who offers to make chocolates or puddings as the differentiator to the scrumptious pork starters to indulge the guests.The Kodavas are among the more progressive and economically successful ethnic groups in Karnataka who have a celebrated history, enriched by their notable contributions to the Indian armed forces, hockey and various other fields of sports which this small community wears as a badge of pride.But like most others, there are rich, middle-class and poor in this primarily coffee, pepper and paddy-growing community. But a recent order by the Kodava Samaj in Ponnampet, a small town in south Kodagu, has taken many in the community by surprise.Chotakmada Rajiv Bopaiah, president of Ponnampet Kodava Samaj, has announced that this particular society has banned cake cutting and opening of champagne among other celebrations as it is not part of the community’s culture.Other restrictions include that bridegrooms will not be allowed to sport beards and brides will not be allowed if their hair is let loose during the ceremony.“We Kodavas have our own distinct culture and cake cutting, popping champagne, the newly-weds putting their arms around each other and sipping from the bottle is not part of our culture,” Bopaiah told HT on Sunday.He said there was no ban on bride grooms having beards or brides not being allowed to leave their hair loose during the ceremony but it was a decision taken to create awareness.The statement adds to the increasing trend of restricting activities by so-called custodians of culture across several regions in the country who cite the growing influence of “westernization” even though it is part and parcel of their daily lives.Field Marshal KM Kariappa, General KS Thimayya, Mandepanda Somaiya who was part of India’s Olympic gold winning hockey team in 1980, international athlete Ashwini Nachappa or Indian cricketer Robin Uthappa and scores of others are from this district.Kodavas and their long and celebrated affiliation with the Indian armed forces has given room for the far right to bracket them as ardent “Hindus” or people who stand with the cause of the right wing.Bopaiah acknowledged that suits were common attire but there was no harm in trying to raise awareness against the seeping western culture into its traditions.Marriage outside the community is scorned upon and the person loses benefits of being a member of the Kodava Samaj or society. This hasn’t stopped many who have pursued their love interests over that of the community while several more just fall in line.Pictures of gay couple sporting Kodava attire in California last October got the community up in arms over people “desecrating” its culture.Though Kodavas do not make up the majority of the population in this coffee-growing region, the community wields all the influence in the region where the caste identity of marginalised groups is used as slang. The non-Kodava groups that occupy the higher strata of society too are bent towards the right.A sizable portion of their right leanings have led to the repeated victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) despite the constant grouse of underdevelopment of the tourist paradise. The undying support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi is evident here as well.But the sociological explanation of the close-knit community’s history, whose origin ranges from Greek, Portuguese to the middle east, depending on who you ask, has a different story to tell.The Kodavas, a warrior tribe, came up the social ladder through a process called “sanskritization”--a term first used by noted sociologist MN Srinivas in his book ‘Religion and Society among the Coorgs of India’.Srinivas defined Sanskritisation as “a process by which a lower caste or tribe or any other group changes its customs, rituals, ideology and way of life in the direction of a higher or more often twice-born caste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodava-push-to-protect-community-s-culture-and-values-101636917852840.html
15-11-2021||India||Worship party, not a person, Shivakumar tells Congress workers||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Sunday said there should be no “person worship” within the party. “I have said in the beginning that no person worship only party worship,” Shivakumar said in Bengaluru. The statements come at a time when there have been increasing reports of growing factionalism within the state unit of the Congress with several legislators rallying behind Siddaramaiah. Shivakumar has tried to underplay the factionalism despite growing clamour within a section of the party, backing Siddaramaiah as the “next chief minister” if the party does manage to return to power in 2023. The Congress kicked off its membership drive across Karnataka as the party looks to gain lost ground against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) in several pockets of the state. The Congress has tried to put up a united face but have failed so far to capitalise growing problems within the BJP under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Congress managed to wrest one assembly seat (Hanagal) in the October 30 bypolls as a result of the internal problems due to Bommai’s elevation as chief minister in July, replacing BS Yediyurappa and overlooking several other seniors within the saffron outfit. The Congress also finds itself in the thick of the raging Bitcoin scandal in which a hacker is reported to have helped several prominent political leaders launder money earned from corruption and bribery. Though the Congress had first levelled allegations against the BJP, Bommai has stated that his government is trying to unearth the truth in the matter which has taken several twists and turns in recent days. “For the BJP, corruption is as easy as drinking water. It has become part of their politics,” Siddaramaiah said at the membership drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worship-party-not-a-person-shivakumar-tells-congress-workers-101636917674249.html
15-11-2021||India||Cauvery, Krishna and Pennar river basins: Bommai asserts Karnataka’s rights over river water||Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Sunday reiterated the state’s rights over its share of river water and inter-linking projects at the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting chaired by union home minister Amit Shah in temple town of Tirupati, about 250 km from Bengaluru.“Karnataka has already conveyed its stand on river linking projects in Godavari, Cauvery and other river basins to (the) union government. Karnataka should get its share of surplus water in the Cauvery, Krishna and Pennar river basins,” Bommai said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel, Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Sounderajan, Puducherry chief minister N Rangaswamy participated in the meeting.The statements come even as Karnataka continues to demand for necessary approvals from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government for the contentious Mekedatu project that has been opposed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu.Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two of India’s most industrious states, have fought for decades over Cauvery river and is a highly emotional and sensitive subject to people on both sides of the border.Bommai urged the centre not to approve the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link works, initiated by Tamil Nadu, stating that this project is being undertaken even before allocation of the share of surplus waters for other states who have a share in the basin.“He reiterated Karnataka’s demand to centre not to accord legal clearance for major permanent irrigation projects taken up by neighboring states in violation of the verdict of Water Disputes Tribunals,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Sunday.He also said that neighbouring Telangana had no right to take up Palamaru Ranga Reddy and Nakkalagandi lift irrigation projects from Srisailam reservoir in Krishna basin to draw huge quantities of surplus waters.He also opposed construction of Rajiv Gandhi Sangam Banda barrage by Telangana that proposes to draw surplus waters which he said would deprive Karnataka of its rightful share of water.“Joint Survey should be conducted on the impending submergence of villages in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh due to construction of Gundrevula reservoir by Andhra Pradesh across Tungabhadra river. Andhra should share the details it has submitted to the Tribunal and the clearances it has obtained from the centre regarding the project,” according to the statement by the CMO.He added that as far as sharing of Krishna water is concerned, both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had no clearance for any projects other than the ones approved for utilising the already adjudicated quantum of waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cauvery-krishna-and-pennar-river-basins-bommai-asserts-karnataka-s-rights-over-river-water-101636917552665.html
15-11-2021||India||Ready to sacrifice anyone involved in bitcoin case, says Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday asserted that his government is “ready to sacrifice anyone” involved in the multi-crore Bitcoin case and challenged the Congress to name the “influential people” it has alleged are behind it.“The Congress says there are some influential people involved in it (Bitcoin case). If you know them, then name them. We will investigate it without any second thought. If there is anyone involved in the country or in the state, we will initiate action mercilessly,” the CM told reporters.“We are the ones who brought out this case. We will not spare anyone and are ready to sacrifice anyone involved in it. There is no question of any second thought on our decision,” he added.The chief minister’s remarks came a day after Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged that ‘influential politicians’ are involved in the case after officials seized bitcoins worth ₹nine crore from a city-based hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki, who was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in November last year. Sriki is accused of hacking into government portals, sourcing drugs through the dark net and paying for it through cryptocurrency.Accusing the state government of covering up the issue, Surjewala sought an independent probe by a Supreme Court-monitored special investigation team.Hitting back, the CM said that the “issue had become bigger” because the Opposition did not probe the matter properly when it was in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-sacrifice-anyone-involved-in-bitcoin-case-cm-bommai-101636917374440.html
15-11-2021||India||Twitter war breaks out between Cong, BJP over fraud case||The Congress in Karnataka on Sunday criticised the health minister for holding a press conference on the raging Bitcoin scandal that comes under the home department’s purview.“Should HM mean home minister or health minister? Why is the health minister holding press conferences about the Bitcoin issue when the home ministry (department) should have done it? Will the home minister come tomorrow and give information on the state’s Covid vaccination?” Priyank Kharge, the Congress legislator from Chittapur and former state minister wrote in his Twitter handle.His statements come after Karnataka’s health and family welfare minister, Dr K Sudhakar, on Saturday addressed a press conference about the Bitcoin scandal which has taken several twists and turns ever since Congress leader Siddaramaih first spoke about it earlier this month.The Congress has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to bury the truth with its investigation rather than unearth it.Though Siddaramaiah or the Congress have not directly named anyone in the alleged scam, they have hinted at possibility of powerful leaders within the BJP, senior officials and others as being involved in the alleged scam.A hacker named Srikrishna or Sriki is at the heart of the alleged scandal who the investigating authorities had arrested in another case nearly four years ago.It is alleged that Sriki was used to purchase Bitcoin, a crypto currency, to launder money gotten from corruption, bribes, transfers and hide ill-gotten wealth by powerful political leaders.“For someone under the constant shadow, it is not surprising that @PriyankKharge lacks common sense about the basic fact that a cabinet minister also has collective responsibility & often speaks on behalf of the govt. This is Congress leaders’ level of ignorance!” Sudhakar hit back in a two-part post on Twitter.Sudhakar said there was no reason why he, as a cabinet minister, could not speak on the issue.Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai had said he tried to brief Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue but that the latter had said that there no need for the same and instead the former should focus on working for the benefit of the people.“Bitcoin Scam is big. But Bitcoin Scam Cover-up is much bigger. Because it has to cover up someone’s fake big ego,” Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president, said in a Twitter post on Saturday.The BJP has rubbished the claims made the Congress and counter-alleged that it was leaders of the Sonia Gandhi-led party who were actually involved in the scam.“When he worked as a Minister of IT and later as Min of Social Welfare, did Priyank confine his comments to his departments or speak about other matters as well? Congress must know that BJP will not tolerate & continue to expose their allegations and lies on Bitcoin issue,” Sudhakar said.BJP MP from Mysuru-Kodagu, Prathap Simha, on Sunday hit back at Kharge with sexist remarks for calling the former a “paper Lion”. Simha means Lion in Kannada.“The person, who is making such statements against me, what is this little Kharge’s name? You won’t know if it is a man or a woman. That’s because this is Rajiv Gandhi’s daughter’s name,” Simha said, referring to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-war-breaks-out-between-cong-bjp-over-fraud-case-101636917372476.html
15-11-2021||India||Amravati curfew now extended to four more towns||The curfew in Maharashtra’s Amravati city was expanded on Sunday to include four more towns in the district after local BJP leaders staged a protest during a bandh, police said. Meanwhile, a total of 50 people were arrested by the police in connection with back to back incidents of stone-pelting that took place in Amravati city on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, the situation in Amravati remained peaceful as eight battalions of the SRPF (State Reserve Police Force) and additional number of police personnel from various districts were deployed in the city, district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said. On Saturday, a curfew was clamped in Amravati city in east Maharashtra for four days and Internet services were shut down after a mob hurled stones at shops during a bandh (shut-down) allegedly organised by local BJP workers in protest against the rallies organised by Muslim organisations the day before to condemn the recent violence in Tripura, police had said. On Friday, stone-pelting was reported during rallies taken out by Muslim organisations in Amravati, Nanded, Malegaon (in Nashik district), Washim and Yavatmal.“The situation is under control in Amravati as eight battalions of the SRPF and extra police force from Jalna, Nagpur, Wardha and Buldhana districts remains deployed,” she said, adding that a march was taken out by the police this evening in sensitive areas of Amravati city. Meanwhile, a bandh was observed by BJP in rural parts of Amravati. Police have detained former Maharashtra agriculture minister Anil Bonde, MLC Pravin Pote and Amravati rural BJP president Nivedita Chaudhari for taking out a rally in protest against Friday’s stone-pelting.A total of eight BJP activists were detained in Warud and Shendurjanaghat villages for raising slogans. The curfew is now expanded to cover Morshi, Warud, Achalpur and Anjangaon Surji towns of the Amravati district, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amravati-curfew-now-extended-to-four-more-towns-101636917252572.html
15-11-2021||India||IAF holds trial run on Purvanchal Expressway ahead of Modi event||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Sunday held a rehearsal of an air show along the Purvanchal Expressway, ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to inaugurate the 341-km stretch during a programme in Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.A C-130J Super Hercules aircraft made a trial landing on a concrete cement airstrip, measuring 3.20 km in length and 34 metres in width, on the expressway near Kurebhar village in Sultanpur district.The airstrip has been constructed for emergency landing of aircraft on the expressway.Modi is expected to arrive in the C-130J Super Hercules aircraft that is used by the Air Force for airlift, search and rescue operations during natural disasters. Manufactured by US company Lockheed Martin, the aircraft has the capability to land on the highest land strip in the world, besides on unprepared runways, a state government officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-holds-trial-run-on-purvanchal-expressway-ahead-of-modi-event-101636917013999.html
15-11-2021||India||Rains slow down Tamil Nadu vaccination campaign||Amid heavy rainfall across the state, vaccination against Covid-19 has taken a huge blow as officials expected to compensate during the 8th mega vaccination drive with 50,000 camps on Sunday for 12-hours.On Sunday, Tamil Nadu vaccinated around 1.58 million people, surpassing the 305,000 vaccinations recorded on Saturday.In at least 15 districts, people didn’t turn up for vaccination due to heavy rainfall, health minister M Subramanian told reporters. “But our staff has been going door-to-door to bring people to the camps today,” he said. “Though Covid-19 cases have reduced for us across the globe like the US and Russia the cases are still rising. So vaccination is the only solution.”In Tamil Nadu, 72% have been vaccinated with the first dose, he said. The district of Thiruvallur has topped the state average with 75% receiving the first dose. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan urged all those who have not taken the first dose and those who are due for the second dose to make use of the drive. “At least 1.61 crore people are eligible to take the first dose and 71.15 lakh people are due or overdue for the second dose,” he said.Till Sunday, Tamil Nadu had about 7.1 million vaccines in stock for the drive. Two heavy spells of rains since November 6 had battered Chennai, its adjoining regions and delta districts, due to which vaccinations numbers had dropped. In Chennai, the drive was conducted at about 2,000 vaccination sites and chief minister M K Stalin inspected a medical camp in Villivakkam.Earlier this week, M Subramanian had said that the state government aims at vaccinating 100% of the population with at least one dose before the end of November. The state has planned three more weekend camps for November.On Sunday, 805 people tested positive for Covid-19 and 11 people succumbed to the virus. Chennai reported the highest number of new cases of 128 while Coimbatore reported 125 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-slow-down-tamil-nadu-vaccination-campaign-101636917012670.html
15-11-2021||India||Madras high court lawyers protest Banerjee’s transfer, write to Supreme Court||Thirty-one senior lawyers of the Madras high court has written to the Supreme Court collegiums against the transfer of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee to Meghalaya high court. Over 200 lawyers signed the representation, including senior counsels PS Raman, Nalini Chidambaram and NR Elango, a Rajya Sabha MP from Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham (DMK). In the letter dated November 11, a copy of which was released to the media on Sunday, the 31 senior counsels noted that the Madras High Court was in a state of “constant flux” owing to the constant transfers and postings. “Such short-lived tenures at the apex of the Court’s hierarchy in a State bodes ill for the health of the institution and the justice delivery system,” their letter read. “This is so not only for the High Court but any institution more so the High Court, given the significant role it plays in preserving constitutional safeguards.” “We are unable to fathom the reasons for his sudden transfer to another court,” the lawyers said. Banerjee took office in Madras HC on January 4 this year and is due to retire in November 2023. The lawyers pointed out that he has hardly completed a year and pointed out that he disposed of a few thousand cases even during the Covid-19 pandemic and brought honour to the post.They recalled that the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court have held that the transfer of judges is inevitable to protect “public interest” and “for better administration of justice” and said that they are unable to identify how Banerjee’s transfer could justify these reasons. “Justice Mr Sanjib Banerjee who has experience serving in large high court has demonstrated capacity and talent to handle a large number of cases which requirement would not arise in a court like the Meghalaya high court which though is an equally important institution is smaller one,” their statement read. This is the second time that a Madras HC chief justice is being transferred to a smaller court in Meghalaya, which has just three judges. The Madras HC has 75. In 2019, the then chief justice of Madras HC Vijaya K Tahilramani, resigned after she was transferred to the Meghalaya high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-lawyers-protest-banerjee-s-transfer-write-to-supreme-court-101636916851936.html
15-11-2021||India||Modi govt splits council of ministers into teams to improve governance||In a major push for a hands-on approach to governance, the Modi government is planning to rope in young professionals, seek suggestions from retiring officials and make the best use of technology for project monitoring, besides various other steps to be overseen by eight different groups comprising of members from the entire Council of Ministers, people familiar with the matter said.The 77 ministers have been divided into eight groups to develop technology-based resources, create a pool of professionals for recruiting in their teams and other similar initiatives to be adopted in the offices of all ministers’ offices to bring more transparency and further improve and efficiency of the Modi government, they added.This exercise of dividing the ministers into eight groups was done following ‘Chintan Shivirs’ (brainstorming sessions) of the entire council that were chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with each meeting lasting for nearly five hours.A total of five such sessions were held - one each on Personal Efficiency, Focused Implementation, Ministry Functioning and Stakeholder Engagement, Party Coordination and Effective Communication and the last one was on Parliamentary practices.The last brainstorming meeting was also attended by the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.All these meetings primarily focused on improving the efficiency and the delivery system of the Modi government. The forming of groups is another step in that direction, broadly focusing on overall improvement in the governance by making ministers more hands-on approach, the people cited above said.All the 77 ministers in the council are part of one of these eight groups, each comprising nine to ten ministers with one Union minister designated as a group coordinator, they added. Developing a portal in each minister’s office that gives updates on the performance of the Centre’s flagship schemes and policies, a dashboard for monitoring decisions made by the respective ministers and a system to schedule meetings and managing correspondence are among the tasks assigned to these groups.They have also been asked to create profiles of all districts, states and ministries and develop stakeholder engagement programmes.One of the groups has been assigned to set up a mechanism for creating a team of at least three young professionals with command over research, communication and other key areas, the sources said.Similarly, a group has been assigned to create a portal that maintains feedback and experiences of the retiring employees, sources said.Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur are among the ministers who are the coordinators of their respective groups, the sources said.They have been given this responsibility so that they can share the good practices of their respective offices with other cabinet colleagues.Most of the ministers who had given presentations during the Chintan Shivirs have been given the responsibility of coordinating their respective groups.Meanwhile, for attending these brainstorming sessions, Union ministers on the instruction of Prime Minister Modi did carpooling with their cabinet colleagues from different ministries and hailing from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-splits-council-of-ministers-into-teams-to-improve-governance-101636916851328.html
15-11-2021||India||Southern Zonal Council: Shah chairs meet, key government schemes discussed||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday lauded the efforts of southern Indian states towards the development of the country on various fronts as he chaired the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting in Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh on Sunday.Addressing the meeting, the home minister said ancient culture, traditions and languages of the states of Southern India enriched culture and ancient legacy. “India’s development cannot be imagined without the very important contribution of the states of Southern India,” he said.Shah further said the delegates participating in the Southern Zonal Council meeting could feel free to speak in their respective state’s language as arrangements had been made to translate their speeches in their respective languages into all other languages.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the vice-chairman and host of the Southern Zonal Council meeting, raised several issues about the state and requested that the Centre keep up its promises made during the bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh in 2014, including those mentioned in the AP Reorganisation Act.He said even after seven years of bifurcation, the majority of the commitments made by the Centre in the Act and on the house of Parliament remained unfulfilled, and Andhra Pradesh continued to face immense economic hardships and deprivation.Jagan requested that the Centre should provide full funding for Polavaram multi-purpose project on the Godavari river and see that the project was completed at the earliest. He also requested that the Centre accord Special Category Status to the state as promised in the Parliament during bifurcation.The chief minister said the total resource gap for the first financial year after state bifurcation was ₹22,948.76 crore. However, the Centre had subsequently introduced a new concept of “Standardized Expenditure” and conveyed that their liability to compensate the state was only to the tune of ₹4,117.89 crores. He sought the central government’s intervention in revisiting this topic to find a suitable solution at the earliest.He also brought to the notice of the Union home minister to settle the dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on settlement of power bill dues. Telangana state owed an amount of ₹6,112 crores to be paid to AP power generation corporation towards power purchase costs, he pointed out.Similarly, Jagan said the Tamil Nadu government owed ₹338.48 crores to Andhra Pradesh towards the supply of drinking water from Krishna waters to Chennai in the last 10 years. This includes the cost of infrastructure and operation, and maintenance.He asked the Centre to resolve the issue at the earliest. On Tamil Nadu government’s opposition to the Paleru irrigation project, he said only 0.6 tmc ft of water would be stored in the project and sought the Central government’s intervention in this regard.He asked the Union home minister to see that the Centre enhance the borrowing limit of the state given the outbreak of pandemic and any restrictions on borrowing would debilitate the fiscal health of the state.The chief minister said the inadequate coverage of the state’s beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act has been troubling the state and urged that the State’s data be revisited and corrected. He wanted that a comprehensive view is taken on the poverty levels in the State so that there would be wider coverage of the population of Andhra Pradesh under the Targeted Public Distribution System.Apart from Jagan Mohan Reddy, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and Puducherry chief minister N Rangaswamy attended the four-hour-long Southern Zonal Council meeting, while Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan abstained, but sent their state representatives.Telangana Governor and Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Admiral D K Joshi, Administrator of Lakshadweep Islands Praful Khoda Patel, Telangana Home Minister Mahmood Ali, Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal, Tamil Nadu Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments PK Sekarbabu, Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Inter-State Council Secretariat Secretary Anuradha Prasad and other top officials are attending.Among 26 items listed in the agenda, the meeting discussed the implementation of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mission, speedy investigation of cases of sexual offence/rape against women and children, strengthening of the National Leprosy Eradication Programme (NLEP), states’ support for effective implementation of NIKSHAY Poshan Yojana (NPY) under Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-zonal-council-shah-chairs-meet-key-government-schemes-discussed-101636916849760.html
15-11-2021||India||School principal also held after student dies by suicide in Tamil Nadu||he Tamil Nadu police on Sunday arrested the principal of a prominent private school in Coimbatore, where a Class 12 student died by suicide alleging sexual assault by her teacher, officials familiar with the matter said. The accused teacher was arrested on Saturday, while the school principal was booked under the Pocso Act for allegedly not acting on the student’s complaint.Soon after the arrest, the 17-year old girl’s parents, relatives and various organisations ended their agitation and accepted her body, which was then taken to the crematorium in a procession, police said.According to the police, the girl’s body was found hanging at her residence on November 12.“The sexual assault happened between March and May this year. Two months later, the victim shared her ordeal with one of her friends and they informed the principal. The wife of the accused also knew about the alleged assault,” Coimbatore police commissioner Deepak Damor said.Police said the accused Mithun Chakraborthy asked the student to come to school when classes were being held online on the pretext of conducting special classes and assaulted her on the institute’s premises.On Saturday, Chakravarthy was booked under Indian Penal Code Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and relevant sections of the (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act 2012. The principal was also booked under provisions of the POCSO Act, which mandates reporting of the crime.State school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said: “The teacher was arrested within 24-hours... The principal was nabbed later. She is in custody right now and the inquiry is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-now-principal-arrested-after-student-kills-self-alleging-sexual-assault-101636916850190.html
15-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Anupama battles rain, continues fast outside govt office||Former Students Federation of India (SFI) leader Anupama S Chandran’s protesting fast outside the child welfare council here seeking custody of her child, which was allegedly taken away at birth without her consent, attracted support from locals on Sunday. Chandran is sitting on a fast for the last three days, braving heavy downpours and winds, as her initial attempt to pitch a shack outside the council office was denied by the police. On Sunday. “I don’t have any other option than hitting the street. The party and government say they are with me but still, no help is forthcoming. And officials of the child welfare council are trying to complicate the issue further. I need my child back,” she said. She said though many leaders promised her help they backed out fearing the wrath of the party. A voice clip surfaced on Saturday, in which senior leader of the ruling CPI (M) PK Sreemati was heard talking to the former SFI leader saying that she took up the issue with many, including Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. In the clip, Sreemati was heard saying that the chief minister told her that it was an issue between a daughter and her parents. The HT could not verify the veracity of the audiotape. Chandran said Vijayan’s continued silence on the matter pains her. “It seems the CM is misinformed. His continued silence pained me a lot,” she said. In the last six months, Anupama has been running pillar to post to get custody of her child that was given up for adoption. She also seeks action against the officials who allegedly colluded with her parents in the crime. Police had registered a case on October 20 after Chandran complained that her parents forcibly took away the newborn last year and gave it for adoption. Later police registered a case against six people including her father S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI (M). The Kerala high court on November 2 refused to entertain a habeas corpus petition filed by Anupama seeking an order to produce her child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-anupama-battles-rain-continues-fast-outside-govt-office-101636916721726.html
15-11-2021||India||IMD issues red alert in Kerala, heavy rainfall continues in Tamil Nadu||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday declared a red alert in three Kerala districts, and an orange alert in six other districts after heavy rains lashed various parts of the state, along with neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where southern districts received over 220m rainfall in the last couple of days. The IMD sounded a red alert in Idukki, Ernakulam and Thrissur, and orange alert in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alapzuha, Kottayam.The Kerala police said three persons killed in rain related incidents on Sunday. A minor landslip claimed the life of a truck driver at Kalamassery in Ernakulam district. And two children swept away in gushing waters in Kannur and Thrissur districts. For the first time in Kerala, shutters of the dam opened twice a year. On October 19, the Idukki dam opened after the district received 700mmrainfall, triggering flash floods and landslides that claimed 42lives. On Sunday, the water level rose to 2,938 feet out of the total 2,403 feet capacity, forcing authorities to open one shutter. The shutters of the dam have been opened only five times since its inception 45 years ago. “We have opened just one shutter for 40 cm now, and 40,000 litres of water is getting released. We are monitoring the situation, and if the need is, more shutters will be opened,” said state water resources minister Roshy Augustine, who is camping in the district. More than 200 relief camps were opened in the two worst-affected districts, Pathanamthitta and Idukki on Sunday. Tamil Nadu also informed the state that if the situation continued to be like this, spillways of Mullaperiyar dam, which is controlled by the former, will also be opened. On Sunday, the water level in Mullaperiyar crossed 140 feet and has a total capacity of 142 feet. Kerala has also been put on high alert as many dams are filled to the brim, following which chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan called an emergency meeting later in the evening. Some areas in Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts received around 220 mm of rainfall in the last two days. People living near water bodies have been asked to keep vigil. The usual rainfall in the north-east monsoon in Kerala is 492 mm between October 1 and December 31, but this time, between October 1 and November 6, the state received 716 mm rainfall against the expected fall of 387. 9mm, IMD statistics show. Going by the present pattern, rainfall will be at least 200 per cent higher than the usual rate by the end of December. The IMD attributed heavy rains to a low-pressure brewing near the southern Andaman sea, and it is likely to intensify in the next 48 hours. “We can’t ignore signals of climate change. Changing rain pattern is one of them. We have to expect the unexpected in such scenarios. We have to strengthen our early warning system and need more studies to lessen the impact of such changes. We desperately need more studies on climate change,” said Dr M G Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. In Tamil Nadu, Chennai and adjacent districts received two heavy spells last week that crippled the region, and after an initial respite, heavy rains lashed southern districts of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi on Sunday, causing severe flooding. Two areas in the Kanyakumari district recorded 220 mm of rainfall, said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). As many as 3,278 people were moved to relief camps in the district. The southern railways cancelled four trains and partially cancelled 11 trains as heavy rainfall impacted the railway traffic between Kanyakumari and Thiruvananthapuram. A change in train timings was also announced. Tamil Nadu has received excess rainfall this northeast monsoon. Overnight between November 6 and 7, Chennai recorded 210 mm of rains, and on November 12 the average rainfall was 60.6 mm. From November 7 to 12, Tamil Nadu recorded 110 mm rainfall, S Balachandran, head, RMC Chennai, told reporters on Friday. “Chennai has recorded 46cm rainfall which is five times the average we receive during this period which is 8cm.” From October 1, when the northeast monsoon began up to November 12, Chennai has received 81 cm rainfall while the average is 44 cm.” This is 85% excess,” the RMC head had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdissues-red-alert-in-kerala-heavy-rainfall-continues-in-tamil-nadu-101636916712910.html
15-11-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Indian Super League begins on Friday; Delhi imposes measures to curb air pollution||Mumbai It was heartbreak for Black Caps on Sunday night in the UAE, the second time in three ICC finals in the last two years. After the devastating loss in the 2019 ODI World Cup final, New Zealand had comprehensively beaten India earlier this year in the World Test Championship final. Yesterday’s final should have sealed Kane Williamson as one of the modern-day captaincy greats. His knock in Sunday’s final did reinforce his status as an all-format great, but his team lost. But redemption may not be far away. This week, India host New Zealand in a three-match T20 and a two-match Test series. The T20Is are scheduled on November 17 (Wednesday), 19 (Friday) and 21 (Sunday). Meanwhile, Pakistan – which lost in the T20 World Cup semi-final after winning all their group matches – begin their tour of Bangladesh with the first T20 on November 19, Friday. Football, too, will see some action this week when the Indian Super League (ISL) begins on Friday, November 19 with ATK Mohun Bagan facing Kerala Blasters in Goa. Following a break for the World Cup qualifiers, the English Premier League returns on November 20 (Saturday) with Chelsea facing Leicester and Liverpool playing Arsenal among other matches. In La Liga, Barcelona face Espanyol, the Catalan club’s first match with Xavi in charge; in Serie A, Lazio face Juventus. With the entire country focused on the air apocalypse in Delhi, “emergency” measures announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to curb air pollution will kick in from Monday. Between November 14 and 20, all schools, colleges, coaching institutes, skill development and training institutes and libraries will remain shut so as to limit the exposure of children to the city’s hazardous air. Virtual classes, however, will continue. Besides, there are a few other activities prohibited till November 17. All construction activities have been prohibited till Wednesday. Delhi government offices, except those handling emergency and important public matters, including Covid-19 management, will have to work from home. Private offices too have been requested to shift to the WFH mode till Wednesday to keep vehicular movement on the roads to the barest minimum. The other thing that’s worrying us is inflation. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for October will be released on November 15. Year-on-year growth in WPI or WPI inflation was in double digits for the sixth consecutive month in September although it has been declining every month after May. It was 10.74% in April, 13.11% in May and 10.66% in September. Much of this decline is due to a sharp decline in wholesale prices of the food group (includes both unprocessed food like cereals or vegetables and manufactured food like butter or biscuit), which has a weightage of 24.4% in WPI. Food group WPI inflation was 7.52% in April, 8.25% in May, but only 1.14% in September. WPI inflation of manufactured products other than food , which has a weightage of 55%, was 11.1% in both August and September compared to 10.5% in May and June and 11.2% in July. On Covid, the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation is likely to meet this week to review clinical data of molnupiravir, hailed as the magic oral pill for the treatment of COVID-19 in adults in India. Earlier this year, Sun Pharma signed a non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Merck to manufacture and supply molnupiravir in India and to over 100 low and middle-income countries States will also see some activity this week. Rajasthan is likely to witness the long pending cabinet reshuffle this week. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had visited Delhi last week and AICC leaders including party chief Sonia Gandhi, general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi, KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken finalised the changes to be made in the cabinet and who all could be appointed in various commissions and boards in the state. In West Bengal, schools (Grades 9-12) will reopen on November 16. The state government has decided to hold classes in a staggered manner. Following Punjab’s example, West Bengal Legislative Assembly will discuss the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF and may pass a resolution against the decision. The opposition is likely to oppose the resolution. Chhattisgarh chief minster Bhupesh Baghel will visit Uttar Pradesh to meet with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi regarding upcoming state assembly polls. In Kerala, a family court will hear former SFI leader Anupama S Chandran’s plea to get back her child given up for adoption on November 18. Sabarimala hill temple will be opened for annual pilgrimage season from November 16. Twenty-five thousand pilgrims will be allowed in a day, officials said. BJP national president JP Nadda will visit Uttarakhand on November 15 and 16. He will hold public rallies in Kumaon and will also review election preparedness with state party leaders and workers. In Goa, political campaigning likely to intensify as political parties and individual candidates jostle to create space for themselves. There is expected to be significant movement as individuals switch alliances, take sides ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-indian-super-league-begins-on-friday-delhi-imposes-measures-to-curb-air-pollution-101636916600857.html
15-11-2021||India||Congress to go solo in UP elections: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday ruled out any chances of a pre-poll alliance with political parties in Uttar Pradesh for assembly elections due next year.Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for assuming that “Congress is a weak organisation in the state”, the Congress leader said: “We will show them our strength by contesting alone on all 403 seats in the forthcoming assembly elections.”“How can they say that we have a weak organisation when over 18,000 workers and leaders of our party had been booked in the past for raising issues of public interest? We did not see the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samajwadi party fight for such issues in the past two years,” she told party workers in Bulandshahr. Emphasising that the electoral contest can only be won by strengthening the party at the booth level, she called upon the Congress workers to bolster the booth committees. She also asked party workers to be active on social media and post all party activities on various social networking platforms.“Irrespective of how the opposition intends to contest, the people have made up their mind to defeat those who promote dynastic rule and corruption,” UP BJP media in-charge Manish Dixit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-go-solo-in-up-elections-priyanka-101636916414515.html
15-11-2021||India||Opposition slams move to extend the terms of ED, CBI ahead of parliament meet||Opposition parties on Sunday hit out at the Centre over its two ordinances to extend the tenure of directors of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Congress said the government has used the two agencies as “henchmen” who are now being rewarded so that “malicious prosecution” is used to silence dissenting voices.“Modi Govt uses ED-CBI as henchmen to usurp power & destabilise elected Govts. Raids by ED, CBI on the Opposition leaders has become a norm. Now, these henchmen are being empowered & rewarded with 5 yrs tenure, so that malicious prosecution is used to silence dissenting voices,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. With the two ordinances — or executive route for enacting laws — coming just two weeks ahead of the winter session of Parliament, Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Singhvi said: “Double whammy regarding 5 yr tenures for misused agency heads. Ordinance Raj, the favourite route of the Modi govt, bypasses Parliament scrutiny 14 days before Parliament meets.”Singhvi, in his tweet, reminded that “extensions per se frowned upon by apex court. Fresh new appointments not extensions under new Parliament Act not Ordinance should have been done”. Congress secretary Pranav Jha said the ordinances “to suit individuals is not just tragic institutional travesty but a blatant affront to the Judiciary, Parliament as well as the Bureaucracy”. Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien said the ordinances were brought to “mock” Parliament. “How Modi-Shah’s BJP mock #Parliament and shamelessly use Ordinances. Same stunt repeated today to keep their pet parrots ParrotParrotin ED and CBI,” he tweeted. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury dubbed the move as “fishy”. “Parliament session begins on 29th. To avoid its scrutiny, Centre on Sunday promulgates ordinances to extend the tenure of Directors of CBI and ED. This desperate hurry smacks of something fishy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-slams-centre-over-ordinances-to-extend-cbi-ed-chiefs-terms-101636916232667.html
15-11-2021||India||UP elections: Can’t compare Patel with Jinnah for vote bank politics, says Yogi||The political row over Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav equating Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Mohammad Ali Jinnah continued on Sunday with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying that a national hero cannot be compared with the Pakistan founder for votebank politics.Without naming anyone, Adityanath said: “The opposition does not have any issue to raise.... Rashtranayak (national hero) Sardar Patel is on one side and Jinnah, who divided the country, is on the other. They support Jinnah and insult Patel. But we support Patel. He is a rashtranayak (national hero) while Jinnah will remain a villain for centuries. Will you support those supporting Jinnah?”“A national hero Sardar Patel can’t be compared with Jinnah for the sake of vote bank politics,” he added. Referring to history books, the chief minister said: “History never termed emperor Ashoka or Chandragupta Maurya great, but it termed Alexander, who was defeated by Chandragupta Maurya, great. Historians are silent on such issues. However, once the countrymen learn the truth, India will change.”The chief minister was speaking at the Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan in Lucknow when he made the remarks. Continuing his veiled attack on the opposition, Adityanath also claimed that those who are raising the issue of partition are in a way supporting the Taliban.“Those who are speaking about the partition are in a way extending support to the Taliban. As soon as the Taliban resurfaced in Afghanistan, a number of voices started to come up in its support. When strong action was taken, these voices went soft.” he said.“Supporting the Taliban means supporting a power that works against humanity, against Lord Buddha’s message of ‘maitri’ (friendship). Certain people are moving in that direction and we need to be aware of them,” he added.The chief minister’s remarks appeared to be in reference to a statement by Om Prakash Rajbhar, chief of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), an ally of the SP, blaming the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for the country’s partition, a day after saying India would have remained unified had Muhammad Ali Jinnah been made its first prime minister.Adityanath also said Brahmins themselves suffer but they do not allow their religion to come under attack.“When we talk about Brahmins, a concept automatically comes in front of everyone. Brahmin means rites, culture and religion. They themselves suffer but do not let their religion come under attack,” he said.He further stressed that Brahmins are the “base of Sanatan dharma” and have preserved the culture and religion over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-can-t-compare-patel-with-jinnah-for-vote-bank-politics-says-yogi-101636916052437.html
15-11-2021||India||Terms of CBI, ED chiefs may be extended to five years||Two months after the Supreme Court ruled that extensions beyond the date of superannuation of an individual should be rare and in exceptional cases only, the Centre on Sunday brought in two ordinances empowering itself to post the chiefs of two premier investigating agencies — the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) — for up to five years.The ordinances say that the CBI and ED directors can now get an extension up to three more years beyond their fixed tenure of two years.The decision is likely to benefit current ED director Sanjay Kumar Mishra, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of the 1984 batch, whose tenure comes to an end later this week, as the ordinance makes him eligible to head the agency for another two years. Mishra has been ED chief since November 2018.The apex court, while hearing a petition by NGO Common Cause challenging Mishra’s one-year extension in November 2020, cleared the government’s decision but said that he should not be granted any further extension.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said at that time, “We do not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of the second respondent (Mishra) in the instant case for the reason that his tenure is coming to an end in November 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent.”However, the ordinance amending Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Act, which governs the appointment and tenure of the ED director, appears to circumvent the apex court order and is likely to benefit Mishra. It is not clear whether the government has already decided to extend his tenure or not.A new proviso in the CVC Act states that the ED director, including his initial appointment (fixed tenure of two years), can get an extension up to five years but every extension will be given for a year at a time.The second ordinance promulgated by the President of India on Sunday pertains to the amendment of Section 4B of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, which deals with the tenure of the CBI director. On the lines of the ED director, a similar provision has been inserted for the extension of the CBI chief’s tenure by a year three times beyond the initial fixed appointment of two years. Currently, Maharashtra cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal heads the CBI, but his fixed tenure of two years began this May. No officer can get more than five years’ tenure as CBI or ED chief, according to the ordinances.The Central Vigilance Commissioner, Vigilance Commissioners, Secretaries of Home Ministry, Revenue department and Department of Personnel decide on the appointment of ED Director. The prime minister, the leader of Opposition and the chief justice of India decide on the appointment of the CBI Director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terms-of-cbi-ed-chiefs-may-be-extended-to-five-years-101636915693356.html
15-11-2021||India||Top Maoist Teltumbde killed in Saturday’s op||entral committee member of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), Milind Teltumbde, was among the 26 Maoists killed in an encounter with police in Gadchiroli on Saturday, Maharashtra police confirmed on Sunday.Teltumbde, who carried a reward of ₹50 lakh, was instrumental in building the Maoist movement in the state, along with Gondia, Balaghat and Mandla regions in Madhya Pradesh and the Rajnandgaon region in Chhattisgarh, over the last two decades.After years of evading both central and state agencies, security officials believe Teltumbde’s death will be a “big setback” for the Maoist movement in the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone.“He was the only future of that movement and there were no other leaders in Maharashtra,” Gadchiroli deputy inspector general of police Sandip Patil said on Sunday.HT on Sunday reported that Teltumbde was among the targets of the police offensive, the largest such counter-insurgency operation since 2018, when 42 Maoists were killed in two separate encounters in the area.Saturday’s encounter broke out when a team of the elite C-60 commandos was conducting a search operation in the Mardintola forest area of Gadchiroli, about 900km from Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai.Nearly 100 Maoists rained bullets at the commandos when the gun battle broke out around 6.30am on Saturday, Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal said on Sunday.“A team of 300 police personnel, including C-60 commandos and SAT, along with additional SP Soumya Munde launched the anti-Naxal operation. They started conducting a search operation on Thursday night in the forest. Around 6am on Saturday, over 100 ultras opened a heavy firing with their sophisticated weapons and ammunition on C-60 commandos and Special Action Team (SAT) personnel,” he said.After the encounter ended nearly 10 hours later, bodies of 26 Maoists were recovered from the site, he said. The dead rebels included 20 men and six women, Goyal said, adding that 10 of them were yet to be identified.Apart from Teltumbde, several senior members of the outfit were killed in the encounter, including Mahesh alias Shivajiraoji Gota and Lokesh alias Mangu Madkam, both divisional committee members, who carried rewards of ₹16 lakh and ₹20 lakh, respectively.Teltumbde’s bodyguard, Bhagat Singh alias Pradeep alias Tilak Mankur Zade, was also killed in the encounter. Singh carried a reward of ₹6 lakh on his head.The 57-year-old, who earlier served as the secretary of the Maharashtra unit of the CPI(Maoist), was recruited for the Maoist movement by the senior ultra-left leader, Kobad Gandy, and his wife, late Anuradha Gandy, in the late 1980s.Gradually climbing up the Maoist hierarchy, Teltumbde became a ruthless rebel over the years and was involved in the planning of several encounters against the security personnel.He had 67 major offences, including participating in encounters against the police, murder and dacoity, registered against him in Gadchiroli alone, the district police said in a release.After being promoted as a central committee member of the outfit in 2013, Teltumbde was tasked with creating a new territory in the MMC region for easy passage of the senior rebel leaders and diverting the central government’s attention from hilly areas to the MMC zone, Patil said.Over the last decade, the Maoists were working towards the expansion of the movement in north Chhattisgarh and south Madhya Pradesh, he said.“Considering his contribution to the Naxal movement and his influence among some parts of the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra and urban areas, he was a very important and key cadre and we were searching for him since a very long time,” the Gadchiroli DIG said.According to intelligence officials, Teltumbde was regularly visiting the MMC region, and recruited about 100 people for Vistaar Dalam, a commando unit of the CPI(Maoist) in the region.The elusive Teltumbde was known by various aliases, including Jiva, Deepak or Bada Deepak, Praveen, Arun, Sudhir, Sahyadri, Podadi.Teltumbde, along with his brother Anand Teltumbde, was an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Anand, a Dalit scholar, is lodged in Taloja jail in connection with the case.The National Investigation Agency, in its charge sheet in the Elgaar Parishad case, called Teltumbde a “dreaded Maoist”, and declared him absconding.His wife, Angela Sontakke, was arrested by the state police in Thane about a decade ago. She was released on bail in 2016.Pahad Singh, a senior Maoist leader who surrendered in 2018, said a heavily-armed platoon of bodyguards used to accompany Tetumbde into the forests.“He was the person who pushed the idea to develop Amarkantak as ‘base area’ of MMC, in a meeting in 2016, in which Central Committee Members (CCM) of the CPI(Maoists) including him were present,” a senior Indian Police officer (IPS) officer, who interrogated Pahaad Singh, said on condition of anonymity.Maoists have waged an armed struggle against the government over the last four decades. Gadchiroli, one of Maharashtra’s most backward districts has served as a hotbed for Maoist activities.According to estimates of the intelligence bureau, about 500 CPI (Maoist) cadres active in Gadchiroli district have nearly 4,000-5,000 local supporters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/milind-teltumbde-among-those-killed-in-gadchiroli-encounter-says-police-101636915571720.html
15-11-2021||India||Focus on party-building ahead of 2022 polls in five states: BJP leaders||As it prepares for the 2022 elections in five states, the Bharatiya Janata Party will be working in parallel to strengthen the organisational set-up and augment political activity in states where polls are still some time away, senior leaders aware of the details said on Sunday. The issue of focusing on party-building came up for discussion at the national executive committee meeting held in the Capital on November 7.Officials said the leadership has identified Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, where the BJP is in opposition, for intensifying their party activities and building the cadre strength. A similar approach will be taken in states where bypolls were recently conducted, including West Bengal, Rajasthan and Karnataka.While Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand will go to the polls in early 2022, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat will elect new governments in the second half of the year. Elections are not due in Rajasthan and Karnataka till 2023 and in Andhra Pradesh till 2024.“The emphasis is on preparedness. The party has set itself targets for expansion, and for that to happen it will need to be strong at the grassroots. It was from (Amit) Shah’s term as president that the party workers across states have been asked to contest the panchayat and urban body elections with as much vigour as the general elections,” said a senior party functionary on condition of anonymity.Party president JP Nadda set an outline for the workers to complete the task of setting up booth committees in one million-plus polling stations across the country by December 25 and have in place an in-charge for establishing contact with voters in each of the constituencies by April 2022.Briefing media persons after the NEC meeting, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said while the party’s growth in West Bengal barely has a parallel in Indian political history, the BJP has identified “many challenges” ahead. “We will review the past and draw up the plans for Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. In Telangana, the party has already made an impact. In Kerala, the party will expose the politics of appeasement of the government,” he said.The outcome of the by-polls in Karnataka, where the party lost the Hanagal seat in chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s home turf and the loss of second place in Rajasthan pushed for a reset in these states. “The recent by-poll results were cited to build the case for not dropping the ball on keeping up party activities whether it is as an opposition in a state or to undertake Seva activities. The idea is to have a mechanism that functions 24x7,” said the leader quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-party-building-ahead-of-2022-polls-in-five-statesbjpleaders-101636915334127.html
15-11-2021||India||Northeast separatism: Colonel's death brings China role back in focus||A deadly ambush near the Myanmar border in Manipur that killed five soldiers, including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son, has brought China’s possible support to insurgencies in India’s Northeast back in focus, and the neighbour may be plotting to foment trouble in the region amid border tensions, China watchers and security officials said on Sunday.This is not the first time that Chinese links with insurgent groups have come under scrutiny. Questions about Beijing’s involvement have been raised previously too including in October 2020, when China’s propaganda machinery warned India against a trade pact with Taiwan, saying Beijing could retaliate by supporting Northeast separatists and stop recognising Sikkim as a part of India.“The possibility of China fuelling insurgency in the Northeast exists. Insurgent outfits in the Northeast, including Manipur, have links with armed groups such as Arakan Army and United Wa State Army in Myanmar from where Chinese weapons are finding their way into the Northeast,” a senior official said.China has also provided safe havens to insurgent leaders including United Liberation Front of Assam commander Paresh Baruah and National Socialist Council of Nagaland (IM)’s Phunting Shimrang, who live in Ruili in Yunnan Province across the Myanmar border with China, said another official.Armed militants ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur’s Churachandpur district on Saturday, when the commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, Colonel Viplav Tripathi, and his quick reaction team were returning from the Behiang border post and heading to the battalion headquarters at Khuga.The Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF), a group under which the People’s Liberation Army Manipur operates, jointly claimed responsibility for the ambush along with the Manipur Naga People’s Front but said it wasn’t aware of the presence of family members in the convoy.China may have re-established its links with PLA Manipur and other like-minded groups in the backdrop of the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said Lieutenant General Shokin Chauhan (retd), who headed the Assam Rifles in 2017-18. “This may have been done to unleash mayhem in the Northeast and tie down the security forces,” he said.The ambush came at a time when the security situation in the Northeast had improved significantly in the army’s assessment, and a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers is underway there.China may not have previously interfered but things could change amid tensions at the LAC as insurgent groups in the Northeast have Chinese links, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), who commanded the Leimakhong-headquartered 57 Mountain Division in Manipur in 2009-10.India and China have hardened their positions on LAC going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres. The two sides have been locked in a border row for more than 18 months.Given the situation on LAC, there is a possibility of China making attempts to wage a different form of warfare in the Northeast to put pressure on India, said Lieutenant General Konsam Himalay Singh, who retired in 2017 and is the first army officer from the Northeast to reach the three-star rank.“Insurgent groups have access to Chinese-made weapons and some self-styled commanders are living in China. But the exact scale of Chinese support to these groups is hard to establish,” said an official who specialises in security dynamics of Northeast.The latest attack is also an attempt by insurgents to re-establish their relevance at a time when violent incidents have come down, officials said. Security forces have launched a massive manhunt for the insurgents who carried out the ambush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-separatism-col-death-brings-china-role-back-in-focus-101636915271625.html
15-11-2021||India||Army to get firepower boost in mountains with more M777 guns coming by June||The Indian Army is set to scale up its capabilities with more M777 ultra-light howitzers that can be swiftly deployed and redeployed in mountains, amid the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.India ordered 145 howitzers from the US for $750 million in November 2016. “The army will receive 56 more M777 guns by June 2022. As of now, 89 howitzers have been delivered,” said one of the people cited above.The army has deployed M777s in Ladakh, where India and China have been locked in a border row for over 18 months, and also in Arunachal Pradesh across which the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has stepped up its activities.M777 manufacturer BAE Systems has delivered 25 ready-built howitzers and the remaining guns have been/are being built locally in collaboration with Mahindra Defence under the Narendra Modi-led government’s Make in India initiative.The 155 mm/39-caliber M777 howitzers have a range of up to 30km, but it is capable of striking targets at ranges of more than 40km in some areas where the geography allows the shells to fly in rarified air.“The howitzer can be easily moved from one area to another depending on the requirement. The induction of the remaining M777s will provide a big boost to the army,” said Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd), a member of the National Security Advisory Board.Built with titanium and aluminium alloys, the howitzers weigh 4,218kg. In contrast, 155mm towed guns weigh twice as much. The Indian Air Force’s CH-47F Chinook helicopters can carry the howitzers as underslung load for swift deployment in high-altitude areas.“There are many places where heavier artillery guns cannot be deployed because of the terrain. But the M777s can be sling-loaded to Chinooks and swiftly inserted there,” Brigadier Sanjeev Kumar, the commander of an artillery brigade in Arunachal Pradesh, previously said.The M777s are a key component of the army’s field artillery rationalisation plan (FARP), cleared in 1999. The ₹50,000-crore FARP lays down the road map for inducting new 155mm weaponry, including tracked self-propelled guns, truck-mounted gun systems, towed artillery pieces and wheeled self-propelled guns. The plan seeks to equip 169 artillery regiments with a mix of nearly 3,000 guns over the next decade. The M777 order in 2016 was the first contract for artillery guns in almost 30 years after the Bofors scandal erupted in the late 1980s.Apart from M777s, the army has also deployed the K9 Vajra-T self-propelled artillery guns and the 155 mm FH 77 BO2 guns (better known as Bofors) in the Ladakh sector.Private sector defence major Larsen & Toubro and South Korea’s Hanwha Techwin (HTW) have built the highly mobile K9 guns in India. The guns were meant to be deployed in the plains, but the army has carried out some minor changes to deploy them in high altitude. India and China have hardened their positions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh with increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points on LAC this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in Ladakh. PLA did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of military talks on October 10 to cool tensions in Ladakh. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving outstanding problems but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals, while China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-get-firepower-boost-in-mountains-with-more-m777-guns-coming-by-june-101636915214411.html
15-11-2021||India||Four held for gang-raping 22-year-old Odisha woman||Two days after a 22-year-old married woman of Puri district was gang-raped by four people while attending nature’s call, the Odisha police arrested the four accused.Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh said on Friday night the woman had gone to the bank of Kushbhadra River in Nimapara when four men gagged her with a towel before taking turns to rape her.“When the woman’s husband realised that his wife has not returned, he rushed towards the bushes and found her lying on the ground. The victim was bleeding heavily and was rushed to the nearest hospital where she is undergoing treatment,” said the SP.After the woman’s husband lodged a complaint with the local police, the accused were arrested. The police said the accused hail from Kakatpur area and work at different shops at Nimapara market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-for-gang-raping-22-year-old-odisha-woman-101636915212127.html
15-11-2021||India||What COP26 achieved and what it didn’t||The United Nations climate conference in Glasgow started on October 31 with the heads of over 140 countries scaling up expectations with impressive announcements. But, a fortnight later, 197 countries agreed to a political outcome dubbed the “Glasgow Climate Pact” which would, according to experts, continue to take the world down the over 2 degrees Celsius trajectory and clearly highlights the faultlines in the combative political will to tackle climate change.
15-11-2021||India||Modi releases instalment of housing scheme funds in Tripura||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday transferred the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) to around 147,000 beneficiaries from Tripura via video-conferencing on Sunday. The PM said, earlier money was transferred to others, but due to direct transfer to their accounts, the beneficiaries will get the entire amount.In this instalment, ₹709 crore out of ₹2,800 crore will be transferred to the bank accounts of the recipients.“Today the first instalment given under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has given a new impetus to the dreams of Tripura. I heartily congratulate all the people of Tripura, about one and a half lakh families who got the benefit of the first instalment”, Modi said.The Prime Minister said the thinking that keeps Tripura poor, keeps the people of Tripura away from amenities, has no place in Tripura today.Now the “double engine” (state and central) government is engaged in development of the state with full force and sincerity, PM Modi said. PM Modi said that once upon a time the country’s North-East region felt neglected, but today the development of the country is seen with the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ and development is now considered synonymous with unity-integrity of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modireleases-instalment-of-housing-scheme-funds-in-tripura-101636915153439.html
15-11-2021||India||Army chief Naravane heads to Israel to boost defence ties||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Sunday left for Israel on a five-day official visit to discuss avenues for enhancing bilateral defence relations. His visit comes weeks after the India-Israel joint working group (JWG) on defence cooperation decided to set up a task force to put together a comprehensive 10-year roadmap to identify new areas of collaboration.“The army chief will take forward the excellent bilateral defence cooperation between Israel and India through multiple meetings with senior officials of the (Israeli) security establishment and exchange views on various defence related issues,” the army said in a statement. This is Naravane’s first visit to Israel.The army chief’s Israel visit comes after external affairs minister S Jaishankar visited that country last month.Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers for the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. Israel accounted for 13% of India’s imports during 2016-20 after Russia (49%) and France (18%).The decision to form the task force to identify new areas of cooperation for the next decade was taken during the 15th JWG meeting co-chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar and his Israeli counterpart Major General Gen Amir Eshel (retd) in October-end.India and Israel also agreed to form a sub-working group on defence industry cooperation for efficient utilisation of resources, effective flow of technologies and sharing industrial capabilities.The ongoing border conflict with China in Ladakh forced India last year to speed up the purchase of military hardware from several countries including Israel, officials said.India is sourcing from Israel the Firefly loitering ammunition, Spike anti-tank guided missiles, Spice guidance kits that can mounted on standard bombs to convert them into smart weapons and an operational surface-to-air missile system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-heads-to-israel-to-boost-defence-ties-101636915152120.html
15-11-2021||India||India leads negotiations as COP26 deal is done||Leaders from nearly 200 countries accepted a new climate agreement after the COP26 summit in Glasgow concluded its plenary following a tense overtime, hammering out a deal that recognised India’s intervention for the world to “phase down” rather than “phase out” fossil fuels.The UN climate talks, which ended late on Saturday, for the first time targeted fossil fuels as the key driver of global warming, even as coal-reliant countries including India and China posed last-minute objections.On Sunday, India called the COP26 summit a “success”, saying it put across the concerns and ideas of the developing world quite “succinctly and unequivocally” in front of the world community. Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, head of the Indian delegation at the Glasgow conference, said that the world needs to awaken to the reality that the current climate crisis has been precipitated by unsustainable lifestyles and wasteful consumption patterns in the developed countries.“The summit proved to be a success from India’s standpoint because we articulated and put across the concerns and ideas of the developing world quite succinctly and unequivocally. India presented the way for a constructive debate and equitable and just solutions at the forum.”The agreement has won applause for keeping alive the hope of capping global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius, but many of the delegations said they wished they had come away with more. “If it’s a good negotiation, all the parties are uncomfortable,” US climate envoy John Kerry said in the final meeting to approve the Glasgow Climate Pact. “And this has been, I think, a good negotiation.”The agreement aims to limit global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The deal, however, is very weak on several fronts, including climate finance and loss and damage.Countries, as part of the agreement, have also agreed to meet next year to discuss further carbon cuts so that the goal to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius can be reached.During the formal plenary for adoption of the Glasgow Climate Pact, India and China raised objections to the draft Glasgow Climate Pact text and managed to get the changes inserted to reflect their national circumstances in the final agreement.India wanted a change in a paragraph in the draft text related to “phase out” of coal and fossil fuels to reflect the imperatives of fossil fuel subsidies for the poor in India. India asked the text to be reworded to: “Call upon parties to accelerate the development, deployment and dissemination of technologies, and adoption of policies, to transition towards low-emission energy systems, including by rapidly scaling up deployment of clean power generation and energy efficiency measures, including accelerating efforts to phase down unabated coal power and phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, while providing support to poorest and the most vulnerable, in line with national circumstances, and recognising the need for support towards a just transition.”China said that following consultations with like-minded developing countries, the stakeholders also wanted the same change in wording.Several developed countries said the change watered down the Glasgow Pact but agreed to the compromise. Switzerland, on behalf of the Environment Integrity Group, expressed disappointment that “the para on coal was watered down through an intense parent process. We do not need to phase down but phase out coal and fossil fuel subsidies”.Frans Timmermans, executive vice-president of the European Commission in-charge of the European Green Deal, also expressed disappointment. “It is no secret EU would want to go even further in the initial cover text on coal... European wealth was built on coal and if we don’t get rid of coal, European death will also be built on coal. We know coal has no future. What was read out to us was a further disappointment,” he said.Brandon Wu, director policy and campaigns, Actionaid USA, however, said: “Already seeing articles blaming India for #COP26 “phase down” instead of “out” coal language. REALLY important to see full context here. The problem is not India; the problem is the US & rich countries refusing to couch fossil fuel phaseout in the context of global equity.”A senior member of the Indian delegation said: “All fossil fuels are bad for the environment. Singling out coal without talking about other fossil fuels such as natural gas is not the best way forward. But India, in the spirit of compromise, helped evolve language that was acceptable to all. This language takes care of concerns of many developing countries, including India... This gives us countries more flexibility to meet mitigation targets in line with the national circumstances and developmental needs. One-size-fits-all approach is not the best way to evolve consensus on global issues.”The Glasgow Climate Pact and the Paris Rule book were both adopted, which includes the rules for carbon markets.“India will be affected by COP26 asking countries to phase out polluting coal power and withdraw inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. India will also have to join other countries to escalate emission reduction actions more frequently. This will not be easy for a lower-middle income country that is trying to lift millions of people out of poverty,” said Ulka Kelkar, Climate Programme Director, World Resources Institute, India.The British COP26 president, Alok Sharma, was visibly emotional before banging down his gavel to signal there were no vetoes to the pact, after the talks had extended overtime – and overnight – into Saturday. “It is so decided,” said Alok Sharma, the President of COP26, as he declared the new pact after marathon talks which began earlier this month. “I hope we can leave this conference united, having delivered something significant for people and the planet together as one,” he said.Sharma said he wished he had been able to preserve the originally agreed language on phasing out coal power in the Glasgow climate deal. “Of course I wish that we had managed to preserve the language on coal that was originally agreed,” he told reporters. “Nevertheless, we do have language on coal, on phase down, and I don’t think anyone at the start of this process would have necessarily expected that that would have been retained.”He apologised for “the way this process has unfolded”.Several countries criticised the change on fossil fuels promoted by India, even as Yadav asked the Glasgow climate summit how one could expect developing nations to make promises about “phasing out” coal and fossil fuel subsidies when they have still to deal with their development agendas and poverty eradication.Earlier, at a stocktaking plenary, India made an important intervention to express its disappointment over the draft text of the agreement. The country expressed unfairness towards the developing world and pointed to a “lack of balance” and urgency around achieving climate finance targets.“Mr president (Sharma) thank you for your continued efforts to build consensus. I’m afraid, however, the consensus remained elusive. India stands ready for constructive debate and equitable and just solution in this forum,” Yadav said.The minister pointed to climate friendly lifestyles and climate justice, as enshrined in the Paris Agreement, as keys to solving the climate crisis caused by “unsustainable lifestyles and wasteful consumption patterns”.Fossil fuels and their use have enabled parts of the world to attain high levels of wealth, and targeting any particular sector is uncalled for, he said.Every country will arrive at net-zero as per its own national circumstances, strengths and weaknesses, Yadav said. “Developing countries have a right to their fair share of the global carbon budget and are entitled to the responsible use of fossil fuels within this scope,” he said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-leads-negotiations-as-cop26-deal-is-done-101636915102562.html
15-11-2021||India||PIL in Bombay HC seeks govt guidelines on cryptocurrencies||Mumbai A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the central government to enact appropriate laws to address the growing threat of cryptocurrencies and the malpractices of trading platforms in the country due to a lack of appropriate legislation and statutory authority.The PIL states that it is critical to address this issue and frame appropriate regulation, legislation, and statutory enactment to address this growing problem; otherwise, a large financial scam on the scale of Karnataka’s recent bitcoin scam worth ₹10,000 crore could take place if left unchecked.The PIL filed by advocate Aditya Kadam highlighted the problems being faced by investors whose rights are being violated and investments are at risk due to the absence of a grievance redress mechanism for the unregulated cryptocurrency business in the country. The PIL also pointed at the ease with which anyone can create a trading platform, cheat investors of their hard-earned savings and use the funds, thus gained fraudulently for committing frauds or even terror financing. The PIL states that the petitioner was also a victim of such a fraud in 2018. It adds that as the unregulated business is currently worth ₹6.6 billion, the quantum of loss by the frauds would have a direct impact on the revenue of the state as there are no tax protocols in place. While referring to a 2020 Supreme Court judgment, which set aside a circular of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that barred dealing in cryptocurrencies as there were no laws to regulate the same, the PIL states that the central government failed to formulate laws. The petitioner stated that he had made representations to several authorities and parties in the PIL on September 30, 2021, pointing out the problems of the cryptocurrency market but he had not received any response to the representations.Stating that this “lackadaisical attitude” of the authorities prompted him to approach the HC, the PIL sought directions to the central government to protect the interests of citizens. The PIL is expected to come up for a hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-bombay-hc-seeks-govt-guidelines-on-cryptocurrencies-101636915100390.html
15-11-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in India fall, lowest since June 2020||The number of active cases of Covid-19 across India have dropped to 135,918 as of Sunday, the lowest since June 2020, or in more than a year-and-a-half, according to government data.Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still infected, and thus under treatment – is a crucial metric to track because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in any region. The last time India had fewer active cases was on May 11, 2020, when the pandemic was just starting off in the country.“The active caseload is presently at 135,918 is lowest in 522 days (17 months). Active cases presently constitute 0.39% of the country’s total positive cases, which is lowest since March 2020,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Sunday.Experts, however, warned that despite this turnaround, people cannot afford to let their guard down.“The hospitalisation of Covid positive cases has also reduced significantly. While this is a positive trend, we cannot still afford to drop our guard as it is a highly transmissible infectious disease that we are dealing with. Covid-appropriate still behaviour needs to be strictly adhered to,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.The health ministry attributes the trend of drop in new infections to sustained and collaborative efforts by the Centre and the states and Union territories.At 1.01% currently, the weekly positivity rate has also shown a significant decline. The weekly positivity rate has been less than 2% for the past 51 days. The World Health Organization that any region with appropriate testing levels and with a positivity rate of below 5% can be said to be adequately controlling its outbreak.“The number of people needing hospitalisation has come down; vaccination has most likely played a role [in this], and it has been well-established through various studies and also looking at the real-world vaccination data that disease severity and death is significantly reduced following vaccination,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman, PSRI Institute of pulmonary critical care and sleep medicine, Delhi.On Sunday, there were 10,431 new infections reported across the country, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.India has administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to at least 80% of the adults, and nearly 39% have been fully vaccinated. The Centre is focusing its efforts on devising measures to ensure the remaining population gets vaccinated as early as possible. The states have been asked to administer at least first vaccine dose to 90% of the eligible population by end of November.Till date, India has administered a total of 1.12 billion doses of the vaccine to over 750 million people since the time national Covid immunisation programme was launched in the country on January 16, 2021.“India’s Covid immunisation programme is the largest in the world, and we have administered a record number of doses in such a short span of time. The har ghar dastak (knock on every door) campaign that PM launched on 3rd November is essentially meant to identify those beneficiaries who are yet to receive a shot. The states are actively performing the exercise and by month end a substantial chunk of those remaining to be vaccinated is likely to be covered,” said the official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-india-fall-lowest-since-june-2020-101636914972202.html
15-11-2021||India||Maoists kill 4 on suspicion of being police informers in Gaya||Four members of a family in Bihar’s Gaya district were killed and their bodies hanged outside their house by Maoists, who suspected them of being police informers, police said on Sunday.The Maoists also blew up the house using dynamite and set a motorcycle on fire, they added.Providing further details, Gaya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar said the incident came to light when local residents spotted the bodies hanging from a cow shed, outside the house, on the foothills of Maoist-dominated Maunwar village at Dumaria police station, on Saturday night.Prima-facie, it appeared as though some of the family members were shot before being hanged, Kumar said, adding that bullet injuries were found on the bodies of two of them.Police also found handwritten posters from the spot in which the Maoists claimed that the four people were killed for being police informers. The rebels, in the posters allegedly written by Jan Mukti Chhapakar Sena, Madhya Zone Jharkhand (Maoists), also warned other villagers of similar consequences if they opted to help the police, the SSP said.Police believe that the four people, aged between 28 and 34, were killed for sharing information which led to the death of four Maoists in an encounter in Gaya on March 16.The Maoists, however, claimed in the posters that their associates were not killed by security personnel but “poisoned” by the concerned family.The deceased were identified as Satyendra Bhokta, his wife Manorma Devi, Mahendra Bhokta (Satyendra’s brother) and his wife Sunita Devi.Media reports suggested that the Maoists stormed the village at around 12.30 am and dragged the men to a nearby forest. They thrashed the two before shooting them. The wives of the brothers were reportedly later strangulated to death.The incident reportedly took place barely 100 metres away from a CRPF camp at Chakarbandha.An FIR has been registered under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code and The Explosives Act and a search operation has been launched in Gaya and adjoining Palamu district of Jharkhand to trace the rebels, the SSP said.The bodies have been sent to Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital in Gaya for post-mortem and the reports are awaited, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-4-on-suspicion-of-being-police-informers-in-gaya-101636914852037.html
15-11-2021||India||Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas: Bhopal decked up ahead of PM Modi’s visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Bhopal on Monday on the occasion of Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas, organised to mark the birth anniversary of Amar Shaheed Bhagwan Birsa Munda.Modi will also inaugurate the newly redeveloped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station, earlier known as Habibganj railway station. The PM will also participate in a roadshow from Jamboree ground to the railway station. During the roadshow, artistes from the tribal community will perform different dance forms on 11 stages.Security was beefed up in the city after the district administration invoked section 144 of CrPC. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan inspected the Jamboore Ground and railway station to check the preparations.As many as 7,750 security personal have been deployed from Raja Bhoj Airport to Jamboore Ground and the railway station. At least 50 check points have been set up. Nearly 200,000 people from across the state will attend the programme. About 27,000 people from the tribal community reached Bhopal by Sunday evening.Modi will visit an exhibition of self-help groups and their products at the function.He will also visit a photo exhibition of martyrs and heroes of the freedom struggle from the tribal community.Modi will launch the Ration-Aapke Gram scheme by handing over keys of a ration vehicle. The scheme will provide PDS ration to the Janjatiya community at the village level. A short film on the scheme will be screened.Modi will launch the Madhya Pradesh Sickle Cell Mission by providing counselling cards to two persons. A short film on this mission will also be screened at the programme.Also, the PM will provide appointment letters to three out of 20 newly appointed Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) teachers.A film will also be screened on the Janjatiya village Narsinghrunda of Jhabua district, the first village to have achieved the feat of 100% Covid vaccination in the state.Modi will lay the virtual foundation stone of 50 Eklavya Model Residential Schools. Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, and Union rural development minister Faggan Singh Kulaste will attend the programme, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janjatiya-gaurav-diwas-bhopal-decked-up-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-101636914792566.html
15-11-2021||India||Two journalists reporting on Tripura violence held, booked||Two women journalists, reporting on the October 26 violence in Tripura, were detained by police in Assam’s Karimganj district on Sunday, hours after they were booked for alleged criminal conspiracy and spread of communal hatred by Tripura Police.According to Kamalesh Singh, officer-in-charge in Karimganj, journalists Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha, employed with a Delhi-based news channel HW News Network, were detained at Nilambazar around 2.30 pm following a request from Tripura Police. “We received a request from Tripura Police, on the basis of which we detained them as soon as they reached Assam.,” District superintendent of police Padmanabh Baruah said.Later, a team of Tripura Police went there to bring them to the state, but the journos refused to go with them at night.Earlier on Sunday, both Sakunia and Jha were booked by Tripura Police after one Kanchan Das accused them of delivering an “instigating speech” against the Hindu community and the Tripura government during their meeting with a few Muslim families at Palbazar in the state’s Unakoti district on November 13.In his complaint, Das, a resident of Kumarghat, alleged: “Smt Samridhi Sakunia falsely imparted the name of VHP and Bajrang Dal behind the damage of Paul Bazar masjid by fire. The complainant alleged that being a part of criminal conspiracy and to destroy the communal harmony in Tripura as well as to malign the VHP organisation and Tripura govt, the account holder intentionally imparted the name of VHP in that incident which would effect the harmony in between Hindu and Muslim community.”Following this, the duo were booked under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on ground of religion) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code. HT has seen a copy of the FIR.The two were on their way to Silchar when they were detained in Karimganj, close to the Assam-Tripura border. A Tripura Police official said the journalists were not allowed to leave the state. “Instead of informing the police, they went towards Assam,” the official said, seeking anonymity.Taking to Twitter earlier in the day, Sakunia alleged that a team of police was deployed outside the hotel in Unakoti district, where she and her colleague were staying, and the two were not allowed to leave the premises on Saturday. Condemning the detention of their employees, HW News Network alleged that the move was to prevent the journalists from performing their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-journalists-reporting-on-tripura-violence-held-booked-101636914739425.html
15-11-2021||India||Have started delivery of S-400 to India: Russia||Russia has begun delivering the S-400 air defence system to India, a senior Russian official has said ahead of President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi for a planned annual summit. The delivery of the S-400 systems to India is going as planned, Dmitry Shugaev, director of Russia’s Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation, told the state-run Sputnik news service. “The supplies of the S-400 air defence system to India have started and are proceeding on schedule,” Shugaev said, without giving further details. There was no official word from the Indian side on the development. Hindustan Times had reported last week that the delivery of the first batch of S-400 systems is expected to coincide with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi in December for the annual summit, which will set the stage for the two countries to renew their military-technical cooperation for the next decade. The two countries had signed a $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems during Putin’s last visit to India for the annual summit in October 2018. India has in recent months signalled its intention to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning that it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Several teams of Indian Air Force personnel have been trained in Russia to operate the air defence system that will be used to protect key cities, strategic installations and sensitive stretches of the country’s borders. Russian officials have said deliveries of all the systems are expected to be completed within five years of the signing of the contract. The IAF is expected to induct the first unit of S-400 systems at a time when India is locked in a border standoff with China, which has deployed two S-400 squadrons at Hotan airbase in Xinjiang and Nyingchi airbase in Tibet, across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh respectively. The S-400 is currently in service with the militaries of China and Turkey. In August, the head of Russia’s state arms exporter Rosoboronexport, Alexander Mikheev, had said negotiations on supplying the S-400 were underway with seven countries in West Asia, the Asia-Pacific region and Africa. Putin is expected to be in New Delhi in the second week of December for the annual summit, with the two countries looking at December 6 as the most likely date for the meeting. His visit will be preceded by the maiden 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers of India and Russia in Moscow. At the summit, the two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several agreements, including the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS) to allow access to logistics and support facilities at each other’s military bases and ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-started-delivery-of-s-400-to-india-russia-101636914612414.html
15-11-2021||India||Intel to 9-hr gunbattle: How the Gadchiroli encounter unfolded||ALONDI (GADCHIROLI): There was an eerie silence on Sunday in the hillocks of Alondi, where 26 Maoists were killed in a nine-hour-long encounter by police, with security personnel scanning the jungles in the hunt for rebels, who fled after the security operation a day earlier.There were tell-tale signs of the encounter in an area of about 3 sq km, with bloodstains, empty bullet cartridges, bullet marks on trees, belongings of fleeing Maoists and utensils used by the rebels, clearly indicating the ferocity of the operation.Most of the local villagers were not willing to speak about what happened at the encounter site spread over dense forests around several small hillocks in Mardintola jungles, which fall on the Chhattisgarh-Maharashtra border and connect Gadchiroli forests with Rajnandgoan district in Chhattisgarh.A few villagers, however, said they began hearing gunshots early on Saturday and a fierce gun battle continued till late in the evening. Nobody from the villages ventured out as security forces cordoned them off, they said. From a visit to the encounter site, it appeared that the Maoists were trapped by security forces. The security forces reached the area on Friday night and cordoned off the area, according to a villager, who asked not to be named. “We took advantage of being in the plain area and Maoists trapped on the hills,” said a police officer who participated in the operation.The police said they had specific intelligence that the Maoists from Chhattisgarh were to hold a special training camp deep inside the jungles and top leadership of the rebels in the area would be there to prepare a strategy.“We got information that around 100 armed Maoists, including Milind Teltumbde (a CPI- Maoist, central committee member), had gathered there from neighbouring Chhattisgarh on Friday evening for a training camp and to plan a strategy for offence during Naxal week (foundation day of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army on December 2) in the district,” said superintendent of police, Gadchiroli, Ankit Goyal.Accordingly, under the leadership of additional SP (operation) Somay Munde, an operation was launched by commandos of the Special Operation Squads (C-60) and Special Action Group (SAG), Goyal said. It is learnt that the district police engaged over 300 security forces for the operation with supportive forces. Goyal said that at about 6 am on Saturday, while the commandos were conducting search operations in Mardintola, 90-100 hidden and armed Maoists started firing indiscriminately. There were about 300 specialised commandoes trained in the difficult terrain who took on the rebels.“The gun battle between the police and the left-wing extremists continued for approximately nine and a half hours. When the Maoists recognised the mounting police pressure, they fled and the fight ended at around 3.30 pm,” he said.Later, the police forces recovered 26 dead bodies (20 men and six women) of the rebels. Of them, 16 suspected Maoists have been identified while the identification of the remaining was underway.The Mardintola jungle was previously one of the safest places for the Maoists to hide as there are dense forest hillocks all around and spotting their camps in these forests is not easy.The closest Chhattisgarh village from the encounter spot was Hidkatola, which comes under Mohala Tehsil of Rajnandgaon district. The villagers said that the encounter started near Perava hills, around 4km north of Hidkatola village, on Saturday morning. There was an uneasy calm in Hidkatola village. An octogenarian of Hidkola village, Ghasiaram, said that the Maoists were camping at Pareva hills, which are almost unreachable because of difficult terrain. “I have never seen Maoists but we have heard about their movement in this area … This is the first time we have seen such a big encounter and movement of security forces,” said Ghasiaram.Villagers of bordering Gadchiroli district said that the encounter lasted from morning to evening. “From morning 6.30 am to around 5 pm, the sounds of bullets and explosions echoed in the hills of the region… No one dared to go to see what was happening,” Ramesh Kunjam, a resident of Alondi village, which comes under Gadchiroli district, said, adding that the encounter spot was around 3km from his village. Another resident of Alondi, Kamlesh, said that the entire operation was conducted by the Maharashtra police and the bodies were first brought to Kogul police station by Saturday evening. “The encounter spot was around a three-kilometre radius in the forest and it seems that Maoists were trying to escape towards the north of our village,” Kamlesh said, adding that the security forces have cordoned off the area. The Maharashtra police said that some of the rebels fled after the encounter and a search was on to find them with the help of the Chhattisgarh police.“There are three-four villages, one is Pareva and another is Parvidihi, near the border. There is a ridge that separates Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. We have been informed that the hill above the ridge is the place of the encounter. They had informed us, shared the operation plan as well. The police chief of Gadchiroli had also shared all details. We sent our troops...,” said superintendent of police, Rajnandgaon, D Sravan Kumar.“We are on alert, and conveyed the same to the villagers for inputs on any action by the Maoists punishing villagers in the name of being informants. So, we are tracking all leads,” the SP added.Bodies of the Maoists were sent to the Gadchiroli civil hospital for postmortem examination. “We have contacted the Teltumbde family to claim the body. Probably his wife, Angela, will come to take it,” said Goyal. (With inputs from Pradip Maitra in Nagpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intel-to-9-hr-gunbattle-how-the-gadchiroli-encounter-unfolded-101636914258633.html
15-11-2021||India||IMD Alerts: Not just Kerala, these 6 states and UTs will also receive heavy rainfall till Nov 18||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a rainfall alert for as many as seven states and Union territories (UTs) for the next four days. Kerala that is currently battling the effects of widespread rainfall and rain-related incidents, is one of the seven regions.Heavy rain that has been battering the southern state since Saturday has been forecasted by the Met department to continue till Tuesday. A red alert was issued in three districts – Idukki, Thrissur and Ernakulam, earlier in the day.At 2pm on Sunday, a shutter of the Idukki Dam was opened by 40 centimetres in order to ease the pressure of the overflowing waterbody. Meanwhile, reports stated that Mullaperiyar Dam is also likely to be opened as its water level continues to rise amid heavy rainfall in Kerala.According to the latest IMD bulletin, a low-pressure area lies over the central region of the Arabian Sea, which is expected to move west-northwestwards and become well-marked over the north Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal by November 15. The low-pressure will continue to move in the same direction and change into a depression over the west-central Bay of Bengal by November 17 and move near the south Andhra Pradesh coast by November 18.A cyclonic circulation also lies over southern Karnataka and neighbouring north interior Tamil Nadu, and another lies over the southeast Arabian Sea. The IMD bulletin said that the circulation over the Arabian Sea is expected to persist for the next two days.Apart from these, a new low-pressure area has been forecasted to form over the east-central Arabian Sea off south Maharashtra and Goa coasts around November 17.Owing to these conditions, heavy rainfall along with squally weather has been forecasted in the seven states and UTs.Here are the key IMD alerts till November 18:1.     According to the latest IMD bulletin, isolated very heavy rainfall is very likely over Kerala on November 15. Isolated heavy rainfall alert has been issued over the state on November 16.2.     Light to moderate rainfall with isolated extremely heavy downpour is very likely over south coastal Karnataka, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands on November 15. A similar weather alert has been sounded by the IMD over coastal Andhra Pradesh on November 17 and 18. Coastal Karnataka will witness isolated heavy rainfall on November 16.3.     Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu between November 15 and 18, and over south interior Karnataka till November 16.4.     Isolated heavy rainfall has also been forecasted over Goa on November 15 and 16, and over Odisha on November 16 and 17.5.     Fishermen have been advised by the IMD not to venture into the Andaman Sea and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal on November 15. A similar warning has been issued for venturing out into west-central and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal between November 16 and 18. Fishermen have also been advised not to venture along and off Andhra Pradesh, south Odisha and north Tamil Nadu coasts on November 17 and 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-kerala-imd-issues-heavy-rainfall-alert-in-6-states-and-uts-till-nov-18-101636911637836.html
15-11-2021||India||Sena leader posts a picture on Children's Day. It leads to jibe at Kangana||Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi posted a throwback picture on Sunday, on the occasion of Children's Day. It was a black and white picture of her childhood, which is only a '4-decade-old' throwback, Chaturvedi wrote. Is it a photo from the period before Independence, a user asked the Sena leader on Twitter. Priyanka Chaturvedi agreed and added, "as per Padma Shri awardee" in a reference to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and the raging controversy over her recent comment that India won actual freedom after 2014. She also added a smiley to her comment. The childhood photo that Priyanka Chaturvedi posted was obviously from before 2014 and that many qualify it as a 'pre-Independence' photo according to Kangana, the Shiv Sena leader, who is quite active on Twitter, implied. In the spirit of Children’s Day. Only 4 decade old throwback 😂Happy Children’s Day, may the zest of childhood never cease 😃 pic.twitter.com/4CJM6tTVhtYa, as per Padmashri awardee 😂 https://t.co/iB3ShQvaSuSeveral complaints have been filed against the Bollywood actor for her comment which she has been strongly defending since the outrage began. Politicians irrespective of parties have criticised Kangana's comment while the Congress has demanded a recall of her Padma Shri. Delhi Commission of Women chairperson Swati Maliwal has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to take back Kangana's award.Kangana has offered to return her Padma Shri if anyone can prove that she disrespected freedom fighters answer her question that which war was fought in 1947 leading to the country's Independence, the actor said. "Everything is very clearly mentioned in the same interview 1857 first collective fight for freedom... along with sacrifice of greats like Subhash Chandra Bose, Rani Laxmibai and Veer Savarkar ji. 1857 I know but which war took place in 1947 I am not aware, if someone can bring to my awareness I will give back my Padma Shri and apologise also... please help me with this." Kangana wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-leader-posts-a-picture-on-children-s-day-it-leads-to-jibe-at-kangana-101636887251241.html
