16-11-2021||India||New US special representative for Afghanistan meets NSA Doval, foreign secretary Shringla||New Delhi The new US special representative for Afghanistan, Thomas West, met senior Indian officials during his first visit to the country on Tuesday and discussed the regional security situation and ways to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. West travelled to New Delhi after participating in a meeting of the “extended troika” in Islamabad on November 11 along with his counterparts from Pakistan, China and Russia, and holding talks with Russia’s special representative for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, in Moscow on Monday. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that West met National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla for discussions that focussed on current developments in Afghanistan and regional security issues. Among the matters that figured in the meetings were the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan hosted by India on November 10, the movement of people in and out of Afghanistan, the need to coordinate global efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, and other bilateral and global issues of mutual interest. West briefed the Indian side on his discussions in Pakistan and Russia. Before travelling to the region, West held consultations with top British officials and representatives of the European Union and NATO in Brussels on developments and priorities in Afghanistan and the way forward in the war-torn country. West was appointed to the post last month after the former special representative, Zalmay Khalilzad, stepped down following severe criticism of his handling of negotiations with the Taliban and the chaotic fall of the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul in mid-August. Following his meeting with the Russian special representative on Monday, West tweeted that he had discussed “shared interests in Afghanistan and [the] need for [the] Taliban to fulfil commitments to [the] international community”. A statement issued after the “extended troika” meeting on November 11 had expressed concern at the “severe humanitarian and economic situation” in Afghanistan and called on the Taliban to ensure unhindered humanitarian access. The statement also called on the Taliban to “cut ties with all international terrorist groups, dismantle and eliminate them in a decisive manner, and to deny space to any terrorist organisation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-us-special-representative-for-afghanistan-meets-nsa-doval-foreign-secretary-shringla-101637086471159.html
16-11-2021||India||Auditing not feared, seen as a key tool now: PM Modi||There was a time when auditing was seen with suspicion and fear but that mindset has changed as they are now seen as important tools for value addition to governance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday.The mindset of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vs Government has changed and they are no longer viewed as adversarial to the government and bureaucrats, he added. “There was a time when auditing was seen with suspicion and dread. CAG Vs Government had become a common belief and babus (government officials) used to think that CAG finds faults in everything. However, this mindset has changed. Today, the audit is seen as an important part of value addition,” the Prime Minister, who was speaking at an event organised by the CAG to mark the first edition of ‘Audit Diwas’, said.“While analysing the government’s work, the CAG has an outsider’s viewpoint and we make systematic improvements with what you (CAG) tell us. We see it as cooperation in the long term,” he added. Modi also stressed on the importance of data and reports compiled by the CAG, saying that it will “dictate history” in the future and provide a roadmap for governance to future governments.“Earlier, information was transmitted through stories. History was written through stories. But today in the 21st century, data is information, and in the coming times, our history will also be seen and understood through data. In the future, data will dictate history,” he added. Citing an example of the banking sector, the Prime Minister took potshots at previous governments for not being transparent in their work culture. “Due to lack of transparency in the country’s banking sector earlier, various practices used to take place. As a result, the non-performing assets (NPAs) kept rising. The NPAs were brushed under the carpet. But we brought out the truth of previous governments before the country with complete honesty. Fairness and transparency play a key role in our personal and professional lives. Only when we identify the problem, can we find a solution to it,” he said.Modi said the government has made reforms to boost transparency and easy functioning. “We took your (CAG’s) concerns positively and made decisions to monetise unused and underused elements. And these decisions are now showing results in the growing economy,” he added.Modi emphasised that reforms like online applications for contactless customs, automatic renewals, faceless assessments and service delivery have ended the unnecessary interference of the government.“Today, we are making such a system in which the idea of ‘Sarkar Sarvam’, i.e interference of the government, is decreasing and your work is also getting easier,” he said. Lauding the CAG for use of geo-spatial data and remote sensing in audit mechanisms, Modi said: “The stronger and scientific the auditing will be, the stronger our system will be.” “While most institutions lose their relevance in three-four decades, the CAG has become stronger, more mature with time and we can say that it is an asset, a heritage for the country. The CAG is an institution that has grown in importance and has created a legacy with passage of time. Every generation needs to cherish it and make it useful for other generations,” he said.Speaking at the event, CAG G C Murmu said the federal auditor was developing an audit process management application which will include all audit processes, streams and activities, and shall also serve as the primary system of records for the entire chain of audit. The Prime Minister also unveiled a statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the CAG premises. Audit Diwas is celebrated to mark the historic origins of the institution of CAG and the contribution it has made to the governance, transparency and accountability over the past several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auditing-not-feared-seen-as-a-key-tool-now-pmmodi-101637086469807.html
16-11-2021||India||Ahmedabad civic body begins the removal of all non-veg food stalls||Ahmedabad The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday began the removal of all carts and stalls selling non-vegetarian food from the main roads, a day after chief minister Bhupendra Patel said his government had no problem with what people ate. The AMC is the fifth civic body in the state to issue such directives.According to a press release, a large number of roadside carts selling non-vegetarian food and clothes were removed from Jodhpur, Satellite, ISCON Cross Road and SG Highway by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s Estate Department on Tuesday, saying that they were “obstructing the smooth movement of traffic”. On Monday the AMC issued an oral order, banning stalls selling non-vegetarian food from public roads and those operating within 100-metre radius of schools and religious places.“The smell near these stalls could be nauseating to the extent that one had to cover one’s nose” and therefore, action should be taken considering the impact it has on people’s health, the AMC’s town planning committee chairman, Devang Dani, had said.Earlier, the municipal corporations of Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh and Bhavnagar,all ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), ordered shopkeepers and hawkers to cover non-vegetarian food, including eggs, saying that they hurt religious sentiments of Hindus.Reacting to the ban, BJP’s president for Gujarat, CR Paatil, said:  “We (the BJP) are not targeting eggs or non-veg joints. There is no such plan of the government either. We believe people have a right to have their food choices... Nobody would be disturbed just because he sells eggs or non-veg food. Only cleanliness and hygiene should be maintained. It was the decision of some municipal corporations.”On Monday, CM Patel said that people were free to eat whatever they want to and the “decision about removing the non-veg and egg stalls was taken by the individual municipal corporations”.“As for the state Government, we have no issues with the food choices of people, veg or non-veg, we have nothing to do with it. People only need to ensure that the quality of food is proper and does not harm their health,” he said, adding that: “The municipal corporations may remove any kind of stalls if they are an obstacle to traffic or are encroachments -- but this has nothing to do with veg or non-veg.” Leader of Opposition at the Vadodara Municipal Corporation Ami Rawat said, “The move is illegal. Instead of implementing the Street Vendors Act, 2014, they are harassing small vendors who are already in a bad state after the lockdown.”Meanwhile, the Laari-Galla Ladat Samiti  -- a committee comprising 1.7 million street vendors across Gujarat -- has threatened to launch an agitation against the move and demanded that the Street Vendors Act, 2014, be immediately implemented in the state. “We agree that there should not be such eateries near religious places, but summarily removing street vendors without providing any alternative arrangements was illegal and violated the Street Vendors Act,” said Ashok Punjabi, convenor of Laari-Galla Ladat Samiti of Ahmedabad, which is affiliated to INTUC.“Instead of financially helping these vendors, who suffered the most during the Covid pandemic, the corporations are taking away their source of livelihood,” he added. Speaking about the legal position, eminent human rights lawyer Anand Yagnik said, “The Street Vendors Act supersedes the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, under which all corporations in Gujarat fall, and it does not discriminate what you sell. It is supposed to take care of the livelihoods of the street vendors, while also maintaining equitable principles of urban planning.”“What they (the civic bodies) are doing is unconstitutional. And they are hitting at the very vitals of the mercantile ethos of Gujarat, which is inclusive, multi-cultural and so multi-cuisine and cosmopolitan. They are not only damaging the fabric of Gujarat but also of the country,” Yagnik asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-civic-body-begins-the-removal-of-all-non-veg-food-stalls-101637086409928.html
16-11-2021||India||India bolsters sea power with new assets, armed drones in the works||NEW DELHI: The Indian Navy will next week commission a modern locally built destroyer and a submarine constructed in the country with French collaboration to strengthen its capabilities amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region even as a proposed procurement of armed drones from the US is set to come up for a critical approval shortly, navy vice chief Vice Admiral SN Ghormade said on Tuesday. India plans to induct 30 Predator drones, 10 each for the navy, air force and army, in a deal estimated to be worth $ 3 billion. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will commission the stealth guided missile destroyer Visakhapatnam in Mumbai on November 21 followed by the induction of a French-designed Kalvari class diesel-electric attack submarine, Vela, on November 25 at a ceremony to be presided over by navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh. “The commissioning of Visakhapatnam and Vela are major milestones and showcase indigenous capacity to build complex combat platforms. This will enhance our capacity and fire power to address threats both in the above water and underwater domains,” Ghormade said. Both platforms have been built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in Mumbai. Visakhapatnam is the first warship of the navy’s Project-15B under which three more warships will be delivered by 2025. Vela is the fourth of the six Kalvari class submarines being constructed in the country with technology transfer from French firm Naval Group under a ₹23,562-crore programme called Project 75. The remaining two submarines will be commissioned in two years. “Global and regional balance of power is shifting rapidly and the region of most rapid change is undoubtedly the Indian Ocean Region. Continuous efforts are on to ensure that our force levels grow progressively to enhance the capability of the Indian Navy to meet the emerging challenges,” the vice chief said. The commissioning of Visakhapatnam, armed with a variety of locally built weapons and sensors, will reaffirm India’s presence among an elite group of nations with capability to design and build advanced warships, he said. Vela is a potent platform and very few countries possess the capability to build submarines, Ghormade said.While it may seem that there is a spate of new commissioning of ships , these are all overdue accretions, said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd). “Given the threats and tasks of the Indian Navy, much more needs to be done, especially for indigenisation. One hopes that not only greater budgetary support but more Atmanirbharta can be ensured in the years to come,” Shrikhande added.India is also pursuing a project (P-75I) worth ₹40,000 crore for building six more advanced submarines in the country under the government’s strategic partnership (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with the foreign players are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company. On the proposed Predator purchase, Ghormade said “healthy discussions” were on among stakeholders and the case was progressing well. He said the proposal to buy the armed drones was likely to be taken up by the defence acquisition council (DAC) --- India’s apex procurement body --- in a short while. DAC approval for the drones is likely to be sought within the current financial year, HT has learnt.The Indian Navy last year leased a pair of MQ-9B SeaGuardian drones (an unarmed variant of the Predators manufactured by General Atomics) from the US to boost its intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities. The MQ-9Bs have helped the navy keep a close watch on the Indian Ocean at a time when it has stepped up surveillance in the region to check China’s ambitions. The commissioning of Visakhapatnam and Vela will be followed by the launch of Sandhayak in early December, the first of four large survey vessels to be built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE), Kolkata, Ghormade said. A ship’s launch marks a significant milestone in its construction and refers to the vessel entering water for the first time. The contract for building the four ships was signed between the defence ministry and GRSE in October 2018. “The ships will come with new generation hydrographic equipment and advanced technical capabilities for collecting oceanographic and geophysical data in Indian Ocean Region,” he added. Sandhayak is likely to be delivered to the navy in October 2022. The Indian Navy’s latest frigate, Tushil, was last month launched at the Yantar Shipyard in Kaliningrad, with Russia preparing to deliver two new warships to India in 2023. Tushil is part of an over $2.5-billion deal with Russia for four more Krivak/Talwar class stealth frigates for the Indian Navy, two of which are being constructed at the Yantar Shipyard and the remaining two will be built at the Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) with technology transfer from Russia, which is India’s top arms supplier. Tushil is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy in mid-2023 followed by its sister ship in 2023-end. GSL is expected to deliver the two frigates by 2026-27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bolsters-sea-power-with-new-assets-armed-drones-in-the-works-101637086355561.html
16-11-2021||India||CBI autonomous body, Centre not accountable for it, SC told||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is an “autonomous” body, not controlled or regulated by the Union government, attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal submitted before the Supreme Court on Tuesday while seeking dismissal of West Bengal government’s petition for debarring CBI from lodging cases in the state without its consent or prior approval. Representing the Centre, Venugopal told a bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, that CBI operates under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act (DSPE), and that it also derives its authority to register cases under the same law. “CBI is constituted under the DSPE Act and its officers have been taking actions under this Act. The Union of India has nothing to do with it... CBI is an autonomous institution operating under a parliamentary law,” the AG said in his bid to emphasise that the central government cannot take accountability or responsibility for what CBI does. He pointed out that West Bengal government’s suit was asking For all relief only against CBI; its petition pleaded for a restraint on the agency against filing any fresh case without state’s approval as well as annulment of 12 cases registered by CBI. “All these prayers have nothing to do with the Union of India. The entirety of plaint is on CBI and the Union of India had nothing to do with these cases... Union of India is not a necessary party. CBI is a necessary party. This suit cannot be maintained against the Union of India when all the reliefs claimed are against CBI,” the A-G told the bench, which also included justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna. According to Venugopal, it is the central vigilance commission (CVC) which has been tasked with superintendence over CBI, and the CVC Act makes it clear that there cannot be any interference with the investigations conducted by the agency. “Even CVC cannot interfere with the manner of investigation. Therefore, registration of cases is by an autonomous body and whatever superintendence is there, that power is with the CVC. Union of India has no control,” said the A-G. He added that a state is entitled under Article 131 of the Constitution to file a suit in the Supreme Court against another state or the central government but the West Bengal government’s suit is only about CBI. “Since the suit otherwise would not have been maintainable, the Union of India has been made a party. These reliefs cannot be claimed against the Union of India. How can I grant these reliefs?” asked the AG. Venugopal said that the suit should be dismissed straightaway for being non-maintainable against the central government. Opposition parties, including the Congress and TMC, have attacked the Centre for using the federal agencies to target them and using ordinance route to bypass Parliament. West Bengal is among seven states, that have withdrawn the general consent for the CBI to carry out investigations in their jurisdiction. Other states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Mizoram. The central agency has to seek permission to carry out investigation in these states on case-to-case basis, as per DSPE (Delhi Special Police Establishment) Act. The 12 FIRs cited by the state government were filed between November 2018 and June 2021. The cases involve a variety of charges, including corruption, abuse of official position, forgery, criminal breach of trust, death due to rash and negligent driving and criminal misconduct. In some of these cases, employees of Central government establishments have been named as accused. Appearing for the West Bengal government, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra took exception to the A-G’s submissions, arguing that the central government should not even get an audience from the bench since they have chosen not to file any vakalatnama (formal communication for appearance in the case through a lawyer) or a written submission in response to the suit. “The Supreme Court rules are clear that they had to file a vakalatnama and a written statement within 28 days. They have done nothing. Today, they don’t have a right to be heard. As per the SC rules, this suit should be allowed right away,” contended Luthra. Also representing the state government, senior advocate Biswajit Bhattacharya sought to contest Venugopal’s arguments, saying that the very existence of CBI is by an approval of the central government under the DSPE Act, which has a deep and pervasive control over the agency. He added that various provisions in the DSPE Act clarify CBI and the central government were intertwined. At this, the court asked the central government to comply with the procedure and file its vakalatnama, and fixed the matter for a hearing after three weeks. In August this year, the Mamata Banerjee government filed the original suit in the Supreme Court to debar CBI from conducting probes in the state without prior approval of the government. Underlining that the TMC government had in November 2018, withdrawn general consent to carry out a probe in the territory of the state, the suit maintained that registration of 12 cases by the central agency despite withdrawal of consent was an instance of “constitutional overreach” by the Union government. The state said that CBI has no inherent jurisdiction to conduct a probe in any part of the state, including railway areas, till the time it obtains a prior sanction. Claiming that the agency has been exercising its powers in an “unconstitutional manner”, the suit said the registration of cases by CBI was an encroachment on the legal rights of the state. The plea demanded quashing of all 12 cases registered by CBI and to restrain the agency from lodging any fresh cases. On September 6, the court directed its registry to issue a formal notice to the Centre on the suit, seeking a reply from the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-autonomous-body-centre-not-accountable-for-it-sc-told-101637086297401.html
16-11-2021||India||New US special representative for Afghanistan meets NSA, foreign secretary||The new US special representative for Afghanistan, Thomas West, met senior Indian officials during his first visit to the country on Tuesday and discussed the regional security situation as well as ways to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. West travelled to New Delhi after participating in a meeting of the “extended troika” in Islamabad on November 11 along with his counterparts from Pakistan, China and Russia, and holding talks with Russia’s special representative for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, in Moscow on Monday.West met National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla for discussions that focussed on current developments in Afghanistan and regional security issues, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Among the matters that figured in the meetings were the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan hosted by India on November 10, the movement of people in and out of Afghanistan, the need to coordinate global efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, and other bilateral and global issues of mutual interest.West briefed the Indian side on his discussions in Pakistan and Russia. Before travelling to the region, West held consultations with top British officials and representatives of the European Union and NATO in Brussels on developments and priorities in Afghanistan and the way forward in the war-torn country.West was appointed to the post last month after the former special representative, Zalmay Khalilzad, stepped down following severe criticism of his handling of negotiations with the Taliban and the chaotic fall of the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul in mid-August.Following his meeting with the Russian special representative on Monday, West tweeted that he had discussed “shared interests in Afghanistan and [the] need for [the] Taliban to fulfil commitments to [the] international community”.A statement issued after the “extended troika” meeting on November 11 had expressed concern at the “severe humanitarian and economic situation” in Afghanistan and called on the Taliban to ensure unhindered humanitarian access. The statement also called on the Taliban to “cut ties with all international terrorist groups, dismantle and eliminate them in a decisive manner, and to deny space to any terrorist organisation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-us-special-representative-for-afghanistan-meets-nsa-foreign-secretary-101637085330513.html
16-11-2021||India||IMD alerts: Heavy rainfall to continue in Kerala, Karnataka; 5 more states and UTs to also get showers||Winter has almost set in, and yet rainfall in several southern parts of the country continues, even leading to fatalities. Five people, including two children, have so far died in rain-related incidents such as landslides, in Kerala. Meanwhile, Bengaluru – which falls in the southern part of Karnataka, continues to receive heavy showers. According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a heavy rainfall alert has been issued in as many as seven states and Union territories (UTs) for the next five days.Meanwhile, thunderstorms and lightning have been independently forecasted in Goa, Maharashtra and Konkan besides the seven states and UTs. The IMD bulletin also stated that a western disturbance is likely to make an impact on the northwest parts of India starting November 18.At the moment there are two low-pressure areas and two cyclonic circulations existing in India.Also Read | IMD Alerts: Not just Kerala, these 6 states and UTs will also receive heavy rainfall till Nov 18One low-pressure area lies over southeast Bay of Bengal, which is expected to move nearly westwards and reach the adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coasts on November 18. The other low-pressure area lies over east central Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast, which is likely to shift west-northwestwards and “become more marked” in the next 36 hours, the IMD bulletin stated.As far as the cyclonic circulations are concerned, one each is associated with the low-pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and east central Arabian Sea.Owing to these conditions, heavy to extremely heavy rainfall will continue in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala, among other states and UTs.Here are the key IMD alerts till November 21:1. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal (also in Puducherry), and coastal Andhra Pradesh till November 21. The same weather warning has been issued in Rayalaseema in Andhra Pradesh till November 19.2. For November 17, the IMD has forecasted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and coastal Andhra Pradesh. These states and UT are expected to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls on November 18.3. The IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall at isolated places over Telangana on November 18 and 19.4. According to the IMD bulletin, heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over Kerala and Puducherry’s Mahe on November 19, and heavy rainfall has been forecasted on November 20. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall has also been forecasted over Odisha on November 20.5. Thunderstorms with lightning are very likely over central Maharashtra, Goa and Konkan between November 17 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-relief-from-rain-in-kerala-6-more-states-to-get-rainfall-till-nov-21-imd-101637084595621.html
16-11-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear plea seeking ban on sale, circulation of Salman Khurshid’s book on Nov 24||The Delhi high court on November 24 will hear a plea seeking to ban the sale, purchase and all forms of circulation of former Union minister and Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s new book. Named ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationwood in Our Times”, the book has drawn massive outburst over Khurshid’s comparison of Hindutva to terrorist organisations Islamic State (ISIS) and Boko Haram.Filed by advocate Vineet Jindal via advocate Raj Kishore Chaudhary, the plea has also sought not to publish the book either in printed form or electronic. In the petition, Jindal said that Khurshid’s book “violates the fundamental right guaranteed under article 19 and 21” of the Constitution of India.The Congress leader has been at the peak of controversy since the release of his book last week. The situation has escalated to the point that on Monday his house in Uttarakhand’s Nainital was vandalised. Khurshid’s caretaker filed a complaint to the Bhowali police station. “According to the complaint, some people were protesting in front of Salman Khurshid’s house. One of them three some inflammable material into the house due to which the wooden floor caught fire. We are looking into the matter,” Bhupinder Singh Dhoni, in charge of Bhowali police station, told HT.As many as 20 people have been booked in the matter so far.Also Read | Salman Khurshid says Hindutva and ISIS not same, but similar amid book controversyKhurshid shared videos and photos of the incident on Twitter and Facebook, writing that he “hoped to open these doors” his friends who have “left this calling card.” “Am I still wrong to say this cannot be Hinduism?” he further added in the post.The Congress veteran also said on Monday that the attack was not on him, but on “Hindu religion.” “I’ve said in my book that people who do such things don’t belong to Hindu religion,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Khurshid added that Hinduism is a “beautiful religion,” which has rendered a “fantastic culture” to India and that he is “proud of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-seeking-ban-on-sale-of-salman-khurshid-s-book-on-nov-24-101637083834263.html
16-11-2021||India||Civil aviation ministry allows airlines to serve food, magazines in all domestic flights||The Union ministry of civil aviation on Tuesday announced that it has allowed airlines to serve meals on all domestic flights. Airline carriers were not allowed to serve meals in flights that have a duration of less than two hours since April 15, 2021, in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“The airlines, operating flights on domestic sectors may provide meal services on board, without restriction on duration of the flight,” news agency PTI reported citing the ministry’s order.Along with food services, the ministry has also permitted the resumption of magazines and other reading materials to the passengers, according to the order. The ministry noted that the decision to resume food services and magazines has been made as the “Covid caseload” has decreased due to the "proper implementation of appropriate Covid behaviour protocol", the PTI report showed.Also read | Airlines may resume food on flights with less than 2-hour durationThe announcement came a few days after the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday (November 13) informed the civil aviation ministry that meals can be served in flights that have less than two hours of journey time, according to a PTI report. “The health ministry has now informed that serving food on flights of less than two hours can be resumed and that the crew members need not wear coveralls but should continue to wear gloves, masks and face shields,” PTI reported.The ban on serving foods in flights that fly for less than two hours was implemented in April this year, during the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. However, on flights that had a journey time of more than two hours, food was allowed conditional that the tray, plates, cutlery should also be disposable and none should be reused.Also beverages like tea, coffee, alcoholic and non-alcoholic were also allowed only in disposable cans and bottles. All crew members in the flight were asked to wear a fresh set of gloves after every meal or beverage served.Earlier in August 2020, the government had allowed the carriers to serve food under certain conditions. “Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight,” the ministry had said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-allows-airlines-to-serve-food-magazines-in-all-domestic-flights-101637084092046.html
16-11-2021||India||10 held as CBI raids 77 places in crackdown on child porn||At least 10 people were detained by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday during raids at 77 locations across 14 states and Union territories, to crackdown on sexual abuse and circulation of child pornography material, officials familiar with the matter said. As many as 23 first information reports (FIRs) were registered against 83 accused persons, in the last two days, for allegedly posting and circulating child sexual exploitation material (CSEM) through various social media platforms. Police are also probing the role of several nationals across 100 countries in the case, the officials cited above said.According to one of the FIRs, the accused people, based in different Indian cities and various foreign countries, are part of multiple syndicates “indulging in storing, circulating and viewing CSEM”. The FIR, a copy of which HT has seen, also said that the accused were disseminating CSEM by way of sharing links, videos, pictures, texts, posts and hosting of such content on social media groups/platforms and third-party storage/hosting platforms. CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said there are more than 50 groups having more than 5,000 offenders. “Many of these groups also have the involvement of foreign nationals. It has been initially learnt that nationals from around 100 countries spread across various continents may be involved in the matter. The CBI is coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” he said. An official, on condition of anonymity, said that some of the countries where these individuals are based include Pakistan, Bangladesh, the US, the UK, Canada, France and Saudi Arabia. Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were among states where searches were held, Joshi said. In Odisha’s Dhenkanal, CBI sleuths faced resistance after a group of people attacked the team for raiding the house of one Mithun Nayak, a security guard in a hospital, one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.“As we took his mobile phone, we suddenly came under attack from women. We were first locked in a room and then dragged outside. The women began beating us with wooden planks,” the official said. The CBI team was finally rescued by a team of policemen from Dhenkanal Town police station. “The CBI team had not informed us about the raid. We managed to get them out of the place,” Dhenkanal SP K Siva Subramani said. Officials claimed Nayak was a part of WhatsApp group which dealt with child sexual abuse videos. The house of an autodriver, Manoj Das, in Binayakpur village under Agarpada police station of Bhadrak district was also raided by another team. Das, officials said, has been accused of sharing explicit videos of minors. Similarly,Anil Majhi of Keutanguan village under Goleipur panchayat of Jajpur district was also interrogated on charges of circulating such videos. In Andhra Pradesh, one person named T Krishna Mohanwas arrested from Tirupati in Chittoor district for uploading child porn-related videos on social media and selling the same to a third party, an official said on condition of anonymity.Mohan was allegedly involved in luring children into the flesh trade and videographing the same, the official added. In Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri, the CBI raided the home of one Rahul Rana, a resident of Pichhore, accusing him of running a child pornography site.The raids were conducted by the agency and its special unit, Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/ Investigation (OCSAE), which deals with matters pertaining to the online child sexual abuse and exploitation. The unit often gets information from embassies and overseas federal probe agencies, about organised rackets related to online child sexual abuse and exploitation. The CBI is also the nodal agency for the Interpol, which has an International Child Sexual Exploitation (ICSE) image and video database, to allow investigators from member countries to share data on cases of child sexual abuse. Used by 64 countries, including India, the ICSE has helped identify 23,500 victims and 10,752 offenders worldwide from 2.3 million images and videos in the database. ICSE also has a provision to share data, both in an open network that can be accessed by all countries as well as with specific countries. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 2020 witnessed a 400 percent rise in cyber crimes committed against children when compared to the previous year, with most cases pertaining to publishing or transmitting of materials depicting children in sexually explicit acts. “While the problem is huge, what needs to be done is to sensitise the police about the issue. If a person files a complaint, he/she is haunted with questions like where did you get this? How did you get this? Also, there is an urgent need to come down on some apps, where one gets these horrible ads which instigate children to join another site where they become prey to online abuse,” Bharti Ali, co-founder, HAQ Centre for Child Rights, said.Child sexual abuse is punishable in India under the 2012 Prevention of Children from Sexual Exploitation (POCSO) Actand sections of the Indian Penal Code. As first reported by HT on February 25, the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 have been notified which say that intermediaries shall remove or disable access to content that exposes the private areas of individuals, show such individuals in full or partial nudity or in sexual act or is in the nature of impersonation, including morphed images, etc, within 24 hours of receipt of complaints.In November last year, a junior engineer in Uttar Pradesh was arrested by the CBI for allegedly sexually exploiting around 50 children and selling their videos and photos on the dark web. The agency has included his name in the ICSE database of sexual predators as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-held-as-cbi-raids-77-places-in-crackdown-on-child-porn-101637083769522.html
16-11-2021||India||Modi opens eastern UP gateway in poll take-off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated a six-lane expressway meant to ease transport and unlock investment in eastern Uttar Pradesh, and accused previous state governments of neglecting the region, in a major development push months before a high-stakes assembly election.Modi landed in a C-130J Super Hercules aircraft on a 3.2km stretch of the 341km Purvanchal Expressway developed as an emergency airstrip for the Indian Air Force. He also saw an air show with French-made Mirage jets and Russian Su-30MKIs using the road as a runway.“The previous governments reduced the vital eastern part of the state to ‘mafiawaad’ and poverty, but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is now writing a new chapter of development,” he said. Eastern UP holds 160 of the state’s 403 assembly seats that go to the polls early next year. The PM was speaking in Sultanpur after inaugurating the expressway that connects state capital Lucknow to Ghazpur in the relatively underdeveloped eastern UP, and cuts down travel time to 3.5 hours from 6 hours. The ₹22,500 crore project has stirred a political row with the previous Samajwadi Party government claiming credit for green-lighting the highway.Modi’s event also highlighted the country’s dual-use expressways that double up as emergency military airstrips as India looks to boost its military preparedness.“India’s prosperity is as important as our national security. This expressway has become a new strength for our air force,” Modi said.“The emergency landing facility for aircraft on the expressway is a symbol of strength for the Indian Air Force. It’s a message to those who neglected defence infrastructure of the country,” he added. The expressway begins at Chaudsarai village on the outskirts of Lucknow and ends in Hydaria village on National Highway 31, just 18 km from the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border. After the address, Modi, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who watched the air show.A Mirage-2000 was the first to land. Commandos emerged later from the belly of an An-32 aircraft. Another Mirage, two Jaguars and an Su-30MKI performed touch-and-go manoeuvres on the air strip.The aircraft also flew in formation and ended the show with a flypast. An announcer identified one of the Sukhoi pilots as a local man from Sultanpur. Terming the Purvanchal expressway as a symbol of new UP and its progress, Modi said it will bridge the gap between western and eastern UP. The PM invoked Hindu god Hanuman and lauded the contribution of the people of the district in the freedom struggle. “I bow to the people of the land on which Lord Hanuman killed Kalanemi. In the 1857 struggle, the people of the area fought the British. The land carries the fragrance of the Independence struggle. And today, the holy land is getting the gift of Purvanchal Expressway,” he said. Development was limited to places where the previous chief ministers had their homes or families, the PM said, without naming opposition parties. “The government, which was in power in UP before the BJP government, did not assist me. The then CM did not share dais with me fearing that his vote bank will get angry (reference to Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party). The governments before the Yogi government were unfair to people, neglected development of the state and focused on the well being of their family. The people of UP removed them from power. They gave a big mandate to Yogi and Modi in 2017 and 2019 to serve them,” he said. “In UP, we have seen a long period of governments who showed dreams of industrialisation without worrying about connectivity. As a result, many factories located here were shut due to lack of infrastructure. It was also unfortunate that both Delhi and Lucknow were dominated by the dynasts. For years, this partnership of family members kept crushing the aspirations of Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Modi emphasised that the BJP’s “double engine government” was working for the welfare of people and development of the state. “Along with running old industries, it is creating an environment for new investments,” he said. “When I laid the foundation stone of the Purvanchal Expressway three years back, I had never thought that I will land here on an aircraft one day,” added the PM. Modi said the BJP government was changing the destiny of the state. “Who can forget regular power cuts earlier, deterioration in law and order, lack of medical facilities and loot incidents. Now, those who committed loot are in jail and new roads are being constructed across the state,” he added. “In the last seven years, villages in eastern and western UP have been connected with roads. The dream of UP’s development is being fulfilled. New medical colleges, modern educational institutions and airports have also been constructed,” he said. The PM said the Yogi government was working with the ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ (inclusive development for all) mantra without any discrimination. “The industrial corridor is being developed along the expressway and 21 spots have been selected for the purpose,” he said. Lauding the state’s vaccination drive, Modi said UP had become a leading state in administering jabs. “People ignored political misinformation and conspiracy over the Covid vaccine manufactured in the country. My government is working hard for the development of UP. Women have benefitted most under the BJP government – they have got pucca houses, power supply, cooking gas, toilets, piped drinking water supply, better health facilities under Ayushman Bharat scheme,” emphasised the PM. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said that the project was conceived when he was chief minister in 2016. “How will BJP be able to wipe out from the pages of history that the foundation for the expressway was laid in December 2016,” he said.“There is a tussle to take credit for the work of SP,” he later tweeted in Hindi.“During the lockdown, when lakhs of laborers were returning from Delhi to their villages in UP on foot, the BJP government did not provide buses to the workers. But, the government is spending crores of public’s hard earned money to bring crowd in the rallies of PM and Home Minister,” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-opens-eastern-up-gateway-in-poll-takeoff-101637083048844.html
16-11-2021||India||India, EU discuss Afghanistan, Myanmar; agree to continue exchanges on issues of mutual interest||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and secretary general of European External Action Service (EEAS) of the European Union, Stefano Sannino, on Tuesday discussed key issues of mutual interest in the region over a phone call.The ministry of external affairs said that the recent political developments in Afghanistan and neighbouring Myanmar were among some of the key topics discussed by the two sides.The common approaches for India and the EU towards the developments and priorities in Afghanistan were discussed between the two sides. “Both sides stressed the importance of preventing Afghanistan from being used as a base for terrorism and on the status of the rights of women, children and minorities in Afghanistan. The recently organised Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan and its Delhi Declaration were also discussed,” the MEA said in a statement.Also read | US special envoy for Afghanistan on India visit, meets NSA and foreign secretaryFurther, the two officials also spoke about the recent developments in Myanmar and the ongoing situation at the border between Poland and Belarus. “Foreign Secretary and the Secretary General also exchanged views on developments in Myanmar. They also discussed the ongoing situation at the Belarus-Poland border. Both sides agreed on the need to de-escalate the situation and arrive at an early resolution,” MEA said.Also, the two agreed to continue engaging at their respective levels periodically on issues of mutual interest. “It was agreed to continue periodic exchanges at the level of Foreign Secretary and Secretary General on issues of mutual interest,” it added.The call came after Shringla had met with Thomas West, the newly appointed US special representative for Afghanistan, earlier in the day. The two discussed the developments in the Taliban-ruled country. “Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla met US Special Representative for Afghanistan Thomas West @US4AfghanPeace and exchanged views on recent developments and issues of common interest in Afghanistan,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-discuss-afghanistan-myanmar-agree-to-continue-exchanges-on-issues-of-mutual-interest-101637081267618.html
16-11-2021||India||Day after encounter, 3 detained in Kashmir with around ₹30 lakh||As many as three people were detained in Jammu & Kashmir on Tuesday with nearly ₹30 lakh on them. Police nabbed all of them near Ban Toll Plaza before handing them over to the Special Operations Group (SOG) in Jammu.The trio have been identified as Fayaz Ahmed Dar (40), Umar Farooq (19) and Mausam Parviz. While Umar and Mausam hailed from Pulwama, Fayaz belonged to Kulgam.This development comes after an encounter unfolded in Srinagar’s Hyderpora region on Monday resulting in the death of two unidentified terrorists.However, the death of two civilians – Altaf Ahmad Dar, the owner of the shopping complex where the incident took place, and Mudasir Gul, one of the tenants of the building — during the encounter have invited sharp criticisms from their families as well as the political leaders of the Valley.Both Dar and Gul’s families have claimed they were innocent. Moreover, Ahmad’s family alleged that he was used as a “human shield” by Jammu and Kashmir Police forces and killed in “cold blood.”Meanwhile, J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah demanded a judicial probe into the matter.However, following the encounter on Monday, the police said in a statement that both Dar and Gul were working as “militant associate” or “overground workers” for the deceased terrorists.Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said that Gul, who used to work as a contractor, also allegedly ran a fake call centre. He added that Gul was allegedly running a module of terrorists, while living in one of the rooms that Dar had rented out to him. “Since the hideout was in the building of Dar … so he will be counted as an overground worker for harbouring militants,” Kumar added.He further said that J&K Police forces had tried to save Dar but as he got caught up between the firing, he could not be saved. “We regret his killing,” Kumar said.The Kashmir IG has identified both the deceased terrorists, with one of them named Bilal Bhai alias Hyder, believed to be hailing from Pakistan. The second terrorist is from Jammu’s Ramban area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-encounter-3-detained-in-kashmir-with-around-rs-30-lakh-101637079947582.html
16-11-2021||India||India beefs up sea power with new assets; armed drones in the works||The Indian Navy will commission a modern locally built destroyer next week, along with a submarine constructed in the country with French collaboration, to strengthen its capabilities amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region, navy vice chief Vice Admiral SN Ghormade said on Tuesday. This comes when a proposed procurement of armed drones from the US is set to come up for critical approval shortly.India plans to induct 30 Predator drones, 10 each for the navy, air force and army, in a deal estimated to be worth $3 billion.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will commission the stealth guided missile destroyer Visakhapatnam in Mumbai on November 21 followed by the induction of a French-designed Kalvari class diesel-electric attack submarine, Vela, on November 25 at a ceremony to be presided over by navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh.“The commissioning of Visakhapatnam and Vela are major milestones and showcase indigenous capacity to build complex combat platforms. This will enhance our capacity and fire power to address threats both in the above water and underwater domains,” Ghormade said. Both platforms have been built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in Mumbai.Visakhapatnam is the first warship of the navy’s Project-15B under which three more warships will be delivered by 2025. Vela is the fourth of the six Kalvari class submarines being constructed in the country with technology transfer from French firm Naval Group under a ₹23,562-crore programme called Project 75. The remaining two submarines will be commissioned in two years.“Global and regional balance of power is shifting rapidly and the region of most rapid change is undoubtedly the Indian Ocean Region. Continuous efforts are on to ensure that our force levels grow progressively to enhance the capability of the Indian Navy to meet the emerging challenges,” the vice chief said.The commissioning of Visakhapatnam, armed with a variety of locally built weapons and sensors, will reaffirm India’s presence among an elite group of nations with the capability to design and build advanced warships, he said. Vela is a potent platform and very few countries possess the capability to build submarines, Ghormade said.While it may seem that there is a spate of new commissioning of ships, these are all overdue accretions, said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd).“Given the threats and tasks of the Indian Navy, much more needs to be done, especially for indigenisation. One hopes that not only greater budgetary support but more Atmanirbharta (self-reliance) can be ensured in the years to come,” Shrikhande added.India is also pursuing a project (P-75I) worth ₹40,000 crore for building six more advanced submarines in the country under the government’s strategic partnership (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet.The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with the foreign players are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.On the proposed Predator purchase, Ghormade said “healthy discussions” were on among stakeholders and the case was progressing well. He said the proposal to buy the armed drones was likely to be taken up by the defence acquisition council (DAC) - India’s apex procurement body - in a short while. DAC’s approval for the drones is likely to be sought within the current financial year, HT has learnt.The Indian Navy last year leased a pair of MQ-9B SeaGuardian drones (an unarmed variant of the Predators manufactured by General Atomics) from the US to boost its intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities. The MQ-9Bs have helped the navy keep a close watch on the Indian Ocean at a time when it has stepped up surveillance in the region to check China’s ambitions.The commissioning of Visakhapatnam and Vela will be followed by the launch of Sandhayak in early December, the first of four large survey vessels to be built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE), Kolkata, Ghormade said. A ship’s launch marks a significant milestone in its construction and refers to the vessel entering water for the first time.The contract for building the four ships was signed between the defence ministry and GRSE in October 2018. “The ships will come with new generation hydrographic equipment and advanced technical capabilities for collecting oceanographic and geophysical data in the Indian Ocean Region,” he added. Sandhayak is likely to be delivered to the navy in October 2022.The Indian Navy’s latest frigate, Tushil, was launched last month at the Yantar Shipyard in Kaliningrad, with Russia preparing to deliver two new warships to India in 2023.Tushil is part of an over $2.5-billion deal with Russia for four more Krivak/Talwar class stealth frigates for the Indian Navy, two of which are being constructed at the Yantar Shipyard while the remaining two will be built at the Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) with technology transfer from Russia, which is India’s top arms supplier. Tushil is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy in mid-2023 followed by its sister ship in 2023-end.GSL is expected to deliver the two frigates by 2026-27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-beefs-up-sea-power-with-new-assets-armed-drones-in-the-works-101637080350776.html
16-11-2021||India||Who is Saurabh Kirpal, advocate who may become India's first openly gay judge?||In a historic move, Chief Justice NV Ramana-headed Supreme Court collegium in India has recommended the elevation of senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal as a judge of the Delhi high court. If approved by the Union government, Kirpal may become the country’s first openly gay judge in a constitutional court.Kirpal’s recommendation was mired with controversy for the past four years due to the Union government’s preliminary objections because of his sexual orientation.Besides CJI Ramana, Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar are also part of the three-member collegium which has sought the appointment of Kirpal as a judge.Here’s what you should know about Saurbah Kirpal:Early yearsGraduating with a physics major from Delhi’s St Stephen’s College, Saurabh Kirpal went ahead to earn a law degree from the University of Oxford and a masters in law from the University of Cambridge. He then returned to India following a brief stint at the United Nations in Geneva.The 49-year-old advocate is the son of Bhupinder Nath Kirpal, who served as the 31st Chief Justice of India from May to November in 2002.CareerKirpal has been practising at the Supreme Court for more than two decades. He was also the counsel for Navtej Johar, Ritu Dalmia and others in the celebrated case that led to the landmark reading down of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code in 2018, thus decriminalising gay sex.He has written an anthology titled “Sex and the Supreme Court: How the Law is Upholding the Dignity of the Indian Citizen” and is also a board member of the Naz Foundation Trust, a Delhi-based NGO that has been at the forefront of India’s battle against Section 377.ControversyKirpal was first recommended for elevation in 2017 by the Delhi high court collegium, then led by acting chief justice Gita Mittal. The proposal was approved by the apex court's collegium too. However, the top court later decided to defer the decision on appointing him as a judge.In an interview to HT in September 2020, Kirpal acknowledged that his sexuality could be the reason behind the Supreme Court collegium deferring the decision as well as the government raising objections.“Media reports seemed to indicate the issue might have been the nationality of my partner who is Swiss. Had I been a straight man with a foreign spouse, this would not have been an issue; former Supreme Court judges have had foreign spouses. But it became an issue only because I am not,” Kirpal had told HT.Notably, the SC collegium deferred its decision on Kirpal’s recommendation on three occasions — in January 2019, April 2019 and in August last year. His name was discussed among 18 other proposals, some of whom were cleared. However, Kirpal’s name was held back.In March 2021, the then CJI SA Bobde wrote to the Union government, seeking additional information and more clarity on its reservations over Kirpal’s name. The Centre reiterated its apprehensions about his partner.The same month, Kirpal was designated as a senior advocate by the Delhi high court after all 31 judges of the high court unanimously endorsed his designation. The proposal can once again be returned by the Centre. But if his name is sent back for elevation, they have no option but to approve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-saurabh-kirpal-advocate-who-may-become-india-s-first-openly-gay-judge-101637077993072.html
16-11-2021||India||Rajasthan cuts VAT on petrol and diesel prices, new rates effective midnight||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the state cabinet had decided to reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel prices by ₹4 and ₹5, respectively. The new prices will be effective from the midnight of November 16, the chief minister added.In a post from his official handle, Gehlot tweeted, “In the Cabinet meeting today, it was unanimously decided to reduce the rate of VAT on petrol/diesel. From 12 o'clock tonight, the rates will be reduced by ₹4 per liter for petrol and ₹5 per liter for diesel.”In the Cabinet meeting today, it was unanimously decided to reduce the rate of VAT on petrol/diesel. From 12 o'clock tonight, the rates will be reduced by ₹4 per liter for petrol and ₹5 per liter for diesel.The decision to cut the VAT on petrol and diesel prices has cost the state government a loss of ₹3,500 crore in the annual revenue, the chief minister added. “Due to this, the state government will incur a loss of ₹3,500 crore in annual revenue,” Gehlot said in a subsequent tweet.Notably, in a significant decision this month, the Centre had reduced the excise duty on petrol and diesel to bring down the prices of the two petroleum products which had been seeing an upward trend. The relief, which came to the consumers on the eve of Diwali, said to them that the excise duty on petrol will come down by ₹5 and that on diesel by ₹10.Earlier this week, the chief minister of Rajasthan had requested the Narendra Modi-led central government to further the cut on excise duty on petrol and diesel. Referring to the finance ministry's request to the states “to commensurately reduce” VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers, Gehlot had said, “We demand the central government to further cut petrol and diesel prices; if the Centre reduces fuel prices, then, it will be reduced in the states too.”With Rajasthan, 26 states and Union territories have so far undertaken a commensurate reduction of VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers, according to estimates provided by the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas last week.As per ministry data, only 10 states and Union territories have not yet undertaken any reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel prices. These are – Maharashtra, NCT of Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cuts-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-prices-new-rates-effective-midnight-101637078762240.html
16-11-2021||India||Drug peddlers use Amazon for marijuana supply, 2 company officials meet MP police for probe||Two officials of e-commerce giant Amazon met Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind police in connection to a case involving interstate supply of drugs. The gang allegedly used Amazon’s portal to transport marijuana from Visakhapatnam to other parts of the country, said police. Advocate Sumant Narang and Amazon’s Gwalior station head Shashank Singh met Bhind superintendent of police Manoj Singh to discuss the case after police visited Amazon’s warehouse facility in Gwalior on Sunday. SP Manoj Kumar Singh confirmed the meeting. He said, “I sought some details related to verification of sellers and products but they didn’t share much information. They asked us to send an email related to the investigation and the details required. Now we are sending them an official email seeking details related to the verification of seller and others.” When contacted, Narang refused to talk about the meeting but said they were cooperating with the police in the investigation. On Saturday, police arrested two members of the gang - Suraj Pawaiya and Vijendra Singh Tomar - both residents of Bhind, with 20 kg of Marijuana from a dhaba (local eatery) in Gohad. The two accused, who were on a police remand of three days, informed that a company registered in 2007 as a textile entity from Ahmedabad, Gujarat - Babu Tex Private Limited- used to sell marijuana as supernatural stevia dry leaves. On the website, 2 kilograms of leaves was for ₹180. As of now, 1-tonne marijuana has already been transported through the e-commerce site with associated transactions worth ₹1.1 crore. The police found that 768 kgs of marijuana were supplied through 384 orders in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in the past seven months. In all the cases, the payment was done through one UPI ID only. Amazon used to take a 66.66% share of ₹180, so the company was also making a profit out of it, said an investigating officer. In the investigation, if the company’s employee is found involved, an FIR will be registered against him too under the NDPS Act, said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-peddlers-use-amazon-for-marijuana-supply-2-company-officials-meet-mp-police-for-probe-101637078610057.html
16-11-2021||India||Air quality fluctuations solely depend on wind for now||With farm fires in Punjab and Haryana decreasing and wind speed picking up, air quality in Delhi showed a marginal improvement since this weekend, compared to the week after Diwali, data from satellites and air quality stations analysed by HT shows.The one-hour average concentration of PM2.5 particles – particles of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres – in Delhi was more than 200 micrograms per cubic metre in 176 of the 216 one-hour intervals from midnight of November 5 to the end of November 13. Diwali was celebrated on the night of November 4.This means that in 81% of the one-hour intervals after Diwali to November 13, PM2.5 concentration was above 200 microgram per cubic metre. From midnight of November 14 to 4 PM on November 16, this share has dropped to 52%. In only 33 of the 64 one-hour intervals in this period PM2.5 has averaged above 200 micrograms per cubic metre.To be sure, this does not mean that the air quality in Delhi is good right now. The analysis above only means that air pollution is on the higher end of the “very poor” or lower end of “severe” category rather than on its upper end. In 99% of the one-hour intervals from November 5 to November 13, the PM2.5 concentration was in very poor or worse (concentration above 120 micrograms per cubic metre). This has marginally decreased to 94% of the one-hour intervals in the period analysed after November 13.A combination of lower farm fires and higher wind speed is responsible for this improvement. From November 5 to November 11, fires observed in Punjab and Haryana averaged 5,269 per day, according to Suomi-NPP satellite’s VIIRS instrument. From November 12 to November 16, they have averaged 3,178. The number of fires observed in the two states have decreased daily after November 13. The number was 4,570 on November 13 and is 2072 on November 16.However, November 12 was about just as bad a day for air quality in Delhi as November 5 (the day after Diwali) because wind speed was lower than it was in the November 5-November 11 period. With farm fires decreasing in Punjab and Haryana and wind speed increasing back again after November 12, both the addition of pollutants in the air and their accumulation in the air has decreased. This has made a minor improvement in the air quality of the National Capital Territory.The trends underscore the fact that none of the steps and mechanisms put in place over the last five years have made any difference in what determines how bad the pollution will be -- the only determinants are weather and the farm fires in neighbouring states. Experts have long called for new, consequential mechanisms that could help reduce these effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-fluctuations-solely-depend-on-wind-for-now-101637078129835.html
16-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: US envoy for Afghanistan meets NSA, foreign secretary on India visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US special envoy for Afghanistan on India visit, meets NSA and foreign secretaryThomas West, the newly appointed United States (US) special representative for Afghanistan reached New Delhi on Tuesday, and called on National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to discuss current developments in the war-torn country now governed by a Taliban-led regime. Read moreGold worth ₹75 lakh found hidden under passenger seat on AI flight from DubaiGold bars worth at least ₹75 lakh were found hidden under a passenger seat of an Air India flight that landed at the Jaipur International Airport from Dubai on Tuesday. Read moreDesperation to please voters: Sitaram Yechury on Purvanchal ExpresswayTaking a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday said that they are inaugurating projects in Uttar Pradesh in order to attract votes from the people of the poll-bound state. Read moreIndia vs New Zealand: Takeaways from Rahul Dravid’s first press conference as India’s full-time head coachTeam India head coach Rahul Dravid, as expected, sounded extremely clear and focussed during his first press conference after taking up the mantle from Ravi Shastri. Read moreKangana Ranaut shares post about Mahatma Gandhi, says 'offering another cheek' gets ‘bheekh’, not freedomActor Kangana Ranaut has once again stirred up controversy with her views on India's independence struggle against British rule. Last week, while speaking at a summit she said that India's freedom was a ‘bheekh (handout)’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-special-envoy-for-afghanistan-meets-nsa-foreign-secretary-on-india-visit-and-all-the-latest-news-101637076281028.html
16-11-2021||India||CBI conducts 76 raids for online child porn. One didn’t go according to script||BHUBANESWAR: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday conducted raids at 76 locations across 14 states and union territories in 23 cases allegedly involving online child porn. Many of the targets of these raids were members of WhatsApp groups that circulated child sexual exploitation material.In all, the first information reports (FIR) registered by CBI over the last few days named 83 individuals along with their phone numbers and addresses who were known to have circulated or downloaded child porn, mostly on their phones. There was no formal statement by CBI on the outcome of the raids. But there was one raid in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district that clearly did not go according to the agency’s script.This team of CBI officials turned up at Colony Sahi house of 25-year-old Surendra Nayak in Dhenkanal town early on Tuesday morning.A CBI official who was part of the team said Nayak was alleged to be part of a WhatsApp group, “Desi MMS”, that was used by members to circulate pornographic material including child porn. An initial inquiry by CBI led officials to believe that he also received US $ 21 for circulating child sexual exploitation material.But as soon as word spread about the raid, the team found themselves surrounded by the womenfolk of the area, many of them armed with wooden sticks.“As we seized Nayak’s mobile phone, we suddenly came under attack from the women. We were first locked in a room and then dragged out by the women with many of them beating us up with the wooden planks,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The CBI team was finally rescued by police personnel from the Dhenkanal town police station after senior police officers received SOS messages from CBI.Senior CBI officials in Odisha capital Bhubaneswar declined to comment on the incident.Dhenkanal superintendent of police K Siva Subramani, however, confirmed the attack.“The CBI team had not informed us before the raid…. We managed to get them out the place,” the district SP said.Nayak The CBI team later summoned Nayak to the police station where he allegedly told the team that he joined the WhatsApp group two months ago and did share pornographic material with others in the group.A little over 100km away, another CBI team raided auto driver Manoj Das in Binayakpur village under Agarpada police station of Bhadrak district. Das has been accused of circulating explicit videos of minors on his mobile phone. A third CBI team questioned Anil Majhi of Keutanguan village in Jajpur district over similar allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-conducts-76-raids-for-online-child-porn-one-didn-t-go-according-to-script-101637076688963.html
16-11-2021||India||Punjab cannot handle its paddy, but it can’t change without help||The toxic air in Delhi and adjoining areas is a by-product of multiple factors. But the smoke from stubble burning, which travels to Delhi from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana is an important contributor to pollution levels. In the period from October 20 this year, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration has ranged between 2% on October 24 to as much as 48% on November 7, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Why have governments failed to stop farm fires and their polluting effects? An HT analysis of Punjab’s agricultural statistics show that this will not happen without a holistic re-evaluation of agricultural practices in the state. Here’s why.Why, Punjab?The simplest answer to this question is that Punjab is responsible for the largest number of farm fires in the northern region. Data from the Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (Suomi-NPP) shows that number of farm-fires in Punjab until November 14 this year is over six times the number of fires in the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.There is no doubt that stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana produces smoke. How much does that smoke contribute to pollution in Delhi? The contribution can vary depending on the amount of stubble burnt and the proportion of that smoke that enters Delhi and stays close to the ground. The latter two are dependent on temperature and the speed and direction of wind. Because the weather conditions helpful for accumulation of pollutants close to the ground in Delhi – low-speed wind blowing from north-west to east and low temperatures – coincide with the stubble burning period, PM2.5 concentration in Delhi has a high correlation with fires in Punjab and Haryana in October and November.Why stubble burning?It is a race against time for farmers. There is a very small window between the harvesting of the kharif (monsoon) season’s paddy crop and sowing of the rabi (winter) crop in this region. This is partly a result of government regulations that mandate delayed sowing of the kharif crop (because there is a shortage of water, itself brought about by the fascination with paddy in this part of the country). Then there is the question of money. Setting fire to fields to prepare them for farming is among the oldest methods in agriculture. This is how early humans learnt agriculture, except what they would set fire to what were forest lands. The reason this technique has resurfaced in regions such as Punjab is, ironical as it may sound, not a lack of technique – our ancestors did not have the farm equipment we have today – but the economics of farming. Paddy, when harvested by human labour does not leave behind much in terms of stubble. This is not the case when it comes to harvesting with machines such as combine harvesters.There are two factors that encourage the use of mechanised harvesting in Punjab compared to other states: larger farm sizes, which facilitates theuse of such machines and higher cost of labour compared to other states. Data from the latest Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households (SAS) by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) puts this in perspective.The average size of land under paddy cultivation is 1.97 hectares in Punjab and 1.88 hectares in Haryana, among the highest under paddy cultivation in major states. This is in complete contrast with the situation outside Punjab. The average size of land under paddy cultivation in the third-ranked state (Madhya Pradesh) is almost half of that in Punjab (1.01 hectares). In most big states, the average size of land under paddy cultivation is under one hectare.This, when read with the fact that average agricultural wages in Punjab are higher than the national average, and even more so than the agricultural labour exporting states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and parts of Uttar Pradesh, explains why it makes sense for farmers in Punjab to first use mechanised harvesting and then resort to stubble-burning.The dominance of big farmers in paddy cultivation in Punjab (and its neighbouring Haryana) is a reflection of the fact that paddy is more a commercial than subsistence crop in these states. This is borne out by the fact that paddy’s share of themarketed surplus is significantly higher in Punjab than in eastern states such as Bihar and West Bengal.Agricultural policy has played a role too. 71% of the total rice procurement in the 2021-22 Kharif Marketing Season (figures up to November 11, 2021) in India was in the state of Punjab. Any sudden withdrawal of this support will inflict a huge economic shock to the farmers in the state, as receipts from paddy accounted for more than half of cultivation receipts in Punjab in the latest SAS. As is obvious this will also have a huge political backlash. To hope that the state’s farmers will stop cultivating paddy (and burning its stubble) without a holistic overhaul of agricultural policy is an exercise in collective delusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cannot-handle-its-paddy-but-it-can-t-change-without-help-101637075848262.html
16-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 17, 2019 — Women turned back after Kerala’s Sabarimala shrine opens||Pambha- Police stopped five women from trekking up to the Sabarimala temple on the first day of the pilgrimage on Saturday, sparking criticism from activists and experts who said the move violated the Supreme Court’s orders allowing the entry of female devotees of menstruating age in the Kerala hilltop shrine.The five women, part of a group of 18 travellers from Andhra Pradesh, were asked to go back from the base camp of Pambha in south Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district.“We checked their identity cards and found that they were in the barred age group and informed them about the current situation in Sabarimala. They did not proceed further,” a senior police official said on condition of anonymity.The development came barely two days after the Supreme Court referred to a larger bench petitions challenging its 2018 judgment overturning a decades-old ban at Sabarimala on female devotees between 10 and 50 years of age. The new seven judge bench will also look into seven other matters linked to faith.In its 3:2 ruling delivered on Thursday, the apex court did not suspend its landmark order, with justice Rohinton Nariman, who authored the minority dissenting judgment, explicitly asking the Kerala government to ensure strict compliance with the 2018 verdict. But the state administration has since refused to provide security to women devotees of childbearing age, saying it will consult with experts before deciding on the issue.A posse of at least 10,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain order at the base camp. Women police officers asked all female devotees to show documents to prove their age. “We are simply following the orders of our superiors,” a woman inspector said on condition of anonymity.The development came barely two days after the Supreme Court referred to a larger bench petitions challenging its 2018 judgment overturning a decades- old ban at Sabarimala on female devotees between 10 and 50 years of age. The new seven judge bench will also look into seven other matters linked to faith.In its 3:2 ruling delivered on Thursday, the apex court did not suspend its landmark order, with justice Rohinton Nariman, who authored the minority dissenting judgment, explicitly asking the Kerala government to ensure strict compliance with the 2018 verdict. But the state administration has since refused to provide security to women devotees of childbearing age, saying it will consult with experts before deciding on the issue.A posse of at least 10,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain order at the base camp. Women police officers asked all female devotees to show documents to prove their age. “We are simply following the orders of our superiors,” a woman inspector said on condition of anonymity.One of the women sent back, 42-year-old Padmavati Naidu, said she was told that the top court had lifted all restrictions on the entry of women. “I did not expect this fate. When I told police officers about this, they had no replies either,” she said, fighting back tears.The Travancore Devasom Board, which runs the temple, underplayed the incident. “There was no checking. We apprised them about our difficulties and they went back,” said the newly appointed TDB president N Vasu.The government’s stand and the police action angered reformists and women activists.“It is sad that the police are back to the same old tactics. The Supreme Court has made it clear that there is no stay on its 2018 verdict. How can they prevent women like this? It seems the government is bowing before trouble-makers and some zealots,” said Bindhu Ammini, one of two women who were the first to enter the temple in January this year. She said she will move court against the police action.Activist and Bhumata Brigade leader Trupti Deasi, who has announced her plan to visit the temple, also criticised the state government. “The state is bound to go by the 2018 verdict of the Supreme Court. It is the state’s responsibility to give protection to women,” she said.Legal experts blamed the state government and police. “Preventing women from offering prayers at the temple constitutes contempt of the Supreme Court. It is sad that the Kerala government is not doing anything to aid the entry of women in the temple,” said Supreme Court advocate Viplav Sharma.“The court has categorically held that women have a right to pray at the temple. Even though the court has referred the matter to a seven-judge bench, there is no stay on the earlier judgment,”he added.Senior lawyer Asha Unnithan agreed. “The Supreme Court did not stay the verdict. So it is binding on the government to go by it,” she said.At Pambha, tens of thousands of male devotees, many of them barefoot and dressed in the traditional black clothes, readied in neat files for the 5-km trek through thick forests and streams for a glimpse of the deity Ayappa. Traditionalists in Kerala contend that the entry of female worshippers of childbearing age into the sanctum sanctorum in Sabarimala is a sacrilege because Ayyappa is celibate.The orderly pilgrimage was a sharp contrast from scenes a year ago when violent clashes broke out almost daily between the police and enraged devotees, who slept in nearby shops and the steps and managed to stop women devotees for roughly three months after the SC verdict. Women pilgrims were regularly pelted with stones and at least one male devotee set himself on fire to protest against the entry of women of menstruating age.On Saturday, many of those devotees appeared satisfied, and said peace was back at their favourite temple. “God is supreme. The highest court heard our cries for peace at the temple,” said Suramanyan Swami, a devotee from neighbouring Tamil Nadu’s Erode. A second devotee said he skipped last year’s pilgrimage fearing violence but that he was back this year with more “vigour and devotion”.The chief priest or tantri of Sabarimala, Mahesh Kandarau, opened the temple doors at 5pm for the two-month Mandala- Makaravilakku pilgrimage season. “In the first one hour, more than 10,000 pilgrims passed the police check post,” said a senior police officer.After the 2018 SC judgment, the Left Front-ruled Kerala government had thrown its weight behind the women devotees and provided them security. But this time, the administration has appeared more evasive, with temple minister Kadakampally Surendran making it clear that the government won’t provide police cover to women devotees of menstruating age.“Sabarimala was not a place for activists to display activism and the government will not encourage women who want to visit the shrine for publicity,” he said on Friday.Hindu groups have already declared they will block any woman of childbearing age if they try to enter the temple. “We respect the government’s assurance. But, if they cheat us like last year, they will have to face repercussions,” said RV Babu, leader of the Sabarimala Karma Samiti, an apex body of Hindu outfits that has said hundreds of its volunteers are closely watching the pilgrimage route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-17-2019-women-turned-back-after-kerala-s-sabarimala-shrine-opens-101637075385495.html
16-11-2021||India||‘Lack of industrial growth is good for Assam’s environment’: Padma Shri Jadav Payeng||Padma Shri awardee Jadav Payeng of Assam’s Jorhat district, who is also known as the ‘The Forest Man of India’, feels that lack of industrialisation is good for the environment.In his opinion, the Assam government should make policies to reduce industrialisation and give plants their space to grow. Payeng’s comments came during the sixth Northeast Green Summit at the National Institute of Technology, Silchar, on Tuesday morning.62-year-old Payeng earned his name as ‘The Forest Man of India’ by spending 30 years of his life planting around 40 million trees on 550 hectares of land on the banks of the Brahmaputra river.Interacting with Hindustan Times after the event at the premises of Silchar NIT, Payeng said, “Environment studies need to be included in education from primary level so that kids understand the value of preserving it. The syllabus should focus on important issues like climate change and impact of deforestation instead of the existing age-old content.”Apart from pointing out the need for an environment university in Assam, he mentioned how trees were worshipped in ancient India. “In Indian culture, we worship trees. In some Indian states, it still exists. We should start worshipping trees following the Indian culture which will have a deep impact on our environment,” he said.“India will be the most populated country in the world by 2050. We need to start foresting more to strike a balance otherwise next generations will face so many problems and will blame us for that,” Payeng added.He appealed to the Central government and Bangladesh to plant more trees at the border. According to him, this will help in solving many border issues apart from improving the environment.The sixth edition of the Northeast Green Summit, which is being organised jointly by Silchar NIT and VIBGYOR NE Foundation, kicked off with a tree plantation drive and discussion on issues of climate change on Tuesday morning. The theme of this year’s summit is “Greening After Covid: Regional cooperation, Innovation & Entrepreneurship.” Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, MoS, Ministry of Education & External Affairs, Government of India; Dr Rajdeep Roy, Member of Parliament from Silchar, along with other important dignitaries were present on the opening day of the summit.Director of Silchar NIT, professor Sivaji Bandyopadhyay, while addressing the event said, “The summit has received wide participation in terms of research papers submitted across the country and abroad. A total of 240 research articles have been submitted out of which 120 papers have been accepted through a peer-review process to be presented during the summit.”“The summit will be addressing the themes on agriculture, sustainability, environment, energy, biodiversity, eco-tourism and post-Covid world,” he added.He also informed that Ashwini Choubey, MOS, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change will also be present at the event along with forest ministers of all seven Northeastern states on November 18.Some of the social activists and NGOs were felicitated on the opening day of the summit, including a 9-year-old boy from Dholai constituency of Cachar district who is planting 1000 saplings in his area to increase oxygen. Some other people were also felicitated for rescuing rare species in various parts of Barak Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-industrial-growth-is-good-for-assam-s-environment-padma-shri-jadav-payeng-101637074228879.html
16-11-2021||India||Desperation to please voters: Sitaram Yechury on Purvanchal Expressway||Taking a jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday said that they are inaugurating projects in Uttar Pradesh in order to attract votes from the people of the poll-bound state.“You see as the elections approach closer, more and more inaugurations, more and more foundation stone laying ceremonies are being done,” Yechury told news agency ANI.He added that the saffron party is trying to attract people since it is “facing a great deal of discontent” among them.Calling the inauguration of projects “desperation” on part of the BJP, Yechury said that people in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand – both ruled by the BJP and going into polls next year — are “today dissatisfied” with the state governments.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 341km Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district. “Those who’ve any doubt about the capabilities of Uttar Pradesh and its people should come to Sultanpur today to witness their strength,” he added at the event.Targeting the opposition, Modi also said that the earlier governments in the state ignored the development of the eastern region of the state, and handed over the place to “mafiawaad” and poverty.
16-11-2021||India||MP man rapes daughter, 25, who married outside caste, then kills her: Cop||BHOPAL: A 25-year-old woman, grieving over the death of her infant due to pneumonia, was raped and killed by her father who had been angry that she married a man from another caste, police said.The father accompanied his daughter to the forest on the outskirts of the city to bury her dead baby but instead raped and killed her on 5 November, Bhopal city superintendent of police Umesh Tiwari said. He left their bodies in the forest.It was only nine days later, on November 14, that the police found the bodies after being alerted by a forest guard.Initially, police officers were only looking at a murder case. Tiwari said it was only when the body was sent for an autopsy that it turned out that she had been raped before she was strangled too.The 55-year-old was booked for murder and rape. His 23-year-old son has been charged for the murder conspiracy.The accused had been upfront about killing his daughter and told his son about the murder, not the rape. The next day, the two also told his elder daughter that he killed her sibling.“During interrogation, the father said he was looking for a chance to kill his daughter and when she contacted him, he couldn’t control his anger,” the father told the police after his arrest, according to police officer Umesh Tiwari. He reportedly said villagers used to mock him and many relatives stopped inviting his family over because of his daughter’s inter-caste marriage.The woman lived in the Shujalpur area of Shajapur district with her husband. On October 20, she went with her baby to celebrate Diwali to her elder sister’s house in Bhopal since her husband was going to be in Chhatisgarh capital Raipur for some time. He worked with a tent house.It was during this visit that her son died of pneumonia. She didn’t tell her husband about their child’s death. Her elder sister called her father and brother, who live in Sehore district, next door to Bhopal.“The father, who had broken all the ties with the woman after her inter-caste marriage, came and asked her to bury baby’s body. The father and brother took the woman to a forest to bury the baby’s body,” said Tiwari.“The man asked his son to guard the motorcycle and accompanied his daughter into the forest,” said Tiwari. He started speaking about her decision to marry outside her caste. But his daughter didn’t say a word. The police officer said he claims to have lost his cool and started beating his daughter. Later, he raped her before strangling her. Tiwari said the son and his elder sister were not aware of the rape. Ratibad police station in-charge Sudesh Tiwari said police told the woman’s husband about his wife’s murder on Monday. The woman didn’t have a mobile phone and had last spoken to him on Diwali using someone else’s phone“We got married one-and-a-half years ago after eloping. Her father had filed a fake complaint that his daughter was missing, at Bilkisganj police in Sehore then but we informed police that we were married. Her father then threatened to kill his daughter if she ever returned to his house,” the husband said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-man-rapes-daughter-25-who-married-outside-caste-then-kills-her-cop-101637072548573.html
16-11-2021||India||US special envoy for Afghanistan on India visit, meets NSA and foreign secretary||Thomas West, the newly appointed United States (US) special representative for Afghanistan reached New Delhi on Tuesday, and called on National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to discuss current developments in the war-torn country now governed by a Taliban-led regime. According to the ministry of external affairs, the officials exchanged views on recent developments and the issues of common interest in Afghanistan.“Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla met US Special Representative for Afghanistan Thomas West @US4AfghanPeace and exchanged views on recent developments and issues of common interest in Afghanistan,” tweeted Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson for the foreign ministry.Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla met US Special Representative for Afghanistan Thomas West @US4AfghanPeace and exchanged views on recent developments and issues of common interest in Afghanistan. pic.twitter.com/Pk2rMFeHWFMinistry officials familiar with the development told news agency ANI that the topics which were discussed in the meeting included the recently conducted regional security dialogue of national security advisers on Afghanistan, the movement of people in and out of the country, coordinating global efforts on humanitarian assistance, regional security issues, and other bilateral and international issues of mutual interest.Notably, India had hosted a regional security dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10 that was attended by NSAs of Russia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The countries which participated in the meeting had vowed to work towards working to ensure that global terrorism does not find a safe haven in Afghanistan. The officials, as cited by the PTI news agency, also called for the formation of an “open and truly inclusive” government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society.A declaration released at the end of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan said Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning, or financing any terrorist acts and that officials lent strong support for a peaceful, secure, and stable Afghanistan. Referring to the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, the officials also pitched for providing assistance to the Afghan people in an unimpeded, direct, and assured manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-special-envoy-for-afghanistan-on-india-visit-meets-nsa-and-foreign-secretary-101637068508754.html
16-11-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya pedals to unveil health pavilion at India International Trade Fair in Delhi||Amid the ongoing discussion around the worsening air quality in the national capital, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for his part, on Tuesday, rode a bicycle to Pragati Maidan in Delhi, emphasising on the need to reduce pollution. The minister was at Pragati Maidan to inaugurate the health pavilion at the India International Trade Fair (IITF) that is taking place at the venue.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said, “In the first ever cycle rally organised at the India International Trade Fair, Mansukh Mandaviya cycled to inaugurate the Health Pavilion to generate awareness and promote a healthy active lifestyle in view of the rising burden of NCDs in the country.”#HealthForAllDr. @mansukhmandviya inaugurated the #Health Pavilion at the 40th India International Trade Fair at Pragati Maidan today. He cycled to the venue to promote a healthy & active lifestyle and awareness against Noncommunicable Diseases.https://t.co/C46Gz363UP pic.twitter.com/LcWPJNQRQV“Today I am here to inaugurate the health pavilion. Pedalling cycle reduces air pollution, it keeps one fit and healthy and saves non-renewable energy,” news agency ANI quoted Mandaviya as saying. “To promote cycling, I will be launching awareness with the help of cycling clubs across India,” he added.The theme of the health pavilion at the IITF is creating awareness about Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), also called lifestyle diseases, and to project the importance of total health, the ministry said.Also read | To tackle Delhi’s air pollution, Manish Sisodia has cycles and buses in mindHowever, this is not the first time the minister has advocated the use of bicycles. Earlier in 2019, he said, “I regularly ride my bicycle to be fit and healthy. I personally ride my bicycle to Parliament. This not only makes me fit, but sets an example for others to ride bicycles, save fuel (no pollution) and be fit. Let us all pledge to ride bicycles daily and use it to commute to nearby places,” during a seminar at Surat, Gujarat. He has also notably pedalled to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2019 to take oath as a minister.The cycle rally has been organised in the city a couple of days after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday (November 14) urged the Delhi public to use cycles or buses at least one day every month in view of the worsening air pollution.“People can ride a cycle at least once a month to prevent pollution and save the environment for future generations,” he said during a cycle rally as part of the Raahgiri programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-mandaviya-pedals-to-unveil-health-pavilion-at-india-international-trade-fair-in-delhi-101637068304554.html
16-11-2021||India||India aims for better practices to cut agri emissions, experts call for clear goals||India will step up efforts to curb emissions in agriculture within a national mission for sustainable agriculture, having stayed off a farm action agenda at the recent Glasgow COP26 climate summit, an official aware of the matter said. The mission falls within the ambit of the National Action Plan on Climate Change, a programme that aims to make Indian farms more resilient to changing climate and is being monitored at the highest levels, the official said. Globally, agriculture is responsible for a third of all greenhouse gas emissions, three-quarters of them coming from livestock farming alone.For all its ambitious climate commitments – from Copenhagen to Paris and now, Glasgow’s COP26 - India needs a comprehensive policy on cutting farming emissions, the third-largest source of carbon after energy and manufacturing sectors, some experts say. That will require a balance between competing choices such as farmers’ livelihoods as well as food security and drawing down on carbon-heavy agricultural practices. “The central role played by agriculture and food systems tend to be overlooked… The food system receives much less attention, even though it generates 26-37 per cent of GHG [greenhouse gas] emissions,” said Compassion in World Farming charity in its report to the COP26, a UN’s climate change conference. The official cited above said the country had made steady progress on sustainable agriculture parameters such as on-farm water management and soil health cards. Soil testing of over 100 million samples have promoted less-carbon-intensive agriculture by rebalancing the use of crop nutrients, such as nitrogenous fertilisers, the official said.Some studies show soil-health cards need to be redesigned. In a study by the Cereal Systems Initiative for South Asia, many farmers were found to be not “familiar with all nutrients and micronutrients listed on the cards,” the International Food Policy Research Institute said in a report. The largest emissions from within agriculture come from livestock farming and continuously irrigated and deep-water paddy cultivation in the states of West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Bihar, according to a study by economist Ashok Gulati. Methane released from agricultural activities and food systems is the main source of greenhouse gases. Limiting Earth’s temperature rise to 1.5C would require drastic cuts to meat and dairy output. Deforestation and release of carbon dioxide have to do with growing large amounts of crops to feed livestock for meat and dairy. India’s farm sector accounts for 14% of the country’s total greenhouse gas emissions, preceded by electricity (44%) and manufacturing industries and construction sectors combined (18%). India has the world’s largest cattle population at 535.78 million livestock, according to the 20th Livestock Census, 2019. Livestock makes up 78% of the 24 million tonnes of India’s total methane emissions, according to official data. “Methane emission due to enteric fermentation by the livestock (54.6%), and anaerobic conditions during rice cultivation (17.5%) and nitrous oxide emissions from application of nitrogenous fertilizers in agricultural soils (19.0%), together account for 91 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions (in India),” wrote economist Ashok Gulati in an October 2021 bulletin of the New Delhi think-tank ICRIER. According to the environment ministry’s data, greenhouse gas emissions from rice cultivation during 2016 accounted for 71.322 million tonnes “CO2 equivalent”, which analysts say might have gone up to 72.329 million tonnes “CO2 equivalent” during 2018-19. Cutting farming emissions can be done with steps such as “direct seeding of rice”, a method that decreases water use, in the top 5% of the rice districts, Gulati said. Gulati’s paper states that India could bring down farming emissions of 178 million tonnes of carbon equivalent with other measures, such as improved water management in 20 million hectares of irrigated rice fields, better livestock feed and manure management for 25% cattle population, stopping rice-crop residue burning with the target year of 2030 and reduction in farm energy and replacement with green energy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-for-better-practices-to-cut-agri-emissions-experts-call-for-clear-goals-101637068230083.html
16-11-2021||India||Withdraw BSF’s 50km order, says Bengal assembly resolution on Centre’s move||KOLKATA: The West Bengal legislative assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 to 50 km of the international border in the state.Bengal is the second border state after Punjab where such a resolution has been passed. Bengal’s border with Bangladesh runs along 10 of the state’s 23 districts, from districts such as Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri in north Bengal to North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal.Bengal’s ruling party leaders argue that the BSF’s new jurisdiction will cover more than 30% of Bengal’s territory including many important towns and goes against the federal structure where law and order is the state’s responsibility. Tuesday’s resolution was moved by West Bengal parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee. “We demand that this decision be withdrawn immediately as enhancing the area of jurisdiction of the BSF is a direct attack on the country’s federal structure,” Chatterjee said, moving the resolution that was passed with the support of 112 legislators.The resolution, news agency PTI said, was opposed by 63 legislators from the Bharatiya Janata Party who supported the October 11 order of the Union ministry of home affairs to authorise the border guarding force to carry out “arrest, search and seizure” within 50km, up from the previous limit of 15km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.BJP lawmakers insisted that the decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction would help tighten security.Later, Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the assembly, brushed away the resolution, which he said, “has no locus standi”. During the debate in the House, Adhikari demanded that BSF’s jurisdiction should be increased to at least 80km in Bengal.Bengal has turned into a hub for terror groups such as the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), he said, referring to recent arrests of suspected JMB members in Murshidabad and South 24 Parganas districts. He also accused some Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislators of statements during the debate, which he claimed, showed their support for illegal infiltrators from Bangladesh and their anti-India activities. It was a reference to a speech by TMC lawmaker from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, Udayan Guha, who referred to the November 12 incident in which a local villager was killed along with two suspected Bangladesh nationals when some BSF personnel opened fire after they were allegedly attacked.Guha also spoke about corruption complaints received about BSF personnel and made some comments that prompted speaker Biman Banerjee had to stop him. On October 26, chief minister Mamata Banerjee set the tone for her government and Trinamool Congres over the home ministry order, saying she will not accept the notification.“This is direct interference with our state’s sovereignty and India’s federal structure. Law and order is a state subject. We have high respect for the BSF but they cannot operate inside our districts. We will oppose this,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-bsf-s-50km-order-says-bengal-assembly-resolution-on-centre-s-move-101637066788337.html
16-11-2021||India||‘Laudatory’ says Punjab CM Channi on reopening of Kartarpur Corridor, several leaders welcome move||Following the Union government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor from November 17, several leaders in Punjab, both within the BJP and from the opposition, welcomed the decision. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that the entire state cabinet would pay its obeisance at the Kartarpur Corridor on November 18 as part of the first delegation, a day after it will be resumed.“I warmly welcome the decision to reopen the Sri Kartapur Sahib Corridor on the auspicious occasion of 552nd Parkash Purb of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. This laudatory step has fulfilled aspirations of millions of devotees who've been deprived of 'Darshan Didare' due to COVID pandemic,” Channi tweeted.I warmly welcome the decision to reopen the Sri Kartapur Sahib Corridor on the auspicious occasion of 552nd Parkash Purb of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. This laudatory step has fulfilled aspirations of millions of devotees who've been deprived of 'Darshan Didare' due to COVID pandemic.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu called it a “welcome step” and said, “may the corridor of the Great Guru remain open eternally to shower blessings on one and all,” in a tweet.Also read | Modi govt to reopen Kartarpur Sahib corridor tomorrow, says Amit ShahPresident of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) party Sukhbir Singh Badal also expressed his appreciation and said that his party welcomes the move. “We welcome the move to open the Kartarpur Corridor ahead of Gurpurab. We have raised this issue multiple times to GoI. The daily prayers by the Sikh community who were looking forward to visiting the shrine on the pious day have been heard,” he said.We welcome the move to open the Kartarpur Corridor ahead of Gurpurab. We have raised this issue multiple times to GoI. The daily prayers by the Sikh community who were looking forward to visiting the shrine on the pious day have been heard. Sarbat Da Bhala. pic.twitter.com/Jy0v299Bm6Raghav Chadha, national spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), highlighted that the Arvind Kejriwal-led government’s ‘Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana’ in Delhi earlier included the corridor. “Aam Aadmi Party welcomes the re-opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. The Kejriwal government had previously added Kartarpur Sahib Corridor to the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana wherein devotees are taken on the pilgrimage at the expense of the government,” he said.Aam Aadmi Party welcomes the re-opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. The Kejriwal Govt had previously added Kartarpur Sahib Corridor to the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana wherein devotees are taken on the pilgrimage at the expense of the Govt. pic.twitter.com/rvH1qBBAMrEarlier in the day, former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the Centre’s decision. “My profound gratitude to PM @narendramodi and HM @AmitShah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev,” he tweeted.National Commission for Minorities chairperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura too welcomed the decision and thanked Modi and Shah. “ Hon'ble Prime Minister and Hon'ble Home Minister has special respect for sikh community. They have so far fulfilled all the aspirations of the Community,” he tweeted.Thankyou Hon'ble Prime minister Sh.@narendramodi Ji and Hon'ble Home Minister Sh.@AmitShah Ji for opening Kartarpur Sahib Corridor again . Hon'ble Prime Minister and Hon'ble Home Minister has special respect for sikh community .Among BJP leaders, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh lauded the decision. While Puri said that the move showed Modi’s “respect and reverence” to Guru Nanak and “affection” towards the Sikh community, Chugh described the move “a great gift” to the devotees of the Sikh guru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laudatory-says-punjab-cm-channi-on-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-several-leaders-welcome-move-101637064596521.html
16-11-2021||India||Singapore in talks with India for partial resumption of commercial flights||Singapore is in discussions with Indian authorities for a temporary bilateral arrangement for partial resumption of commercial flights between the two countries following the launch of a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) for quarantine-free travel. The arrangement is needed as only commercial scheduled passenger flights can be designated as VTL flights, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity on Tuesday. Even the partial resumption of commercial flights will expand options for travellers between India and Singapore. Singapore announced on Monday that it will launch a VTL with India as part of the country’s efforts to reopen its borders in a safe and calibrated manner and to support people-to-people and business links between the two sides. The VTL will allow quarantine-free travel to Singapore for vaccinated Indian travellers with valid visas and entry approvals. Applications for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) will open on November 22 and travellers from India are expected to begin entering Singapore under the VTL from November 29. The move is expected to benefit thousands of Indian students, professionals and workers, who have been unable to travel to Singapore because of Covid-related travel restrictions. However, the people cited above said the success of the VTL depends on the resumption of commercial passenger flights between India and Singapore and India. Discussions are ongoing and “good news” is expected soon, they said. Also Read: Singapore allows travellers from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan from Oct 26Currently, the only flights from Singapore allowed to carry passengers to India are government charter relief flights under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). Since these flights are chartered repatriation flights, they cannot be designated as VTL flights. The ongoing discussions with Indian authorities are aimed at finalising a temporary, bilateral arrangement to allow for the partial resumption of commercial passenger flights. The Singapore side is also looking forward to the full resumption of air links in line with the bilateral air services agreement as the two countries further open their borders. Singapore started the VTL mechanism on September 8 with two countries – Brunei and Germany. It currently has VTL arrangements with 13 countries, including Australia, Canada, France, Italy, South Korea, the UK and the US. A VTL for Indonesia will become operation from November 29, and similar arrangements for Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE will begin from December 6. Travellers who are fully vaccinated with a World Heal Organization (WHO)-approved vaccine at least two weeks before arrival in Singapore are eligible to travel under the VTL. Singapore recognises both Covishield and Covaxin, the two main jabs used in India’s immunisation programme. They must have accepted proof of vaccination, arrive in Singapore on a designated VTL flight, and have only travelled to or transited via any VTL country or Singapore in the 14 consecutive days before their departure for Singapore. Travellers who are not Singapore citizens or permanent residents must apply for a VTP for entry into Singapore under the VTL. They must also test negative in a PCR test or antigen rapid test (ART) within two days before their departure for Singapore. Travellers will also be required to take PCR test on arrival at Changi airport in Singapore. They must remain in self-isolation while awaiting their the test result. Those who test positive will receive an isolation order. Last month, Singapore began allowing the entry of travellers from six countries, including India, from which travel was barred. This was done after the country’s decision to open VTLs for some countries, while excluding India, had not gone down well with many Indians living and working in the city state. India now has agreements with 99 countries, including Singapore, for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates for people fully vaccinated with a nationally recognised or WHO-approved vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-in-talks-with-india-for-partial-resumption-of-commercial-flights-101637063428285.html
16-11-2021||India||Assam CM says TV host Juyal’s ‘racist’ remark on contestant ‘shameful’; he clarifies by sharing ‘story’||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday pulled up dancer and TV host Raghav Juyal for his alleged racist remark on a northeast contestant at a dance reality programme.In a 40-second video clip that has gone viral on social media, Juyal, who hosts Colors TV’s ‘Dance Deewane 3’ can be seen introducing a contestant from Assam’s Guwahati while speaking gibberish, seemingly to make a mockery of Mandarin spoken by the Chinese people.On being asked by Bollywood actor and judge Madhuri Dixit-Nene and choreographer Remo D’Souza, who was present at the episode as a special guest, on the reason for speaking in that manner, Juyal said, “People might not be able to understand her Chinese but they surely understand her dance.”Taking cognisance of the clip, Sarma took to Twitter, writing that such behaviour is “shameful and totally unacceptable.”“It has come to my notice that a popular reality show host has used racist rhetoric against a young participant from Guwahati…Racism has no place in our country and we should all condemn it unequivocally,” the chief minister tweeted.
16-11-2021||India||Will Yesudas be allowed to enter Guruvayur temple? Debate erupts||The Sivagiri Sree Naraynana Trust president Swami Sachidananda’s recent appeal to allow legendary playback singer and Carnatic music exponent KJ Yesudas to enter Sree Krishna temple in Guruvayur has triggered a fresh debate in Kerala. The controversy has erupted as the singer, who is a Roman Catholic, marked six decades of his singing career on Sunday. The temple administration’s board president KB Mohandas said he favoured the move, but the final decision will have to come from the “tantri” or the supreme priest of the temple, who has so far remained silent on the issue. “In most temples, his devotional songs wake up the deity, but it is sad that he was not allowed to enter the Guruvayur temple. We have to undo this long- pending injustice and allow him to pay obeisance to his favourite deity,” said Swami Sachidananda last week. Also Read: Kerala’s Sabarimala temple to reopen from today amid strict Covid-19 normsThe singer, who resides in the US, was not available for a comment on the controversy.Many writers, intellectuals and religious bodies have welcomed the suggestion of the Sivagiri mutt head and appealed to “tantri” Chonas Dineshan Namboodiri to take a favourable decision. The latter has yet to respond. “It is long overdue and he’s more qualified than any of us to have a ‘darshan’,” said poet and filmmaker Sreekumaran Thampi. “If a devotee believes in a particular deity, there should not be any barrier between him and the deity,” said famous Malayalam writer T Padmanabhan. Many Hindu entities such as Viswa Hindu Parishad, Bharatiya Vichar Kendra and Kerala Brahmana Sabha also favour his entry. Yesudas was a regular at the Sabarimala and Kollur Mookambika temples, and has sung some of the most popular devotional songs in his career. It is part of the folklore in southern India that when his mentor Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar took him to Guruvayur temple in 1950s, the young singer was not allowed to enter the temple at that time because he was a Christian. “It is possible for even insects to enter the temple, but not me. It is sad,” the singer had once said about the issue. In 2017, Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple in the state capital allowed him to conduct a “kacheri” or a devotional music concert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-yesudas-be-allowed-to-enter-guruvayur-temple-debate-erupts-101637062469520.html
16-11-2021||India||Kerala HC allows swap transplants between non-relatives||The Kerala high court on Monday ruled that swap transplant of organs will be permissible even if the donor and recipient are non-relatives, provided a special reason exists. Passing the judgement justice N Nagaresh recommended changes in the transplantation of human organs and tissues act, 1994.The ruling came on a petition by two patients and two donors, including the wife of one of the patients, who was willing to donate her kidney to ailing husband but couldn’t since her blood group was not a match. Similarly, another patient’s son was willing to donate his kidney to father but they also faced the blood group problem. Though they submitted an application for swap transplant before the transplant authorisation committee, their pleas were rejected forcing them to move the court.The government counsel also justified the action of the committee saying transplant can be allowed among blood relatives or spouses as per the transplantation of human organs and tissues act 1994. But the court found rejection of their request lacked logic or reasoning.“In a case where a citizen’s life can be protected and preserved only by transplant of human organ or tissue, the citizen has a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution to undergo organ transplantation, which right is subject only to the procedure established by law. Any law prescribing procedure for organ transplantation should therefore satisfy the test of reasonableness,” reported Bar Bench, quoting from the judgment. Also Read: Kerala BJP meets governor, wants transfer of case on RSS worker’s death to NIAThe court focused mainly on Section 9 of the Act. While Section 9(3) permits organ transplants between persons who are not near relatives but Section 9(3A) prohibits swap transplantation between not-near relatives. The court said this is illogical and unreasonable. “When Section 9(3) permits transplant of organs to persons not being a near relative, with the prior approval of the committee, there is no logic or rationale to say that swap transaction will not be allowed when members of each pair are not near relatives, even if the committee approves such transaction. Therefore, Section 9(3A) should be read down so as to give full effect to Section 9(3) under which non-near relative transplants are allowed with the approval of the authorisation committee,” it said. The court stated that it was clear that the act contemplates non-near relative organ transplantation and the condition is that the donor should have a special reason for giving authorisation for transplantation and prior approval should be obtained from the committee. The court directed the authorisation committee to consider the applications of the petitioners afresh. Many organ seekers said the new ruling will be a boon to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-allows-swap-transplants-between-nonrelatives-101637062468157.html
16-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: 5 relatives of Sushant Singh Rajput killed in road accident and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At least 5 members of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family killed in road accidentAt least 5 members of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s extended family were killed in a road accident on Tuesday morning when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck on National Highway number 333 in Bihar’s Lakhisarai district. Read More'New era of UP': PM Modi inaugurates 341km long Purvanchal ExpresswayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district is the symbol of the state’s development and will strengthen its economy as he inaugurated the 341km road. Read MoreBSF personnel touch women inappropriately during checks: TMC MLA Udayan GuhaChaos erupted at the West Bengal assembly after Trinamool Congress legislator Udayan Guha accused personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) of inappropriately touching women while searching them during border movement. The Dinhata MLA further said that no matter how much the personnel chanted ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’, they were not patriotic. Read MoreDad dresses up as Venom to scare son. Watch video to know if he succeedsA video of a dad pulling a prank on his son has now left netizens giggling. Shared on Instagram, the video shows him dressing up as the movie character Venom. There is a chance that the video will also leave you laughing out loud too. Watch hereSidharth Malhotra looks ‘50% savage 50% sweetheart’ in blue pantsuitIf there is an ensemble that screams sophistication for menswear, it has to be a made-to-measure pantsuit and Bollywood actor Sidharth Malhotra was seen looking “50% savage, 50% sweetheart” in the same. Read More'There won't be any prioritising of formats': Head coach Rahul Dravid ahead of India-New Zealand T20I seriesIndia's new head coach Rahul Dravid and new T20I captain Rohit Sharma addressed a joint press conference on Tuesday ahead of the start of the India-New Zealand T20I series in Jaipur. Dravid stated that his wards and management will not prioritise any format and that the focus will be on all. Read MorePatralekhaa blushes as newlywed bride as she and Rajkummar Rao pose at their wedding, see inside picsActors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa tied the knot on Monday, November 15, in Chandigarh. While the couple gave a glimpse of the wedding, fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee has shared more pictures from the wedding. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-5-relatives-of-sushant-singh-rajput-die-in-road-accident-101637060931885.html
16-11-2021||India||Modi inaugurates Purvanchal Expressway as IAF showcases prowess on emergency airstrip | 10 points||Riding an Air Force C-130 Hercules plane, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday landed at Karwal Kheri in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district to inaugurate the 340km-long Purvanchal Expressway that also has an airstrip. Built at a cost of ₹22,500 crore, the expressway is aimed at giving a boost to the economic development of the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel, who were present at the event among other leaders, received the Prime Minister on the highway.Here are the top developments on the Purvanchal Expressway event:1. Speaking at the event, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the highway is a symbol of development in the region. “The expressway will give momentum to development. It is an expressway that will strengthen the state's economy,” he said.2. The Prime Minister noted that the newly built highway will not only benefit eastern UP, but also provide connectivity to the people of Bihar. “It will not only connect the nine districts but connect cities which have potential for development,” Modi said at the inauguration ceremony.3. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Purvanchal Express will become “the lifeline of development in eastern Uttar Pradesh”, adding that this is the trajectory of "new India" under the leadership of Modi.4. The expressway originates from Chaudsarai village in Lucknow district located on Lucknow-Sultanpur road (NH 731) and concludes at Hydaria village on NH 31, about 18 kilometres east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border. It is located about 100km from Lucknow and links the state capital with Ghazipur.5. The key feature of Purvanchal Expressway is the 3.2km-long airstrip to enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force fighter planes during emergencies. Being an access-controlled expressway, it would also provide benefits like fuel conservation, reduced time and control in pollution level, along with reduction in accidents.6. Targeting past governments in Uttar Pradesh, the Prime Minister said that they “neglected the development of the eastern region” in Uttar Pradesh. “The area was left to the mafia, the same area is now writing the script of the development of UP,” he noted.7. Earlier in the day, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had slammed the ruling BJP, claiming that he deserved credit for the work. "The ribbon has come from Lucknow and the scissors came from Delhi to take credit for the Samajwadi Party's work..." Yadav tweeted.8. Massive preparations were made for the event, including dry runs for the air show on the 3.2km emergency airstrip.9. Modi witnessed the airshow by the Indian Air Force on the emergency airstrip, starting with the landing of Mirage 2000. An AN-32 transport aircraft subsequently touched down with special commandos. A flypast by three Kiran Mk II, flanked by 2 Sukhoi 30 jets followed.10. The 6-lane expressway can be expanded to an 8-lane in the future, an official statement read. It is set to become a key economic route in the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh, especially the districts of Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-inaugurates-purvanchal-expressway-as-iaf-showcases-prowess-on-emergency-airstrip-10-points-101637060829551.html
16-11-2021||India||Half of Assam fully vaccinated against Covid-19; one crore second doses administered so far: CM Sarma||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said that half of the eligible population have been fully vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also said that the state hit the milestone of administering one crore second doses on the day.Taking to Twitter, the CM also said 95% of the eligible beneficiaries have already been administered at least one dose of the vaccine. “We've achieved another milestone in vaccination: we completed 1 cr 2nd dose inoculation today, covering 50% of total eligible for 2nd dose. Our total vaccination figure has crossed 3.05 cr. 95% eligible population covered already for 1st dose,” Sarma tweeted.#AssamCovidUpdate We've achieved another milestone in vaccination: we completed 1 cr 2nd dose inoculation today, covering 50% of total eligible for 2nd dose. Our total vaccination figure has crossed 3.05 cr. 95% eligible population covered already for 1st dose.@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/0kCplaBWOWAs of 3.20pm on the day, 30,578,649 doses of the vaccine have been administered, data from the Co-WIN dashboard showed. This included the 20,556,452 first doses and the 10,022,197 second doses. The maximum number of doses, at 19,230,101 doses, have been administered among people between 18 and 44 years of age, while 7,871,274 doses have been given to beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group and 3,477,274 doses to those above 60.Also read | India reports 8,865 new Covid-19 cases, a low of 287 daysEarlier on Monday, state health minister Keshab Mahanta discussed the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign with the officials from Kokrajhar, Karbi Anglong, West Karbi Anglong, Goalpara, Udalguri, Sonitpur, Baksa and Chirang districts. He said that the state would collect details of those yet to be immunised by November 21 and will implement a plan to inoculate 100% of the eligible population.On Monday, the state saw 253 new cases of the disease and three related fatalities as the total confirmed infections so far reached 614,166 and the death toll climbed to 6,052, a state bulletin showed. Also, 1,807 active cases were also recorded.Sarma had already said that the state is on track to complete the administration of first doses by the end of November and would fully immunise its eligible population by February 2022, a target that is at least two months later than the country’s target of full vaccination by December this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-assam-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-one-crore-second-doses-administered-so-far-cm-sarma-101637058805610.html
16-11-2021||India||HC extends stay on construction of cycling, jogging track around Powai Lake||The Bombay high court on Tuesday extended its stay on the construction of a cycling and jogging track around Powai Lake in Mumbai till January 31. It earlier this month imposed the stay till November 18 in a response to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Omkar Mahadeo Supekar and Abhishek Tripathi, PhD candidates at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. The two said the work for the track was undertaken in violation of the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules.On November 1, the court restrained the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from constructing the 10-km cycling track bordering Powai Lake after it was informed that such activity would also disrupt the flora and fauna and have an adverse impact on the habitat of Indian marsh crocodiles (a protected species) that live there.The PIL said in 2009, the Supreme Court passed a judgement on safeguarding wetlands and sought directions to BMC to comply with it. BMC said the lake is a man made reservoir and hence the area surrounding it would not come under the purview of the rules.Also Read: Mumbai’s air quality continues to worsen; in ‘poor’ categoryThe high court asked the state to ascertain the claim of BMC. It asked the state and BMC to file their replies within a week. Neither party has yet filed their responses, and asked for additional time. The BMC previously informed the court the project was in public interest.The high court on Tuesday sought the replies by November 30 after which the petitioners may submit their rejoinder by December 8. The matter will be heard next on December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-extends-stay-on-construction-of-cycling-jogging-track-around-powai-lake-101637059648441.html
16-11-2021||India||Kerala BJP meets governor, wants transfer of case on RSS worker’s death to NIA||A day after a RSS worker in Kerala was reportedly hacked to death, a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, led by the party’s state president K Surendran, met with governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday demanding for “free and fair” investigation into the 'murder' case. The party also urged the governor to push the Kerala government to transfer the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Surendran alleged that the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its offshoot Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were targeting the “leaders of nationalist forces in Kerala.”“BJP delegation met the @KeralaGovernor and urged his excellency to direct the @vijayanpinarayi govt to hand over the Shri.Sanjith's murder case to National Investigation Agency. Islamic terror outfit PFI-SDPI is targeting the leaders of nationalist forces in Kerala,” he tweeted.സഞ്ജിത്തിന്റെ കൊലപാതകം: കേസ് എൻഐഎക്ക് കൈമാറണം: @surendranbjp pic.twitter.com/x7VYA69rx1“We met the governor and requested him to advise CM Pinarayi Vijayan to hand over the case to NIA because the Kerala Police and government officials are supporting the culprits. They have identified the culprits, but no one has been booked till now,” ANI quoted Surendran as saying.Also read | RSS worker hacked to death in Kerala, role of SDPI suspected: PolicePresenting the concerns and demands in a letter following the death of RSS member Sanjith, Surendran said he was “forced to represent the uninterrupted violence unleashed by the Islamic terror outfit Socialist Democratic Party of India, the political arm of Popular Front India in the state.”“The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's (RSS) Theneri Mandal Boudhik Pramukh Shri. Sanjith (27) was hacked to death in broad daylight at Mambaram, Palakkad, by SDPI terrorists. He was travelling along with his wife in a two-wheeler. The assailants followed Shri Sanjith, hit his motorcycle, and hacked him to death in front of his beloved wife,” he further said.Surendran also claimed that there was an earlier attempt on Sanjith's life, and alleged the involvement of the state government in the murder. “It's very evident from the autopsy report that 'specially trained' assailants are behind this well-planned murder, and the SDPI has got the backing of the ruling dispensation,” he said. “The Kerala Police has miserably failed to provide adequate security to him. It's nothing but criminal negligence,” he added.Citing the case of Koppara Biju, another BJP worker who was allegedly killed by the SDPI on October 31, Surendran said, “The Islamic terror outfits like SDPI-PFI are targeting the leaders of nationalist forces in Kerala. They are trying to destroy the communal harmony in the state.”He urged the governor to “uphold the rule of law” in the state and “ensure the protection of life and property of the commons.”“It is also an open secret that the ruling party CPI(M) and the Islamic terror outfits are now hand in glove in the state. Their common goal is to annihilate nationalist forces in Kerala. Their design has to be resisted and defeated at any cost,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-meets-governor-wants-transfer-of-case-on-rss-worker-s-death-to-nia-101637058102455.html
16-11-2021||India||J&K Police say civilian killed in gunbattle counted as ‘over-ground worker’ for harbouring terrorists||The owner of a building, where two terrorists were among four people killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Srinagar’s Hyderpora on Monday, was being counted as an “over-ground worker (OGW)” as his premises was used to harbour terrorists, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Tuesday. Police insisted Altaf Ahmad Dar, 48, the owner, was killed in cross-firing even as his family maintained he was killed in cold blood and used as a human shield. They cited “law and order issues” and said Mudassir Gul, another alleged OGW killed in the gunbattle, and Dar were buried in Handwara, around 70 km away, without the participation of their families. Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said the gunbattle was triggered as security forces launched an operation after receiving input about the presence of two to three terrorists at Hyderpora. “We did not know the exact location. So, the owner of the building...Dar and...Gul, whom its top floor was rented out to, were called to show the location.” Kumar said the forces knocked the doors of the rooms but nobody came out before the terrorists holed up there fired with pistols. “...both the civilians (Dar and Gul) got injured in the firing. The encounter was stopped and efforts were made to rescue the injured persons but they got trapped in the location and died.”Kumar identified one of the two terrorists killed in the gunbattle as Bilal Bhai alias Hyder, who is believed to be a Pakistani. The second terrorist is from Ramban in the Jammu region and his family has been called for identification through photographs. “We have taken DNA samples from bodies of both the militants.”Kumar said they approached Dar and Gul’s families and sought their participation in their burial. “Due to law and order problems, the bodies were not handed over to the families and buried at Handwara.” He added Dar rented out three rooms of his building to Gul, a contractor by profession who also allegedly ran a fake call centre. “There were six cabins at the call centre and also a hideout for the militants in one of the rooms. We recovered a large quantity of material from the place including two pistols, three magazines, six mobiles from militants and four mobile phones from rooms, six computers, six CPUs, maps of the USA, warm clothes, kitchen equipment, drugs, television, injections used by terrorists.”He alleged Gul brought a terrorist to the hideout after the latter shot at a policeman. Kumar said Gul was allegedly running a module of terrorists and bringing them from other parts of Kashmir. “Since the hideout was in the building of Dar... so he will be counted as an overground worker for harbouring militants.” He added they tried to save him but since the firing was going on from both sides, Dar could not be saved. “We regret his killing.”Kumar claimed Gul was a top-ranked OGW and involved in militancy. He added a special team has been formed to analyse records of the call centre. “It was a security and intelligence lapse that on the national highway (in Hyderpora), such hideout was located, where the militants used to visit frequently. We will be looking for similar hideouts.”Dar’s family held a protest on Monday, demanding his body for burial and accused police of killing him.In a tweet, former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti-led People’s Democratic Party demanded a speedy investigation into Dar’s killing. “These allegations are grave and merit speedy investigation. Least@JmuKmrPolice could do is hand over the dead body to the family for a decent burial. Are even dead ones a threat to peace now?”The fresh gunbattle erupted as security forces have intensified anti-insurgency operations since 11 civilians were killed in a spate of targeted attacks last month. A policeman and a salesman were shot dead this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkpolice-say-civilian-killed-in-gunbattle-counted-as-over-ground-worker-for-harbouring-terrorists-101637056347902.html
16-11-2021||India||BSF personnel touch women inappropriately during checks: TMC MLA Udayan Guha||Chaos erupted at the West Bengal assembly after Trinamool Congress legislator Udayan Guha accused personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) of inappropriately touching women while searching them during border movement.The Dinhata MLA further said that no matter how much the personnel chanted ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’, they were not patriotic.Guha made the statement during a discussion on the Centre's decision to extend the BSF's jurisdiction up to 50km inside the international border.West Bengal:During discussion on resolution against BSF’s jurisdiction extension, chaos erupted after TMC's Udayan Guha said-When women cross border, BSF personnel in name of search touch them inappropriately. No matter how much they say Bharat Mata Ki Jai,they can't be patrioticThe Centre, earlier in the month of October had empowered the BSF to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50km inside Indian territory from the International Border (IB) along India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders.Refuting Guha's allegations, a BSF officer told news agency ANI that its ‘Mahila Praharis’ are the ones authorised to frisk women. “BSF is a professional force that has always performed the mandated duties by adhering to the rules and regulations. BSF Mahila Praharis are the ones who do frisking of females. The allegations of inappropriately touching women by BSF personnel are utterly baseless,” the BSF officer was quoted as saying.The BSF, which was only empowered to take action up to 15 kilometres in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, has now been authorised to extend its jurisdiction up to 50km without any hurdle or permission either from central or state governments.While Punjab has already registered its protest against the decision, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said her government would take up the matter with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-personnel-touch-women-inappropriately-during-checks-tmc-mla-udayan-guha-101637055844026.html
16-11-2021||India||Amarinder Singh thanks Modi for ‘timely opening’ of Kartarpur Sahib corridor||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reopening the Kartarpur Corridor ahead of Guru Nanak Jayanti. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, Singh expressed his “profound gratitude” to the Prime Minister and the Union home minister, Amit Shah, for the ‘timely’ opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. He said that with the re-opening of the Sikh holy site ahead of Guru Parab, thousands of religious devotees will be able to pay their obeisances at the shrine on the day of the occasion.“My profound gratitude to PM @narendramodi and HM @AmitShah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor,” tweeted Captain Amarinder Singh. “It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji.”My profound gratitude to PM @narendramodi and HM @AmitShah for the timely opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji.Amarinder Singh had earlier in the day requested Modi to open the Kartarpur Corridor before November 19, which coincides with the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev this year, so that people can pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the sacred occasion. The Union home minister announced later in the day that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has decided to open the Kartarpur Sahib corridor on Wednesday.The visa-free 4.7-km corridor connects the Indian border to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan. It was shut in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the home minister, the decision to reopen the corridor would benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims, and that it reflected the reverence of the Modi government towards Guru Nanak and the religious community.The operations at the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor had been suspended since March 16, 2020, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, Amit Shah had held review meetings with officials to expedite the resumption of the operation of the corridor at an opportune time.Pilgrimage through the Kartarpur Sahib corridor would be facilitated as per existing procedures and adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-amarinder-singh-thanks-modi-for-timely-opening-of-kartarpur-sahib-corridor-101637052164538.html
16-11-2021||India||At least 5 members of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family killed in road accident||At least 5 members of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s extended family were killed in a road accident on Tuesday morning when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck on National Highway number 333 in Bihar’s Lakhisarai district.The family members were returning from Patna where they had gone to attend the last rites of Geeta Devi, the sister of senior Haryana police officer OP Singh. OP Singh is the brother-in-law of Sushant Singh Rajput who died on June 14, 2020 in suspicious circumstances.ALSO WATCH: SSR Drug Case: Rhea Chakraborty gets access to her bank accounts after a year; What court saidConfirming the accident, which took place near the upgraded middle school at Pipra under Halsi police station, Lakhisarai superintendent of police (SP) Sushil Kumar said, “It was a massive collision between a truck and a Sumo [an SUV] in which ten persons were returning from Patna.” “Six persons including the driver of the Sumo were killed on the spot while four injured have been shifted to hospital in critical condition,” he added.Also Read | One killed in Gurugram as car on wrong side of road rams motorcycleTwo among the injured Balmukund Singh and Dil Khush Singh have been sent to Patna for better treatment facilities, while the remaining two, Balmiki Singh and Tonu Singh,have been admitted at Lakhisarai district hospital. The bodies of the deceased have been sent to Lakhisarai hospital for post-mortem.The deceased have been identified as Laljit Singh (brother-in-law of OP Singh), his two sons Amit Shekhar alias Nemani Singh and Ram Chandra Singh. The others were identified as Baby Devi, Anita Devi and the driver Preetam Kumar. Kumar’s relationship with the family has not been ascertained yet.Police said that the family was returning to their home at Bhandar village in Jamui district when their vehicle crashed into a truck coming from the opposite direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-members-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-killed-in-road-accident-101637054608114.html
16-11-2021||India||CM Sawant urges people to share inputs to draft vision document for Goa||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday urged people of the state to provide their inputs for a vision document to mark 60 years of the state's liberation from the Portuguese rule. Speaking at a function on the occasion of National Press Day in Panaji, the chief minister urged the media to take the lead and appeal to citizens to provide inputs for the vision document. Media houses should take the lead in getting the inputs from people, who have seen the development of Goa and also have a futuristic vision, he said. Referring to the criticism faced by his government, Sawant said that the media is always welcome to point out the government's mistakes, as it helps in improving governance. The state government and media should work together for betterment of the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-sawant-urges-people-to-share-inputs-to-draft-vision-document-for-goa-101637053945133.html
16-11-2021||India||Siddipet DM nominated to Telangana legislative council within hours of retirement||Telangana’s Siddipet district magistrate P Venkat Rami Reddy was nominated on Tuesday to the state legislative council by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) within hours of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer resigning on Monday, opting for voluntary retirement.Apart from Reddy, the TRS finalised names of five other candidates for six vacant MLC (member of legislative council) seats under MLAs’ quota.While outgoing MLCs Gutha Sukhender Reddy from Nalgonda and Kadiyam Srihari from Warangal were renominated for a second term, Padi Kaushik Reddy from Huzurabad in Karimnagar district, Banda Prakash from Warangal and Takkallapalli Ravinder Rao from Nalgonda were fresh nominations to the council.TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao gave all the six candidates B-forms (party nomination papers), following which they filed their nominations in the state assembly secretariat on Tuesday, the last date for filing of nominations under the MLAs’ quota.All the six TRS candidates are likely to get elected unopposed on November 30 since the party has 103 MLAs in the 119-member state assembly and the opposition parties do not have enough numbers-- it requires at least 12 MLAs to elect an MLC under the legislature quota. The Congress has only six MLAs, the MIM has seven and the BJP has three MLAs.Also Read: Purvanchal will become lifeline of east UP, says Yogi at expressway launchInterestingly, Padi Kaushik Reddy who defected from the Congress to the TRS before the recent bye elections to Huzurabad was earlier nominated under the governor’s quota. But, the governor did not accept his nomination saying he did not fulfil the criterion for appointment under social service category.As a result, the TRS president withdrew Reddy’s nomination from the governor’s quota and selected him under the MLAs’ quota.Another surprising choice was that of Banda Prakash Mudiraj, who has three years left for his Rajya Sabha term to finish. This will result in bye election to Rajya Sabha seat shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddipet-dm-nominated-to-telangana-legislative-council-within-hours-of-retirement-101637053227805.html
16-11-2021||India||US determined to ensure free and open Indo-Pacific: Biden tells Xi during talks||US President Joe Biden told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Tuesday of the continued determination of the United States to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific region as the two leaders held a virtual summit lasting more than three hours. Joe Biden made it clear the US will “continue to stand up for its interests and values and, together with our allies and partners, ensure the rules of the road for the 21st century advance an international system that is free, open and fair”, according to a readout issued by the White House. He also discussed the “importance of a free and open Indo-Pacific”, and conveyed to Xi Jinping the “continued determination of the United States to uphold our commitments in the region”. Biden reiterated the importance of freedom of navigation and safe overflight to the region’s prosperity, the readout said. In their first formal meeting since Biden became president in January, the two leaders talked about avoiding conflict and jointly responding to global challenges such as climate change. They also traded strong warnings on the future of Taiwan, with Xi Jinping saying that those backing Taiwan were “playing with fire”. The White House readout reiterated the longstanding US policy that does not recognise Taiwan’s independence but supports the defence of the island. Also Read: Biden celebrates $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill signingJoe Biden said the US remains committed to the “one China” policy but “strongly opposes unilateral efforts to change the status quo or undermine peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait”. China’s state-run media reported after the summit that Xi cautioned Biden against using the issue of Taiwan. “Some people in the US intend to ‘use Taiwan to control China’. This trend is very dangerous and is like playing with fire, and those who play with fire will get burned,” Xi was quoted as saying by Xinhua news agency. “Complete reunification of China is the common aspiration of all sons and daughters of the Chinese nation,” Xi told Biden, adding China will be compelled to take resolute measures if separatist forces working for Taiwan’s independence “provoke us, force our hands or even cross the red line”.The summit was aimed at establishing “guardrails” to prevent conflict between the rival superpowers, and Biden said in his opening remarks that he hoped to have a “candid conversation”. Xi said he was “very happy to see my old friend”, and that the world’s two largest economies need to “increase communication and cooperation”. The summit lasted a “longer than expected” three and a half hours and the conversation was “respectful and straightforward”, a senior US official told reporters. The meeting was held against the backdrop of deteriorating relations and mounting tensions between the US and China, and the White House readout showed Biden had raised concerns about human rights, including the situation in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, China’s “unfair” trade practices and its aggressive behaviour across the Indo-Pacific. Biden was “clear about the need to protect American workers and industries from the PRC’s unfair trade and economic practices”, the readout said. He emphasised the priority he places on far-reaching investments at home while aligning with allies and partners abroad to take on contemporary challenges. The readout said the two leaders “discussed the complex nature of relations between our two countries and the importance of managing competition responsibly”. As in previous talks, Biden and Xi covered areas “where our interests align, and areas where our interests, values, and perspectives diverge”. Biden also underscored the “importance of managing strategic risks”. He pointed to the need for “common-sense guardrails to ensure that competition does not veer into conflict and to keep lines of communication open”. At the same time, Biden raised transnational challenges where the interests of the US and China intersect, such as health security. The two leaders also discussed climate change and the important role their countries play in addressing this problem. They discussed the importance of taking measures to address global energy supplies. Biden and Xi also exchanged views on key regional challenges, including North Korea, Afghanistan and Iran. They also discussed ways for the two countries to continue discussions on a number of areas. The two leaders have spoken on phone twice since Biden assumed office in January. With Xi refusing to travel abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a virtual meeting was the only option short of an in-person summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-determined-to-ensure-free-and-open-indo-pacific-biden-tells-xi-during-talks-101637051307830.html
16-11-2021||India||Collision avoidance manoeuvre performed for Chandrayaan-2: Isro||The lunar orbiter of the Chandrayaan-2 mission, which was successfully deployed in 2019, was moved from its 100-km circular, polar orbit last month to avoid a close approach with NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) near the north pole, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) said on Monday.This was the first close approach manoeuver that ISRO has undertaken for a space exploration mission. ISRO closely monitors the space for debris and other satellites to avoid a collision. All such manoeuvres have so far been restricted to satellites orbiting the earth, the agency said.Very close conjunction between the Indian and the US orbiters, both of which are in a polar orbit that crosses over both poles of the moon, was expected to occur on October 20 at 11.15am. At that time, the distance between the orbits of the two spacecraft would have been less than 100m. The satellites would have been at a distance of just about 3 km at the time of closest approach, Isro said. This was a very small distance for fast-moving satellites that travel several kilometres in a second.Both Isro and NASA, the American space agency, realised that a manoeuver was needed to mitigate a collision. It was mutually agreed that the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter would be moved to ensure that there is a large separation during their next close conjunction.Also Read: Isro lags behind on revised launch targets for 2021The manoeuver was carried out on October 18 at 8.22pm. “After orbit determination of CH2O (Chandrayaan-2 Orbiter) with post-manoeuvre tracking data, it was reconfirmed that there would be no further close conjunctions with LRO in the near future with the achieved orbit,” Isro said in a statement.The Chandrayaan-2 orbiter was said to have a mission life of seven years. It will be used for the upcoming Chandrayaan-3 mission that will carry only the lander and the rover. The lander rover aboard Chandrayaan 2 mission crash-landed on the lunar surface just 2.1 km from its destination on September 7, 2019. A successful soft-landing would have made India the fourth country after the US, Russia, and China to have successfully landed the celestial object. Israel’s Beresheet that attempted a soft landing also crashed into the lunar surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrayaan2-orbiter-moved-to-avoid-collision-with-nasa-s-lunar-orbiter-last-month-isro-101637051007640.html
16-11-2021||India||Modi govt to reopen Kartarpur Sahib corridor tomorrow, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said the Kartarpur Sahib corridor will be reopened on Wednesday as decided by the Narendra Modi government.The visa-free 4.7-km corridor connects the Indian border to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan. It was shut in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Taking to Twitter, Shah said the decision would benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims and reflected the reverence of the Modi government towards Guru Nanak and the community.“In a major decision, that will benefit large numbers of Sikh pilgrims, PM @Narendramodi govt has decided to re-open the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from tomorrow, Nov 17,” Shah wrote.In a major decision, that will benefit large numbers of Sikh pilgrims, PM @Narendramodi govt has decided to re-open the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from tomorrow, Nov 17.This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi govt towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and our Sikh community.“This decision reflects the immense reverence of Modi govt towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and our Sikh community,” he added.Shah said the government's decision to reopen the corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country.  “The nation is all set to celebrate the Prakash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji on 19th of November and I am sure that PM @NarendraModi govt’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country.”Earlier in the day, it was reported by news agency ANI that the Ministry of External Affairs and Union Home Ministry were considering the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor and that an official announcement in this regard would be made soon.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who had urged the PM to take a decision in the regard ahead of Guru Nanak Jayanti, expressed his profound to Modi and Shah over the move. he said the timely opening of the corridor would provide thousands of devotees to pay obeisance to Nanak on the occasion of Guru Purav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kartarpur-sahib-corridor-to-reopen-tomorrow-says-amit-shah-101637050879077.html
16-11-2021||India||'New era of UP': PM Modi inaugurates 341km long Purvanchal Expressway||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district is the symbol of the state’s development and will strengthen its economy as he inaugurated the 341km road.“Those who have any doubt about the capabilities of UP and its people should come to Sultanpur today to witness their strength. Such a modern expressway has now come up where it was just a piece of land three to four years ago,” PM Modi said as he addressed a gathering in Karwal Kheri of the Sultanpur district.Also read | Purvanchal will become lifeline of east UP, says Yogi at expressway launchTargeting the opposition, PM Modi also said that the “earlier governments neglected the development of the eastern region" of the state. "The airstrip on the Purvanchal Expressway will give a message to those who neglected the country's security," PM Modi said.In pictures: PM Modi inaugurates Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar PradeshAs he started his address, PM Modi invoked Lord Hanuman who killed the demon Kalnemi. “I bow to the people of that land," he said.The Purvanchal Expressway starts from village Chaudsarai in the Lucknow district and ends at Haidaria village on National Highway number 31, 18 kilometres east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border. The key feature of the Expressway is the 3.2 km long airstrip to enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force fighter planes in case of emergency.The expressway is 6-lane wide which can be expanded to 8-lane in the future. t It is constructed at an estimated cost of about ₹22,500 crore and set to give a boost to the economic development of the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh especially the districts of Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur.Also read | Centre trying to steal credit for Purvanchal Expressway, says SP chief AkhileshChief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was also at the inauguration event, said, “The work of Purvanchal Express was completed in three years amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It will become the lifeline of the development of Eastern UP. Congratulations to the people of Purvanchal."The UP chief minister also said there is a focus on overall and inclusive 'vikas' across the state as part of a big development push.Along with PM Modi and CM Adityanath,  Governor Anandiben Patel and other leaders were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-the-341km-long-purvanchal-expressway-shortly-101637050334963.html
16-11-2021||India||At least 6 booked for assaulting people of different faiths in Mangaluru||At least six people have been booked in Karnataka’s Mangaluru for threatening and assaulting two people from different faiths for being seen together amid a series of moral policing cases in the state.According to their complaint in the case, the two college students, who are around 20, were returning home when they were waylaid by around half-a-dozen people on two-wheelers. The mob then asked for their names and started to verbally abuse them for moving together despite being from different faiths. The complaint said the mob asked the woman among the two why was she with a Muslim and if she could not find any Hindu. The two were later assaulted and warned of consequences if they were seen together again.Police said further investigation was underway.Also Read: Karnataka seeks Centre’s aid to keep up growthThere has been a spate of moral policing cases and hate crimes in the state. The Opposition has blamed Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statements for emboldening such crimes.“There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai said in Mangaluru on October 13. “Even youngsters should watch their actions to ensure it does not hurt sentiments of the society. Bommai said there should be morality in society. “We cannot live without it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-6-booked-for-assaulting-people-of-different-faiths-in-mangaluru-101637050227596.html
16-11-2021||India||Audits no longer seen with doubt, but as tools for value addition: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India an asset for the country and said audits are no longer seen with doubt but as important tools for value addition to governance. He said CAG’s reports and data will “dictate the history” and provide a roadmap for future governance.“There was a time when the audit was seen with suspicion and dread. CAG versus government had become a common belief and babus (government officials) used to think that CAG finds faults in everything,” he said in his address to a gathering marking the first Audit Diwas to highlight the CAG’s contributions.He added the mindset has changed. “Today, the audit is seen as an important part of value addition. While analysing the government’s work, the CAG has an outsider’s viewpoint and we make systematic improvements with what you (CAG) tell us. We see it as cooperation in the long term.” Modi said while most institutions lose their relevance in three-four decades, CAG has become stronger and more mature with time. “...it is an asset, a heritage for the country. CAG is an institution that has grown in importance and has created a legacy with the passage of time. Every generation needs to cherish it and make it useful for other generations.”The PM cited the banking sector while taking potshots at previous governments. “Due to the lack of transparency in the country’s banking sector earlier, various practices used to take place. As a result, the non-performing assets (NPAs) kept rising. The NPAs were brushed under the carpet. But, we brought out the truth of previous governments before the country.”Also Read | CAG a heritage that every generation should cherish: PM Modi at first Audit DiwasHe also said fairness and transparency play a key role in personal and professional lives. “Only when we identify the problem, we can find a solution to it.” He added they have taken CAG’s concerns positively and took decisions to monetise unused and underused elements. “And these decisions are now showing results in the growing economy.”Modi said there was less government interference. “Today, we are making such a system in which the thinking of ‘Sarkar Sarvam’ ie the interference of the government is decreasing, and your work is also getting easier. Steps like contact-less customs, automatic renewals, faceless assessments, online applications for service delivery, etc have ended unnecessary interference of the government.”He lauded the CAG for use of geospatial data and remote sensing in audit mechanisms. “The stronger and scientific the auditing, the stronger our system will be.”PM said earlier the information was transmitted through stories. “History was written through stories. But today in the 21st century, data is information, and in the coming times, our history will also be seen and understood through data. In the future, data will dictate history,” he said.Modi also unveiled a statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the CAG headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audits-no-longer-seen-with-doubt-modi-101637049567276.html
16-11-2021||India||Kurebhar airstrip is part IAF’s op-plan to counter China||With the Chinese constructing new airports and upgrading the existing ones all along the 3488 km lone Line of Actual Control (LAC), the 3.3-kilometre-long runway at Kurebhar on the newly-inaugurated Purvanchal Expressway is designed to play a major role in fighter and transport operations in case of a worst-case scenario. The Lucknow-Agra expressway also has another airstrip for the same reasons.According to Air Chief Marshal (Retd) S Krishnaswamy, the newly build airstrips on the UP highways are part of Indian Air Force (IAF) plans with the roads specially designed to handle the weight of fighters like Mirage-2000 H and transport planes like C-130 J Hercules. “During 1965 and 1971 wars, the IAF nearly lost planes due to airbases being bombed by Pakistan Air Force planes. Learning from that experience, the Air Force has decided to use these earmarked airstrips on highways to land round the clock using temporary lights, mobile air traffic communications, refuel and take-off after being loaded with armaments,” the former fighter pilot said. Also read | All about Purvanchal Expressway PM Modi will inaugurate todayWhile the IAF remains tight-lipped about its operational plans, the fact is that the two earmarked airstrips in UP are close to airbases so that fuel and armament could be supplied to the landing fighters or transport planes in worst-case scenarios. As a number of Indian airbases have one airstrip, the airstrip on the highways takes the role of the airport in case the former has been hit by enemy planes or missiles. The airbases near the Kurebhar airstrip are Kanpur, Bareilly and Gorakhpur, which are front-line bases to launch against the northern neighbour.The decision to construct these airstrips has been taken considering that PLA Air Force is building underground shelters for its fighters across the LAC in Kashgar, Hotan, Damxung, Lhasa, Shigatse, Ngari-Gar Gunsa, Bangda and Nyinmgchi dual-purpose airports with new airports coming up in Tashikorgan, Purang, Tingri and Lhuntse. Also watch | Why PM calls inauguration of 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway ‘special’
16-11-2021||India||UN appoints Shombi Sharp as resident coordinator in India||Shombi Sharp of the United States has been appointed as the United Nations resident coordinator in India with the host government’s approval. The appointment of Sharp by UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres was announced on Tuesday. He will serve as the secretary-general’s representative for development at the country level and lead the UN team on the ground, including for support to India’s Covid-19 response plans to recover better for the Sustainable Development Goals.Sharp has more than 25 years of experience in promoting inclusive and sustainable development globally. Sharp tweeted on Monday, “Thrilled to arrive today in our new home of Delhi, India… and on my birthday [on November 14] no less. Happy to learn it is also birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister [Jawaharlal] Nehru, celebrated as Children’s Day. [Wife] Sarah and I celebrated with a sunset stroll through the gorgeous Lodhi Garden.”Also Read: What is International Day for Tolerance and why is it observed?Within the UN, he most recently served as the resident coordinator in Armenia, after holding several key positions at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), where he was resident representative in Armenia, deputy country director in Lebanon, and regional HIV/AIDS practice team leader for UNDP Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Before joining the UN, Sharp began his career in development with the international non-profit CARE International in Zimbabwe. A published author on health economics, he was a US Agency for International Development (USAID) “policy champion” and a nominee for the UNDP administrator’s award. Sharp holds a postgraduate diploma in HIV/AIDS management from the National Medical University of South Africa and Stellenbosch University in South Africa. He has a master’s degree in economics from University of Colorado, and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from University of Kansas. He is fluent in English and Russian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-appoints-shobi-sharp-as-resident-coordinator-in-india-101637049087186.html
16-11-2021||India||Maharashtra nurse, who helped thousands of women of deliver, dies of post-delivery complications||A 38-year-old nurse from Maharashtra's Hingoli district, who assisted about 5,000 women in delivering their babies, died due to complications developed after her own delivery, a health official said on Tuesday.Jyoti Gavli gave birth to her second child on November 2 at the Hingoli Civil Hospital and died of bilateral pneumonia and other complications at a medical facility in neighbouring Nanded on Sunday, he said. "As part of her work, she was deployed in the labour room of the Hingoli Civil Hospital. She worked till the last day of her pregnancy and then left for delivery. She was going to avail maternity leave post-delivery," Dr Gopal Kadam, Resident Medical Officer of the Hingoli Civil Hospital, told PTI. Gavli served as a nurse at the civil hospital for last two years and had earlier worked at two other health centres for about three years, he said. She underwent delivery at the civil hospital on November 2. The same day, she was referred to a government medical facility in Nanded due to complications, the official said. Gavli later developed bilateral pneumonia and was shifted to a private hospital in Nanded as she had to be put on ventilator support, he said. "She died on Sunday. We generally conduct 15 deliveries at our facility in a day. She must have surely helped in about 5,000 deliveries during her service period of nearly five years," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-nurse-who-helped-thousands-of-women-of-deliver-dies-of-post-delivery-complications-101637047130148.html
16-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nawab Malik shares WhatsApp chat screenshots related to Aryan Khan case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Aryan Khan drugs bust case: Malik makes fresh claims, shares WhatsApp messagesMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik has shared screenshots of WhatsApp messages allegedly exchanged between KP Gosavi, an independent witness in the Mumbai drugs bust case. Read MoreDelhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana's legal advisor resignsSuresh Chandra who was appointed as the legal advisor to Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has tendered his resignation on health grounds, an official said on Tuesday. Read MoreOdisha trader ends life after cops refuse to register FIR against borrowerA 29-year-old maize trader in Odisha allegedly died by suicide after police refused to register an FIR despite his repeated complaint against a businessman who allegedly put him through immense financial stress by refusing to pay the maize trader’s dues. Read More'He will be a key player for next World Cup': Harbhajan names 2 India cricketers to watch out for in New Zealand T20IsVeteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has backed India to beat New Zealand 2-1 in the three-match T20I series starting Wednesday. Read MoreShraddha Arya flaunts engagement ring, her Kundali Bhagya co-star Anjum performs at mehendi ceremony. See pics, videoKundali Bhagya actor Shraddha Arya is all set to tie the knot on November 16. Her mehendi ceremony took place on Monday and pictures and videos from the function are doing the rounds online. Read MoreDiabesity: The worse by-product of an unhealthy lifestyleEveryone has heard about diabetes and obesity. But have you heard about Diabesity? Diabesity is a condition in which the person is suffering from both diabetes and obesity together. Read MoreRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa’s ‘timeless’ love story wins heartsRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa tied the knot on November 15 after dating for 11 years. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nawab-malik-shares-whatsapp-chat-screenshots-related-to-aryan-khan-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101637045908346.html
16-11-2021||India||CBI conducts searches across India on allegations of online child sexual abuse||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting searches at around 76 locations across the country in 14 states and Union territories (UTs) in connection with online child sexual abuse and exploitation. These states and UTs include Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, UP, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamilnadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Haryana.According to an official statement, the CBI on November 14 registered 23 separate cases against 83 accused on allegations regarding online child sexual abuse and exploitation. More details will be out once the searches are over, an official told news agency ANI. In 2019, the CBI set up an online child sexual abuse and exploitation (OCSAE) prevention/investigation unit as a part of its special crime zone. The OCSAE unit is responsible for collecting and disseminating information regarding the publication and transmission of information relating to online child sexual abuse and exploitation.With the help of this unit, the CBI in 2020 was able to arrest an Uttar Pradesh government engineer for allegedly sexually exploiting about 50 minor children for the last decade and selling videos and photographs of nefarious acts on the darknet to other paedophiles across the world.Rambhawan, the accused, is alleged to have preyed upon the children between 5 -16 years of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur districts of the state, officials told Hindustan Times in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-conducts-searches-across-india-on-allegations-of-online-child-sexual-abuse-101637046316901.html
16-11-2021||India||Odisha trader ends life after cops refuse to register FIR against borrower||A 29-year-old maize trader in Odisha allegedly died by suicide after police refused to register an FIR despite his repeated complaint against a businessman who allegedly put him through immense financial stress by refusing to pay the maize trader’s dues.Bijay Nayak from Khurda district was under stress since he was unable to recover around ₹20- 25 lakh from several people who took poultry feed from him on credit, resulting in his inability to pay back people he had taken loans from for purchasing poultry feed. Nayak’s wife Sasmita alleged that a man from Dewanpatna in Balipatna block of Khurda district was their largest borrower who had bought maize worth ₹16 lakh from her husband a year ago on credit but had refused to pay for it. She said they approached police several times but the cops did not register a case against the businessman, rendering the couple helpless.She said the businessman last visited her house on October 31 and threatened her of dire consequences if Nayak persisted with the demand, forcing the couple to approach the local police station.“When we lodged the complaint at Khurda Town police station, the cops there asked us to come on November 12 and said they will also summon the businessman. We went again on November 12, but the businessman did not come. The police then asked us to come on November 13. However, when the police telephoned the businessman the same day, he said he could not come due to medical emergency and will come only after November 20,” Nayak’s wife said.She added that after realising that the businessman was only trying to evade them, the couple requested the police to register a case but the cops refused. On November 14, they day when lenders visited Nayak’s house, asking him to pay up his dues, he left home and later told his wife that he was going to take his own life, Sasmita said.Also Read: Odisha tribal boatman mortgages his land to build 100-metre long bridge“In the evening, my husband went to a forested area and before hanging himself, he sent his photograph through WhatsApp,” his wife Sasmita said.Sasmita said the local police refused to even accompany her to the place where her husband had allegedly hung himself. After his body was found at Botlama area, Nayak’s wife staged a sit-in protest outside Khurda town police station alleging police inaction. Inspector general (IG) Central Range Narasingha Bhol said he had directed Khurda SP to inquire into the case. “If there is a cognisable offence and the police department is found to have attempted to suppress the couple’s complaint then action will be taken against the officer concerned. If any negligence is found then departmental proceedings will be initiated against the officer,” Bhol said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-trader-ends-life-after-cops-refuse-to-register-fir-against-borrower-101637046207787.html
16-11-2021||India||ED arrests IERO's Lalit Goyal under money laundering act||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the vice chairman and managing director of real estate group IREO, Lalit Goyal, in connection with a money laundering probe against him, officials said on Tuesday.The businessman has been taken into custody under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the federal probe agency in Chandigarh and will be produced before a local court for seeking his remand, they said.Goyal was stopped by immigration authorities last Thursday at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport here on the basis of an ED look out circular against him.He was supposed to take a flight to the US.Goyal was questioned at the airport and detained by the agency following which he was being questioned in Chandigarh.Officials said as he was "evasive" while replying to the questions of the investigators, he was arrested.The businessman, whose sister is married to BJP leader Sudhanshu Mittal, is being probed in relation with a money laundering case linked to alleged diversion of estimated USD 77 million (one million is equal to 10 lakhs) of home buyers' funds, investments and shareholdings to some offshore entities.Goyal's name also figured in the 'Pandora Papers' global leak of offshore funds. The businessman and his legal team had earlier denied any illegalities on their part and have said no funds were diverted abroad in violation of laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-iero-s-lalit-goyal-under-money-laundering-act-101637045436619.html
16-11-2021||India||Centre makes sanitation workers’ safety component of 2022 Swachh Survekshan||The Union housing and urban affairs ministry has made sanitation workers’ safety an important component of its Swachh Survekshan 2022 to prevent deaths due to the cleaning of sewers and septic tanks. An official said the aim is to encourage cities and towns to adopt mechanised cleaning and also plan for the safety and welfare of people involved in the work. “We have now scaled up the challenge by incorporating it in the Swachh Survekshan 2022. The idea is to have a common 24x7 helpline number where people can call for getting their septic tanks cleaned. Ideally, workers should not enter to clean the sewers. But if they have to enter, they should be provided proper gear and it should be done under supervision,” said the official, who did not want to be named.Setting up of Responsible Sanitation Authority (RSA) under district magistrates, operationalising a 24x7 helpline number (14420) for mechanised cleaning, training, and rehabilitation of workers, etc are some of the new key pointers on which close to 4,600 urban local bodies (ULBs) will be assessed, said another official.Last year, the ministry launched SafaiMitra Suraksha Challenge, a pilot initiative, in 246 cities to encourage civic agencies to adopt mechanised cleaning of sewer and septic tanks and the safety of workers. The results of the challenge will be announced on November 19.In February, the government told the Parliament that 340 people have died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks in the last five years. It informed the Parliament in July that no death due to manual scavenging has been reported in India. But 941 workers died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last three decades, it added.According to the ministry, the helpline (14420) is currently operational in 345 cities; 31 States/Union territories have established the RSA, and 210 cities are having the Sanitation Response Units.Also Read: At first Audit Diwas, PM Modi praises CAG, slams previous regimes for NPAsFor Swachh Survekshan, only urban local bodies (ULBs) can participate. But there are several cities where the sewerage system is managed by agencies under the state governments.A third official said in cities such as Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Shimla, Greater Hyderabad, Guwahati, etc the sewerage system is under parastatal bodies. The ministry is trying to bring the bodies involved in the cleaning of sewers in states under the Swachh Survekshan purview. “Currently, we are collecting data regarding sewage management, even in cities where it is under parastatal bodies, from ULBs. But in some cases, we do not get the complete information due to a lack of coordination as there are different agencies involved. We are exploring ways to bring parastatal bodies on board under Swachh Survekshan. Though we can only assess the ULBs, a mechanism has to be worked out to assess the work done on Survekshan,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-makes-sanitation-workers-safety-component-of-2022-swachh-survekshan-101637043807216.html
16-11-2021||India||Amravati police chief tells Kirit Somaiya to cancel visit in wake of curfew||Amravati Police Commissioner Aarti Singh has written to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya and had asked him to cancel his proposed Amravati visit on November 17 in wake of curfew and other restrictions imposed under section 144 of CrPC in the city.In view of violence-related incidents reported in parts of Maharashtra over protests related to violence in Tripura, the Pune rural police on Sunday issued prohibitory orders under CRPC Section 144 in rural parts of Pune.The above restrictions under section 144 of CRPC are effective from November 14 till November 20 for rural parts of Pune District.Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on Saturday condemned the violence in Nanded, Malegaon, Amaravati and other places during protests against violence in Tripura, adding that the focus was on keeping the situation under control and maintaining peace."We condemn the violence. I spoke to Devendra Fadnavis, Amravati MP, to help maintain social harmony and peace. We are focusing on how to keep the situation under control and maintain peace," Patil said.Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis also condemned the violence and demanded strict action against leaders making inciting speeches.Days after violence broke out in Amravati district of Maharashtra, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane alleged that the Raza Academy was behind the violence in the different parts of the state.According to police, on November 12, Raza Academy and several other Muslim organisations in Amravati submitted a memorandum to the District Collector against violence in Tripura last month.Incidents of stone-pelting were reported on Friday from Nanded, Malegaon and Amaravati in the backdrop of protests staged against the violence that took place in Panisagar in Tripura on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amravati-police-chief-tells-kirit-somaiya-to-cancel-visit-in-wake-of-curfew-101637043540138.html
16-11-2021||India||Controversy over Salman Khurshid’s ‘Hindutva-ISIS' comparison. What we know so far||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s new book on Ayodhya has caused quite the stir for drawing a parallel between “Hindutva” and radical Islamist groups. Khurshid has been criticised within the ranks of his own party by senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Harish Rawat, with Azad calling the comparison “factually wrong” and an “exaggeration”.However, the former Union minister has also received support from his party colleagues, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stating that Hinduism and Hindutva are "different things" and slammed the ideology of the BJP-RSS alleging it has spread hatred in India.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Gandhi over his remark, alleging that he and his and his party have a "pathological hatred" of Hinduism.An injunction suit has been filed before a Delhi court seeking to stop the publication, circulation and sale of Khurshid’s book ‘Sunrise over Ayodhya’ by right-wing group Hindu Sena's president Vishnu Gupta. Gupta claimed in his petition that the launch was timed to polarise minorities ahead of the Uttar Pradesh state assembly election next year.Khurshid’s house in Nainital’s Ramgarh was allegedly vandalised on Monday and the police have booked 20 people in connection with the incident. Police said a mob of around 20 people from a hardline local Hindu group gathered outside Khurshid's house and "they shouted slogans, threw stones, broke several windows, ransacked (the entry) and set fire (to a door)," a police official told reporters.Khurshid criticised the act on social media. "Shame is too ineffective a word," he said, adding that Monday’s incident “cannot be Hinduism”.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor criticised the incident as “shameful”. “Salman Khurshid is a statesman who has done India proud in international forums & always articulated a moderate, centrist, inclusive vision of the country domestically. The mounting levels of intolerance in our politics should be denounced by those in power,” Tharoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/controversy-over-salman-khurshid-s-hindutva-isis-comparison-what-we-know-so-far-101637042875052.html
16-11-2021||India||‘Agents of political party’: Tripura minister criticises journalists out on bail||A Tripura minister has alleged that the two journalists arrested on Sunday and later released on bail were “agents” of a political party and their aim was to create “political unrest” in the state. Tripura’s information and cultural affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury claimed on Monday the journalists who visited the state to cover reported incidents of violence against minorities were seeking to create communal disturbances. His remarks came hours after HW News journalists Samriddhi Sakunia and Swarna Jha were granted bail by a local court in Tripura on Monday following their arrest for allegedly spreading communal hatred. “They came here as agents of a political party with an intention to affect communal peace and cause a riot-like situation. They came here introducing them as journalists to provoke people with fake footage,” Chowdhury told reporters at Agartala’s civil secretariat. He didn’t name any political party in his accusations.Also Read: CPI(M) to hold countrywide protests on Dec 1 against attacks on minoritiesPointing to the recent violence in Amravati, Maharashtra, the Tripura minister alleged that Sakunia posted fake photos and footage, which sparked a protest in Amravati. “This doesn’t suit a journalist. They have instigated people against the ruling party. Their attempt was to bring a particular religion together. That’s why, they were booked and as there is an internal security issue, police wanted to know where they came from and with what purpose,” he said. The minister accused them of not cooperating with the police over questioning in connection with a case lodged against them at Kakraban police station. “They told the police that they will take a flight to New Delhi from Agartala. But then they escaped to Nilambazar in Assam without any intimation. If they are journalists, why did they need to escape?” Chowdhury said. Chowdhury claimed that a certain group of people was conspiring to destabilise the state government and to bring a party from outside to power in Tripura. “People disguising as salesmen are visiting houses and brainwashing people against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and chief minister [Biplab Kumar Deb]. We appeal to people to be aware of such rumours,” he said. Sakunia and Jha were on Sunday booked in connection with two separate cases - in Fatikroy, Unakoti district, and in Kakraban, Gomati district - for alleged criminal conspiracy and for spreading communal hatred when they visited Tripura to cover reported incidents of vandalism of religious structures last month. They were served a notice to appear before police in seven days in connection with the first case, and they were arrested in connection with the second case. While they were on way to Silchar, Assam Police detained them in Karimganj district on Sunday following instructions from Tripura Police, who later arrested them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agents-of-political-party-tripura-minister-criticises-journalists-out-on-bail-101637042606768.html
16-11-2021||India||HC sets aside foreigners’ tribunal order, declares Assam woman Indian||The Gauhati high court has declared a woman as an Indian, setting aside an order of a foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Bongaigaon that in November 2017 said she is a foreigner. A division bench of justices N Kotiswar Singh and Malasri Nandi passed the order last week in Puspa Rani Dhar’s favour.The tribunal said the documents Dhar produced failed to establish her link with her father Hirendra Nath Paul while declaring her as “foreigner and deportable”. Dhar moved the high court in 2018 against the order.The tribunal based its “finding and opinion” primarily on a certificate issued to Dhar’s late husband, Mrinal Kanti Dhar, by railway authorities in January 2003. The certificate showed the petitioner’s husband served in the Northeast Frontier Railways from 1962 till his retirement in 2003. It also mentioned Puspa Rani, born in January 1952, as his wife. But the foreigners’ tribunal termed the document as irrelevant and rejected it.“We fail to understand, how the said document can be said to be irrelevant and liable to be rejected. Rather it shows that the petitioner who was married to the aforesaid Mrinal Kanti Dhar, was serving in the Indian Railways and as such, there is a remote possibility of the petitioner being a foreigner and this document will show, in absence of any contrary proof, that in probability the petitioner would be an Indian as an Indian is most unlikely to marry a foreigner,” the high court order said.Also Read: 2 women journalists, arrested for reporting on Tripura violence, granted bailThe court said the tribunal accepted a certificate issued in Calcutta by Bengal Medical Union in 1966 to the petitioner’s father. “This document would indicate that if her father was in Bengal in 1966, this will be strong corroborative evidence that the petitioner is an Indian,” the order said. “...the petitioner has been able to produce sufficient evidence before the learned tribunal to show that she is an Indian citizen and not a foreigner.”Anita Verma, the special counsel for foreigners’ tribunals, argued even if she was declared an Indian, the petitioner should first register herself with the local foreigners’ registration office. But the court rejected this saying the petitioner was “not a foreigner at any point of time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-sets-aside-foreigners-tribunal-order-declares-assam-woman-indian-101637042546760.html
16-11-2021||India||Birsa Munda’s great grandson to inaugurate Aadi Mahotsav in Delhi||A day after the country observed its first Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas to mark Birsa Jayant or the birth anniversary of tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda, who hailed from Khunti in Jharkhand, his great grandson Sukhram Munda will inaugurate the annual Aadi Mahotsav at Dilli Haat in the national capital on Tuesday. The fortnight long annual event is hosted by Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), a unit of Union ministry of tribal affairs, to ‘celebrate the spirit of tribal craft, cuisine and commerce since 2017.A statement from the office of tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda said Sukhram Munda along with his two sons left for the national capital on Tuesday morning to inaugurate the festival. Besides Arjun Munda, the inaugural event will also be attended by ministers of state Renuka Singh and Bisheshwar Tudu. Launching the Janajatiya Gaurav Diwas to mark the birth anniversary of tribal icon Birsa Munda in Bhopal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it was an occasion to remember the contributions of tribals in India’s freedom movement and nation building.Also Read | Congress govts ignored tribal welfare, we don’t: PM Modi in MPThe PM also linked the tribal society to the legacy of Hindu god Ram and said one couldn’t imagine lord Ram’s life without tribal culture, customs and tradition.Modi hailed Birsa Munda, the 19th-century figure revered as a freedom fighter and tribal icon, and said the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas will be celebrated every year on the lines of the anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel and BR Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/birsa-munda-s-great-grandson-to-inaugurate-aadi-mahotsav-in-delhi-101637041826755.html
16-11-2021||India||CAG a heritage that every generation should cherish: PM Modi at first Audit Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that while institutions lose relevance after a few decades, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India is a heritage and every generation should cherish it.Modi, who inaugurated a statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the CAG office where he is attending the first Audit Diwas in Delhi, said there are very few institutions that become stronger, more mature and relevant with the passage of time.The PM said that while assessing the work of the government, the CAG has the advantage of an outsider's viewpoint. “We make systematic improvements with the help of whatever you tell us, we see it as cooperation,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He said that due to a lack of transparency in the country's banking sector, various practices used to take place that resulted in an ever-increasing NPAs (non-performing asset) of banks. “You know very well the work done to brush the NPAs under the carpet earlier,” he added.“But we presented the reality of the previous governments, the actual situation, honestly before the nation. We will be able to find out a solution only if we identify the problems,” the PM said.Speaking about monetisation of unused and underused assets, he said it was a brave decision that helped revive the economy. “The move is being discussed and welcomed across the world,” he added. Earlier, CAG GC Murmu said the particular day was chosen as the first Audit Diwas due to its historical significance.“Under the Government of India Act 1858, after the merging of audit departments of Bengal, Madras & Bombay presidencies, on November 16, 1860, the first Auditor-General took charge,” Murmu said.A PTI report said Audit Diwas was being celebrated to mark the historic origin of the institution of CAG and the contribution it had made to the governance, transparency and accountability over the past several years. The institution was founded in 1858.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-a-heritage-that-every-generation-should-cherish-pm-modi-at-1st-audit-diwas-101637041289634.html
16-11-2021||India||Bengaluru continues to receive heavy rains, 52mm recorded on Monday night||Bengaluru continued to receive heavy rains with 52mm recorded on Monday night as per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) data released on Tuesday morning . The area around Hindustan Aeronautics Limited airport recorded 50 mm of rains while the Bengaluru International Airport recorded around 36.4 mm of rains, it said.The IMD’s forecast indicates a few more spells of rains and thundershowers are expected on Tuesday and Wednesday. Following the rains, temperatures dipped to a maximum of 27 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 19 degrees C.Bengaluru has received copious and unseasonal rains in the months of October and November this year, putting the infrastructure in one of India’s most populous city under pressure with large areas covered in a pile of slushy mess and motorists and pedestrians struggling to make their way through the downpour. Water logging and pot holes on roads making the experience even worse.Also Read | Covid-19: 171 new cases, one death in KarnatakaThe Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) assurances of fixing the city’s woes hasn’t delivered much on the ground for the over 12 million residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-continues-to-receive-heavy-rains-101637040326552.html
16-11-2021||India||‘They want to control everything as if they are going to rule for 100 years’||Opposition parties have opposed the two ordinances that empower the Centre to post the chiefs of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for up to five years. Mallikarjun Kharge, the Opposition leader in Rajya Sabha, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the ordinances. Edited excerpts:What is objectionable about the ordinances?Firstly, why are they issuing these ordinances now? Secondly, why is it necessary to extend the period (tenures) from two years to five years? Why is it so urgent? Is it in the interest of the economy in the country? Is the law and order of the country going to collapse? Or, any war is going there? Why? If they could have waited, they would have taken the route of the Parliament and could have put forth a bill that could have been thoroughly discussed. It would have been better to go as per our parliamentary rules and procedure. They want to show that they can do anything because they have the majority. They are already using CBI, ED, and other agencies.The government has already taken ED under the home ministry whereas previously it was under the finance ministry. Even the Co-operation department was taken away from Agriculture. Now, you are extending the period of CBI and ED chiefs for five years. This means that they want their choice of people for a longer time so that they can harass the common people, the opposition parties, NGOs, and journalists and do what they’re doing with Pegasus and other agencies to get the information.We have objected to this since we are a democratic country. In the past, no other Prime Minister has hurried through issuing ordinances. So far, hundreds of Ordinances have been issued and now two more Ordinances. They are not going through democratic procedures. They are killing democracy and they are destroying the constitution. Ultimately, they want to become dictators and they are doing this through autocratic ways.Did the government do this to extend the term of ED director Sanjay Kumar Mishra?I am not talking about one individual. If the government extends the tenure to five years, naturally their choice of people will get an extension. But what is the necessity for extending the tenure? Is it in the interest of the country? Is it in the interest of law and order?They point out the FBI director has a 10-year tenure and that the extension in the tenure will help the CBI director to oversee a case from investigation to conviction...Now, over 70 years after independence, suddenly they find a fault in the agencies. I do not agree with this because they want their choice of people who have longevity.Also Read: When CBI recommended 5-year tenure for its chief but govt rejected itHow will the opposition protest?We have to raise it in the Parliament and we will ask them to review it. We will also ask other opposition parties to stay united on this because the Centre is killing the democracy and they are not following the Constitutional rules and procedures. For this reason, we must be united because it is not a question of one party. It is for the survival of democracy. Also, for the institutions that are independently used to probe, nobody is to influence them. But now, day by day these independent institutions are deteriorating and are being misused. They are used to harass people including political opponents. Therefore, it is bad. People who are not favourable to them, they twist their arms.Have not governments always wanted to control the CBI and other agencies? It was during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) rule that the CBI was called a “caged parrot”...That is wrong. The UPA did not behave like that. You people are saying that ED was taken from Finance department to Home department earlier and Cooperation department was taken to Home department. Can you show such instances? Simply saying that you have done like that so we are also doing like that. You are changing the departments.They want to control everything as if they are going to rule for 100 years. It means that you do not believe in democracy. You want to destroy democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-want-to-control-everything-as-if-they-are-going-to-rule-for-100-years-101637037146736.html
16-11-2021||India||Srinagar encounter: Family of businessman killed in Hyderpora op slams police||The family members of a civilian, described by police in Jammu and Kashmir as a “militant associate” killed during an encounter with two “militants” on Monday night, alleged that he was used as a “human shield” by the forces.Two militants and the civilian, a businessman identified as Mohammad Altaf Bhat, were killed during an operation in Hyderpora in Srinagar. Police said the militants had been hiding inside the shopping complex owned by the local businessman.Bhat’s family members held a protest on Monday night, demanding handover of his body for burial and accused the police of killing an innocent civilian during an operation.“You killed my innocent uncle Mohammad Altaf Bhat in cold-blooded murder In Hyderpora, you used him as human shield and now saying he was ‘OGW’. Return us his body @JmuKmrPolice @SrinagarPolice @IGP,” tweeted Saima Bhat, the businessman’s niece.Also Read: Reshuffle in Jammu and Kashmir Police, civil administrationLocals said Bhat ,48, is survived by his wife and two daughters. They also said he owned the shopping mall and was into cement and iron businesses.The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded a speedy investigation into Bhat’s death.“These allegations are grave and merit speedy investigation. Least@JmuKmrPolice could do is hand over the dead body to the family for a decent burial. Are even dead ones a threat to peace now?” the PDP tweeted.On Monday night, Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police (IGP) Kashmir, tweeted, “The house owner who was injured in the militant fire succumbed to injuries. Militants have been hiding on the top floor of his building. As per sources and digital evidence, he has been working as a militant associate.”Police haven’t yet identified the two militants killed in the encounter. The police are in possession of all three bodies. Earlier, on Sunday night, a policeman sustained injuries after suspected militants opened fire on a police team conducting raids in the Old City area of Srinagar. Police said the raids were being carried out on the basis of specific information about the presence of militants in Jamalata area of Nawakadal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-of-businessman-killed-in-encounter-slams-police-seeks-handover-of-body-101637036726324.html
16-11-2021||India||Peninsular India to get rain over next 5 days due to 2 low pressure systems||Rain spells will continue over peninsular India over the next five days under the influence of two low pressure systems, according to forecasts by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). There will be light to moderate rainfall, with heavy rainfall over isolated areas in coastal and south interior Karnataka, north Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, and south Konkan and Goa till November 20. Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and coastal Andhra Pradesh received rainfall last week under the influence of another low pressure area. One of the low pressure areas currently lies over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining North Andaman Sea and is likely to become well-marked over the next 24 hours. It will continue to move towards the Indian landmass and reach the south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coast on November 18, the weather department said. Another low pressure area has developed over the east-central Arabian Sea off the coast of Karnataka under the influence of a cyclonic circulation. Also Read | Explained: Delhi’s air pollution spikes year-roundWith the two systems leading to rough seas, fishermen have been advised not to venture into parts of Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea over the next two days. The bulletin also states that after 24 hours, the minimum temperature will increase in Northwest India by 2 to 3 degrees C and in most parts of Madhya Pradesh by 2 to 4 degrees C. There will be an increase in the minimum temperature in Gujarat by 2 to 4 degrees C gradually over the next two to three days. And, there will be a fall in the minimum temperature by 2 to 4 degrees C over East India in the next two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peninsular-india-to-get-rain-over-next-5-days-due-to-2-low-pressure-systems-101637036666268.html
16-11-2021||India||India reports 8,865 new Covid-19 cases, a low of 287 days||India on Tuesday reported 8,865 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a low of 287 days. According to the Union health ministry's updated data, the country’s current active case tally at 1,30,793 was also the lowest in 525 days. Further, the active case count at 0.38 per cent was at its lowest since March 2020 when the pandemic first hit the country.A decrease of 3,303 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours.The ministry said the daily rise in new infections has been below 20,000 for 39 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 142 consecutive days now.With 11,971 people getting cured in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate currently stood at 98.27 per cent -- the highest since March 2020 -- taking the total recoveries to 3,38,61,756.Also read | West Bengal schools and colleges to reopen for offline classesAs many as 197 people died from related ailments in the last 24 hours, taking the total fatality count to 4,63,852.The daily positivity rate that was currently 0.80 per cent has remained below 2 per cent for the last 43 days.Also read | Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till Nov 30; CM warns of dengueSo far, 62.57 crore samples have been tested against the virus, while 112.97 crore vaccines have been administered as a shield against the disease since the drive's launch earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-8-865-new-cases-at-a-low-of-287-days-101637035115589.html
16-11-2021||India||Over 300km, 6 lanes: All about Purvanchal Expressway PM Modi will inaugurate today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to inaugurate the ambitious mega project of Purvanchal Expressway under Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) in the state’s Sultanpur district on Tuesday.The Purvanchal Expressway, which has been constructed at a cost of about ₹22,500 crore, starts from Chandsarai village, located near the existing Lucknow-Sultanpur Road (NH-731), in Lucknow district. It ends at Haidaria village on National Highway 31 in Ghazipur, 18 km from the UP-Bihar border, in Ghazipur district.Its total length is 340.824km and it is a fully access-controlled six-lane expressway, which can be upgraded to eight lanes.Also read | Ahead of polls, PM Modi to open UP e-way todayThe Purvanchal Expressway connects the state capital Lucknow to the eastern region via Azamgarh. With the development of this expressway, the eastern region of the state would not only be connected to Lucknow but also further to the National Capital through Agra-Lucknow and Yamuna Expressways.The districts falling on this greenfield expressway are Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur.The Purvanchal Expressway is going to give a boost to the economic development of the eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh, the government has said. Also watch | Why PM calls inauguration of 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway ‘special’The Purvanchal Expressway will have 22 flyovers, 7 railway-over-bridges (ROB), 7 major bridges, 114 minor bridges, 6 toll plazas, 45 vehicular-underpasses (VUP), 139 Light VUP, 87 pedestrian underpass and 525 box culverts.The new expressway will have CNG stations, electric recharge stations for vehicles and will be connected with the defence corridor through the Agra and Bundelkhand expressways.The expressway has been designed for the movement of vehicles at a speed of 120km per hour but the speed has been fixed at 100kmph.Also read | Purvanchal Expressway sets pitch for poll battle in eastern UPPolice vehicles, cattle catchers’ vehicles and 16 ambulances will be deployed for safety and medical emergencies.The government has said that he access-controlled expressway will help travellers save fuel and time and control pollution levels, along with fewer accidents.The expressway is among those that will provide future-ready road connectivity to all corners of the state. They include the already open Delhi-Meerut Link Expressway (96km), Bundelkhand Expressway (296km), Gorakhpur Link Expressway (92km), Ganga Expressway (600km), Lucknow Kanpur Elevated National Expressway (63km).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-about-purvanchal-expressway-pm-modi-will-inaugurate-today-101637034152640.html
16-11-2021||India||When CBI recommended 5-year tenure for its chief but govt rejected it||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) recommended a five-year tenure for its director in 2012, but the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government rejected the idea. The then CBI director A P Singh argued the agency needs continuity at the top so that crucial corruption probes can be taken to logical conclusions considering many high-profile cases linger on for years. He argued by the time an important development takes place, a new director joins the agency.A single 10-year term for the Federal Bureau of Investigation director was also cited to bolster the argument.A select committee of the Rajya Sabha examined the matter and rejected it. It said the CBI director, as well as its prosecution wing chief, shall have a fixed term of two years.Having a high-powered committee comprising the Prime Minister, Leader of Opposition, and Chief Justice of India, to select the CBI director was another key recommendation the agency made at that time. This panel has appointed CBI chiefs since 2014.Singh refused to comment but a former CBI officer said having fixed five-year tenure for the director would have been ideal but the latest arrangement of having three extensions of one year each after a two-year term is also welcome.Also Watch: Why ordinance on CBI and ED Directors’ tenure has outraged many“Only problem is that the CBI and ED (Enforcement Directorate) directors will now actively want their tenure extended every year after two-year fixed terms, which may hit the objectivity and government line will be toed,” said the officer, who did not want to be named. This officer added that since the ED director can now also get a total of five-year tenure, the selection for the post should also be done by a high-powered committee on the lines of the CBI director. Currently, the ED chief is selected by a panel led by the chief vigilance commission and comprises vigilance commissioners, Union personnel, and revenue secretaries.Two ordinances introduced on Sunday empowered the Centre to post the chiefs of CBI and ED for up to five years – with an extension up to three years beyond the fixed tenure of two years. The decision is likely to benefit current ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra, who completes his tenure this week. The Supreme Court in September asked the government not to give him any further extension. Opposition parties have slammed the ordinances as illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-cbi-recommended-5-year-tenure-for-its-chief-but-govt-rejected-it-101637034506169.html
16-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mahatma Gandhi's statue vandalised in Australia and all the latest news||Breaking News Updates August 30, 2021: Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Mahatma Gandhi's statue vandalised in Australia, a day after unveilingA life-sized statue of Mahatma Gandhi, gifted by the Indian government, was vandalised in Australia's Melbourne last Saturday, reports have said. Read MoreAdvancing global peace is China-US joint mission, Xi Jinping tells Joe BidenChina and the US should respect each other, coexist in peace, and pursue win-win cooperation, President Xi Jinping told US counterpart Joe Biden on Tuesday, adding that the two countries need to cooperate to respond to global challenges like climate change and the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MorePM Modi to address first Audit Diwas today. Here's more on itPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday will address an event that would mark the first Audit Diwas at the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). Read More'Had I reached the hospital 20 minutes late, both my windpipes would have burst': Rizwan shares chilling ICU detailsShortly after Mohammad Rizwan played a heroic innings of 67 against Australia in the second semi-final of the T20 World Cup, images of the Pakistan opener laying in a hospital bed emerged. Read MorePatralekhaa marries Rajkummar Rao in Sabyasachi saree, here's what the Bengali verse on her veil meansActors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa tied the knot in a beautiful ceremony on Monday, November 15. Read MorePatralekhaa, in full red veil, poses with dogs in her arms at wedding with Rajkummar Rao. See picsRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa got married in Chandigarh on Monday. The couple had been dating for 11 years before they decided to finally tie the knot. Read MoreWatch | Why ordinance on CBI and ED Directors' tenure has outraged many||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mahatma-gandhi-s-statue-vandalised-in-australia-and-all-the-latest-news-101637033163435.html
16-11-2021||India||PM Modi to address event to mark first Audit Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an event on Tuesday to mark the first Audit Diwas (Audit Day) to highlight the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India’s contributions to transparency and good governance.In a tweet, Modi said, “At 10:30 AM tomorrow (Tuesday), I would be taking part in the programme to mark the first Audit Diwas. Audit Diwas seeks to highlight the rich contributions of CAG to boost transparency and good governance.”CAG Girish Chandra Murmu will be among those who will attend the event.Also Read: Sitharaman to meet heads of banks, FIs today for credit pushCAG was established under Article 148 of the Constitution to audit expenditures of the central as well as state governments. It is the statutory auditor and also conducts a supplementary audit of companies in which the government has an equity share of 51%.The CAG is ranked ninth in the order of precedence and enjoys the same status as a Supreme Court judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-address-event-to-mark-first-audit-diwas-101637033125829.html
16-11-2021||India||‘Respect public morality’: Guwahati bans cross-gender massage at spas, parlours||Guwahati has banned the practice of cross-gender massage as part of the municipal authorities’ drive to root out alleged malpractices and to better regulate spas and parlours mushrooming across the city.The ban was part of new regulations rolled out by the Guwahati Municipal Corporation (GMC). GMC commissioner Devashish Sharma issued the order on Saturday, citing multiple complaints lodged by people flagging alleged malpractices at unisex salons, beauty parlours and spas. The GMC said in its order that the activities in question were “detrimental to civic society”, and the corporation was “duty-bound to respect public morality and the laws which govern a civic society”. According to the new rules, parlours and spas in Guwahati can’t have separate rooms or chambers, their main entrances have to be transparent, and members of the opposite sex are barred from giving massage service. The GMC’s order also said the establishments in question should only have qualified therapists. Steam baths are allowed, but members of the opposite sex can’t assist clients. Also, parlours and spas have to register the customers’ addresses and contact numbers. Also Read: IOA elections to be held in Guwahati on December 19“We took this action after deliberating for a month following complaints received from several apartment owners that illegal and unregistered massage parlours and spas were being operated on the premises,” said GMC commissioner Sharma. He said some of the complaints were found to be genuine. Sharma said nearly 60% of beauty parlours and spas in Guwahati were not registered and operating illegally.“We are not into moral policing, but these businesses have to be registered and have to follow practices that don’t pollute society. Establishments that are genuine and operate professionally don’t have to worry about the new rules,” said Sharma. The GMC has given beauty parlours, hair cutting saloons and spas in the city a month’s time to comply with the new rules. Licences of those found violating the regulations won’t be renewed, Sharma said. “We welcome the regulations as they will help remove a bad image about the profession. But the GMC should have talked to us before finalising the rules. Some rules, such as not having separate rooms, might be a problem for our women clients,” said the proprietor of a Guwahati-based spa, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respect-public-morality-guwahati-bans-cross-gender-massage-at-spas-parlours-101637033066049.html
16-11-2021||India||28% of Goa lawmakers have criminal cases pending against them||Eleven or 28% of lawmakers in Goa have criminal cases pending against them, according to an Association for Democratic Reforms and Goa Election Watch report. The report was released on Monday ahead of the assembly elections in Goa that are due next year.“7 out of 27 MLAs (members of legislative assembly) from (ruling) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), 1 out of 5 MLAs from Indian National Congress, out of 3 MLAs from Goa Forward Party, 1 out of 1 MLA from Nationalistic Congress Party (NCP) and 1 out of the 3 Independent MLAs have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits,” the report said. It added nine MLAs face serious criminal cases including one related to sexual assault.The report said all the lawmakers are “crorepatis” with average assets of ₹11.75 crore per MLA. It added the average assets of BJP MLAs are ₹11.97 crores, ₹17.02 crores that of Congress, 8.55 crores of Goa Forward Party. The lone NCP and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak MLAs have assets worth ₹13.06 crores and ₹10.58 crores. Three Independent MLAs have average assets of ₹4.14 crores.Also Read | ‘Congress’ Lourenço emerges as top-performing Goa MLA’: ADR reportBJP MLA Michael Vincent Lobo has declared the highest assets-- ₹54 crores.The report analysed the criminal, financial and other background details of all the MLAs on the basis of their affidavits submitted ahead of the 2017 elections and the by-elections thereafter.Another report found that on average, the Goa assembly functioned for 16 days annually with the longest being the 10th session in 2019 from July 15 to August 9 of 20 sittings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-of-goa-lawmakers-have-criminal-cases-pending-against-them-101637032705949.html
16-11-2021||India||Sitharaman to meet heads of banks, FIs today for credit push||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Tuesday meet heads of banks and financial institutions to remove friction in credit flow to productive sectors of the economy battered by the coronavirus pandemic.The two-day conference will also see the participation of the CEOs of top-six private-sector lenders and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), including HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Cholamandalam Investment and Finance, Shriram Transport Finance and Tata Capital.The discussion during the period will focus on the flow of credit into different sectors of the economy in a seamless manner. In order to better understand the ecosystem and related issues..."a stakeholders' conference is being organised on November 17-18," the government has said.Top officials of the government including secretaries representing various ministries, will also participate in the conference to provide insight on various initiatives or projects in the pipeline of their respective departments that may require credit. Industry associations have also been invited to share their perspective in this regard.According to a report by PTI, the conference will also undertake a comprehensive review of progress in government schemes including the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.The meeting comes at a time when banks are undertaking outreach programmes to push lending in the productive sectors of the economy.Since the commencement of the government's nationwide Credit Outreach Programme on October 16, banks have sanctioned 13.84 lakh loans totalling ₹63,574 crore through 10,580 camps held across the country as of October 31.As per the data shared by the Union finance ministry, as much as ₹21,687.23 crore in business loans were sanctioned to about 3.2 lakh beneficiaries, while vehicle loans worth ₹4,560,39 crore were sanctioned to 59,090 borrowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-to-meet-heads-of-banks-fis-today-for-credit-push-101637029880314.html
16-11-2021||India||After scaling Mount Kilimanjaro, 13-year-old Hyderabad girl has her eyes on other 6 summits||A 13-year-old girl from Hyderabad recently scaled Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa known for its snow-capped peaks, and now wants to climb the rest of the six summits across the world.Muriki Pulakita Hasvi expressed her happiness and shared her experience of scaling Mount Kilimanjaro, a dormant volcano situated in northeastern Tanzania at 5,895 metres (19,340 feet), according to news agency ANI. “It was an adventurous experience, Mount Kilimanjaro is such a mountain where you experience all the weather conditions," she told ANI.Telangana: A 13-year-old girl, Muriki Pulakita Hasvi from Hyderabad recently scaled Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest mountain in Africa"I got to know about mountaineering through a movie. My future goal is to get to the top of all 7 summits across the world," said Hasvi Pulakita pic.twitter.com/UWWDXkDgwTHasvi told the news agency that the preparation for her latest mountaineering trip to Mount Kilimanjaro started three months back right after she climbed the Everest base camp in April this year.Also read | Oldest American, fastest woman on Everest return safely after Covid-19 outbreak"After doing base camp, I realised that I want to complete all seven summits therefore I stated preparation then and there," Hasvi added.She said to be able to climb a mountain one needs to be mentally strong. "What I learnt in all this is that for mountaineering, you have to be mentally strong, so I used to do all the activities like yoga and meditation to keep myself mentally," she said.Hasvi said she wants to climb all the seven summits before 2024. “And for that, I have made all the plans already.""My message to all young generations is not to ask them to choose mountaineering but to basically tell them to conquer their mountain in their lives," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13yearold-hyderabad-girl-scales-mount-kilimanjaro-has-eyes-on-other-6-summits-101637026888918.html
16-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea on Central Vista land use today||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear a petition challenging the change in the land use of a plot where the new official residences of the vice president and the Prime Minister are stipulated as part of the ambitious Centra Vista project in Delhi.The case will be heard by a bench of justice AM Khanwilkar and justice CT Ravikumar, who had deferred the matter for Tuesday on October 29. The plea, filed by lawyer Rajeev Suri, is questioning the change of land use of a public recreational spot in Central Vista for purposes of constructing residences.First announced in September 2019, the Central Vista project envisages a new Parliament with a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 51 Union ministries in 10 buildings.It is to be constructed by August 2022, when the country is set to celebrate its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is to be built by 2024 under the project that covers a 3-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in the national capital.Earlier, the bench SC bench asked the central government to file a short affidavit on the issue.In an October 25 hearing, the counsel appearing for the petitioner said that authorities have not demonstrated any public interest as far as the change in land use from recreational to residential for the plot is concerned. To this, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that official residences for the vice president and the Prime Minister are stipulated on the plot.Mehta said the recreational area could be shifted but he also cited security concerns considering that Parliament would come up there. The bench then asked the Centre's response on the raised matter.In January this year, the top court, by 2:1 majority, held that the grant of environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for construction of new Parliament building under the project was valid.The top court's verdict came on several pleas, including those against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the grant of environmental clearance and the nod to change of land use.In June this year, the top court dismissed a separate plea challenging the Delhi High Court order which had rejected a petition seeking to halt Central Vista construction work in view of the coronavirus pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-on-central-vista-land-use-today-101637026200187.html
16-11-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway today, to witness IAF airshow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will land on the Purvanchal Expressway in a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft on Tuesday when he arrives to inaugurate the 340.8-kilometre road, which will give a boost to the economic development of the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh, in the state’s Sultanpur district. PM Modi tweeted on Monday to say that it will be “a special day for Uttar Pradesh’s growth trajectory”. “This project brings with it multiple benefits for UP’s economic and social progress,” the Prime Minister posted on Twitter along with four photographs of the Purvanchal Expressway.Tomorrow is a special day for Uttar Pradesh’s growth trajectory. At 1:30 PM, the Purvanchal Expressway will be inaugurated. This project brings with it multiple benefits for UP’s economic and social progress. https://t.co/7Vkh5P7hDe pic.twitter.com/W2nw38S9PQThe Purvanchal Expressway, which has been constructed at an estimated cost of about ₹22,500 crore, will link the state capital of Lucknow with the eastern districts with links to major cities of Prayagraj and Varanasi. The expressway passes through nine districts including Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. Also read | Purvanchal Expressway sets pitch for poll battle in eastern UPWith the development of this expressway, the eastern region of the state would also be connected to the national capital of Delhi through the Agra-Lucknow and Yamuna Expressways.Also watch | Why PM Modi calls inauguration of 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway 'special'The Uttar Pradesh government has said the Purvanchal Expressway is part of its plans to develop emergency landing facilities for fighter planes across the country. A 3.2-km stretch has been developed for allowing fighter aircraft to make emergency landings near the Sultanpur district.Last week, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Purvanchal Expressway would be known as the backbone of the state’s economy.Also read | Will inaugurate ‘Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway’ in symbolic way: AkhileshPM Modi will also address a public meeting after inaugurating the Purvanchal Expressway and witness an air show organised by the Indian Air Force (IAF). Along with C-130J Super Hercules, fighter aircraft including Rafale, Mirage, Jaguar, Sukhoi, Kiran Mk II and AN-32 are likely to participate in the 45-minute air show.   Officials have said that multiple landings and takeoffs would be done from the airstrip by IAF fighter jets which would be witnessed by the Prime Minister and other ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-today-to-witness-iaf-airshow-101637021622719.html
16-11-2021||India||FIR against 9 for converting over 100 tribals to Islam in Gujarat||An FIR was registered against nine persons, including a local man currently living in London, for allegedly luring tribals from a village in Gujarat's Bharuch district to convert them to Islam using funds collected abroad, police said on Monday. Over 100 tribals from 37 families of the "Vasava Hindu" community, all residents of Kankariya village in Amod taluka of the Bharuch district, were made to change their faith by offering them money and through other allurements, an Amod police station official said. "The accused persons took advantage of the weak economic condition and illiteracy among the members of the tribal community to lure them into conversion to Islam over a long period," the official said. Almost all the nine accused are local residents barring one who is currently residing in London and identified as Fefdawala Haji Abdul, who collected funds from abroad for the purpose, he said. "The illegal religious conversion activity by Muslim fundamentalists using funds collected from abroad was going on for a long time at the village. The accused persons lured the Vasava Hindu community members by offering them money and other help to convert them fraudulently to Islam by entering into a criminal conspiracy hatched to spread animosity between members of two communities and affect peace," Bharuch police said in a statement. A native of Nabipur in the Bharuch district, who currently resides in London, Fefdawala Haji Abdul, used to collect funds from abroad for religious conversion, it said. The nine persons were booked under the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, as well as sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 153 (B)(C) (act likely to cause disharmony), and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-9-for-converting-over-100-tribals-to-islam-in-gujarat-101637017891071.html
16-11-2021||India||SC raps Centre over transfer of tax cases from high courts||The Supreme Court turned down the Union government’s plea to transfer a clutch of cases relating to reassessment notices sent under the Income Tax Act from various high courts to the top court, observing that the Centre must stop this “practice of convenience”.“Is it a matter of convenience for the Union government to bring all matters to the Supreme Court? You want all the cases to come here and, in the process, you ensure no other court can proceed. Aren’t the high courts also constitutional courts? Why can’t they hear and decide a case?” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana asked additional solicitor general (ASG) Balbir Singh.Singh, appearing for the central board of direct taxes (CBDT), had requested the Supreme Court to transfer to itself several hundreds of petitions pending before the high courts of Bombay and Calcutta on the validity of notices issued to several entities under the old provisions of Section 148 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The ASG emphasised there are more than one lakh notices issued under Section 148 of the old Act.Singh maintained that the high courts have stayed the revenue department’s notices in all these cases and that an authoritative ruling by the top court could help the situation since different high courts may end up laying down different judgments.But the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, was livid at the Centre’s attempt to bring all the cases to the top court.“Why do you do this in every case? This has become a forum of convenience for the central government, we think. You also force all the litigants to come to the Supreme Court who want high courts to decide. We will have to stop this practice,” the bench told Singh.“You withdraw this and seek your remedies before the high court. We will not entertain it here. We will rather have the advantage of the high court judgment,” said the bench, compelling the ASG to withdraw the transfer petition.The Centre earlier this year moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of several batch of cases relating to separate aspects of the 2021 Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules from various high courts to the top court.In March, the government sought transfer of cases relating to regulating content of releases on over-the-top platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hotstar, and Zee5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-centre-over-transfer-of-tax-cases-from-highcourts-101637013316951.html
16-11-2021||India||Centre front-loads states’ share to boost spending||The Union government has frontloaded devolution of revenue to states by doubling the November instalment to ₹95,082 crore, and has that states’ revenue shares is not affected by the recent cut in central excise on petrol and diesel as the hit will be taken by the Centre, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told them at a meeting on Monday.She said the money has been given upfront to states so that they can frontload their capital expenditure and give infrastructure push that would propel economic growth, which is already upbeat. “With this, states will have more money in their hands so that they can consider spending it for infrastructure creation,” she said.This is an advance release, which will be adjusted in the month of March, the end of the current financial year, she added.Sitharaman said that the meeting—first of its kind and convened less than 100 days before the Union Budget—aims to maintain a robust economic growth that has been witnessed post-pandemic.“We need to sustain the growth,” she said, adding that the government wants to take it as close as possible to a double-digit growth.India’s gross domestic product (GDP) saw a 24.4% contraction in the first quarter ended June 2020. The economy plunged into technical recession (negative growth for two subsequent quarters) as the subsequent quarter (Q2 FY21) contracted 7.3%.The economy, however, recorded a V-shaped recovery as a result of several policy measures, including a ₹20.97 lakh crore stimulus package. That led to a positive 0.5% growth in the third quarter and 1.6% in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021.The current fiscal year started with a record 20.1% expansion in the first quarter ended June 2021, signalling a strong revival in business activities.On uniform pricing of petrol and diesel across the country, she said the decision on applicability of tax rates has to be taken by states in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council. Commenting on the impact of recent cuts in central excise on petrol and diesel, finance secretary TV Somanathan said: “Entire reduction is borne by central government ... it is revenue loss to the centre [alone] and no loss to devolution to the state government.”Sitharaman said the meeting was essentially convened to seek ideas from states to further boost investments and manufacturing as states are in the “forefront” of business activities. She said states did make several observations related to the forthcoming budget, but there was no specific discussion on fund allocations. “In general, there were a lot of observations. No particular thing about the budget... There were a lot of discussions in general about so many things,” she said.The meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, and Uttar Pradesh. Deputy chief ministers of Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, and Delhi also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-front-loads-states-share-to-boost-spending-101637013095879.html
16-11-2021||India||Spikes in delhi’s pollution have direct link to rise in farm fires||There can be no arguing that stubble burning is a major contributor to the bad air in Delhi at this time of the year, just as there can be no arguing that Delhi’s average annual air quality index (AQI) is in the poor or the upper end of the moderate category.This may seem to be at odds with the claims made in an affidavit submitted by the environment ministry in the Supreme Court that downplays the contribution of stubble burning to the Capital’s bad air. The affidavit is clearly an example of the damage averages can wreak on policy making when used without context.The facts are thus.One, Delhi always has bad air.In 2018, the average AQI was 225.4; in 2019, it was 214; in 2020, it was 185.2; and in 2021, till November 14, it was 188.2. The number of stations measuring AQI across these years is not the same, but the metric is still a good indicator of how good (or bad, in this case) Delhi’s air was.Two, stubble burning just serves to push the AQI into the very poor (300-400) or severe (400-500 ) category.For instance, between October 20 and November 14 this year, Delhi’s AQI has been in the severe zone on seven days. On each of these days, the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 contribution was between 26%-48%.This isn’t an aberration.For instance, according to a paper, “Objective evaluation of stubble emission of North India and quantifying its impact on air quality of Delhi”, in the first fortnight of November 2018, the contribution of stubble burning (biomass) to AQI was 9, 10, 30, 58, 29, 9, 10, 8, 7, 13, 22, 24, 5, 9, and 29%. That’s an average of around 18%.Three, Delhi doesn’t see that many days when the AQI is severe.Given that Delhi’s AQI has been in the severe category on a maximum of 25 days (in one year) in the period between 2016 and 2020 according to an affidavit filed by the environment ministry in the Supreme Court – including days when AQI was very poor, the number was 64 in 2020 and 80 in 2019 – it is clear that stubble burning has a clear impact on the Capital’s air. Long-term interventions – more public transport, better garbage disposal, moves to combat desertification, electric vehicles – will be needed to get Delhi’s average AQI down, but it is clear that short-term interventions (combating stubble burning, for one) will be needed to keep it from slipping into the very poor and severe categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spikes-in-delhi-s-pollution-have-direct-link-to-rise-in-farm-fires-101637010002158.html
16-11-2021||India||Virtual hearing option open for lawyers during pregnancy: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a petition to keep the option of virtual hearings open for the benefit of working women lawyers who have to sacrifice their careers during pregnancy, or while providing maternal care to their newborns.A petition by a Delhi-based lawyer Esha Mazumdar, contending that virtual courts offering working women a balance to manage both professional and personal duties, said: “An option ought to be given to women lawyers to opt for virtual hearing during pregnancy and thereafter for at least 26 weeks till the women are sufficiently independent to start appearing physically before Courts.”It further stated, “Since right to pregnancy is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, every effort ought to be made to see that the fundamental right is not violated only because a woman is constrained to choose between pregnancy and her career.”A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai agreed to hear the petition. Two petitions seeking continuation of virtual hearing before the Supreme Court and high courts are pending consideration before the top court. The court issued notices to the Centre, the Bar Council of India, the Supreme Court of India and all high courts, and posted the matter for hearing on December 6 along with the two pending petitions.However, the bench sounded caution by saying, “We want courts to open up first and thereafter we want to create exceptions... We must consider that all this was not an issue before the pandemic. Tomorrow teachers will approach the Court to provide for right to teach through virtual classroom. We cannot allow lawyers as a separate class.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-hearing-option-open-for-lawyers-during-pregnancy-sc-101637007688122.html
16-11-2021||India||Last rites of Colonel, his family performed||Thousands of people flooded the streets of Raigarh town, on Monday, to pay last tribute to the commanding officer of Assam Rifles, his wife and son, who were killed in a militant ambush in Manipur on Saturday.Four personnel of the country’s oldest paramilitary were also killed in the attack.The final rites of Colonel Viplav Tripathi were performed on Monday evening, at a crematorium, near Circuit House with full military and state honours.Residents and traders of Raigarh town observed a ‘bandh’ to pay tribute to Tripathi and his family. Thousands of people gathered from nearby areas to pay tribute to the commanding officer in Raigarh town.Higher Education Minister Umesh Patel, along with four legislators and senior police officers were present during the final rites.Earlier on Monday, the mortal remains of Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife Anuja and son Abeer, were brought to their hometown Raigarh in Chhattisgarh on Monday. A special plane of the Indian Air Force carrying mortal remains of the martyred colonel, his wife and son, landed at an airstrip in Raigarh at 12:42 pm.Tripathi’s younger brother, Lieutenant Colonel Anay Tripathi, state’s higher education minister Umesh Patel, Raigarh MP Gomti Sai, local MLAs, district administration and police officials were present at the airstrip in Raigarh district.The mortal remains were taken in an open flower-decked truck to Colonel Tripathi’s home and subsequently kept at the Riagarh’s Ramleela ground for the public to pay homage.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also expressed his condolences after the arrival of mortal remains in Raigarh on Monday.On Sunday, Colonel R S Thakur of the Assam Rifles, four other officers and 45 personnel reached Raigarh to express condolences to the family members.Tripathi’s father Subhash Tripathi is a senior journalist and editor of local Hindi daily ‘Dainik Bayar’ and his grandfather Kishori Mohan Tripathi was a freedom fighter.Born on May 30, 1980, Viplav went to the Sainik School Rewa (Madhya Pradesh) after passing class V at a school in Raigarh town.After schooling, Viplav got admission to the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla and then joined the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, Patnaik said.In 2001, he was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Kumaon Regiment in Ranikhet. He later passed a command course from the Defence Service Staff College (DSSC) Wellington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-rites-of-colonel-his-family-performed-101637007285087.html
16-11-2021||India||When CBI recommended 5-year tenure for its chief. It was rejected||NEW DELHI: A recommendation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to have five-year tenure for its director was rejected during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance-II government in 2012.The recommendation was made by CBI under former director AP Singh, who argued at that time that the agency needs continuity of the CBI director so that crucial corruption probes can be taken to logical conclusions. He reasoned that many high-profile cases linger on for years, and by the time an important development takes place, a new director joins the agency.The matter was examined by the select committee of the Rajya Sabha which considered the Lokpal and Lokayukta Bill, 2011 but the committee didn’t accept the recommendation and decided to continue with a two-year term allowed to the CBI director under the Supreme Court ruling in the Jain hawala case.Another key recommendation made by the CBI at that time was to have high powered committee comprising the Prime Minister, Leader of Opposition and Chief Justice of India, which will select the CBI director, a recommendation that was made by other prominent dignitaries such as the former Chief Justice of India JS Verma.Since 2014, all the CBI chiefs have been appointed by this high-powered panel. Singh refused to comment when contacted by HT on Monday. However, a former high-ranking officer in CBI said “having fixed five-year tenure for the director would have been ideal but the latest arrangement of having three extensions of one year each after fixed two-year term is also welcome”. “The only problem is that CBI and ED directors will now actively want their tenure extended every year after a two-year fixed term, which may impact their objectivity,” said this former officer, who didn’t want to be named. This officer added that since ED directors can now also get a total of five years, their selection should also be done by a high-powered committee on the lines of CBI director. Currently, the ED chief is selected by a panel led by the central vigilance commissioner and comprising vigilance commissioners and secretaries of the department of personnel and training, and the revenue department.Two ordinances were brought in on Sunday by the Centre empowering itself to post the chiefs of CBI and ED for up to five years – with extension up to three years beyond their fixed tenure of two years. The decision is likely to benefit current ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra, who completes his tenure this week. The Supreme Court in September asked the government not to give the ED director any further extension. However, the ordinance gives him chance at two more years to head the anti-money laundering agency. Opposition parties have slammed the ordinances terming them illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-cbi-recommended-5-year-tenure-for-its-chief-it-was-rejected-101637005824909.html
16-11-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI records ‘attempt to rape’ case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has been directed to probe allegations of rape, murder and attempt to murder during the post-poll violence in West Bengal by Calcutta high court, on Monday recorded a case of attempted rape that allegedly took place in Murshidabad district on May 10.The family of the woman alleged the local police refused to accept the complaint, a CBI officer said on condition of anonymity. The crime was allegedly committed on May 10, a week after the assembly election results were announced on May 2, said an official, seeking anonymity.Police, however, claimed that a rape incident had taken place on May 9 but was not linked to any post-poll violence.“There was an incident of rape in the district on May 9. The police recorded the statement of the survivor and arrested three men. They were produced before a local court. This was not linked to any post-poll violence. No complaint about any attempted rape was received by the police on May 10 or after that date,” K S Rajkumar, Murshidabad district police superintendent, said.Taking a swipe at the state government, Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Sukanta Majumdar said: “Mamata Banerjee’s government has set a record in underreporting crime and not accepting complaints. Nobody listened to the survivor at Nabagram. The CBI will unearth the truth.”The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), however, said the CBI should be allowed to probe the case first. “The CBI has filed so many cases. This is one more. Let it investigate,” Bengal cabinet minister Partha Chatterjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-cbi-records-attempt-to-rape-case-101637005032640.html
16-11-2021||India||PM Modi to hand over LCHs to IAF on Nov 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on November 19 hand over locally produced military hardware, including light combat helicopters (LCHs), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and electronic warfare systems for warships, to the armed forces at a function in Jhansi as part of celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s independence, highlighting the government’s focus on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector.The PM will hand over the LCH, designed and developed by state-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, and UAVs manufactured by local startups to army chief General MM Naravane, the defence ministry said in a statement on Monday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the three-day event on November 17.“LCH incorporates advanced technologies and stealth features and is designed to carry out roles such as destruction of enemy air defence, counter insurgency, search and rescue and anti-tank operations. It is the only attack helicopter in the world which can land and take-off at an altitude of 5,000 m with considerable load of weapons and fuel,” the statement said.HAL has not yet got the LCH contract from the defence ministry for supplying the helicopters to the IAF and army, but that has not stopped it from manufacturing the helicopters and delivering them to the two services. Its handing over to IAF indicates the contract will be signed soon.HAL is awaiting a contract for 15 limited series production (LSP) helicopters and expects follow-on orders as the IAF and the army have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs. Of the initial 15 LSP helicopters approved for purchase by the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex defence procurement body – 10 are for IAF and five for the army.The PM will also on November 19 lay the foundation stone of a new ₹400-crore facility of Bharat Dynamics Ltd in the Jhansi node of the UP defence industrial corridorThe PM’s participation in the event and his handing over the locally developed military equipment to the armed forces is a message to the world and the country that “we have taken giant steps towards self-reliance in defence,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The line-up of events in Jhansi includes the PM dedicating to the country 100 new Sainik Schools and he will also launch the National Cadets Corps (NCC) alumni association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hand-over-lchs-to-iaf-on-nov-19-101637004621863.html
16-11-2021||India||Karnataka seeks Centre’s aid to keep up growth||The Karnataka government on Monday sought assistance from the Centre to keep the momentum of economic growth in the southern state, including a clear policy on forest and environment, special incentives for special sectors, institutional finance for new-age technology and speedy dispute resolution, among others.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai participated in the meeting chaired by the Union finance minister with the chief ministers of various states on Monday. Bommai also holds the finance portfolio of Karnataka. “A clear policy on forest and environmental clearance is required. Special sectors need special incentives. Townships are being developed in SEZs, which require amendments to the laws of urban local bodies and rural local bodies to have better infrastructure in these areas. Banks have to be directed to finance new business sectors such as electric vehicles, med-tech and IOT (Internet of things),” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a statement on Monday, attributing it to Bommai.The chief minister said Karnataka continued to attract higher foreign direct investment inflow in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the state amended key labour and land laws to attract more investments.“The state contributes immensely to the economy of the country, the state’s largest research and development sector and expert human resources are the main contributors to the state’s inflow of investment,” the chief minister said.He added that the Global Investor Meet, a biennial event that was last held in 2016, would be held next year.The state is also trying to get investors to look beyond Bengaluru, the state’s economic and power capital, which continues to be the go-to destination for most businesses coming into Karnataka.“Bidar and Kalaburagi airports in the state are operational and Shimoga, Raichur, Vijayapura and Karwar airports are expected to be operational by 2022,” Bommai said.Karnataka is aggressively pursuing investors as it tries to make up for the reduction in the state’s share in goods and services tax as well as the devolution of taxes under the 15th Finance Commission.Bommai said that speedy resolution of disputes outside of courts as well as relaxing coastal regulation zones is likely to help the state’s growth trajectory.He said that a portion of the District Mining Fund should be handed over to the state government.“This will help to repair the damage to other districts’ infrastructure by transporting the ore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-seeks-centre-s-aid-to-keep-up-growth-101637003603469.html
16-11-2021||India||Aides tried to abduct Sriki for not delivering bitcoins: Police||Associates of Srikrishna, the person at the centre of Karnataka’s cryptocurrency scandal, had tried to abduct the hacker as he had failed to deliver Bitcoins in return for the former bankrolling his lavish lifestyle, details from the charge sheet reveal.The hacker has become the main person of interest in a raging Bitcoin scandal in Karnataka that has engulfed the entire political class with the police trying to unearth the purported scam and its magnitude.According to the statements in charge sheet against Srikrishna, his associates Suneesh Hegde, Prasidh Shetty and Robin Khandelwal have claimed that the former used to make them pay for his lavish lifestyle, promising them Bitcoins. When he didn’t keep his promise, they even tried to abduct him.In other instances, too Srikrishna had made his associates pay for his luxurious life promising them Bitcoins.“He claimed to have hacked and stolen several bitcoins and promised to give them to me. So, I looked after all expenses of SriKi. Till now, I have spent over ₹2 crore on him,” read Suneesh’s statement.Details of this conflict within the gang were shared by Khandelwal who was helping Srikrishna convert his Bitcoins to cash. Khandelwal, a B.Com graduate from Kolkata had started his career running his father’s rice mill. Later he learnt about Bitcoins and started operating a cryptocurrency exchange.According to the chargesheet, Robin first came in touch with Sriki in 2017, when the hacker contacted him to convert Bitcoins. Initially, Srikrishna introduced himself under a ‘Dariel Herman’ and asked Khandelwal to sell 900 bitcoins.After this first transaction, Srikrishna remained in constant touch with Khandelwal and in 2018, the two met for the first time in Bengaluru. During this meeting Srikrishna revealed his real identity. He told Khandelwal that he was a hacker and he could provide many Bitcoins for conversion.Srikrishna would transfer Bitcoins he acquired after hacking to Robin who would then convert the Bitcoins into cash, keep his commission and then transfer the money to various accounts. According to the charge sheet, Khandelwal said that Sriki sent him 130 Bitcoins from 2017 till December 20, 2020. Robin sold them and, after taking his commission, transferred Rs. 3.48 crores to multiple accounts Sriki had given him.It was during this trip to Bengaluru that Khandelwal was introduced to the other accused in the case, namely Suneesh Hedge, Prasidh Shetty and Sujay Raj by Srikrishna.These three men were Srikrishna’s associates in the hacking into poker websites. Explaining their modus operandi, the chargesheet reads that Poker sites were hacked by Srikrishna when his friends played the poker games online. After hacking into the website, Srikrishna would give them details of the opponent’s cards and they would win the game and the cash prize that came with it.For these hacking sessions, Srikrishna insisted on staying in five-star hotels in Goa, which later became the root of conflict within the gang. Srikrishna made Suneesh foot the bill for these expensive stays and according to the charge sheet they stayed in Goa for 10 days.When Srikrishna began ignoring their calls the trio hatched a plot against the hacker. Robin in his statement claimed that he put a fake bandage on his leg to scare Srikrishna that he was beaten up by the gang, forcing him to flee the hotel he was staying in.Later they asked Khandelwal to bring Srikrishna to a safe house in Bidadi, in the outskirts of Bengaluru, on the pretext that he was taking him to a safe house. Here the gang locked up and threatened the hacker to pay their share of bitcoins.Khandelwal in his statement claimed that while locked up in the apartment, Srikrishna convinced him that they should escape from the balcony and they should keep the Bitcoins for themselves. Convinced by his plan, Srikrishna escaped from the apartment with the help of Khandelwal, reads his statement.Months later Suneesh is arrested in a drug case and during the interrogation, he reveals that it was Srikrishna who purchased the drugs for him. Following this Srikrishna is arrested on November 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aides-tried-to-abduct-sriki-for-not-delivering-bitcoins-police-101637003484580.html
16-11-2021||India||Aspirants begin lobbying for parties ahead of Karnataka legislative council elections||Prospective candidates for the upcoming elections to 25 seats in the upper house of the Karnataka legislature on December 10 continue to lobby within their own parties and look for possibilities in rival parties as the race for the polls heats up in the southern state.People aware of the developments said that leaders from all three major parties--Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JDS(S)--continue to shop for better prospects within their own as well as rival parties to make the cut.Of those whose terms in the upper house end include BJP minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and Congress opposition leader SR Patil, among others.The last day for nominations is on November 23. On Sunday night, A Manju, who was formerly with the Congress and defected to the BJP before 2019, met opposition leader Siddaramaiah to find his way back to the party fold.“He (Manju) has been talking to us and is ready to join the Congress. We are still discussing if we should bring him back or not,” said one person directly aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.Manju had unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket against Prajwal Revanna of the JD(S) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Manju’s son Mantar Gowda too has been in touch with the Congress which Siddaramaiah denied.“Let the people of Kodagu decide who they want as a candidate,” Siddaramaiah said, refusing to divulge more information about any meeting with the BJP leader.The developments come even as the BJP, Congress and JD(S) are trying to prepare the ground for the upcoming zilla and taluka panchyat, Bengaluru corporation and the 2023 assembly elections.The BJP believes that gaining a majority in the upper house can help with easy passage of contentious bills over the course of the next one and a half years before elections. It has so far relied on the JD(S) to either support it or refrain from voting to ensure the passage of bills.The BJP has 32, the Congress has 29 and the JD(S) has 12 seats in the upper house.There are several more examples of leaders wanting to jump ship which the JD(S) claims was “decided two years ago”.“We are aware of those who want to leave our party and it was decided over two years ago,” TA Sharavana, a JD(S) leader said.Of those who are expected to leave the JD(S) include GT Deve Gowda, Srinivas Gowda, Gubbi Srinivas and Manohar among others.Most of the interest of leaders from the old Mysuru region appears to head to the Congress while several more are looking at the BJP, according to multiple people aware of the developments.BJP’s Ravi Kumar said that the party is discussing the candidatures but that nothing has been decided yet.The BJP is expected to start its Janaswaraj Yatra from November 17 with four senior leaders heading teams across the state to finalise the candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aspirants-begin-lobbying-for-parties-ahead-of-karnataka-legislative-council-elections-101637003003548.html
16-11-2021||India||Russia starts shipping S-400 air defence system to India ahead of sked: Official||NEW DELHI: Russia has begun shipping the S-400 air defence systems to India ahead of schedule and will send specialists to help with the induction of the weapon next year, the head of state arms exporter Rosoboronexport said on Monday. “The equipment shipment has begun ahead of schedule,” Rosoboronexport chief Alexander Mikheyev was quoted as saying by Tass news agency.The first regiment of S-400 systems will be delivered to India by the end of this year and Russian experts will help with the induction of the weapons in 2022, Mikheyev told the Russian state-run news outlet at the Dubai air show.“All the material of the first regiment set will be delivered to India at the end of 2021. Immediately after the New Year, our specialists will arrive in India for the equipment transfer at the sites where it will be stationed,” he said.Mikheyev said Indian specialists who will operate the first regiment of S-400 systems have completed their training in Russia and returned home. The deliveries of the S-400 systems are being carried out in compliance with the terms of the contract with India, he added.India announced its intention to purchase S-400 air systems in 2015. A $5.4-billion contract for five regiments of S-400 systems was signed during Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India for an annual summit in October 2018.People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that Russia started shipping the components for the first batch of S-400 systems by air and sea. India has signalled its intention to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Putin is expected to visit India in the second week of December for the annual summit, which will set the stage for the two countries to renew their military-technical cooperation for the next decade.The S-400 Triumf is Russia’s latest long-and medium-range surface-to-air missile defence system that went into service in 2007. It is designed to destroy strategic and tactical aircraft, cruise and ballistic missiles and hypersonic weapons and can also be used against ground installations.The S-400 can engage targets at a distance of up to 400km and at an altitude of up to 30km.Mikheyev also said Rosoboronexport is in talks with seven of Russia’s strategic partners on possible supplies of the S-400 systems. “During the talks, we discuss the scope of supply, equipment, [and] offer additional means to boost the systems’ effectiveness and reliability,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-starts-shipping-s-400-air-defence-system-to-india-ahead-of-sked-official-101637002885840.html
16-11-2021||India||Madras HC asks HR&CE dept to set up no new institutes in Tamil Nadu||Madras high court on Monday passed an interim order restraining the Tamil Nadu government’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department from establishing new institutes using temple funds. It also stated that the functioning of four educational institutions run by the department would be subject to the result of a PIL against this move, and sought a report from HR & CE in three weeks. “It must be appreciated that however pious the intention may be to use perceived surplus funds for the purpose of education, these funds are out of offerings for a particular cause and, ordinarily, the cause must not be forgotten, and the same must be espoused with a part of the funds, even though the larger sphere of education may also be addressed,” the court said in its orders.Chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice P D Adikesavalu issued the interim orders while hearing the PIL filed by T R Ramesh, who petitioned that funds of the temples should be used for the restoration and renovation of the temples and that decisions on financial matters can be taken only by the trustees of the temples.The judges said that apart from the four colleges that are ready to open for admissions at Kolathur (chief minister M K Stalin’s constituency) in Chennai, Tiruchengode Taluk in Namakkal, Ottanchathiram in Dindigul and at Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi, no steps should be taken to set up other proposed colleges. “In other words, educational institutions on the basis of Section 36 of the Act (Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959) or Section 66 thereof or even Section 97 thereof should not be instituted at this stage till trustees at the relevant temples are first put in place and the leave of this court is obtained in such regard.”The DMK, which formed the government in Tamil Nadu in May, had on October 6 passed a government order from the higher education department to open these colleges using temple funds. Advocate General R Shanmugasundaram informed the court that funds from the ‘common good fund’ are being utilised for this purpose.The court directed the HR & CE department to introduce a new subject on Hindu religion in the four colleges under the department that have already started functioning. The court noted that in the four colleges BBA, B Com and other similar courses have been offered without any regular course in religious instructions in the Hindu religion. “It will be a condition precedent to the four colleges opening that a stream of religious instructions in Hindu religion is introduced. If such a course is not introduced within a month of the college starting, the further functioning of the college cannot continue,” the court said.The matter has been posted for December 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-asks-hr-ce-dept-to-set-up-no-new-institutes-in-tamil-nadu-101637002883537.html
16-11-2021||India||Vanniyar Sangam issues legal notice to Jai Bhim makers||The Vanniyar Sangam, the parent body of the caste-based party Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), has issued a legal notice to the makers of Tamil movie Jai Bhim and OTT platform Amazon Prime to remove certain scenes where the organisation’s symbol is present, which they say portray their community in poor light. PMK is part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu. The notice on Monday sought damages in ₹5 crore within seven days from the time of receipt of the notice. On behalf of T Arulmozhi, the Vanniyar Sangam state president, PMK’s spokesperson and advocate K Balu has issued the legal notice to the team including S Suriya and TJ Gnanavel, the lead actor and director of Jai Bhim , Suriya’s wife Jyothika and the couple’s production house 2D Entertainment Private Limited and a representative of Amazon Prime demanding they issue an unconditional apology. The legal notice also asked those behind the film to “cease and desist from making or publishing any false, malicious and defamatory remarks against (the Vanniyar) community and its people.” Jai Bhim is a real life story of a tribal man who was falsely implicated in a case and died in custody due to police torture in 1993 and the film shows how his wife and retired high court justice K Chandru fight for his justice. The case Rajakannu Versus State of Tamil Nadu and others resulted in three policemen being sentenced to 14 years rigorous imprisonment for the murder of Rajakannu. The notice stated that the movie has retained the real names of all the characters. “But deliberately you have changed the name of the sub inspector of police, who had tortured the victim in the police custody,” the notice stated. They alleged that the real name of the sub-inspector is Anthonysamy but the movie “deliberately” named him as Gurumurthy and “repeatedly referred to him as Guru” which they said was related to the community’s prominent late leader J Guru. The notice also pointed out that the symbol Agni Gundam (meaning raging flame from the holy pot) has been a sacred symbol of the Vanniyar community for many centuries which has been used in the movie in reference to the sub-inspector. “In one of the 4 sequence in the movie, you have shown the symbol of Vanniyar Sangam in the calendar behind the Sub Inspector of Police who commits the atrocity of torture in the movie,” they said. “You have deliberately got printed a calendar of the year 1995 with the symbol of “Agni Kundam’’ representing the Vanniyar Sangam and community with a malafide intention of defaming the members of Vanniyar sangam and damaging the image and reputation of entire vanniyar community.” The notice added that the makers have done this “wantonly, wilfully and intentionally”. They added that it cannot be considered as a “casual, innocent, inadvertent mistake” in the movie which has now been viewed by millions of cine lovers across the globe which was released on November 2 on the OTT platform. “You have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer, as if he belonged to Vanniyar community thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things while in real life the said Sub Inspector does not belong to Vanniyar Community.” The notice said that the community has supported welfare of those marginalised and the film has caused communal disharmony. They noted that if the makers failed to comply, the Vanniyar Sangam would initiate criminal proceedings under section 499, 500 and 505 of the Indian Penal Code and suitable civil proceedings for claiming damages. Earlier this month, PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss wrote a letter to actor Suriya demanding answers. The actor had last week responded refuting the allegations. In his reply to Anbumani, Suriya said that he had no intention to insult anyone. “I hope you are aware that corrections were carried out as soon as some people pointed out mistakes,” he had said on November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vanniyar-sangam-issues-legal-notice-to-jai-bhim-makers-101637002827136.html
16-11-2021||India||HC rejects plea claiming Nambi influenced CBI in Isro spy case probe||The Kerala high court on Monday dismissed a plea of a former police officer who accused former Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) scientist Nambi Narayanan of influencing a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)-led probe into the 1994 espionage case against him.Former Kerala Police officer S Vijayan is among 17 accused facing a probe by the central agency for falsely implicating Narayanan in the spy case. In his plea before the high court in July this year, the former police officer alleged that Narayanan had influenced the CBI probe by entering into land deals worth crores with the then investigating officials of the agency.Attaching records of some properties in Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu, Vijayan alleged that Narayanan and his son owned large tracts of land which they later handed over to the CBI officials to weaken the case against him. He added that the materials he had were sufficient for the trial court to order a probe and book the former Isro scientist and CBI officials under the Prevention of Corruption Act.The single bench of justice Narayana Pisharadi, however, told the petitioner that mere encumbrance certificates were not enough, and sale deeds and other records were required to prove the charges. The court subsequently quashed the plea with a suggestion that the former police officer move the trial court after furnishing sufficient documents.Reacting to the developments, Narayanan said “truth will always succeed”.Narayanan was wrongly accused of selling vital secrets associated with Indian space technology to Pakistan in 1994. Though he was later acquitted by a CBI court and the Supreme Court in 1998, he spent a total of 50 days in jail along with fellow scientist D Sasikumar and four others. In 2018, he was compensated ₹50 lakh by the Supreme Court for “unnecessary arrest, harassment and mental cruelty”.Vijayan was not available for a comment on the high court’s decision.Vijayan’s plea before the high court in July came after the CBI filed a conspiracy case against him and 16 others, for framing the former Isro scientist. All of them were booked under various offences, including criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and fabrication of evidence in connection with the arrest and detention of Narayanan in the espionage case. Besides Narayanan, two Maldivian women were also arrested and detained in the case. The two women were jailed for over three years before being released.Two months ago, the former police officer along with six others were granted bail by the high court in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-plea-claiming-nambi-influenced-cbi-in-isro-spy-case-probe-101637002824718.html
16-11-2021||India||IMD issues fresh alert in Kerala, two more dead||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a fresh alert in Kerala saying the heavy rains will continue for two more days. The IMD also issued an orange alert in Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod, and a yellow alert in the remaining eight districts as two more people died in Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur on Monday after they were swept away in gushing water, revenue officials said. On Sunday, three, including two children died due to landslides. Nine migrant workers had a miraculous escape after a building collapsed in Kozhikode on Monday. Alert locals and officials removed the debris immediately and saved them. Pathanamthitta and Idukki are the worst affected districts, and the state has opened more than 300 relief camps. The State Disaster Management Authority informed that in the last 24 hours, Kollam, Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki and Thrissur were affected the most.In rainfall-related incidents across the state, one house was fully damaged while 28 were partially damaged, SDMA said, adding that three lives, including that of two toddlers, were lost in the last 24 hours.A cyclonic circulation lying over the south-eastern Arabian Sea is likely to trigger very heavy or heavy rainfall over the next two days in parts of Kerala, the IMD said.State agriculture minister P Prasad said the state lost agriculture worth ₹400 crores in the last month. “We will approach the Union government for help,” he said in Alapzuha. Damage to houses, roads and bridges will be at least three times higher this amount, said a senior revenue official. To add to the state’s mounting woes annual pilgrimage to hill temple Sabarimala also began on Monday. Though pilgrims’ numbers are restricted to 30,000 a day, damaged roads and bridges are a big worry, said officials. Pilgrims are also not allowed to take bath in the holy river Pambha. “We are monitoring the situation closely,” said the newly-elevated president of the Travancore Dewasom Board K Anandagopan. Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is also the MP from the Wayanad constituency, asked the party workers to help rain-affected people. “Our brothers and sisters in Kerala are braving heavy rains. I appeal to Congress workers in help in every possible way,” he tweeted. The state recorded the highest northeast monsoon, 833 mm rainfall, between October 1 and November 15. The previous record was 822.9 mm received in 2010 during the same period, IMD statistics show. The usual rainfall during the northeast monsoon in Kerala is 492 mm between October 1 and December 31, but the fall has already doubled, with one-and-a-half months to go for the relapse of the second monsoon spell. The unusual rains have left a trail of death and destruction in the state. In the second week of October, 42 people died in flash floods and landslides. All dams and water bodies in the state are swollen, and shutters of the Idukki dam were opened on Sunday. EXPERT QUOTE IF AVAILABLE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdissues-fresh-alert-in-kerala-two-more-dead-101637002765949.html
16-11-2021||India||Telangana: Former collector quits post, joins ruling TRS||A senior IAS officer and collector of Siddipet district in Telangana resigned from service on Monday to join the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party. P Venkat Rami Reddy made headlines earlier this year in June when he touched the feet of chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao (KCR) at the inauguration of the new collector’s complex in Siddipet.A 2003-batch officer, Reddy told reporters that he opted for voluntary retirement from service and was relieved from duties after chief secretary Somesh Kumar accepted his resignation with immediate effect.Reddy later told reporters that he would be joining the TRS after getting the green signal from the chief minister. He is being tipped for the state legislative council membership under local bodies’ quota, the nomination process for which would begin on Tuesday and the elections would be held on December 10.Reddy joined the government service as a Group-I officer in 1996 during the combined Andhra Pradesh regime and was conferred with an IAS cadre in 2003. “I had been in the government service for more than 25 years and worked in various capacities. Now, I am joining the TRS, and it is for the party to take a call on how to utilise my services,” he said.On Monday, Reddy also went to Pragati Bhavan, the camp office of the chief minister in Hyderabad and met KCR. “I am ready to accept whatever responsibility I will be entrusted with,” he said.Reddy said, “KCR was developing Telangana into a No. 1 state in the country, which the people would remember for the next 100 years.” “Entire nation is looking up to KCR’s leadership. I have taken a decision to follow his path and will work as per his directions,” he said.Despite being a bureaucrat, Reddy has never concealed his admiration for the TRS. He triggered a controversy by touching KCR’s feet on June 21 this year, after which the opposition parties demanded that he be sacked from service. Reddy defended his gesture saying there was nothing wrong in touching the feet of the chief minister, who is the head of the state.Recently, Reddy stoked yet another controversy by warning the seed dealers against selling paddy seeds to farmers during the Rabi season, since the government was discouraging paddy cultivation.A video of the IAS officer threatening the seed dealers that he would send them to jail if they sold even a single kilogram of paddy seeds went viral on social media. “I don’t care even if you get permission from the high court or Supreme Court. As long as I am the collector of the district, there is no question of selling paddy seeds,” he asserted. HT has verified the veracity of the video and found it to be legit.He, however, retracted his statement after getting a dressing down from the Telangana high court on November 2.Telangana PCC leader and former minister Mohammad Ali Shabbir said it was no surprise that Reddy had quit the IAS officer post to join the TRS, as the Congress had been saying right from the beginning that he was working as a TRS agent.He reminded that the Congress had already lodged a complaint with President Ram Nath Kovind seeking action against Reddy for touching the feet of the chief minister in public. “KCR is rewarding Reddy with MLC seat for the latter’s slavery. This will prompt many more IAS and IPS officers to shun political neutrality and act as TRS functionaries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-former-collector-quits-post-joins-ruling-trs-101637002764526.html
16-11-2021||India||Clashes between YSRCP, TDP mar Kuppam municipal polls||The Kuppam municipal election in Andhra Pradesh witnessed more than 70 per cent turnout on Monday even as sporadic clashes broke out between the ruling YSRCP and TDP. The results will be declared on Wednesday.The polling percentage is expected to go up to 80 per cent with the state election commission declaring that all those who were still in the queue by the closing hours at 5 pm would be allowed to cast their vote.The Kuppam municipality, home turf of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Andhra chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu is strongly contested by the YS Jagan Mohan Redd-led YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) to continue their domination in elections across the state. On Monday, the TDP alleged that the YSRCP had indulged in largescale rigging and impersonation in the Kuppam municipal elections. “The YSRCP leaders and cadre, at the behest of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, committed midnight murder of democracy with the support of the authorities and misuse of police forces,” Naidu said at a press conference in the afternoon.He said the people of Kuppam put up strong resistance by coming out in large numbers to oppose the election excesses of the YSRCP leaders. “They caught hundreds of bogus voters and handed them over to the authorities. It was a black spot to democracy that the police did not act against bogus voters but resorted to lathi-charge on the people who came to stop impersonators,” he said.Naidu criticised the police for arresting TDP polling agents in several polling stations. “The police remained mute spectators when the YSRCP activists were blatantly bringing impersonators to the polling stations and arrested the TDP cadre who exposed them,” he alleged.Senior YSRCP leader and advisor to the state government on public affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, described the allegations made by the TDP president as baseless. “Unlike in the past, our government has given a free hand to the IAS and IPS officers to discharge their duty. Naidu should stop making statements that demoralised the bureaucrats,” he said.Stating that it was time for Naidu to relinquish politics as he was not able to tolerate new-age politics, Reddy said the TDP chief was only trying to find excuses for his impending defeat in Kuppam. “The people have already given their mandate in favour of Jagan Mohan Reddy. If Naidu can’t realise this fact, it only reflects his defeatist mentality,” the YSRCP leader said.The YSRCP has heavily campaigned for the Kuppam municipal elections, as it has been the personal fiefdom of Naidu, who has been representing the constituency for the last seven terms since 1989.Though Naidu won the Kuppam assembly seat in the 2019 assembly polls, his party has been losing all the local body elections in his constituency since then. The TDP could win only three out of 65 Mandal Parishad (block Parishad) territorial constituencies (MPTCs) and lost all the four Zilla Parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) to the ruling YSR Congress party in the elections held in April, results of which were declared on September 19.In the gram panchayat elections held in February this year, too, YSRC had won 75 out of 89 gram panchayats and the TDP had to remain content with just 14 gram panchayats.A defeat in the Kuppam municipal elections would be a major morale blow to Naidu ahead of the assembly elections scheduled in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-between-ysrcp-tdp-mar-kuppam-municipal-polls-101637002763500.html
16-11-2021||India||Row over 3 Andhra capitals: As trial resumes, govt seeks judges’ recusal||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday started fresh proceedings into the case against the proposed formation of three capitals for the state by the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government, which was challenged by the farmers of Amaravati, the present capital region. A division bench of the high court, comprising chief justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and justices M Satyanaryana Murthy and D V S S Somayajulu, began the hearing of arguments in the case, which was postponed several times for various reasons, including the Covid-19 pandemic and transfer of the chief justices and judges. In June 2020, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government enacted two separate laws, the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development (Repeal) Act aimed at abolishing the authority created by the previous TDP government in 2015 to develop Amaravati as the state capital and the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act aimed at establishing three capitals for the state – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati. Thousands of farmers, who gave up over 34,000 acres of fertile land for setting up the state capital in Amaravati, challenged the two laws in the high court. More than 100 petitions were filed by the farmers in this regard. Arguing on behalf of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi (Amaravati protection committee), senior Supreme Court advocate Shyam Divan argued that the governance was a continuous process and the change of governments did not mean a reversal of all the decisions taken by the previous regime. He said thousands of Amaravati farmers had given away their arable lands for the construction of the capital city of Andhra Pradesh under a land pooling scheme. Now, there were no sustainable means of livelihood for them, as they had lost the value of their plots given to them in place of the lands they had surrendered for the capital city due to the abrupt halting of development in the region. Appearing for the state government, senior advocate Dushyant Dave requested that two judges of the bench – justice Satyanarayana Murthy and justice Somayajulu – be recused of the hearing of the case, as there were allegations that both the judges had been allotted plots in Amaravati. The chief justice, however, rejected the plea stating that an earlier division bench had turned down the request but it was not challenged then. He, however, said he would examine the plea for recusal of the two judges at the time of giving the final judgment. Stating that there was a lot of significance to the hearing on the capital city issues, the chief justice observed that because of this case, the entire development in the state had come to a standstill. He assured that the hearing of the arguments would be completed at the earliest. The hearing of the petitions was first taken up in November last year by a division bench headed by former chief justice J K Maheshwari. The hearings ended abruptly with the transfer of Justice Maheshwari to Sikkim in March this year. His incumbent chief justice A K Goswami took up the hearing afresh in May but deferred it due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In August, the bench began the hearing but postponed it to November 15, on the petitioners’ plea. In the meantime, Justice Goswami was also transferred and replaced by Justice Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-3-andhra-capitals-as-trial-resumes-govt-seeks-judges-recusal-101637002704967.html
16-11-2021||India||Bitcoin case: Siddaramaiah asks Karnataka government to provide protection to Sriki||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday asked the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to provide protection to Srikrishna or Sriki, the person at the heart of the raging Bitcoin scandal, stating that the latter’s life could be in danger.“I urge @CMofKarnataka to ensure adequate protection to #Bitcoin scam kingpin Sri Krishna alias Sriki. Many influential people are said to be involved in the scam & hence protecting him becomes necessary,” Siddaramaiah said in a series of posts on Twitter.He added that it has become very important to keep Sriki safe to unravel the truth about the scandal which reportedly runs into several thousand crores.“Bitcoin scam is an organised ‘White collar crime’. It is said that all the passwords of the Bitcoin accounts related to the scam are just in the memory of Sriki. It is not written anywhere. His life will be under risk for these known & several unknown reasons,” Siddaramaiah posted.The statements come even as the scandal continues to take twists and turns ever since it was made public by Siddaramaiah earlier this month. The ruling BJP government under Bommai has tried to put the blame back on the Congress.Bommai has defended the government’s actions in trying to probe the scandal.Bommai on Monday said that the Congress is trying to “keep the non-issue alive”.“I have repeatedly said, if they have any documentary evidence let them give it to ED or state police. We will investigate it seriously.”R Ashoka, Karnataka’s revenue minister, on Monday said that the Congress is “intellectually bankrupt”.“During the previous elections, Congress tried to create a controversy related to (the) Rafale scam only to realise that the grand old party leaders were involved in it. Now, they are trying to rake up the Bitcoin issue. I wonder why Congress has turned out to be an expert in fake news. Every Congress leader seems to be an expert in lying without giving facts. The Congress party leaders have been making statements on releasing the documents related to Bitcoin and I wonder why they are not producing anything so far,” he said.The minister sought to know more details from the Congress who he said were claiming that the scandal had amounted to losses to several people.“I want to question the Congress party to give us details related to Bitcoin as to which company has lost money due to this. Where has the money been transferred? Let them provide proof. As Mr Basavaraj Bommai was weeding out the drug mafia, Congress party leaders are scared that their names will come out and hence they are trying to create the fake Bitcoin scandal. The main accused Sikri is a drug addict and a drug peddler. I question the Congress party as to why there was no proper investigation when it was in power. Now, the Congress party is worried that their leaders’ nexus will come out. I feel that the Congress is also worried over the Nalapad (referring to Congress legislator NA Harris’s son, Mohammed Nalapad) in the whole issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-seeks-protection-for-sriki-says-his-life-could-be-in-danger-over-bitcoin-scandal-101637002583481.html
16-11-2021||India||COVID-19: 171 new cases, one death in Karnataka||BengaluruKarnataka has reported 171 new cases of Covid-19 and 1 death, taking the total number of infections to 29,92,021 and fatalities to 38,146, the health department said on Monday.With 255 discharges on Monday, total number of recoveries climbed to 29,45,934.Out of 171 new cases reported on Monday, 118 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 144 discharges, and recorded no deaths.Total number of active cases in the state is at 7,912.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.25 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.58 per cent.The state recorded one death from Mysuru on Monday.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 118, Mysuru 14 and Dakshina Kannada 8, followed by the others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,54,093, followed by Mysuru at 1,79,403 and Tumakuru--1,20,944.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,31,206, followed by Mysuru 1,76,860 and Tumakuru 1,19,689.Cumulatively a total of 5,21,69,089 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 66,596 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-171-new-cases-one-death-in-karnataka-101637002462829.html
16-11-2021||India||Centre says DPR on key river basin projects only after allocation of water: Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the Centre has instructed the water resources ministry to decide on allocation of water of important rivers among southern states.In a statement, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the Centre has instructed that detailed project reports (DPR) on various projects across river basins be decided only after water sharing has been finalised.“Union Home Minister Amit Shah has instructed the Union Water Resources ministry to decide on the allocation of water share of the respective basin states before preparing the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Godavari, Krishna, Cauvery and Palar river linking project,” the CMO said in the statement, attributing it to Bommai.The statements come a day after Bommai objected to several projects in neighbouring states on river basins even before water sharing was decided at the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting chaired by Shah in Tirupati, about 250 kms from Bengaluru.Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy, Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Patel, Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Dr. Tamilisai Sounderajan, Puducherry chief minister N Rangaswamy participated in the meeting.“Union Home minister who chaired the meeting issued instructions to the Union Water Resources ministry on issued instructions, especially on projects related to river linking projects. Shah instructed the Water Resources ministry officials to consider Karnataka’s forceful stand to decide on the share of waters of the states before proceeding to prepare the DPR,” Bommai said on Monday.The chief minister also urged the government to take appropriate measures to issue the gazette notification on Krishna Water Tribunal-2 award. “I made a strong presentation on the irrigation projects of the state at the meet,” he said.The statements come at a time when Karnataka has been fighting long-winding legal battles with almost all its neighbouring states over river water sharing.In his speech at the council meeting on Sunday, Bommai had said that it had conveyed its stand on river linking projects in Godavari, Cauvery and other river basins to the union government.Karnataka urged the Centre not to approve the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link works, initiated by Tamil Nadu. He also said that neighbouring Telangana had no right to take up Palamaru Ranga Reddy and Nakkalagandi lift irrigation projects from Srisailam reservoir in Krishna basin to draw huge quantities of surplus waters.He also opposed construction of Rajiv Gandhi Sangam Banda barrage by Telangana that proposes to draw surplus waters which he said would deprive Karnataka of its rightful share of water.Incidentally, Karnataka has been pushing to get necessary approvals to start work on the Mekedatu project which has been opposed by Tamil Nadu.“The Mekedatu project too was raised, but it could not be taken up for discussion as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister did not attend the meeting. (The) Union Water Resources minister would be urged to remove the obstacles for implementation of the Mekedatu project,” according to the CMO statement.Bommai said Tamil Nadu has been indulging in politics over river water sharing.“The neighboring state has been raising objections even after (the) Cauvery Tribunal pronounced its award. We too have submitted our objections against Tamil Nadu’s stand. These issues should be resolved judicially,” he added.Bommai said several issues were resolved at the meeting which included discussing land for Metro rail project, initiating measures to avoid use of anti--biotics in fishing, quick disposal of Pocso cases, filing of charge sheets in a timely manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-dpr-on-key-river-basin-projects-only-after-allocation-of-water-bommai-101637002223381.html
16-11-2021||India||Can’t afford to miss 4th industrial revolution : Venkaiah Naidu||Bengaluru Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday called upon the higher education institutions and universities to review and align their existing courses to the emerging global trends or start new courses in tune with the national needs.Naidu was speaking at the sixth convocation of PES University in Bengaluru on Monday. “Today, the 4th industrial revolution is knocking at our door and it is driven by the knowledge economy and cutting-edge technological innovations. We cannot afford to miss this opportunity and our higher educational institutions must equip our youth with 21st-century skills,” he said. He referred to emerging areas such as 5G technologies, artificial intelligence, robotics and biotechnology.“I would urge our private institutions and universities to make the best use of this opportunity and to work towards making India self-reliant and technologically advanced in the space sector,” Naidu said, according to a statement by the Press Information Bureau on Monday. He said that India, with its traditional strengths in innovation, IT and frugal engineering, has the potential of becoming a global drone hub. “Indian authors can better contextualize the engineering course content with regard to Indian socio-economic conditions,” he said He also called for more research on issues of priority like climate change. “We frequently read news reports about increasing pollution in Indian cities; I would urge our educational institutions to come up with technological solutions to such pressing problems faced by society, especially in agriculture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-afford-to-miss-4th-industrial-revolution-venkaiah-naidu-101637002103976.html
16-11-2021||India||China, India will need to explain coal move: COP26 president||China and India will need to explain to developing nations why they pushed to water down language on efforts to phase out coal at the COP26 conference, the event’s president Alok Sharma said on Sunday.U.N. climate talks in Glasgow, Scotland, ended on Saturday with a deal that targeted fossil fuels for the first time.But India, backed by China and other coal-dependent developing nations, rejected a clause calling for a “phase out” of coal-fired power, and the text was changed to “phase down”.“In terms of China and India, they will on this particular issue have to explain themselves,” Sharma told a news conference at Downing Street in London.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “Whether the language was ‘phase down’ or ‘phase out’ doesn’t seem to me as a speaker of English to make that much difference.“The direction of travel is pretty much the same.”Johnson said COP26 had delivered a mandate to cut the use of coal-powered generation that was backed up by real action from individual counties.“When you add all that together, it is beyond question that Glasgow has sounded the death knell for coal power,” he said at the press conference.But he said his delight at the progress achieved was tinged by disappointment that the deal did not go further.“Sadly, that’s the nature of diplomacy,” he said. “We can lobby, we can cajole, we can encourage, but we cannot force sovereign nations to do what they do not wish to do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-will-need-to-explain-coal-move-cop26-president-101637002045333.html
16-11-2021||India||120kg heroin worth ₹600 crore seized in Gujarat, 3 arrested: Police||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) has seized 120 kg of heroin, valued at ₹600 crore in global market, from the state’s Morbi district and arrested three persons in this connection, police officials said on Monday.The drug consignment was sent to the accused persons by their Pakistani counterpart at the Arabian Sea near the Indo-Pakistan international maritime boundary line, and was to be delivered to an African country, they said.It was initially kept hidden in a coastal area near Salaya in Gujarat’s Devbhumi Dwarka district before being moved to Morbi’s Zinzuda village from where it was seized on Sunday, state Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia told reporters.“Acting on an intelligence input on Sunday, the Gujarat ATS raided an under-construction house in the village and recovered 120 kg of heroin worth ₹600 crore in the international market. Three persons were arrested in this connection,” the DGP said.The consignment was sent by one Zahid Bashir Baloch, a resident of Pakistan who is a wanted absconder in the earlier seizure of 227 kg heroin by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in 2019, he said.It was intended to be transported to an African country, the senior police official said.The heroin was delivered to the apprehended accused, identified as Mukhtar Hussein and Samsuddin Hussainmiyan Saiyyed, at the sea in the last week of October at the given coordination shared by Baloch with Mukhtar Hussein’s brother Isa Rav, he said.The conspiracy for the contraband delivery was hatched in the United Arab Emirates, like in most cases in the past, the official said. The drug consignment was to be handed over to the Indian smugglers to be transported to an African country, in accordance with the normal modus operandi of narcotic smugglers from Pakistan and Iran to use Indian counterparts for transporting drugs to the conduit, he said.“In the present case, the accused persons, apprehended by the Gujarat ATS, decided to divert the consignment, intended for Africa, to India and misappropriate it and sell it to various buyers,” he said. The under-construction house from where the drug consignment was seized belonged to a third accused person, identified as Gulam Hussein Umar Bhagad, he said.“Smugglers opt for the Indian route because it is cheap, short distance, and they can easily hide their illegal activities because detection is not easy among around 25,000 fishing boats plying in the area,” he said. Bhatia said the Gujarat coast is being used as a transit point to transport drugs being sent along the Indo-Pak international boundary line by Pakistani and Iranian heroin smugglers.“However, the Gujarat Police have been successful in neutralising all such attempts and all the consignments sent by these cartels have been successfully seized and the accused persons arrested,” he said.Minister of State for Home Harsh Sanghavi lauded the Gujarat Police for their efforts to tackle the drug menace.“Another achievement of Gujarat Police. Gujarat Police is leading from the front to eliminate the drugs. Gujarat ATS has nabbed around 120 kilo drugs,” he tweeted in the morning.The ATS in a release said the interrogation and investigation in such cases have revealed that “various geopolitical reasons are responsible for this surge in the number of attempts being made through Gujarat coast.” Last week, the state police had seized heroin and methamphetamine drugs worth ₹313.25 crore from three persons in Devbhumi Dwarka district.Earlier, in the single largest heroin haul in India in September, authorities seized around 3,000 kg of the drug, believed to be from Afghanistan and likely worth ₹21,000 crore in the global market, from two containers at the Mundra port in Gujarat’s Kutch district, officials earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120kg-heroin-worth-rs-600-crore-seized-in-gujarat-3-arrested-police-101637001864882.html
16-11-2021||India||Autopsy can be conducted after sunset||Post-mortem procedures can now be carried out at night, especially to enable the faster release of bodies to harvest organs for transplant surgeries, according to a new protocol issued by the Centre on Monday.As things stand, autopsies were performed before sunset, and only procedures that received special permission by the law enforcement agencies could be carried out at night. This, experts said, often led to organs of donors being unusable because the crucial hours in which they can be harvested and preserved were lost.“In response to the multiple references that have been received by the Union health ministry from various sources, and in line with the government’s commitment to promote ease of living by reducing burden imposed due to compliance to government processes, changes have been made in the post-mortem protocols to allow for the procedure to be conducted after sunset effective from today,” the health ministry said in a statement.“Apart from friends and relatives of the deceased, this new procedure also promotes organ donation and transplant as organs can be harvested in the stipulated time window after the procedure,” the statement added.The Directorate General of Health Services, the technical wing of Union health ministry, extensively examined several representations made to the ministry in this regard, and allowed institutes with adequate infrastructure to perform the procedure at night, officials said.“It was ascertained that some institutes are already performing night-time post-mortem. In view of the rapid advancement and improvement in technology, especially availability of required lighting and infrastructure required for post-mortem, performing night time post-mortem in hospitals is now feasible,” the statement read.Union health Mansukh Mandaviya hailed it as a move aimed at saving lives.“British era arrangement ends! Post-mortem will be conducted round the clock. Taking forward PM Narendra Modi’s idea of good governance, Union health ministry decided that hospitals that have the facility to conduct post mortem at night will be allowed to perform post-mortem after sunset,” he tweeted.The protocol also said that the post-mortem procedures for organ donation must be taken up on priority, and all post-mortem procedures performed at night need to be videographed.However, cases under categories such as homicide, suicide, rape, decomposed bodies, and suspected foul play, should not be taken up for post-mortem procedures during the night unless there is a law-and-order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postmortem-can-now-be-conducted-after-sunset-101637001503373.html
16-11-2021||India||At Suvendu vs Mamata hearing, Supreme Court has ‘a million-dollar question’||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday had many questions for Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari on his plea to transfer the election petition filed by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to any high court outside West Bengal on the ground that he will not get a fair hearing in the case.Mamata Banerjee, who lost to Adhikari from the Nandigram assembly segment in the state polls held early this year approached the Calcutta high court with an election petition questioning her rival’s victory by a thin margin of 1,965 votes. Adhikari, the leader of opposition in West Bengal, moved the top court demanding the petition to be shifted outside the state to allow him a “fair trial”.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for Adhikari, said, “I cannot get a fair trial due to the events that have transpired outside the court of justice Kaushik Chanda who was first hearing the election petition. This amounts to subversion of justice.”Adhikari, in his petition filed through advocate Surjendu Sankar Das, said, “The respondent’s position as the chief minister does not take away from the fact that she either instigates anarchy by her supporters and party workers or she does not have control over such persons who perpetrate lawlessness and anarchy as has been witnessed even inside the Calcutta high court premises during the hearing of the recusal application by justice Kausik Chanda.”Jethmalani further pointed out that during the election process, Adhikari’s poll agents were attacked and there was an apprehension of a threat to the life and property of potential witnesses in the election petition.A single-judge bench of justice Hima Kohli wondered if this could be a valid reason to seek transfer of a case.“Can that be a ground to entertain a transfer petition when you haven’t made Election Commission a party? Casting aspersions on Election Commission in a suit where the there is a sole respondent (Mamata Banerjee) does not help you.” The poll panel was a party in the election petition filed by Banerjee.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Bengal chief minister, said the petition is a vote of no confidence against the entire institution of Calcutta high court based on an order of recusal by justice Chanda. He was referring to justice Chanda’s order by which he refused to hear the matter after Banerjee claimed that as chief minister, she refused her consent to make justice Chanda a permanent judge of the high court.In his plea, Adhikari said he apprehended that the election petition “may not be fairly adjudicated in an unbiased manner” because Banerjee served as the chief minister of West Bengal since 2011, “and... therefore, a majority of the judges of the Calcutta high court would have either a favourable or unfavourable opinion of the respondent”.“Are you saying the entire high court is disqualified to hear this petition? It is a designated court to hear the election petition. Why should this matter go to any other high court is a million-dollar question,” justice Kohli asked Jethmalani.The judge also asked: “How do you define fair trial.”Jethmalani sought to explain how fair trial in a case can be vitiated on these apprehensions and relied on a Supreme Court judgment, the details of which were not conveyed in advance to the court.Jethmalani sought time to supply the copy of a judgment on this point and requested for a hearing on Tuesday. However, the bench posted it after two weeks. In July, justice Shampa Sarkar of the Calcutta high court issued notice on Banerjee’s election petition following recusal by justice Chanda. In August, when the matter was last heard, Adhikari got it adjourned on account of the transfer petition filed by him in the top court. The high court listed the petition for hearing later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-suvendu-vs-mamata-hearing-supreme-court-has-a-million-dollar-question-101637001383307.html
16-11-2021||India||Delhi HC likely to get first openly gay judge||India may finally get its first openly gay person as a judge of a constitutional court.The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the elevation of senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal as a judge in the Delhi high court, rejecting the Union government’s preliminary objections against his proposed elevation.“The Supreme Court Collegium, in its meeting held on 11th November, 2021, has approved the proposal for elevation of Shri Saurabh Kirpal, advocate, as judge in the Delhi High Court,” read the collegium’s resolution uploaded on the top court’s website on Monday evening. The collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, picked Kirpal, 49, who was one of the leading lawyers in the landmark Navtej Singh Johar case that led to the Supreme Court decriminalising homosexuality in 2018.The collegium also includes justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao.Former attorney general and veteran lawyer Mukul Rohatgi said Kirpal’s elevation was long overdue, and that Monday was the day of real recognition of the Supreme Court’s judgment reading down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code that criminalised homosexuality.“Kirpal is one of the brightest lawyers and I have had personal experience of his intellect and hard work. In Hindi, I will say ‘der aaye durust aaye’ (better late than never),” added Rohatgi.Kirpal was unavailable for comment.In October 2017, the Delhi high court unanimously recommended Kirpal for appointment as a judge of the Delhi HC. However, the Intelligence Bureau (IB), which was tasked with a background check on Kirpal, came out with an adverse report in 2018 and 2019, suggesting Kirpal’s partner, who is a foreign national, might pose a security risk.In view of the IB reports, the collegium kept deferring Kirpal’s elevation. The SC collegium deferred its decision on Kirpal’s recommendation on three occasions — in January 2019, April 2019 and in August last year.In March 2021, the then CJI SA Bobde wrote to the Union government, seeking additional information and more clarity on its reservations over Kirpal’s name. The government responded in April, reiterating its apprehensions against his partner. This time, the government pointed out that Kirpal’s partner was employed with the Swiss embassy and that he was working with a Switzerland-based non-profit organisation prior to this job.In March 2021, Kirpal was designated as a senior advocate by the Delhi high court after all 31 judges of the high court unanimously endorsed his designation.While the collegium, led by then CJI Bobde, could not take a final call on Kirpal’s elevation, justice Ramana and the four other most senior judges, after consulting the other judges in the top court, decided to send Kirpal’s name for appointment as a judge in the Delhi high court.Under the Memorandum of Procedure (MoP), if the collegium recommends a name for appointment as a judge, the Centre can return that name for a review. However, once the collegium reiterates that name, the government has no choice but to notify the name. At best, the government can delay his appointment but not turn it down.Kirpal studied law at Oxford University and Cambridge University, and has practised for over two decades. His father BN Kirpal was the Chief Justice of India for six months in 2002.In an interview to HT in September 2020, Kirpal acknowledged that his sexuality could be the reason behind the apex court collegium deferring a decision on appointing him as a judge and the government raising objections.“My professional competence was known to the high court and the Supreme Court collegium and my case for elevation was presumably not deferred for that reason. Media reports seemed to indicate the issue might have been the nationality of my partner who is Swiss. Had I been a straight man with a foreign spouse, this would not have been an issue; former Supreme Court judges have had foreign spouses. But it became an issue only because I am not,” Kirpal had told HT.Kirpal had said that his sexuality was the only stumbling block. “The aim was to have diversity on the bench. I really believe it could change the lives of so many LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender] people in India.’’ Apart from Kirpal, the collegium also reiterated its proposals to appoint four lawyers -- Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna -- as judges of the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-likely-to-get-first-openly-gay-judge-in-india-101637001203384.html
16-11-2021||India||RSS worker hacked to death in Kerala, role of SDPI suspected: Police||A Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker was hacked to death allegedly by workers of the Social Democratic Front of India (SDPI), the political offshoot of Popular Front of India (PFI), in Palakkad district of Kerala on Monday, police said.A Sanjith (27) was travelling with his wife at around 9 am when miscreants arrived in a vehicle and hit their two wheeler, in Elappully area.After the couple fell down, the accused stabbed Sanjith multiple times before his wife, killing him on the spot, police said.Doctors believe the RSS worker was stabbed at least 30 times, they added. The deceased’s wife also sustained minor injuries due to the fall.Palakkad superintendent of police (SP) R Viswanadh said a special investigation team was formed to probe the case and that police have some information about the assailants.Police suspect that the accused fled to neighbouring Tamil Nadu after committing the crime, he added.The SP also said that the murder appeared to be an outcome of the ongoing tension between RSS and SDPI workers in the area.Condemning the incident, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief K Surendran said: “Police are too soft towards SDPI goons who have been carrying out cold-blooded murders. If the culprits are not arrested immediately, the party will launch an agitation.”BJP president of Palakkad district, K M Haridas, described the incident as a “well-planned and executed political murder”.He added that Sanjith had escaped a similar attack in June last year but police did not take any action against the SDPI activists.Opposition leader VD Satheesan also condemned the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-worker-hacked-to-death-in-kerala-role-of-sdpi-suspected-police-101637000904581.html
16-11-2021||India||Ahead of polls, PM Modi to open UP e-way today||Months ahead of assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday will inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway that would connect the Uttar Pradesh capital to the eastern regions of the state,Modi will inaugurate the expressway, constructed at an estimated cost of ₹22,497 crore, at an event in Sultanpur district. After the launch, the Prime Minister will witness an airshow by the Indian Air Force on the 3.2 kilometre airstrip constructed on the expressway.“Eastern UP, which was neglected after independence, is now moving at a fast pace on the path of development. The expressway will become the backbone of the economy of the eastern UP. At eight spots on the expressway, the state government will develop an industrial corridor to give fillip to industrial and business activities,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath said.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, however, accused the BJP government of taking credit for a project whose foundation was laid during his government. “The SP government completed the Agra Expressway within 22 months whereas the BJP government is inaugurating an incomplete Purvanchal Expressway. The people are aware of the fact and they cannot be misled,” he claimed.The BJP dismissed the “lies”. “The manner in which Akhilesh Yadav is beating the drum of kagazi (on paper only) expressway, his next tweet will be that ‘Ram temple has also been built by the Samajwadi Party government.’ Take this credit also Akhilesh Ji...when you tell so many lies then one more lie can do…” it posted on its Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-elections-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-today-101637000844518.html
16-11-2021||India||Jailed for theft in Ghaziabad, a budding politician from Sitamarhi||On October 26, there was much celebration in Gulshan Praveen’s two-storey house in the village of Jogia in Sitamarhi. In a hard fought district board election, Praveen polled 2,967 of a total of six thousand votes, beating her nearest rival Mohammad Jamrullah Khan. 1,200 kilometres away, in a jail cell in Dasna, Ghaziabad, there was likely a sense of cheer as well. The jail compound is where Praveen spent over a month just before the election, charged with being an accomplice to her husband, 32-year-old Mohammad Irfan, accused of theft and robbery in 40 cases across multiple states. Back in Jogia though, Irfan is a hero, a man who should have been the person fighting the elections, the Samaritan who spent money building a dilapidated road, held medical camps and gave money to the poor for surgeries. And it is his goodwill that has ensured that Praveen is now in a position of power.The riseIn Jogia, 26 kilometres north of the district headquarters, Praveen lives with her mother-in-law Nasima, and her two daughters, aged 7 and 10, in a home with a large iron gate and a cement arch, both its floors sporting a coat of fresh white paint. The house is on the banks of a river, two kilometres away from the main road. It was not always like this.Both Nasima, and her husband, who died in the year 2000, were daily-wage labourers. They grew up in a hut, and with four children and very little money, Irfan left home at the age of 10 and moved to Mumbai. “He worked in Mumbai at a trolley bag company. My elder son Mohammad Salman works as a labourer and the middle one, Gufran, also works in Mumbai in the same trolley bag company,” 68-year-old Nasima said.While details of his life in Mumbai are sketchy, senior Ghaziabad police officials said that Irfan came to Delhi in 2011 and tried to run a paan stall but was not successful. There were other enterprises, including a grocery shop and a ready-made garment shop in Bawana, but both those sank as well. “He then came across a thief , who trained him, and he began his life in crime,” a Ghaziabad police official said on condition of anonymity.Back home, Irfan’s life is local legend, and people believe he began stealing after his family was unable to give enough dowry for his sister’s wedding. His family declined to comment on this. Within years though, his riches began to grow, and in the middle of the decade came the home, and a fleet of vehicles. Irfan is illiterate, and can only sign his name, but he began using the pseudonym Aryan Khanna, with a profile named as such on Facebook, the owner of Khanna Industries. The company does not exist, police officials said.The crimes and the arrestA senior police officer said that the first time Irfan was arrested was by Delhi police in July 2017 from a hotel in Sitamarhi, accused of a burglary of ₹65 lakh from the home of a judicial officer in the Capital’s posh New Friends Colony. Within a year, Irfan was out on bail, and the spate of crimes refused to stop. In the next five years, the robberies that Irfan committed ranged from a burglary in a businessman’s home near the residence of the Goa governor, to a theft in the posh Gomti Nagar area in Lucknow in July. “Irfan has admitted that he has earned over ₹20 crore from burglaries in 40 homes across 12 states,” another police official said, asking not to be named. Initially, investigators said, Irfan worked completely alone, breaking in through a window, or a flimsy door. On his person, he would carry only a wire cutter, a modified screw driver, a sedative to tackle pet dogs, and would strike between 1am and 3am. Somewhere in the past decade, however, he began acquiring luxury second-hand vehicles, which would aid him in avoiding suspicion during reconnaissance, and commit crimes across states.“He told us during interrogation that one of his luxury cars was seized by police in Punjab’s Jalandhar. He said that he drove to Kerala in a BMW and also used an Audi during another theft in Hyderabad. He purchased the Audi for ₹17.5 lakh,” said Nipun Agarwal, SP City (Ghaziabad). Police have recovered a Jaguar and a brand new Mahindra Scorpio.His robberies across states needed at least one more accomplice who would help in driving long distances, and Irfan began using the help of Mohammad Imran, who he met while in prison in Delhi. “He also had at least four girlfriends in different parts of the country who helped in sheltering him immediately after he committed a crime. He would shower them with gifts, and they would help him lie low,” the senior police official cited above added.On September 4, ₹1.5 crore in gold and silver ornaments were stolen from the residence of businessman Kapil Garg, in the upscale “D Block” area of Ghaziabad’s Kavinagar. The home was a stone’s throw away from the residence of Atul Garg, UP state minister for medical and health, family welfare and mother and child welfare. Spurred into action, Ghaziabad police tracked a new Mahindra Scorpio that was seen near the scene of the crime in CCTV footage from the area. It was a vehicle Irfan purchased four days before the robbery.By September 7, Ghaziabad police raided Jogia and arrested three people: Irfan’s his wife Praveen, their driver Mohammad Soyab and another accomplice named Bikram Sao. “His wife Gulshan Praveen was brought to Ghaziabad after the cops found her in possession of the stolen jewellery items. There was a lot of resistance from local politicians as her arrest would jeopardise her election prospects. But we brought her on transit remand,” Agarwal said. By the end of September, Praveen was out on bail.Station house officer of the Kavinagar police station Abdul Rehman Siddiqui said that in all, 11 people, including one of Irfan’s girlfriends, were arrested before the police could get hold of the man himself. It was finally on October 26, the same day his wife won the election, that police traced and arrested Irfan outside the premises of the Ghaziabad lower court.Ghaziabad police said while most cases in which they have traced Irfan’s involvement revolve around theft and robbery — a case in Agra in 2015 is under provisions of the Gangster Act, and another from this year in Jalandhar, registered under the Arms Act. Sitamarhi SP Har Kishore Rai said there is no case registered against Irfan in Sitamarhi or the adjoining districts of Bihar.The Samaritan politicianGulshan Praveen told HT that immediately after her release from prison in the last week of September, she rushed to Sitamarhi and filed her nomination papers on October 6. Not that the stint affected her prospects. In the village, it is clear that Praveen being the candidate is the next best thing to Irfan, the prodigal son, who would have fought the election if he had not been in jail.Local social activist Jivesh Mishra said Irfan had done a great deal for the village over the past year, preparing for the elections. “He spent ₹1.05 crore on the construction of roads and drainage. He also spent ₹20 lakh for the cancer surgery of a neighbour who was undergoing treatment in a Delhi hospital,” he said.But it wasn’t just this one year, and with an eye on the election. For 55-year-old Rasmati, Irfan was the benefactor who paid ₹10,000 for an operation in 2019; 62-year-old Jogender Ram, a daily-wage earner, told HT that Irfan paid ₹4,000 during the wedding of his daughter in 2018, and ₹5,000 for a liver operation. Mohammad Modassar, former sarpanch of Godassar village, said, “He always helped the needy, held medical camps, and helped financially with marriages of the poor.”In the time he has been in the custody of Ghaziabad police, officials said Irfan has professed a love for cars, and shown an uncanny ability to tell the make, cut, and estimated value of precious jewellery. But what he has talked about incessantly, is his desire to enter politics, even fighting the next assembly elections.Agarwal said, “He also told us that he knows some senior politicians in Bihar and was trying his luck in getting a ticket. He also showed us some videos in which he was wearing a kurta pyjama and is dressed like a politician. He says if he is released from jail, he wants to study, and try his luck in the assembly election.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-for-theft-in-ghaziabad-a-budding-politician-from-sitamarhi-101637000842765.html
16-11-2021||India||Will upgrade SIT for Lakhimpur case: UP||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday told the Supreme Court that it has no objection to the appointment of a former high court judge to oversee the probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident so as to “infuse fairness, independence, and faith” into the investigation.“We have no objection to the court’s recommendation. Your lordships may make that order,” senior lawyer Harish Salve, appearing for the state government, submitted before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana as soon as the proceedings commenced in the case registered by the top court on its own motion (suo motu).Salve, however, requested the bench not to disqualify any retired judge from being considered just because they happen to be from Uttar Pradesh.“It is not that a judge from this state cannot be appointed. A judge is a judge after all,” Salve told the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The bench replied that it was open to considering all names but would need a day to speak to the judge concerned before making the appointment. “We need one more day’s time because we are considering either Rakesh Jain (of Punjab and Haryana high court) or any other judge. But we need to talk to the concerned judge before we finalise,” it said.While fixing the matter to be heard next on Wednesday, the bench also asked Salve to consider inducting some high-ranking and senior police officers in the special investigation team (SIT), which has been investigating the incident.“You have to upgrade the SIT. There have to be more high-ranking officers. Most of them are inspector-level officers. Also, most of them are from Lakhimpur only. Why don’t you give us some names and we can then pass orders?” it said.Salve accepted the court’s suggestion, and said he would come back on Wednesday with a list of some senior police officers who could be inducted.Over the last few hearings, the top court has been critical of the manner in which the state police have so far conducted the investigation in the case where eight people died in that incident on October 3 -- four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, and a journalist.On November 8, the bench pulled up the UP police, commenting that the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case.The remarks continued the trend of the top court’s dissatisfaction with the probe in the case where a convoy, in which at least one vehicle belonged to Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, ran over farmers protesting three controversial laws, leading them to run amok and lynch some of the occupants of the vehicles.Ashish Mishra, the son of the minister, is one of the accused in one of the two cases (the convoy running over farmers) being investigated.His arrest came only after the bench, on October 9, criticised the lenient treatment he seemed to be receiving from the police in the murder FIR.The other case being investigated by the police relates to the lynching of some of the occupants of vehicles in the convoy. In the last hearing, the Supreme Court was perturbed that some of the evidence being collected in this case was aimed at protecting the “main accused”The state maintained that it has “clinching evidence” of Mishra’s presence at the scene (something he and his father have consistently denied), but that forensic reports on this are awaited.The bench had then underscored the need for appointing a retired high court judge from outside the state to monitor the probe after noticing that the investigation in the farmers’ murder case (FIR no. 219) could be adversely impacted by the manner in which the Uttar Pradesh police were recording evidence in the case relating to the murder of three BJP workers (FIR no. 220).It added that the court does not have confidence in the judicial commission appointed by the UP government.On October 7, the UP government set up a judicial commission, headed by retired Allahabad high court judge, justice PK Srivastava, to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-upgrade-sit-for-lakhimpur-case-up-101637000724535.html
16-11-2021||India||PM CARES relief should reach children soon: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the central and state governments two weeks to report the status of relief granted to children orphaned due to Covid-19 under the PM CARES for Children Scheme after being told that the district magistrates concerned have received 4,148 applications and approved 1,719 requests for coverage under the scheme.“We want to see benefits reach the children. Till now we are just groping in the dark,” the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, directing the Centre to file an affidavit providing details of steps taken under the scheme and the information on the educational status of these children. The bench also ordered the district magistrates and collectors to ascertain the educational status of all children who are eligible for benefits under the PM CARES scheme.The top court’s direction came on a follow-up hearing on a suo moto (of its own accord) petition where the court is considering relief for children who were in need of care and protection on account of Covid-19. The court will take up the case next on December 13.Lawyer Gaurav Agrawal, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae (literally, a friend of the court) complained that no information was available about the children who benefitted from the scheme though it was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 29 May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/benefits-under-pm-cares-should-reach-children-orphaned-by-covid-soon-sc-101637000544815.html
16-11-2021||India||Centre tweaks rules to cement ED, CBI chiefs’ extended tenure||The Union government on Monday amended its Fundamental Rules (FR) to bring them in line with two ordinances promulgated on Sunday to give the chiefs of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) extended terms of up to five years.The overarching set of rules listed in the government’s FR apply to all civilian officers, and cover the entire gamut of their in-service and post-retirement work scenarios, making it possible for the government to ensure continuity over much of its remaining term.According to the notification issued on Monday, the rules now allow the central government to give extension in “public interest” to the defence secretary, home secretary, director of Intelligence Bureau (IB), Secretary of Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and directors of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED), on a case-to-case basis, subject to the condition that the total term of such secretaries or directors does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective act or rules made thereunder, under which their appointments are made”.To be sure, the existing FR already provided for a maximum two-year extension to the home, foreign and defence secretaries, and the CBI, R&AW and IB chiefs.Under the newly promulgated ordinances, CBI and ED chiefs are eligible for a maximum of five-year total tenures, and the changes to the FR take that into account.The notification issued on Monday, however, excluded the post of foreign secretary from the ambit of the exceptions to the superannuation rules, which otherwise say that all officers must retire at the age of 60. It was not clear at the time of going to print why this change was effected.The post of foreign secretary was included in the Fundamental Rules following a proposal cleared by the Union Cabinet in December 2010 “in view of the assignment of Foreign Secretary having increasingly acquired critical dimensions from the national security and strategic perspective, and the need to ensure continuity and swiftness in the decision-making process”.Opposition parties on Monday raised objections over the government taking ordinance route to extend the tenures of CBI and ED directors, and then notifying the changes, just 15 days ahead of a Parliament session.Abhishek Singhvi, senior Congress MP and legal expert, dubbed the move “illegal” and a bid to keep the sleuths on a leash.“Keeping you on a leash, watching you and giving you incremental, partial, piecemeal extensions, because that allows me to be a control freak over you, that allows me to control, because I will say, next time please watch out, your provision in coming again after one year. You better behave into everything I tell you because then only you will get an extension,” Singhvi said, questioning the ordinance push ahead of the winter session.CPIM general secretary Sitaram Yechury demanded scrapping of the two ordinances.“Promulgation of 2 ordinances extending term of ED & CBI directors to 5 years on the eve of winter session of parliament is reprehensible. It’s against SC directions. CBI & ED are made to function as political arm of BJP. Rescind these ordinances,” said Yechury.There was no response from ministry of home affairs and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on the issue.The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 promulgated on Sunday, said the tenure of the CBI director can be extended up to one year at a time, provided “that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment”.According to the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, which also came into effect on Sunday, the tenure of ED chief can be extended up to one year at a time “provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment”.The directors of CBI and ED have a normal fixed tenure of two years each.The tenure of ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra is due to end on Wednesday, and CBI chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal’s tenure ends in May 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-fundamental-rules-to-cement-extended-tenure-of-ed-cbi-chiefs-101637000362698.html
16-11-2021||India||Two terrorists among 3 killed in Hyderpora encounter: J&K police||Two unidentified terrorists and a house owner were killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area on Monday, Jammu and Kashmir Police said.Local residents said that the owner of the house, where the terrorists were hiding, was killed in the gun battle, even as police asserted the man was an associate of the terrorists.According to officials familiar with the matter, the encounter took place during a search and cordon operation by a joint team of police and the CRPF in a Hyderpora locality, following inputs about the possible presence of terrorists.A senior police officer, aware of the developments, said: “A search and cordon operation is underway in Hyderpora and adjoining areas.”“Two militants were killed in an encounter at Hyderpora on Monday evening,” a police spokesperson added.Later, in a Twitter post, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar said: “The house owner who was injured in militant fire, succumbed to injuries. Militants have been hiding on top floor of his building. As per source and digital evidence, he has been working as militant associate. Search is still going on,”The developments came a day after a policeman sustained injuries after suspected terrorists opened fire on a police party conducting raids in Old City area of Srinagar.Police said the raids were carried out following specific information about the presence of terrorists in Jamalata area of Nawa Kadal. As the team approached towards the suspected spot, the terrorists fired indiscriminately, injuring a policeman.Amid a surge in terrorist attacks, Srinagar city, particularly the Old City, has witnessed increased in such activity, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-among-3-killed-in-hyderpora-encounter-jkpolice-101637000004899.html
16-11-2021||India||2 journalists arrested over Tripura violence reportage granted bail||Two women journalists arrested by Tripura police for alleged criminal conspiracy and spread of communal hatred while reporting on the October 26 violence in the state were granted bail by a magistrate’s court on Monday.Journalists Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha, employed with Delhi-based news channel HW News Network, were arrested by Tripura police in the early hours of Monday, following their detention in Assam’s Karimganj district on Sunday. The two scribes were on their way to Silchar airport when Assam police, on instructions from their Tripura counterparts, detained them at Karimganj, close to the border of the two states.On Monday morning, Sakunia and Jha were brought back to Tripura and produced before the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Udaipur sub-division of Gomati district, which granted them bail on bail bonds of ₹75,000 each.“The court granted them bail with a bond of ₹75,000 and imposed a condition to appear before police and cooperate with them whenever required. Accordingly, they need to appear before Kakraban police station on Tuesday,” senior advocate Pijush Kanti Biswas, who appeared for the scribes on behalf of HW News Network, said. Biswas said the journalists had visited Tripura to report on the October 26 violence in which a mosque, a few houses and shops were allegedly vandalised by activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) in the north-eastern state. Biswas also alleged that police’s charges of spreading communal hatred were not found in the FIR copy.“The FIR copy did not have any mention of any such offence and their arrest shows police using their high-handedness. It is an attack and threat on democracy as well as a threat to the citizens and media’s right to express their opinion. The state was unfair in this issue,” Biswas said.HT tried to reach out to Tripura Police for a response but could not get one immediately.On Sunday, the two scribes were booked by Tripura police after one Kanchan Das accused them of delivering an “instigating speech” against the Hindu community and the Tripura government during their meeting with a few Muslim families at Palbazar in the state’s Unakoti district on November 13.In his complaint, Das, a resident of Kumarghat, alleged the two journalists claimed that the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal were behind the alleged vandalisation of a mosque during the violence last month.Subsequently, Tripura police registered two separate cases against the journalists. While one case was registered at Fatikroy police station in Unakoti district, on the basis of Das’ complaint, the other was filed at Kakraban police station in Gomati district.The two scribes were booked under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of IPC at Fatikroy police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-journalists-arrested-over-tripura-violence-reportage-granted-bail-101636999943236.html
16-11-2021||India||Govt permits export of 50mn doses of Covovax, say officials||The Centre has permitted the export of around 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) as part of a tie-up with US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc, according to people familiar with the developments.Covovax has not been approved yet for emergency use in India. The government approval for the export of Covovax will help avoid wastage of nearly 10 million stockpiled Covovax doses which are due to expire in December. The vaccines were produced as part of SII’s agreement with Novavax Inc. for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373.SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla earlier told HT in an interview that his company intended to keep Covovax and Sputnik Light, the first component of the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V, for exports.“That is my sort of thinking and discussion with the government; and we are sort of aligned on that because Covishield is churning out enough volumes for the country… We do not need to increase the volumes; in fact anything more we make, we hope to export…,” Poonawalla said in an interview last month.On September 20, India’s health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, also announced that India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, intended to resume export of surplus vaccine doses to “fulfil its commitment towards the world”. India stopped exports in April this year to accelerate the domestic inoculation drive at a time the second wave of Covid-19 infections exploded in the country.A person aware of the details on Monday said SII is likely to start production of Sputnik Light, its second vaccine aimed at exports, either this month-end or early next month.“We believe the manufacturing of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine could start anytime around month end or early next month as the company has got the requisite permissions in place and we have been made to understand that other requirements are also being arranged,” said a person aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.In his interview, Poonawalla confirmed the tie-up with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) that markets the Russian vaccine globally.“We recently tied up (with RDIF); we have done a tech transfer, I am told which has been successful. And we will start making some trial batches in a month or two,” said Poonawalla.RDIF in the past stated that the partnership intends to produce over 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-permits-export-of-50mn-doses-of-covovax-sayofficials-101636999767020.html
16-11-2021||India||Experts call for crypto with proper regulation||Experts and key bodies have favoured a tightly controlled cryptocurrency regime in India over a blanket ban on the alternative payment ecosystem that will have strict transaction protocol and also imposition of taxes to help the government generate revenue.A note prepared by CII for Indian parliamentarians maintained that a “balanced and thoughtful regulatory approach to crypto/digital tokens needs to be evolved in India.” The industry body argued that “regulatory tool box should accept, not reject and outlaw, the new world of crypto/digital tokens.”Similarly, IIM Ahmedabad’s public policy alumni special interest group suggested to lawmakers that “Cryptocurrencies should be regulated, not banned”. Their presentation argued, that “regulation helps highlight and address issues or gaps, banning will push it underground.”There is no explicit legalisation of cryptocurrencies in India but a verdict of the Supreme Court (in the Internet and Mobile Association of India V. Reserve Bank of India case) declared an outright ban on cryptocurrencies but raised the possibility of RBI’s jurisdiction for all forms of virtual currencies. The ban had come into force in 2018.The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, building on a previous version of the bill, initially aimed to ban private cryptocurrency operators, and simultaneously empower the RBI to issue what is known as central bank digital currencies (CBDC), which in India’s case is likely to be Digital Rupees.The IIM body suggested that the CBDC “should be pegged 1:1 to INR making it India’s stablecoin.”It also pitched for registration of “all industry exchanges” and that “SEBI could be a natural regulator if crypto is treated as an asset, not currency.” It maintained crypto offerings can take place in the line of IPO and all “inflow/outflow to happen via formal banking channels.”Krishna V Iyer, a researcher in blockchain, told lawmakers to prescribe minimum networth/investment threshold and consider GST on every transaction. He also suggested additional taxes such as capital gains or miscellaneous income tax.CII too echoed a similar idea and said, “Treat crypto/digital tokens as ‘securities’ of a special class” in income tax law and GST law. It suggested that crypto/digital tokens can be treated as ‘capital assets’ for income tax purposes.Software body Isprit pointed out that with widespread telecom adoption, real-time payments system, and massive vaccine drive, India has the potential to be the fastest to scale up.“Crypto technology-powered Decentralised Digital Assets hold a market cap of over $3 Trillion. The future promise of digital assets has attracted lots of retail attention, but institutional investors too. Some of the world’s most visionary innovators and investors have thrown their hats in the ring to build upon this technology. Finding a viable way to participate in this new economy is almost essential for India,” it said.According to lawmakers familiar with the matter, a parliamentary panel will be exploring the issue further as it deliberates the impact and consequences of regulating cryptocurrency.“There is a lack of conceptual clarity among the members on what all cryptocurrency or crypto-assets entail,” a person familiar with the matter said. “There are fundamental questions that still need to be answered before the currency, which is barely a line of code, can be regulated.”A second person said that the standing committee will be tabling a report on the issue. “The committee hasn’t even heard from the government yet,” the person said. “Even the stakeholders could not explain what will happen in a situation where the currency is misused, or abused, or used to cheat people.”The first person added that while the stakeholders batted for the adoption of crypto, currency remains a sovereign domain. “It is held, managed and distributed in a centralised manner. (But) take for instance Bitcoin, one doesn’t even know where it originated from. Moreover, the question of the intrinsic value of cryptocurrency also arises.”Congress MP Manish Tewari said that regulating crypto is a daunting task. “Regulating cryptocurrency is much like attempting to regulate trolls on the internet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyptocurrency-regulation-helps-highlight-issues-banning-will-push-it-underground-experts-101636994904093.html
16-11-2021||India||SC slams Centre, Delhi govt on Capital’s unending air crisis||The Supreme Court on Monday lamented that it was being “forced to set the agenda” on the pollution crisis in the National Capital Region (NCR) as it pulled up the Delhi government for “passing the buck”, the Centre for not proposing “drastic measures”, and NCR states for doing little to control what has become an annual public health crisis.In a hearing on Monday, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, gave the Centre and state governments of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh 24 hours to hold an emergency meeting and prepare a list of urgent steps that can be put in place immediately to bring down the levels of pollution in the “forseeable future”.“We want you to come out with concrete action plan by tomorrow. All the three governments and the Centre (must) come out with concrete steps. Otherwise, don’t blame us for passing any direction we deem appropriate,” said the bench, fixing Wednesday as the next day of hearing.The bench, which alsoincluded justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant, listed out the areas of concern, including work for home for all offices in Delhi, and dissuading farmers from burning stubble for two weeks in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The focus of the court, however, was clearly on emergency mitigation to control local sources of pollution, asking for the Centre and states to focus on curtailing activities such as construction, traffic and road transport, industries, and power plants.“It is very unfortunate we have to set an agenda for the governments. When we heard this matter on Friday, we thought you will conduct a meeting and come up with something concrete. But nothing is there... tell us about the drastic steps that you must take to bring down the levels of pollution in the next two-three days,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre.It reiterated that the Centre and Delhi government should consider a lockdown of a few days in the national capital to control the road traffic and vehicular pollution, besides curtailing road dust which, according to the governments, has been a prime cause of pollution.The court’s directions come at the time when pollution in the region has oscillated between “severe” (400-plus) and “very poor” (300-400) – hazardous levels on the air quality index (AQI) scale – as they do every year in the first few weeks of November, and none of the measures put in place by administrations at various levels seem to have worked. Except for Sunday, when it was 330, the AQI has been at the upper end of very poor or well into severe category since Diwali on November 4.Farm firesWhen the hearing commenced on Monday, senior counsel Vikas Singh, appearing for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey, blamed politics for not taking action against farmers even though stubble burning has been a major contributor to air pollution in the pre-winter weeks. He said that because Punjab and Uttar Pradesh go for the assembly polls next year, no steps are being taken.“We don’t want any politics. We only want pollution to come down. We are not concerned with election or politics. Let us see how pollution can be brought down,” retorted the bench.On his part, the S-G read out from the affidavits filed by the Union government regarding the steps taken by various authorities, and conceded that stubble burning is not a chief contributor to the worsening air quality.He said that farm fires contributed a meagre 10% to the bad air a day ago and they are problematic only during the two months in the pre-winter and winter weeks.“Are you agreeing in principle that farm fires is not a chief reason for rise in pollution? So, all the hue and cry over farm fires actually had no legal, scientific or rational basis... your own affidavit shows that stubble burning contributes only 4% annually. So, we are trying to target something which is an insignificant source of pollution,” said the bench.It pointed out that the Centre’s own submissions showed that 75% of the pollution is due to three factors -- industries, road dust, and vehicles. “If we have to reduce the pollution drastically, you will have to focus on these three factors to see the effect in the next few days. So, you have to tell us what are the steps that you plan to take immediately. Why don’t you stop plying of vehicles in Delhi for two days? This is a decision you have to take,” said the bench.It noted that although some decisions were taken by the authorities over the last two days, they “have not yet indicated the broader steps that they are going to take to control the factors which are responsible for poor air quality.”“The moment we say something, you start saying we are overreaching, etc. But what to do when we need to even fix the agenda of your meetings,” it remarked.The court also pulled up the counsel for the Punjab government for not taking effective steps to mitigate the issue. “In your affidavit, you are very loudly saying that you have imposed fines on farmers for stubble burning in terms of the order of the National Green Tribunal. But why are you completely silent on what incentives are providing to these farmers? You don’t disclose anything in your affidavit about incentivising them and what you propose is just a paper exercise,” it commented.Lockdown in Delhi?Mehta responded that certain drastic measures in contemplation included imposing a lockdown in the Capital, besides completely stopping entry of trucks in Delhi. However, the S-G added, experts have advised that these steps could wait.Senior counsel Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said that the city government was willing to impose a lockdown but this will have to be implemented through the NCR, including the cities in Delhi’s adjoining states of UP and Haryana.“We are only concerned about bringing down the pollution levels. You need to decide what steps are to be taken,” replied the court.The Delhi government was also reproached by the bench when it could not give out details of the road cleaning machines that were deployed in the national capital. Instead, Mehra submitted that BJP-headed municipal corporations should apprise the court of these details.“You are only passing the buck. Your lame excuses will force us to hold an audit of revenue you are earning and spending on popularity slogans. People are suffering and you are not bothered,” the bench told Mehra.Mehra said that the city government is willing to take all possible steps and would also release more funds for the machines immediately.The court then adjourned the hearing to Wednesday, asking the Centre and states to enumerate the steps to be taken immediately.The air quality crisis in the Delhi has been an annual affair with recordings illustrating the problem only 2015 onwards.A significant change of meteorological parameters and the combination of two man-made factors – farm fires and Diwali celebrations – invariably combine to push the quality of air into zones unfit for breathing.Beginning mid-October, winter conditions begin to develop, marked by a drop-off in winds. These winds come in from the northwest, as opposed to the southeast during monsoon, and carry ultrafine PM2.5 particles that originated as smoke from farm fires.This period is also the peak for farm fires as farmers clear paddy stubble left behind after harvest – this year, 77,997 fires were spotted between October 1 and November 14, according to the Suomi-NPP satellite’s VIIRS algorithm. This is the second highest number of fires for this interval seen since 2012 -- the earliest year for which this satellite has data -- after 2016, when 94,803 fires were observed by the satellite.Diwali celebrations, which too fall in October-November period, further add to the air pollution temporarily as people burst firecrackers despite a long-standing ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-slams-centre-delhi-govt-on-capital-s-unending-air-crisis-101636994422182.html
16-11-2021||India||PM Modi tweets on Purvanchal Expressway launch today, says ‘it’s a special day’||A day before he inaugurates the Purvanchal Expressway in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Monday, calling it a ‘special day’ in the state’s growth trajectory. “Tomorrow is a special day for Uttar Pradesh’s growth trajectory. At 1:30PM, the Purvanchal Expressway will be inaugurated. This project brings with it multiple benefits for UP’s economic and social progress,” PM Modi tweeted.Tomorrow is a special day for Uttar Pradesh’s growth trajectory. At 1:30 PM, the Purvanchal Expressway will be inaugurated. This project brings with it multiple benefits for UP’s economic and social progress. https://t.co/7Vkh5P7hDe pic.twitter.com/W2nw38S9PQThe expressway is 341-kilometre long, begins at village Chaudsarai (Lucknow district) on National Highway-731 (Lucknow-Sultanpur Road) and terminates at village Hydaria (NH-31), 18-kilometre east of the border between Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) noted in a statement. It has six lanes at present, which can be expanded to eight in the future, the statement further said, adding that the project was constructed at an estimate cost of around ₹22,500 crore.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Purvanchal expressway on Nov 16“The Purvanchal Expressway is going to give a boost to the economic development of the eastern parts of UP, especially the districts of Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur,” the release said.Also Read | Purvanchal Expressway will be better than Yamuna E-way. UP govt explains howThe statement also said that after the inauguration, PM Modi and others will watch an airshow by the Indian Air Force (IAF) on the 3.2-km long airstrip laid on the expressway in the district of Sultanpur.Also Read | Purvanchal Expressway: PM Modi to land in IAF's Super Hercules for inaugurationThe project, has, however, sparked a war of words between the state’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP), with both parties taking credit for constructing the project. SP chief and former CM Akhilesh Yadav has asked his party workers to ‘symbolically’ inaugurate the expressway after he was denied permission to carry out a rally close to the venue of PM Modi’s programme. Yadav’s ‘Vijay Yatra’ was also scheduled for November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomorrow-is-a-special-day-pm-modi-tweets-on-purvanchal-expressway-101636990137029.html
16-11-2021||India||UP no more a BIMARU state, second-largest economy after Maharashtra: Govt official||Uttar Pradesh is a crime-free state now, with action being taken against every known criminal in the state. Talking about the law and order situation in the state, additional chief secretary (Home), Awanish K Awasthi, said on Monday that properties owned by both petty and big criminals worth ₹1,900 crore have been seized."The crime rate has come down drastically in Uttar Pradesh. There is no danga (riots) in our state now as this government has a zero tolerance policy against such elements," said Awasthi.Another top official, who also interacted with the media, said that Uttar Pradesh now has the second-largest economy in the country after Maharashtra."According to data from the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), Uttar Pradesh has more than 55 lakh demat accounts (used for trading in stock exchange), highest after Maharashtra and Gujarat. It is no longer a BIMARU state," said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (Information and MSME).The acronym BIMARU (or sick) was coined by the noted demographer Ashish Bose in the 1980s to refer to states which were lagging behind and retarding India's overall development. The terminology was later called "outdated" by many governments, which showcased the development in their respective states."While Maharashtra has 1.56 crore demat accounts, Gujarat has 88 lakh. Karnataka is at number four with 44 lakh demat accounts, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 37 lakh trading accounts," said Sehgal.He added that these accounts are not concentrated in more developed districts like Noida or Ghaziabad (which are closer to Delhi), but are spread across the state.Further, Awasthi said that ₹4.5 lakh crore of investment has been received by the Uttar Pradesh government from various industries. "We are also bringing investment to the defence corridor. The government is aiming to get ₹10,000 crore worth of investment," he added.The briefing was held a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the Purvanchal Expressway, a flagship project of the Yogi Adityanath government. It is being launched months ahead of the assembly elections in the state.The state government is developing a defence corridor to expand the defence manufacturing capability and reduce foreign dependency, the expressway will give it a boost by allowing faster and easier transport of goods across the corridor. The UP government has declared six districts — Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Lucknow, Kanpur and Chitrakoot — as part of a defence node and procured 1,482.4 hectares of land.The state government has also signed 68 memorandums of understanding (MoUs) for the defence corridor, including with BrahMos, the joint venture between DRDO and Russia's NPOM. BrahMos Aerospace has proposed to set up a modern production facility in Lucknow with an investment of ₹9,300 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-a-crime-free-state-now-says-top-government-official-101636990146937.html
16-11-2021||India||What is the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s pollution?||In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has said that stubble burning is not a major contributor to high levels of pollution in Delhi. “As per a scientific study carried out and to get indicative figures to show average sectoral contributions in PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentrations in Delhi” the respective contribution of agricultural burning to PM 2.5 and PM10 was just 4% and 7% each in winter and summer, the affidavit said. An HT analysis of pollution data and scientific research shows that these numbers don’t tell the real story. Here are four charts which explain why.Have farm fires contributed just 4% to Delhi’s current pollution levels this winter?Between October 20 and November 14 this year, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the severe zone (401-500) on seven days. On each of these days, the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 contribution was between 26%-48%. These numbers may fly in the face of the claim made by the Union ministry of environment in the Supreme Court that seemed to suggest that stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana was not really the problem for Delhi’s bad air. Because Safar data on contribution of farm fires – it is the only publicly available data source – is available only from October 20, this analysis cannot be carried out for a longer period.So where did the government get its 4-7% figure from?That is most likely an average number for the entire year. If the same logic were to be applied, pollution is not as big a problem in Delhi. The same affidavit shows that between 2016 and 2020, the number of “severe” AQI days in Delhi was never more than 25. Even if one were to add the number of “very poor” AQI days (readings between 301 and 400) to the number it comes between 64 (2020) and 126 (2016) during this period. Clearly, days with higher AQIs are a bigger problem than days when the AQI is not so bad. And, as has been shown above, contribution of farm fires is significant when AQI levels are higher.Spike in farm fires coincides with rise in AQI levelsUnlike AQI and PM 2.5 numbers, data on the contribution of farm fires to PM 2.5 levels in Delhi is not available for the period before October 20. What we do have is daily data at a high resolution from 2012 onward on the number of fires seen in Punjab and Haryana from satellites. Reading this data with PM 2.5 levels in Delhi from 2018 onwards (air quality stations were much fewer before 2018) shows that there is a broad resonance in the period when farm fires and pollution levels peak in the city.Low contribution of farm fires to pollution is an aberration, not the normTo be sure, there does exist research to show that even on days when farm fires are rampant, their contribution to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels can be low. However, this is more an aberration due to favourable climatic conditions than proof of farm fires being benign for Delhi’s pollution levels. A 2018 article, Objective evaluation of stubble emission of North India and quantifying its impact on air quality of Delhi, published in the international journal Science of the Total Environment gives a useful insight into this question. “Although the stubble burning was a regular process during the said period (October 10-December 10, 2018), with varied fire count, the impact of biomass burning on Delhi’s PM 2.5 is found to vary on day -to day basis with percentage contribution of stubble burning ranging from 1% to 58% as it is highly dependent on transportation pathway of air mass, controlled by source to target region meteorological parameters led by wind direction and wind speed,” the paper says.“The impact of stubble burning on Delhi’s air quality depends not only on amount of biomass burned in Punjab and Haryana but a combined effect of high wind speed at intrusion height, wind direction and air residence time in the Delhi airshed,” the paper says.Given the fact that no policy can control meteorological factors such as wind speed and direction, it makes eminent sense to make efforts to control farm fires rather than hoping for a divine intervention on the meteorological front. None of this, of course, is to say that other factors are not responsible for pollution in Delhi, or other steps need not be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-contribution-of-stubble-burning-to-delhi-s-pollution-101636988661697.html
16-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday remanded former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to judicial custody. The 72-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was arrested by the enforcement directorate (ED) on November 2 in connection with a money-laundering case against him. He was sent to Arthur Road jail in south central Mumbai. Deshmukh was produced before the special court on Monday, the day his 14-day ED custody ended. Additional sessions judge HS Satbhai remanded him to judicial custody. The special court also allowed his pleas for home food, medicines and a bed for him in jail. ED had registered a money-laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11 this year on the basis of an April 21 First Information Report (FIR) of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which, in turn, was based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had instructed certain Mumbai police officers to collect of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. ED’s lawyers pointed out that the agency’s probe revealed that, on Deshmukh’s instructions, Sachin Vaze – an assistant police inspector in Mumbai – had called a meeting of bar owners, and that, between December 2020 and February 2021 collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of so-called orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze reportedly revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde. Subsequently, they said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh received an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur. On June 26, ED arrested Shinde and Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande in the money-laundering case, and on August 23, filed a charge sheet against them. Vaze is also an accused in the charge sheet. Also Read: Curfew in Maharashtra’s Amravati expanded to four towns as BJP stages protestIn July 2021, ED has provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.2 crore, which included the NCP leader’s residential flat at Worli, valued at ₹ 1.54 crore, and 25 land parcels worth ₹2.67 crore, at Dhutum village in the neighbouring Raigad district. The properties were held in name Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. ED officers said Deshmukh family had acquired 50% ownership in this company, including its assets i.e. land and shops valued at approximately ₹5.34 crore by paying just ₹17.95 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-sent-to-judicial-custody-101636967185360.html
16-11-2021||NA||Highlights: Fire breaks out at Samsung service centre in Mumbai||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Srinagar encounter: House owner, injured in terrorist fire, succumbs to injuries, say police#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: The house owner who was injured in terrorist fire, succumbed to his injuries. #Terrorists have been hiding on top floor of his building. As per source and digital evidence, he has been working as #terror associate. Search is still going on: IGP Kashmir https://t.co/rRfPbiqq1CKashmir Police said that the house owner, who was injured in terrorist fire, succumbed to his injuries. “#Terrorists have been hiding on top floor of his building. As per source and digital evidence, he has been working as #terror associate. Search is still going on,” Kashmir IGP said. Fire breaks out at Samsung service centre in Kanjurmarg, Mumbai; no injuries reportedA level 2 fire broke out at a Samsung Service centre near Kanjurmarg Police station, in Kanjurmarg East. Fire was reported at 8.59pm. Mumbai Fire Brigade sent 8 fire engines, 4 water tankers to the spot. No injuries reported.‘Meeting today was to seek states' ideas in pushing growth forward': Nirmala SitharamanThe meeting today was basically to seek states' ideas in pushing growth forward, since in many of the issues such as manufacturing, development and investment, it is the states who do from the forefront, support from the Centre being there always: FM @nsitharaman @FinMinIndia“The meeting today was basically to seek states' ideas in pushing growth forward, since in many of the issues such as manufacturing, development and investment, it is the states who do from the forefront, support from the Centre being there always,” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after meeting with states. TN reports 802 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths Tamil Nadu reported 802 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths. So far, 2,715,632 total confirmed infections have been reported and the death toll climbed to 36,296.Supporters of former RJD MLA attack East Champaran DM's cavalcade at NonimalEast Champaran DM cavalcade attacked by supporters of former RJD MLA at Nonimal under Pakridayal sub division during panchayat polls. Four policemen injured. Modi to address inaugural session of 82nd All India Presiding Officers' conference on Nov 17PM Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of 82nd All India Presiding Officers’ Conference on Nov 17, via video conferencing, reports ANI citing the PMO.Madras HC Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee transferred as Chief Justice of Meghalaya HCMadras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee transferred as the Chief Justice to Meghalaya High Court, as per the Department of Justice, reports ANI.Hyderpora encounter: Police say another militant killed, operations continue#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 01 more unidentified #terrorist killed (Total 2). #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/3rjcfBy7wIWith the death of one more unidentified terrorist in the encounter by police forces in Hyderpora, Srinagar, so far, two militants have died.Click here to read moreBJP leaders from Punjab, Delhi meets Amit Shah for reopening Kartarpur corridorA delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab and Delhi met Union home minister Amit Shah for the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor, reports ANI.UK raises terrorism threat level to 'severe' after explosion outside Liverpool hospitalThe United Kingdom said that the terrorism threat level in the country has been raised to 'severe', reports AFP. The level indicates that an attack is highly likely. Asaduddin Owaisi to expand AIMIM to Rajasthan, contest next state assembly electionsAll India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said that he would expand his party's presence to Rajasthan in the coming days and would “definitely” contest the state assembly elections there, reports ANI. Overall exports in October estimated at $56.51 billion, growth of 35.16% from last year: Commerce ministryOverall imports in October 2021 are estimated to be USD 68.09 billion, exhibiting a positive growth of 57.32% over the same period last year & a positive growth of 40.82% over October 2019: Ministry of Commerce & IndustryThe Union ministry of commerce and industry said that the overall exports in October 2021 are estimated to be $56.51 billion, a growth of 35.16% over the same period last year and a growth of 29.13% over October 2019, reports ANI. 1 unidentified terrorist killed in encounter at Hyderpora, Srinagar: Police#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/T6m00dtdb5The Police said that one unidentified terrorist has been killed during encounter at Hyderpora, Srinagar.Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance calls govt officials to address concerns on cryptofinanceNew Delhi | At the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance with industry associations & experts on the matter of crypto finance today, there was an understanding that cryptocurrency can’t be stopped but it must be regulated: SourcesDuring the meeting between the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance and industry associations and experts on the matter of crypto finance, there was an understanding that cryptocurrency can’t be stopped but it must be regulated, reports ANI.Singapore to launch Vaccinated Travel Lane for fully jabbed travelers from IndiaFollowing discussions between PMs @NarendraModi and @LeeHsienLoong, 🇸🇬 will be launching a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) for fully-vac travellers frm 🇮🇳 w valid entry approvals - starting 29 Nov - pending resumption of commercial passenger ✈️. More on VTL @ https://t.co/ssCP8A7Gos https://t.co/om3Oe9egqLSingapore will launch on November 29, a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) for fully vaccinated passengers from India, the country's diplomatic mission here said in a tweet. PM Modi to lay foundation stone for project by Bharat Dynamics Limited in Jhansi on Nov 19Defence secretary Ajay Kumar said that PM Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the first project worth ₹400 crore for propulsion for anti-tank guided missiles by Bharat Dynamics Limited in Jhansi on November 19. Modi will also hand over the HAL-manufactured Light Combat Helicopter to the Indian Air Force chief and the DRDO-developed advanced electronic warfare suite for the Indian Navy which will be put on its modern warships including the INS Vikrant, reports ANI.2 journalists, arrested in Tripura on charges of publishing false news, granted bail Samriddhi Sakunia and Swarna Jha, the two journalists arrested on charges of publishing false news aimed at disrupting communal harmony, have been granted bail by a court in Gomati district, reports ANI.Bihar CM rules out review of liquor lawBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that there would be no review of the liquor law in the state.Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze sent to 14-day judicial custody in extortion caseFormer Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze has been sent to judicial custody for 14 days till November 29 by a city court. He would be lodged at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance meeting to discuss CryptoFinance begins Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance meeting with associations and industry experts to discuss the opportunities and challenges in cryptofinance has begun.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav says BJP govt of compromising on quality of Purvanchal ExpresswaySamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accuses BJP government of compromising on quality of Purvanchal Expressway in bid to lower project cost, reports PTI.Wholesale inflation rises sharply to 5-month high of 12.54%India’s wholesale inflation rose sharply to a five-month high of 12.54% in October led by fuel prices.Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh sent to 14-day judicial custody in PMLA caseFormer Home Minister of State Anil Deshmukh send to judicial custody by a Special PMLA Court for fourteen days. Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under various sections of PMLA. Gopal Rai to hold meeting with Delhi metro, DTC todayDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai to hold a meeting with DMRC, DTC (Delhi Transport Corporation) officers today. Strengthening of public transport in wake of pollution crisis and increasing the number of rounds of Metro and DTC will be taken up for discussion.‘All about bashing farmers': SC on Delhi govt's affidavit on air pollutionDuring hearing on air pollution in Delhi, Supreme Court says the affidavit by the city government is all about bashing farmers and how the entire cause is stubble burning. Ready to implement complete lockdown to control pollution: Delhi govt tells SCDelhi Government tells Supreme Court that it is ready to impose complete lockdown in Delhi to control air pollution; suggested the court that it would be meaningful if lockdown is implemented across the NCR areas in neighboring states.‘Today is an emotional day for me': PM Modi on Janjatiya Gaurav DiwasI have spent a large part of my life with tribal brothers and sisters and children. I have been a witness to their joys and sorrows, daily lives and the necessities of their lives. So, today is also an emotional day for me personally, says PM Narendra Modi on Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas.Delhi's AQI improves marginally, still in 'very poor' categoryDelhi's air quality on Monday saw marginal improvement as it reached the lower end of the 'very poor' category with Air Quality Index (AQI) at 318, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Read MoreIndia sees further fall in daily Covid tally with 10,229 new casesIndia's daily Covid-19 tally fall to 10,229 on Monday, while the number active cases fall to lowest in 17 months. According to the updated data by the Union health ministry, India's Active caseload stands at 1,34,096; lowest in 523 days.Fire breaks out in Delhi's Nangloi area; 4 people sustain burn injuriesFire broke out a out at a house in Delhi's Nangloi area, due to an LPG cylinder. Three fire tenders rushed to the site. Four persons sustained burn injuries, news agency ANI reported citing fire department.China's factory output, retail sales see surprise jump in OctoberChina's economy showed signs of stabilising in October, according to data on Monday, with retail sales and factory output beating expectations as a power supply crisis appeared to ease.Parliamentary committee to meet crypto industry players todayA parliamentary committee on finance is likely to hold a meeting of top stakeholders of the crypto industry on Monday, according to multiple reports. The meeting, reported to be a closed-door one, will have participants from top crypto exchanges, members of the Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC) among others.Northeast separatism: Colonel's death brings China role back in focusA deadly ambush near the Myanmar border in Manipur that killed five soldiers, including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son, has brought China’s possible support to insurgencies in India’s Northeast back in focus, and the neighbour may be plotting to foment trouble in the region amid border tensions, China watchers and security officials said on Sunday. Read MoreDelhi air pollution: AAP to submit proposal on lockdown todayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi will submit a proposal on lockdown and its modalities to the Supreme Court on Monday, in view of the rising air pollution in the city. It comes days after the apex court had asked the central and city government-led by Arvind Kejriwal to take immediate steps to improve the air quality in Delhi and suggested measures such as stopping vehicles and clamping a lockdown in the national capital.Intel to 9-hr gunbattle: How the Gadchiroli encounter unfoldedThere was an eerie silence on Sunday in the hillocks of Alondi, where 26 Maoists were killed in a nine-hour-long encounter by police, with security personnel scanning the jungles in the hunt for rebels, who fled after the security operation a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-november-15-2021-101636936435725.html
16-11-2021||NA||Highlights: IAF displays ‘superior flying skills’ at Dubai Air Show||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:IAF displays ‘superior flying skills’ at Dubai Air ShowIAF's Sarang Helicopter Display Team and the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas showcased their “superior flying skills” at the Dubai Air Show which kicked off at Al Maktoum airport on Sunday.1 person dead, another injured in a vehicle explosion in LiverpoolOne person was killed and another was injured in a vehicle explosion outside the Women's Hospital in Liverpool in northern England, police said, adding that counter-terrorism officers were leading the investigation https://t.co/GYBxe8lYnY pic.twitter.com/eChSjGUrnpTripura Police says they took ‘cues’ from Amravati violence to detain 2 women journosTripura police released a statement on detention of two women journalists, alleging that they were"Taking cue from the recent violence in Amravati & other parts of Maharastra as a repercussion of communal incident, it has become clear that some vested interest are trying to flare up the communal incident in Tripura."Amit Shah urges states to establish at least one forensic science collegeUnion minister Amit Shah urged states to establish at least one forensic science college “with a syllabus in the local language” so that states will have the necessary manpower to “meet the needs of forensic investigation”.Manipur CM pays floral tribute to Colonel Viplav Tripathi, three jawans Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh paid floral tributes to Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and son,  and the three jawans who lost their lives in a terrorist attack on a convoy of Assam Rifles in Churachandpur on Saturday.Punjab BJP leaders meet party chief JP Nadda in DelhiPunjab BJP leaders met party chief JP Nadda in Delhi ahead of Assembly elections in the State. pic.twitter.com/eJ1W8TmSa5All schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar to remain closed till November 17Haryana government has decided to shut all schools In Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar till November 17 due to poor air quality.Railways Passenger Reservation System to shut down for 6 hrs at nightThe Railways Passenger Reservation System will shut down for six hours at night for the next seven days, to normalise passenger services and help revert back in a phased manner to the pre-covid levels of service, the railways said on Sunday.2 Delhi-based journalists detained in AssamTwo Delhi-based women journalists, booked in Tripura on charges of criminal conspiracy and promoting communal hatred, have been detained in Assam on Sunday. PM Modi to inaugurate Rani Kamlapati Railway Station in BhopalPM Modi will be inaugurating the redeveloped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station in Bhopal on Monday during his official visit to Madhya Pradesh.Former Libyan ruler Muammar al-Gaddafi's son runs for presidentSaif al-Islam al-Gaddafi, son of Libya's former leader Muammar al-Gaddafi, registered himself on Sunday to run for President in  the December 24 election, reported Reuters.Centre brings ordinance to extend tenure of CBI, ED directors up to 5 yrsThe Centre brought an ordinance to extend tenure of CBI, ED directors up to 5 years. ‘Policies are formed as per the needs of the region, and not only as per Delhi’, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that policies are now being formed to suit the needs of the region and not “on as per Delhi”.“Earlier policies were formed behind closed doors in Delhi and then unsuccessful attempts were made to fit the northeast in this. This cutting off from the ground leads to segregation. So, in the last 7 years, the nation has fixed a new mindset, a new approach,” he said.Ghazipur district admin refuses permission for Akhilesh Yadav's yatraCiting security reasons, Ghazipur district administration refuses permission for Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav's Vijay Rath Yatra from Ghazipur to Azamgarh, scheduled for November 16.PM Modi transfers first instalment of PMAYG to Tripura beneficiariesPrime Minister Narendra Modi transfers first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) to more than 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura.Priyanka Gandhi meets Mayawati to offer condolencesCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meets BSP chief Mayawati to offer condolences over the demise of the latter's mother.PM Modi meets delegation of Punjab BJP leadersPrime Minister Narendra Modi i met a delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab at his residence in Delhi.Congress leaders pay tribute to Jawaharlal NehruDelhi: Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, LoP in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and other leaders pay floral tribute to India's first PM #JawaharlalNehru at the Central Hall in Parliament House, on his birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/bGFd9CYSX7Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, LoP in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, and others pay tribute to first PM Jawaharlal Nehru on his 132nd birth anniversary‘We will probe Raza academy’: Dilip Walse PatilI can't tell you today but we will probe this. Be it Raza Academy or any other organisation, their motive behind the rally will be probed: Dilip Walse PatilSituation in Amravati under control, says Maharashtra home ministerSituation in Amravati is under control. No casualties have been reported in the violence: Dilip Walse Patil, Mahrashtra home ministerAkhilesh Yadav responds to home minister Amit Shah's ‘JAM’ jibe#WATCH | "...SP has come up with JAM for BJP - J for 'jhooth' (lies), A for 'ahankaar' (arrogance), M for 'mehengai' (inflation). BJP has to give a reply on their own JAM...," says SP chief Akhilesh Yadav pic.twitter.com/snwBwXZVhT“The Samajwadi Party has come up with JAM for BJP - J for 'jhooth' (lies), A for 'ahankaar' (arrogance), and M for 'mehengai' (inflation). BJP has to give a reply on their own JAM,” says SP chief Akhilesh YadavOver 623 million samples tested for Covid-19 till now: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ohKtNPQVeITotal 623,751,344 samples tested for Covid-19 till now, including 1,255,904 on November 13, 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)India records 11,271 new Covid-19 cases and 285 deathsIndia records 11,271 new Covid-19 cases, 11,376 recoveries and 285 deaths. Total tally rises to 34,437,307, including 33,837,859 recoveries, 463,530 deaths and 135,918 active cases.Delhi's AQI remains ‘very poor’Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi at 386, remains in ‘very poor’ category: SAFAR-IndiaPM Modi remembers Pandit Nehru on birth anniversaryTributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his birth anniversary.PM Modi remembers first PM Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary.PM Modi to transfer first PMAY-G instalment to Tripura beneficiariesPM Modi will transfer first PMAY-G instalment to 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura today, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said. Russia's Covid-19 tally tops 9 millionRussia records 39,256 new Covid-19 cases, as tally rises to 9,031,851. With 1241 fresh fatalities, toll mounts to 254,167.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-14-november-2021-101636847380307.html
16-11-2021||NA||Highlights: Samples of 2 people in Lucknow test positive for Zika virus||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:1 terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Srinagar, reports ANI One terrorist was on Thursday killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar. Police and security forces are currently present at the spot. “1 AK rifle along with ammunition recovered. Search underway,” news agency quoted the Jammu and Kashmir police as saying.Samples of 2 people in Lucknow test positive for Zika virusSamples of two people in Lucknow tested positive for Zika virus on Thursday.  A total of 93 samples have tested positive till date, 91 of which are from Kanpur. The first Zika case in Kanpur was detected on October 23 and the number of cases has increased over the past week.Fire breaks out in building near Delhi's Karkarduma metro stationA fire broke out on the sixth floor of Rishabh Tower near Karkarduma Metro Station in Delhi on Thursday, the fore department said. 14 fire tenders have been rushed to the spot, and no casualties have been reported so far, the department added.4 killed as Bangladesh votes for rural councils: ReportAt least four people were killed as Bangladesh held village council elections Thursday, reported news agency AP. Chief Election Commissioner K.M. Nurul Huda warned against election violence before Thursday's vote and said security measures were being taken to respond to any incidents.Factually wrong to compare Hindutva ideology with ISIS and Jihadist Islam: Ghulam Nabi AzadCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Thursday said it was "factually wrong" to compare Hindutva political ideology with ISIS and Jihadist Islam. Azad was referring to a passage in Salman Khurshid latest book, where he reportedly compared Hindutva with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram.One nation, one portal to redress public grievances soon: Jitendra SinghUnion minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday said the Centre is moving towards creating 'One Nation, One Portal' to redress public grievances. He said efforts are being made to integrate state grievance portals with the Centre's Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System, an online system that mainly allows filing of complaints by people against different central government departments.Delhi reports 40 new Covid-19 cases, no fatality Delhi has reported 40 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, the Delhi government said on Thursday. Further, 61 patients recovered from the infection while no deaths were reported for the 20th consecutive day.India has not accepted China's illegal occupation or unjustified claims: MEAThe ministry of external affairs on Thursday said India has neither accepted the illegal occupation of Indian territory by China nor China's unjustified claims. "China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas, including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims," ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Read moreRupee falls 18 paise to close at 74.52 against US dollar The rupee depreciated by 18 paise to end at 74.52 (provisional) against the US currency on Thursday, as heavy selling pressure in domestic equities and a strong greenback in the overseas market weighed on investor sentiments.2,000 dengue cases reported so far in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior, reports ANI citing officialA total of around 2,000 positive cases of dengue have been reported so far in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior district, news agency ANI reported Gwalior CMHO, Dr Manish Sharma, as saying. "Our control measures have started producing results, cases are gradually coming down," the official added.Congress's Sukhpal Singh Khaira arrested by ED on money laundering chargesCongress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira was on Thursday arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on money laundering charges. According to people familiar with the development, the leader was arrested by the Delhi team of the Enforcement Directorate.Former South African president FW de Klerk dies aged 85Former South African president FW de Klerk, who freed Nelson Mandela, dies aged 85. Read more1 terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam, reports ANIAn encounter is underway at Chawalgam area in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam. According to news agency ANI, a terrorist was killed during the operation. More details to follow.Devendra Fadnavis's wife Amruta sends legal notice to Nawab MalikAmruta Devendra Fadnavis, the wife of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, has sent a legal notice to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for “tarnishing the image of her family” through his alleged defamatory tweets, reports news agency ANI.Punjab assembly unanimously passes resolution against Centre's BSF moveThe Punjab assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution against the Union government's decision to extend the Border Security Force jurisdiction to a 50 km belt along the international border in the State, news agency ANI reported chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as saying. “We are committed to protect Punjab and if required will approach SC in this matter,” he added. Chennai airport announces suspension of arrivals from 1:15pm to 6pm due to severe rainDue to severe rains and heavy crosswinds, arrivals at Chennai Airport will remain suspended from 1315 hrs to 1800 hrs, today. Departures will continue, says city Airport. Waterlogging in Chennai after overnight rainfallDue to overnight rainfall, there is waterlogging in parts of Chennai today. 13 subways waterlogged will be cleared, 160 fallen trees removed. In last 4 days, almost 20 lakh people given food packets in Chennai: Kumar Jayanth, Principal Secy, Revenue Dept, Tamil Nadu'Torture, financial loss': Malik's son-in-law sends legal notice to FadnavisMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan who was arrested in a drug-related case early this year and is now out on bail has sent a legal notice to BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, demanding ₹5 crore damages for 'mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury' inflicted to his reputation because of Fadnavis' statement on a television channel. Read MoreChennai threatened by cyclone circulation: Areas to avoid and other advisoriesChennai, battered by incessant rain, is expected to receive more downpour as a depression in the Bay of Bengal is hurtling towards Tamil Nadu coast. The India Meteorological Department's (IMD) regional centre has said that it will cross the coast between north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh on Thursday evening. Read MoreCOP26: US, China unveil surprise deal to cooperate more on climate crisisChina and the United States early on Thursday unveiled a surprise deal and issued a joint statement on climate cooperation, pledging they would work together to slow global warming during this decade and ensure that the Glasgow talks result in progress. Read MoreChennai's Marina beach sees flooding after heavy downpour#WATCH Chennai's popular Marina beach flooded due to heavy downpour as a result of cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal#TamilNadu pic.twitter.com/L6N4iIhj1uGermany hits record 50,000 new Covid cases in 24 hoursGermany hits record 50,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours, news agency AGP has reported citing local authorities.Taliban must cut off umbilical cord with Pak for Afghanistan to surviveAfter a day-long deliberations on Afghanistan by National Security Advisors (NSAs) of eight neighboring countries here on Wednesday, it has become quite evident that the Taliban will continue to hold the reins of power in Kabul. Read MoreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally rises to 13,091India's daily Covid-19 tally saw jump on Thursday, as the country reported 13,091 cases of infection  in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tally now stands at  3,44,01,670. Amit Shah in Varanasi on Nov 12, may discuss UP polls strategy with BJP workersUnion home minister Amit hah is expected to visit Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on November 12 to attend Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan. The meeting is significant in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as he is considered as the architect of the BJP's turnaround in the state. Read MoreEncounter between Rajesh Bawania gang and police is underway in DelhiAn encounter is underway in Delhi's Bawana area between Rajesh Bawania gang's associate and police, news agency ANI has reported. At least one person is being reprted to be injured in the incident. Incessant rains in Tamil NaduTamil Nadu | Incessant rain causes water-logging at several parts of Chennai pic.twitter.com/Wu3wruFKbGDevotees on the last day of Chhath puja#WATCH | Devotees make offerings to Sun God while standing in knee-deep water of toxic foam-laden Yamuna river, near Kalindi Kunj in Delhi on the last day of Chhath puja pic.twitter.com/9B10llIPf2Nasa, SpaceX launch ‘Crew 3’ astronauts on flight to International Space StationNasa and SpaceX, the private rocket company of Elon Musk, launched four more astronauts on a flight to the International Space Station late on Wednesday, including a veteran spacewalker and two younger crewmates chosen to join Nasa's forthcoming lunar missions.Eye on UP polls, Priyanka Gandhi to launch ‘padayatra’ in Lucknow todayCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will on Thursday take out a ‘padyatra’ (foot march) across various parts of Lucknow as part of the grand old party's ‘Pragati Yatra’ launched last month in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreAstronauts suit up for planned SpaceX mission to International Space StationThe latest team of astronauts bound for the International Space Station, three from Nasa and a German crewmate, suited up for a planned liftoff atop a SpaceX rocket on Wednesday, despite rain and clouds at the Florida launch site that forecasters predicted would clear in time. Read MoreLower petrol prices draw Delhi commuters to NCR citiesPetrol costs ₹103.97 a litre in Delhi, but only ₹95.51 a litre in Noida, and ₹95.90 a litre in Gurugram. Expectedly, petrol filling stations near the borders of the national capital have already begun losing customers to filling stations in these satellite cities that are in neighbouring states, the first in Uttar Pradesh, and the second in Haryana. Read MoreTaliban minister Muttaqi in Islamabad for talks as Pak hosts meet on AfghanistanA delegation led by Taliban's acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi reached Islamabad on Wednesday to hold talks with the Pakistani leadership. This is the fist visit of Afghan officials to Pakistan since the Sunni Pashtun group swept to power in Kabul. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-11-november-2021-101636591209020.html
16-11-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi welcomes US joining International Solar Alliance||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Countries representing BASIC Group make joint statement at COP26Ministers of Brazil, South Africa, India & China representing the BASIC Group met at COP26 in Glasgow, UK today. The meeting was chaired by India's Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bhupender Yadav. In a joint statement, ministers of the countries said they and other developing countries have made the first move on climate change and "expect developed countries to show leadership and respond with a matching progression of effort".PM Modi welcomes US joining International Solar Alliance, says it will strengthen groupingWonderful news @ClimateEnvoy! I thank @POTUS and wholeheartedly welcome the USA to the @isolaralliance. This will further strengthen the Alliance in our shared quest of harnessing solar energy for a sustainable planet. https://t.co/vWlzCmws3qPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday welcomed the US joining the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and said this will further strengthen the alliance in its shared quest of harnessing solar energy for a sustainable planet.Bihar ‘hooch’ tragedy: Death toll in Muzaffarpur rises to 6The death toll due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor in Bihar's Muzaffarpur has risen to 6 after one more person died on Wednesday, reported news agency ANI.Zika virus: 3 fresh cases reported in Kanpur, tally rises to 91 At least three fresh cases of Zika virus have been reported in Kanpur, pushing the total tally to 91, according to news agency ANI. USA joins International Solar Alliance as 101st member country: ReportThe United States of America has become the 101st member country to join the International Solar Alliance (ISA). "In a big boost to accelerate global adoption of solar energy, John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, announced at the UNFCCC COP26 today (Wednesday) that the United States of America (USA) has joined the International Solar Alliance (ISA) as a member country," news agency PTI quoted ISA as saying in a statement.‘Wrestler shot dead in Sonepat is newcomer Nisha Dahiya,' says coach who travelled with Indian teamThe wrestler who was shot dead in Sonepat is a namesake of national wrestler Nisha Dahiya.“Wrestler shot dead in Sonepat is newcomer Nisha Dahiya, not U-23 world championship bronze-medallist,” news agency PTI reported the coach, who travelled with Indian team, as saying.“This Nisha Dahiya (shot dead) & medalist wrestler Nisha Dahiya are 2 different people. The medalist wrestler belongs to Panipat & is at an event now,” news agency ANI quoted Sonipat SP, Rahul Sharma, as saying. Read moreI am in Gonda to play senior nationals, says wrestler Nisha Dahiya; rebuts reports of her deathMinutes after reports of the killing of Nisha Dahiya emerged, the national wrestler in a video message rebutted the news and said she was in Gonda to play senior nationals.2 injured in grenade attack in Kashmir's EidgahAt least two people were injured in a grenade attack in Jammu & Kashmir's Eidgah area, people familiar with the development confirmed on Wednesday.West Bengal BJP expels Surajit Saha from party West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Mujamdar expels Surajit Saha from the party with immediate effect, for “breaching organisational discipline”, reported news agency ANI.Manoj Tiwari reaches Yamuna ghat to perform Chhath puja in violation of DDMA orderBJP MP Manoj Tiwari reached Yamuna ghat to perform the rituals of Chhath Puja on Wednesday. "We will not follow the DDMA order. No one can stop us from performing our rituals. DDMA's work is to clean the Yamuna and not to ban people from going there," he told ANI.Mansukh Mandaviya calls meeting with health ministers of states, UTs tomorrow on vaccine coverageUnion minister of health Mansukh Mandaviya has convened a meeting on Thursday morning with health ministers of all the states and Union Territories on campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak', reports ANI. The government is targeting to complete maximum single and second dose vaccination coverage.3 top officials removed from posts after hospital fire tragedy in BhopalDean of Gandhi Medical College Dr Jitendra Shukla, Hamidia Hospital superintendent Dr Lokendra Dave and Kamla Nehru Hospital director Dr KK Dubey have been removed from their posts after fire tragedy at Bhopal's Kamla Nehru Hospital, reported news agency ANI.Sub engineer of CPA (Electricity wing) Awdhesh Bhadauria has been suspended.CBDT issues refund of over ₹1,15,917 crore from April 1 to November 8, 2021, reports ANI citing IT dept.The Central Board of Direct Taxes has issued refunds of over ₹1,15,917 crore to more than 98.90 lakh taxpayers from April 1, 2021 to November 8, 2021, news agency ANI quoted the Income Tax department as saying on Wednesday. “Income tax refunds of ₹36,000 crore have been issued in 97,12,911 cases & corporate tax refunds of ₹79,917 crore have been issued in 1,77,184 cases,” the department further said.Congress in Maharashtra announces statewide agitation against inflation, fuel price hikeThe Congress' Maharashtra unit has announced a statewide agitation over inflation, petrol-diesel price hikes and policies that are weakening the common man financially, news agency ANI quoted party leader Nana Patole as saying on Wednesday. Various agitations will be held from November 14 to 19, he was further quoted as saying. India issues consensus statement on AfghanistanIndia on Wednesday issued consensus statement on Afghanistan. In the statement, India expressed deep concern over the suffering of the people of Afghanistan arising from the security situation in the country. It also condemned the terrorist attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. Read morePM Modi announces ex-gratia for kins of those who lost lives in accident in Rajasthan's Barmer Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in an accident in Rajasthan. Injured would be given ₹50,000 eachEarlier in the day, a truck collided head-on with a bus in Rajasthan's Barmer district, leaving five people dead and 22 others injured, news agency PTI reported police as saying.China’s PLA strengthens facilities at LAC in anticipation of ‘small frictions’China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has strengthened facilities for its soldiers along the disputed border with India ahead of winter in anticipation of “small frictions”, a state media report said on Wednesday. Read MoreNykaa's Falguni Nayar becomes India's wealthiest self-made female billionaireNykaa founder Falguni Nayar on Wednesday became India's seventh woman billionaire and the wealthiest self-made billionaire in an ongoing initial public offering (IPO) boom which saw the e-commerce giant making a blockbuster debut on Dalal Street, its parent company FSN floating on the Mumbai stock exchange. Moments after the markets opened on Wednesday, Nykaa shares were being listed at ₹2,018 with around 80 per cent premium. Read MoreSameer Wankhede’s sister-in-law demands FIR against Nawab MalikHridaya Banerjee, also known as Harshada Dinanath Redkar, sister-in-law of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, submitted a letter at Mumbai’s Goregaon police station on Tuesday demanding that an FIR should be filed against political analyst Nishant Verma and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for criminal intimidation.Chhattisgarh allows cinema halls to operate with full capacity in 4 districtsThe Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to operate with full capacity in the capital city of Raipur, Durg, Bilaspur and Kawardha districts amid an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation. Read moreNSA chairs regional summit on Afghanistan National Security Adviser Ajit Doval chairs the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan in New Delhi.  The meeting is being attended by NSA's counterparts from five Central Asian countries, along with Russia and Iran. US journalist held in Myanmar charged with sedition, terrorism: LawyerUS journalist held in Myanmar charged with sedition, terrorism, news agency AFP reported qouting lawyer. 96 nations agreed to accept Indian vaccine certificates, says MandaviyaIndia and 96 countries have agreed to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, according to a statement on Tuesday. Read MoreCommuters in Chennai face waterlogging Tamil Nadu: Waterlogging due to heavy rains continues in Chennai. Visuals from Kolathur area.IMD has issued red alert in Cuddalore, Viluppuram, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Karaikal, for today pic.twitter.com/IzKI0MAOX0Nasa pushes back timeframe for next human moon landing to 2025Nasa is extending its target date for sending astronauts back to the moon to 2025 at the earliest, the US space agency's chief said on Tuesday, stretching out by at least a year the timeline pronounced under former President Donald Trump. Read MoreElon Musk loses $50 billion in 2 days in record wealth plungeElon Musk has lost $50 billion so far this week after Tesla Inc. shares plunged for the second day in a row. It’s the biggest two-day decline in the history of the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and the biggest one-day fall after Jeff Bezos’s $36 billion plunge following his divorce from MacKenzie Scott in 2019.India to host NSA-level regional summit on Afghanistan todayIndia on Wednesday will host a regional summit to discuss the ongoing situation in neighbouring Afghanistan following the fall of the democratically-elected government and the subsequent Taliban takeover of the country. The conference will be chaired by India's National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. Read MoreBarbs fly between Oppn, govt in fresh Rafale rowThe political row over the Rafale deal escalated on Tuesday, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government of irregularities in its attempted deal to purchasethe fighter jets in 2012, and the principal opposition party alleging a “cover up” by the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government when the deal was finally sealed and executed in 2016. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-november-10-2021-101636506130094.html
