17-11-2021||India||Centre extends ED director SK Mishra tenure a day before retirement||New Delhi: The Centre on Wednesday extended the tenure for a year of Enforcement Directorate (ED) chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra, a day before he was set to retire, and three days after the government brought an ordinance that allowed such a move.An order, issued by the department of revenue, said: “The President of India is pleased to extend the tenure of Sanjay Kumar Mishra (Indian Revenue Service officer of 1984 batch) as Director of Enforcement in the ED for a period of one year beyond November 18, 2021, i.e. November 18, 2022 or until further orders, whichever is earlier.” On Sunday, a government ordinance amended the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Act, allowing for ED chiefs up to be given annual extensions that could extend their fixed two-year terms to a total of five years. Another ordinance was brought on the same day to change the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) act to give CBI directors similar service and tenure terms.Several opposition parties have targeted the government over taking the ordinance route just before the start of a Parliament session, and accused the government of using federal agencies to harass political leaders and civil society members.SK Mishra joined the ED chief on November 19, 2018 for two year fixed tenure. Then, in November last year, he got first extension for one year.The SC, while hearing a petition by NGO Common Cause challenging Mishra’s one year extension in November 2020, cleared the government decision but said that he should not be granted any further extension. The SC order came while interpreting the old Section 25 of the CVC Act, which has now been amended by way of an ordinanceThe ordinance, brought in on Sunday, amending the section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) act, which governs the appointment and tenure of ED Director, states that the ED chief, including his initial appointment (fixed tenure of two years), can get extension up to five years but every extension will be given for a year at a time. The ordinance tweaked the rules to make the extension possible.The government, on Tuesday, also notified its Fundamental Rules (FR) -- overarching guidelines that apply to all civilian government servants -- to bring the rulebook in line with the two ordinances. However, the tweaked FR -- which already provided for a maximum two-year extensions to the home, foreign and defence secretaries, and the CBI, R&AW and IB chiefs -- excluded the post of foreign secretary from the ambit of the exceptions to the superannuation rule, which otherwise says all officers must retire at the age of 60. The government clarified on Wednesday that this was an oversight, and reintroduced the term “foreign secretary” into the relevant paragraph, which now reads: “Provided also that the Central Government may, if it considers necessary in the public interest so to do, give extension in service to the Defence Secretary, Foreign Secretary, Home Secretary, Director of Intelligence Bureau, Secretary of Research and Analysis Wing and Director of Central Bureau of Investigation appointed under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) and Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement appointed under the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (45 of 2003) in the Central Government for such period or periods as it may deem proper on a case-to-case basis for reasons to be recorded in writing, subject to the condition that the total term of such Secretaries or Directors, as the case may be, who are given such extension in service under this rule, does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective Act or rules made thereunder, under which their appointments are made.”Mishra’s three-year tenure as ED chief has seen the arrest of several high-profile people accused of money laundering, including former Yes Bank managing director and chief executive officer Rana Kapoor; former ICICI Bank former MD-CEO Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar; British middleman Christian Michel James in AgustaWestland scam; alleged middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta; former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri; and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The government’s argument was that Mishra’s extension was required to ensure continuity in these high-profile and sensitive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-ed-director-sk-mishra-tenure-a-day-before-retirement-101637173677653.html
17-11-2021||India||India displays logistics capabilities to support forces in Ladakh||NEW DELHI: After carrying out airborne combat manoeuvres in Ladakh to showcase its rapid response capabilities, India displayed its prowess to provide logistics support to military deployments in the sensitive sector in the midst of the ongoing border standoff with China in an airlift exercise codenamed Operation Hercules, officials familiar with the development said. The joint drill by the Indian Air Force and the army was conducted on November 15, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday, two weeks after airborne drills in eastern Ladakh showcased capabilities such as swift inter-theatre movement of troops and weapons, precision stand-off drops and speedy capture of designated targets. “The aim of this high intensity airlift was to strengthen the logistics supply in the northern sector and to augment winter stocking in operational areas,” the ministry said in a statement. The IAF’s C-17 Globemaster III heavy lifter, IL-76 aircraft and An-32s were involved in the exercise. India has deployed 50,000 to 60,000 troops and advanced weaponry in the Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese military buildup and the possibility of any misadventure by the neighbour whose belligerent actions triggered the border standoff more than 18 months ago. Op Hercules was a real-time demonstration of the IAF’s heavy-lift capability, the ministry said adding that the air force played a significant role “in ensuring the ability to quickly respond to any contingency” during the standoff. “IAF has demonstrated its surge logistics capability at short notice in the operational sector. There’s a heavy deployment of Indian forces in Ladakh, with logistics requirements going up in winter,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), who heads the Centre for Air Power Studies. An airborne brigade, consisting of the army’s finest paratroopers, was the centrepiece of the three-day high-altitude combat manoeuvres conducted in Ladakh in early November. The exercise saw soldiers being inserted into a drop zone at an altitude of more than 14,000 feet, with specialist vehicles and missile detachments transported to the exercise area via US-origin C-130J special operations aircraft and Soviet-origin An-32 medium transport planes from five different mounting bases. India and China have hardened their positions on the border row in eastern Ladakh, and also Arunachal Pradesh, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. Op Hercules came five weeks after military talks with China to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) reached an impasse on October 10. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of talks on October 10. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving the outstanding problems on LAC but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals, while China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement. Military talks are unlikely to result in a breakthrough and only higher intervention can show the way to resolving the 18-month-old border crisis, experts have said. In a report submitted to the Congress on November 3, the US department of defence said Beijing was taking “incremental and tactical actions to press its claims” at LAC, despite participating in talks to resolve the crisis. There is no end in sight to the standoff, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stating on October 9 that if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army. PLA has also intensified its activities in sensitive areas across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after the lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-displays-logistics-capabilities-to-support-forces-in-ladakh-101637173197781.html
17-11-2021||India||‘Nothing to share with media’: Singh Deo after meeting Sonia Gandhi||Hours after meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi, on Wednesday, reportedly over the power sharing agreement between him and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, state health minister TS Singh Deo said that he had “nothing to share with media” about the meeting. On returning to Raipur from New Delhi, Singh Deo said, “If any developments take place I will surely share with the media …But till now I have nothing to share with you.” This is the first time that Singh Deo met Sonia Gandhi after the tussle between him and Baghel started in mid- August over a power sharing agreement. On August 28, emerging after a lengthy meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that Baghel should move aside because of a reported two-and-a-half-year power sharing agreement with Singh Deo, the CM seemed to have bought some time. Baghel had said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would visit the state, especially Bastar. The Congress leader is yet to visit Chhattisgarh.The following day, when Singh Deo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had taken a “decision”. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance when the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem area too. Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu emerged as the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-to-share-with-media-singh-deo-after-meeting-sonia-gandhi-101637173136366.html
17-11-2021||India||Vaccine hesitancy now greatest threat in overcoming pandemic: SII's Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India's chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla on Wednesday urged people to take the jab against the coronavirus, as he stressed that "vaccine hesitancy is now the greatest threat in overcoming this pandemic." Taking to Twitter to make the appeal, Poonawall also wrote "The vaccine industry has worked tirelessly to provide enough stocks for the nation."The vaccine industry has worked tirelessly to provide enough stocks for the nation. Today there are over 200 million doses available with states. I urge all adults to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccine hesitancy is now the greatest threat in overcoming this pandemic.The tweet comes as Poonawalla's family-owned company prepares to resume exports to the COVAX international vaccine sharing program for the first time since April. A version of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by SII -- Covisheild -- accounts for nearly 90% of the 1.24 billion doses administered in India.Earlier in the day, Union minister for health Mansukh Mandaviya also appealed to all eligible citizens to get vaccinated against the viral disease.The government this month launched a door-to-door vaccination campaign to cover all adults with at least the first dose by next month and ensure people also take their second shots.India has reported about 34.5 million infections, the most after the United States, and more than 464,000 deaths.The country has in total administered over 113.68 crore doses, according to the provisional report at 7 am. This has been achieved through 1,16,73,459 sessions. Out of which, 75,57,24,081 doses were administered as the first dose and 38,11,55,604 doses were administered as second dose. The number of fully vaccinated individuals (38,11,55,604) exceeds those who have been administered a single dose (37,45,68,477).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-hesitancy-now-greatest-threat-in-overcoming-pandemic-sii-s-poonawalla-101637169572122.html
17-11-2021||India||Catch big fish: Top court tells ED as it protects former Manipur CM from arrest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to catch the “big fish” as it spared former Manipur chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh from arrest in an alleged money laundering case. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said, “You catch the big fish. He is just a small opposition member of legislative assembly (MLA) in a state,” referring to Singh, who is presently the Leader of Opposition in the Manipur assembly. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, dismissed the appeal filed by ED challenging an order of the Manipur high court on December 16, 2020 granting anticipatory bail to Singh. The ED, represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju said, “The high court has relied on mere newspaper reports to grant anticipatory bail to the respondent (Singh). He is a former chief minister and is facing a probe in an alleged corruption case investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).” The bench said, “He is not going to run away. The high court has noted that in the CBI case he has already got anticipatory bail. All this has weighed with the high court. We will not interfere.” The top court, while dismissing the petition, kept open the question of law raised by ED. The case against O Ibobi Singh pertained to a complaint made in 2016 in connection with a multi-crore Manipur Development Society (MDS) scam. The CBI began its probe in 2019 into alleged embezzlement of government funds to the tune of ₹332 crore against Singh and four other government officers. In this matter, Singh got anticipatory bail in February 2020. In connection with the case, CBI made cash seizures from the properties of Singh leading to a news report in November 2020 that suggested the ED would soon launch money laundering proceedings against the opposition leader over the cash seized. A total of ₹36.49 lakh cash was recovered, besides an amount of ₹15.47 lakh in demonetized currency notes. Singh approached the high court alleging political witch hunt and agreed to cooperate with the probe. The objection of the ED that anticipatory bail provision cannot apply to cases under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) was rejected by the high court. It said, “The PML Act is very silent for granting anticipatory bail, however, when a person’s personal liberty is violated, anticipatory bail can be granted.” This finding by the high court was questioned by ED in its appeal before the top court. Singh was directed to cooperate with the probe and was not allowed to leave the country without permission of the ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/catch-big-fish-top-court-tells-ed-as-it-protects-former-manipur-cm-from-arrest-101637168875899.html
17-11-2021||India||Punjab police to cancel all cases against farmers related to stubble burning, agitation: CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday ordered the state police to cancel all FIRs against farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three controversial farm legislation. This comes as the Punjab chief minister chaired a high-level meeting with the representatives of 32 farm unions of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) led by President BKU Balbir Singh Rajewal at Punjab Bhawan, earlier in the day.Calling the meeting "successful," Channi informed that "18 points were discussed," and both parties have reached a consensus. "Their demand for a debt waiver will be discussed," he also said.The Punjab government has also asked for a list of people who died during the agitation to award compensation and job for the next of their kin. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the three legislation that sailed through the Parliament and were enacted in September last year. The agitation is set to complete a year this month as the impasse between the protesting farmers and the government remains.Though the laws have been stayed by the Supreme Court, the farmers are still protesting, demanding the government to repeal them.The decision comes as the state is set to hold an assembly election next year and the Congress is seeking re-election while battling major infighting.The Punjab chief minister also reportedly cancelled all FIRs filed against farmers for burning stubble or agricultural waste, while appealing against it. "Channi appealed to farmers to refrain from stubble burning in future as it was hazardous both for the environment as well as human health besides hampering the fertility of the land to an enormous degree," according to the official statement issued by the state chief minister's office.Meanwhile, Channi also announced to enhance the compensation amount from ₹12,000 to ₹17,000 per acre besides 10% of the relief to the farm labourers involved in the picking of cotton, the Punjab government also informed in the statement.The decision has been taken in a major reprieve to the cotton growers and farm labourers who suffered huge losses due to the pink bollworm pest attack on cotton crops.The enhanced compensation amount would involve nearly ₹200 crore in addition to the already approved ₹416.18 crore on account of compensation of ₹12,000 per acre.Agreeing to another demand of SKM to fill vacancies in the agriculture department, senior Congress leader apprised that 141 posts of Agriculture development officers have already been appointed and an equal number of posts would be filled soon to provide efficient extension services to the farmers which would go a long way in supplementing their income, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-to-cancel-all-cases-against-farmers-related-to-stubble-burning-agitation-cm-channi-101637167402704.html
17-11-2021||India||Senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh is proclaimed offender. What it really means||Param Bir Singh, the former police commissioner of Mumbai, was on Wednesday declared a “proclaimed offender” by a city court in connection with an extortion case. Singh's is the first-ever case of a former Mumbai police commissioner being declared a proclaimed offender, and he was also the second-most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer serving in Maharashtra.Who is a proclaimed offender?If any court has reason to believe that a person against whom an arrest warrant has been issued by it has absconded or is concealing himself so that the warrant cannot be executed, the court may pronounce him a ‘proclaimed offender’ and make a declaration to that effect.What are the offences for which the court may declare an absconder to be a proclaimed offender?The court may pronounce an absconder as a proclaimed offender if he is accused of any of the following offences:• Murder; culpable homicide not amounting to murder• Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder; Kidnapping or abducting in order to subject a person to grievous hurt, slavery etc.• Committing theft after making preparation for death, hurt or restraint in order to commit the theft; committing robbery or attempting to do so; causing hurt in committing robbery; committing dacoity/dacoity with murder; committing robbery/dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt; attempting to commit robbery/dacoity when armed with a deadly weapon; preparing to commit or assembling to commit dacoity; belonging to a gang of dacoits.• Causing mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy a house, etc.• Committing house-trespass in order to commit an offence punishable with death; causing grievous hurt/death while committing lurking house-trespass or house-breaking; being a member of a group that causes grievous hurt/death while committing lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night.What are the charges against Param Bir Singh?The order came following an application filed by the Mumbai Police’s crime branch, which is investigating an August 20 extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai. The FIR named Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians — Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh aka Bablu and Riyaz Bhati — for extortion.The complainant, restaurateur Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets – Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar. Once it took over the investigation, the crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-ips-officer-param-bir-singh-is-proclaimed-offender-what-it-really-means-101637161671204.html
17-11-2021||India||ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra gets one-year extension||A day before the Enforcement Directorate’s incumbent chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra was to complete his tenure; the Centre on Wednesday extended his tenure for a year, till November 18, 2022. The decision comes two days after the government brought in an ordinance to amend the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Act to empower itself to give tenure to CBI and ED chiefs up to five years. Another ordinance was brought in on Monday to change the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act to give CBI directors tenure of five years as well. The government also tweaked the Union government’s Fundamental Rules on Tuesday to enable extensions given to ED and CBI chiefs using the powers granted by the two ordinances.An order issued by the department of revenue said that “The President of India is pleased to extend the tenure of Sanjay Kumar Mishra (Indian Revenue Service officer of 1984 batch) as Director of Enforcement in the ED for a period of one year beyond November 18, 2021, i.e. November 18, 2022 or until further orders, whichever is earlier”. Opposition parties have targeted the government over using the ordinance route before the Parliament session. Congress leader Manish Tewari said on Tuesday that political parties should approach the Supreme Court against the two ordinances, which he termed “illegal”. The Supreme Court had in September ordered that Mishra should not be given any further extension but the ordinance brought in on Monday is believed to primarily benefit Mishra, who has already completed three years as ED chief. Mishra is heading the agency since November 2018. During his tenure, arrest of several high profile persons accused of money laundering has taken place including former Yes Bank Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer - Rana Kapoor, ICICI Bank former MD-CEO Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar, deportation and arrest of British middleman Christian Michel James in AgustaWestland scam, alleged middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta, Rajiv Saxena, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh among others. The agency has also jointly, along with the CBI, secured the extradition of former liquor baton Vijay Mallya from the UK but it is stuck due to “secret political proceedings” there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-chief-sanjay-kumar-mishra-gets-one-year-extension-101637165515598.html
17-11-2021||India||Delhi court refuses to stop publication, sale of Salman Khurshid's book on Ayodhya||Delhi's Patiala House Court on Wednesday refused to stop the publication of a recent book penned by former Union minister Salman Khurshid, comparisons between Hindutva and terrorist groups such as the ISIS and Boko Haram in which triggered a major controversy. ACJ Preeti Parewa, while refusing to grant ad-interim ex-parte injunction, observed that the petitioner Vishnu Gupta, who heads the right-wing group Hindu Sena, failed to establish the ‘balance of convenience’ in his favour, thus causing the grant of interim relief to be declined.Also Read | Cops recover shells, live cartridges from Salman Khurshid's vandalised house“Furthermore, the defendant no.2 and 3 herein have the right to write/publish the book. The plaintiff has not been able to establish that inconvenience will be caused to him to avoid the book or the alleged offensive excerpts of the book,” the judge noted in her order, according to Livelaw.The order further observed that passing such an injunction would cause hardship for the publishers, besides curtailing the author's right of speech and expression.Also Read | Controversy over Salman Khurshid’s ‘Hindutva-ISIS' comparison. What we know so farGupta, in his suit, sought a prohibitory injunction to stop the publication, sale, circulation and distribution of the book, titled ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya,' arguing that the Hindutva-ISIS comparison left him ‘shocked.’ The excerpt, the suit stated, was not only instigating and provoking Hindu sentiments, but also hurting the sentiments of a large number of people who follow Hinduism.The book is an attempt to ‘demonise’ the Hindu religion, the suit further alleged.The controversial excerpt appears on page number 113 of the book, and says that ‘classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of, by all standards, a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like the ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.’A separate plea against the book has been filed in the Delhi high court as well. It will be taken up for hearing on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-refuses-to-stop-publication-of-salman-khurshid-s-book-on-ayodhya-101637160362829.html
17-11-2021||India||Meta global policy management head interview: Spending over $5 billion this year on user safety||Meta, previously known as Facebook, continues to be mired in controversy surrounding its allegedly partisan policies when it comes to moderating speech, combating inappropriate online behaviour, and addressing fake news. The company’s head of global policy management Monika Bickert, in written responses to queries from HT claimed that the company ensures users’ safety on its platforms and is on track to spend over $5 billion dollars this year on safety and security. She also argued that the premise of the allegations made by former company employees and whistleblowers, such as Frances Haugen and Sophie Zhang, are false as the firm doesn’t compromise user well-being for profits. Edited excerptsFacebook recently rebranded itself as Meta, what all are the changes that will follow the transformation? We’ve always believed that the ultimate promise of technology is to improve people’s lives, and bring people closer together. Now, we see the opportunity on the horizon to bring people together in ways never before possible. The Metaverse is the next frontier of virtual social connection. This is where we can make the greatest contribution -- in helping to develop the next generation of online social experiences. We’re already building the foundational technologies needed to help deliver this AR/VR future -- our work on communities, creators, commerce, and the next computing platform are the building blocks for a completely new generation of experiences. We are at the beginning of something very important in the history of communication, and we plan to be at the forefront, helping to lead the way. The last decade saw a shift from desktop web to mobile internet and the next decade will be about shifting into the metaverse. Because the metaverse will be inherently social and will connect people in ways never before thought possible, it is the fulfilment of our mission. How does Meta respond to the allegations made by several whistleblowers, such as Frances Haugen and Sophie Zhang, that its policies are detrimental to its users?At the heart of these allegations is a premise which is false. Yes, we’re a business and we make profit, but the idea that we do so at the expense of people’s safety or well-being misunderstands where our own commercial interests lie. The truth is we’re on track to spend more than $5 billion this year alone on safety and security and have over 40,000 people to do one job: keep people safe on Facebook.Has Facebook affected any changes, especially in India, since the allegations and documents became public?Billions of people use our services because we build the best tools to stay connected to the people they care about, to find communities that matter to them, and to grow their small business. And the reason we’ve been able to succeed for almost two decades is because we keep evolving and building. Our vision has always been to foster an ecosystem of apps that create a richer and more interesting experience for people. At the same time, we have developed rules to make our apps work better for everyone and to protect the safety and privacy of people who use them. People, communities, and businesses in India continue to join our platforms every day as they see the value -- the positive ways in which we empower and touch their lives. We’ve made changes to our policies over time to deal with issues as they arose. We stand by those changes and will continue to evaluate our policies to address any new issues that arise. We’re committed to continuing our industry leading work around user safety. How exactly do you identify hate content and inauthentic accounts in a country as diverse as India, where several languages and dialects are used on the social media platform? Our aim has been to remove abuse from our platform. Over the years we have invested significantly in technology to find hate speech and tackle misinformation on our platform. Since 2016, we have invested more than $13 billion on our teams and technology that focuses on safety and security and this year we are on track to spend more than $5 billion in this area. Today, we have tripled the number of people working on safety and security issues to more than 40,000, including more than 15,000 dedicated content reviewers who review content in more than 70 languages. This team is based in over 20 sites globally, including India and covers every major time zone. For India, we have people reviewing potentially problematic content in 20 Indian languages including Assamese and we have hate-speech classifiers in four Indian languages -- Hindi, Bengali, Tamil and Urdu. What is the role of the India policy team? How often does the company receive feedback from them?The India public policy team is responsible for engaging with policymakers, civil society and other policy stakeholders on policy development initiatives around a host of topics such as user safety, data protection and privacy and internet governance to shape the future of technology and represent the company’s position in these multi-stakeholder processes. Does the India team have any role in content moderation? Several allegations have been directed at a former public policy head of the Indian team for failing to moderate content because of political considerations? We make decisions on content if they violate our policies, not because of someone’s political position, party affiliation, or political point of view. Our Content Policy team that writes the policies on what is and isn’t allowed on our platforms, operates independently from our Public Policy team, who engage with policymakers. When updating our policies or when looking for input in escalating difficult decisions, Content Policy relies on input from many organizations across the company (including Operations, Engineering, Legal, Human Rights, Civil Rights, Safety, Comms and Public Policy).In these instances, Public Policy is just one of many groups consulted. And, while the perspective of Public Policy is key to understanding local context, no single team’s opinion has more influence than the other. We also have a separate team who enforces these policies.Facebook has often asserted that it remains free of political interference, but have there been instances wherein it has had to alter its stance for fear of political retaliation?Our Community Standards apply to everyone, all around the world, and to all types of content. We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief.What about language-based classifiers? Artificial intelligence, though increasingly used, remains ineffective to identify hate content in several languages, except for in Hindi and English, as demonstrated by the whistleblowers.For most of our history, the content review process has been very reactive and manual -- with people reporting content they have found problematic, and then our team reviewing that content. This approach has enabled us to remove a lot of harmful content, but it has major limits in that we can’t remove harmful content before people see it, or that people do not report.Over the last few years, we have significantly ramped up our efforts to proactively enforce our policies using a combination of artificial intelligence doing the most repetitive work, and a much larger team of people focused on the more nuanced cases. The single most important improvement in enforcing our policies is using artificial intelligence to proactively report potentially problematic content to our team of reviewers, and in some cases to take action on the content automatically as well. In 2016, the vast majority of our content removals were based on what users reported to us. We knew we needed to do better and so we began building technology to identify potentially violating content without anyone flagging it to us. When we began reporting our metrics on hate speech, only 23.6% of content we removed was detected proactively by our systems; the majority of what we removed was found by people. Now, that number is over 97%. We’ve invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including 4 Indian languages - Hindi, Urdu, Tamil and Bengali. We will continue to build on this work and add more languages. A lot of the hate speech identified in India has been found to be anti-Muslim (Islamophobic) and anti-Dalit rhetoric, according to several reports. Is there any attempt to focus on clamping down on such content? We do not allow hate speech on Facebook and regularly work with experts, non-profits, and stakeholders to help make sure Facebook is a safe place for everyone, recognizing anti-Muslim and anti-Dalit rhetoric can take different forms. We’ve invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including Hindi and Bengali. As a result, we’ve reduced the amount of hate speech that people see by half this year. Today, it’s down to 0.05 percent. Hate speech against marginalized groups, including Muslims, is on the rise globally. So, we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.Could you please also elaborate on how your budget allocation has changed: is still aimed primarily towards the US, or has it been altered following the allegations?The allegations that we spend more towards curbing misinformation and hate speech in the US than the rest of the world is out of context and does not give a comprehensive view of our efforts. The majority of the resources we have in place to prevent misinformation on our platform focus on content originating outside the United States. For misinformation, one of the primary ways we combat it is through our third-party fact-checking program, which includes over 80 partners globally, reviewing content in over 60 languages. The majority of those partners review content originating from outside the United States.In India, we have invested in building a strong network of third-party fact checking partners. Today, we have as many fact-checking partners in India as in the US - 10 fact-checking partners with the ability to fact-check in 11 Indian languages. In addition, For India, we have people reviewing potentially problematic content in 20 Indian languages and we have hate speech classifiers (automated detection technology) in four Indian languages - Hindi, Bengali, Tamil and Urdu. Our Community Standards are translated in 49 languages globally including Hindi, Bengali and Urdu. What does the company think is the future of communication and how does it plan to implement it?In the metaverse, the physical and the digital worlds would converge and it would be a more immersive and engaging experience, creating a shared sense of space with another person and another place. We believe that social experiences will be at the heart of the metaverse. As a social technology company - it is the natural next chapter for us as we help in building ‘bridges’ from our apps on 2D screens into more immersive virtual experiences in the metaverse. Are there any new initiatives the company is planning to undertake to achieve its vision? The next generation of online social experiences will feel immersive and new, this is the natural progression for the internet and of our own work today. It’s the next evolution in a long line of social technologies. If you look at the investments we’ve made over the years -- in communities, creators, commerce and the next computing platforms, like Oculus - you can see this vision starting to come into focus. We have always been about building social connections and with Metaverse we will follow a similar path, starting off with more basic bridges and glimpses in our 2D apps, and eventually becoming central to the way we connect online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meta-global-policy-management-head-interview-spending-over-5-billion-this-year-on-user-safety-101637163775487.html
17-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Politician, Bollywood react to Vir Das's ‘two India’ video and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vir Das's ‘two India’ poetry: Politician, Bollywood reactVir Das soon released an explanation stating that his comments weren’t intended to insult the country, and urged his followers to not fall for edited excerpts of the video. Read more‘Knew you were strong’: Emotional reunion of C’garh official abducted by MaoistsAjay Lakra and Laxman Pratagiri were abducted by local Maoist cadres when they were surveying an under-construction road between Bijapur town and Gorana village in Mankeli panchayat. Read moreIND vs NZ: 'Ready to bat at any position, or bowl whenever I've been asked to': Debutant Venkatesh Iyer on his roleThe 26-year-old, who turned numerous heads with his performance during the UAE phase of IPL 2021, has made his T20I debut against New Zealand in Jaipur. Read moreJai Bhim row: Suriya thanks fans 'for standing by us' amid police protection at his Chennai houseAmid Jai Bhim row, Suriya shared a thank you tweet dedicated to his fans. Reacting to Suriya's post, his fans extended their support on social media. Read moreCan poor sleep lead to diabetes?Lack of sleep could release stress hormones like cortisol that could lead to insulin resistance and raise blood sugar levels, according to an expert. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-politician-bollywood-react-to-vir-das-s-two-india-video-and-all-the-latest-news-101637159589124.html
17-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 18, 2012 — Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray dies; suffers cardiac arrest after a week in a coma||Mumbai: Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray, the fiery torchbearer of Hindutva politics and architect of sons-of-the-soil ideology, passed away after nearly four months of illness at his Matoshree residence in Bandra at 3.30pm Saturday (November 17) following a cardiac arrest. He was 86.Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cancelled the dinner he was supposed to host for BJP leaders on Saturday night following a request from Sushma Swaraj, leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha.“For him, the interests of Maharashtra were particularly important and he always strived to inculcate a sense of pride in the people of the state. He was a consummate communicator whose stature in the politics of Maharashtra was unique,” he said.Thackeray’s general physician Dr Jalil Parkar, who had been treating him since 2009, announced his death outside Matoshree, where thousands of Shiv Sainiks had been keeping vigil.“With great grief and sadness, we wish to inform you that Balasaheb Thackeray breathed his last at 3.30pm following cardio-respiratory arrest. We could not revive him,” Parkar said at around 4.45pm.Thackeray’s son, Uddhav, was with him at the end. Thackeray was in ill health since July, when he was admitted to Lilavati Hospital for ailments related to the lungs and pancreas. His health deteriorated on November 10 and he remained critical for the past week, during which he had multiple-organ failure.Outside Matoshree, visibly emotional Sainiks shouted slogans, even as others burst into tears.Senior Sena leaders all spoke the language of loss and of a vacuum created by their leader’s death.But, one of his oldest colleagues and former chief minister Manohar Joshi told HT, “Thackeray’s death has certainly created a void in the political space but this is not the end.He had foresight and vision to prepare his son Uddhav well and the Sena legacy will be taken forward.’’Thackeray’s body will be kept at Shivaji Park grounds from 10am onwards for followers to pay their last respects on Sunday. The last rites will be held later in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-18-2012-shiv-sena-supremo-bal-thackeray-dies-suffers-cardiac-arrest-after-a-week-in-a-coma-101637161442182.html
17-11-2021||India||Now, access Aadhaar services via SMS: All you need to know||If you are living in an area where there is no internet connectivity, and, therefore, cannot access Aadhaar services online, then worry not. This is because the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the body which handles Aadhaar, has now made it possible for one to access Aadhaar services through a simple SMS. Also Read | Aadhaar update: Here’s how you can change name, address, phone numberTo activate access a particular service, one has to first send an SMS from their registered mobile number to the helpline number 1947. Also, generating a one-time password (OTP) is a must to avail SMS locking and unlocking features The following services can be accessed through this facility:Virtual ID generation: (1.) On your mobile's message box, write GVID (space) and the last four digits of the Aadhaar number registered with the phone number. Send the message to 1947.(2.) Type RVID (space) and then last four digits of the Aadhaar number.Locking Aadhaar: This can be done either by using the Aadhaar number or the Virtual ID. In case of the former, send the first SMS as GETOTP (space) the last four digits of your card. Then, send the second SMS as ENABLEBIOLOCK (space) last four Aadhaar digits (space) OTP received through the first SMS.In case of the latter, send the first message as GETOTP (space) last six digits of the VID. Send the second message as ENABLEBIOLOCK (space) the last six VID digits (space) the six-digit OTP.If multiple Aadhaar numbers are linked to the same mobile number, or if the last four digits on the card are the same for at least two people, the second SMS, if using the Aadhaar number, is to be sent as ENABLEBIOLOCK (space) last eight digits of Aadhaar (space) six-digit OTP; for the VID method, send it as ENABLEBIOLOCK (space) last 10 digits of the VID (space) six-digit OTP.The same procedure is to be followed for unlocking the card via SMS. For this, go to uidai.gov.in, and click on ‘Aadhaar services on SMS’ under ‘Aadhaar services’ from the drop-down menu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-access-aadhaar-services-via-sms-all-you-need-to-know-101637156825100.html
17-11-2021||India||‘Knew you were strong’: Emotional reunion of C’garh official abducted by Maoists||RAIPUR: A 35-year-old Chhattisgarh sub-engineer abducted last week in Bijapur district was released on Wednesday by Maoists after multiple appeals by his wife Arpita who spent the last few days scouring the south Chhattisgarh forests.A peon, Laxman Pratagiri, who was abducted along with sub-engineer Ajay Lakra was released on Friday, a day after the two were taken away.“We are getting information about the safe release of abducted sub-engineer Ajay Lakra. He is expected to reach Bijapur by Wednesday evening. First and foremost, the priority would be to assess his medical condition… After that, further course of action will be taken,” inspector general of police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P, said early on Wednesday afternoon.Ajay Lakra and Laxman Pratagiri were abducted by local Maoist cadres when they were surveying an under-construction road between Bijapur town and Gorana village in Mankeli panchayat. Laxman Pratagiri was released near another village, about four kilometres from Gorana village. Pratagiri, 24, and Lakra, 35, were assigned to work for the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).इस प्यार को मैं क्या नाम दूँ ❤️bravo to Mrs Ajay Lakara . हिम्मत नहीं हारना है ,डटे रहना है ये strong will power ही जनजातीय की पहचान है | जय छत्तीसगढ़िया #Baster #Ajaylakra #naxalinbaster pic.twitter.com/ldNNmDnaDHHis wife Arpita, who issued multiple appeals over the past week to Maoists to seek her husband’s release, thanked everyone who played a role in securing her husband’s freedom.“I thank everyone who helped me including local journalists, villagers and representatives for the release of my husband,” said Arpita who spent days after her husband’s abduction in Bijapur’s jungles with her young child to touch base with the Maoists.A few hours later, images and videos of the couple, now together, emerged on social media.“I knew you were strong,” Arpita Lakra is seen telling her husband in one video that emerged as the official sought to console his wife. HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/knew-you-were-strong-emotional-reunion-of-c-garh-official-abducted-by-maoists-101637158374856.html
17-11-2021||India||Extremely heavy rainfall expected in parts of Tamil Nadu on Nov 18: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday issued a warning of extremely heavy rainfall for various parts of Tamil Nadu. According to the forecast, the low-pressure area will be around the coast on November 18 and "extremely heavy rainfall is expected in Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chennai and Ranipet." While Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi will expect a heavy to very heavy rainfall, news agency ANI reported quoting Dr S Balachandran, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD Chennai.A similar warning was also issued for Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Salem, Perambalur, Tiruchirappalli, Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukkottai, Dindigul, Madurai, Theni, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi. Remaining districts can expect the light to moderate rainfall, the IMD official also said in the weather bulletin.Fishermen are advised to not venture into the west-central and southwest Bay of Bengal, along the coast of north Tamil Nadu and South Andhra, said Dr Balachandran, according to ANI.The latest forecast comes as Tamil Nadu was seeing brief respite from days of torrential rains, throwing the daily life out of gear last week. Hundreds of houses in the low-lying areas saw flooding, while daily commuters faced heavy waterlogging on streets.At least 14 people were also killed across Tamil Nadu due to the incessant rains.On November 11, the authorities at Chennai airport suspended arrivals from 1315 hrs to 1800 hours due to severe rains and heavy crosswinds. The popular Marina beach, which runs from near the Fort St George area in the north to the Foreshore Estate in the south, has also seen major flooding.As many as 18 self-contained teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry to tackle the issues related to rescuing and relief arising out of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-heavy-rainfall-expected-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-on-nov-18-imd-101637154874476.html
17-11-2021||India||Maldives deplores attempts to spread ‘false information’ on ties with India||The Maldives government on Wednesday strongly rejected attempts to spread what it called “false information” using the ‘India Out’ slogan, which alleges that bilateral cooperation between the governments of Maldives and India undermines the national security and sovereignty of the country. In an official statement, the Maldives' ministry of foreign affairs said that the country reaffirms its longstanding ties with all international partners based on principles of mutual respect and understanding, and refuted “false allegations” regarding its ties with India, which the country called one of its key bilateral partners.Referring to bilateral ties with India, the Maldives government said, “…such interactions in the international sphere do not, and will not undermine the Maldives' independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity; in fact, they are designed to enhance the Maldives' national interests and deliver for the people of Maldives.”Notably, the Indian high commission in the Maldives had earlier this year sought government action and greater security following what it called “recurring articles and social media posts attacking the dignity of the High Commission”. The Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP), the ruling party in the country, had then issued an official statement expressing concern over the “ill-founded and disparaging remarks” against the Indian diplomats.In its official statement today, the Maldives government said it believes false allegations regarding ties with one of the country's key bilateral partners are misguided and unsubstantiated. “The government firmly believes that these views are not the sentiments of the general public, but rather that of a small group of individuals with the objective of tarnishing the country's long-standing cordial ties with India,” said the statement of the Government of Maldives.Talking about the strong bond that the two countries shared, the statement added, "The strong bilateral relationship between the Maldives and India is based on shared historical and cultural ties, matched by dynamic people to people contact. India has always been the Maldives' closest ally and trusted neighbour, extending constant and consistent support to the people of Maldives on all fronts."The statement also laid emphasis on maritime security that is aimed at strengthening the strategic partnership between the two countries and ensuring the safety and stability of the Indian Ocean region.“Support provided by India, on areas such as search and rescue capabilities, casualty evacuation, coastal surveillance, and maritime reconnaissance, directly benefit the Maldivian people. The Government of Maldives has also established partnerships with other countries in similar areas of cooperation, to enhance technical and strategic capacities,” said the statement.The Maldives also reiterated the gratitude of the Government and the people of the Maldives for the countless assistance provided by India over the years, particularly, on instances such as the 1988 mercenary attack on the country, the 2004 Asian Tsunami, the 2015 Male' water crisis, and during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“India will always remain a true and a trusted friend of the people of the Maldives,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maldives-deplores-attempts-to-spread-false-information-on-ties-with-india-101637150143600.html
17-11-2021||India||Bengal assembly moves privilege motion against CBI, ED officers in Narada case||In a rare move, the West Bengal legislative assembly on Wednesday initiated a motion against two senior officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), accusing them of breaching the privilege of the House by not seeking the consent of the speaker before filing a charge-sheet and arresting three Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislators in the Narada sting operation case in May. The privilege motion, moved by Tapas Roy, TMC’s deputy chief whip in the assembly, was accepted by the House and forwarded to the committee of privileges for further proceedings. The officers are CBI deputy superintendent of police Satyendra Singh and ED assistant director Rathin Biswas who signed the respective charge sheets. Both of them were summoned by speaker Biman Banerjee in September. The ED sent a letter to the speaker saying it does not need to seek his sanction, while the CBI wrote that the sanction was given by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The agencies later moved the Calcutta high court seeking relief from appearance before the speaker. Banerjee had sent separate summons to the CBI and ED in September, asking the agencies to explain how charges were framed against TMC ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim and legislator Madan Mitra in the 2014 Narada case without his sanction. The CBI arrested the three legislators and former TMC lawmaker Sovon Chatterjee on May 17, hours after filing its charge sheet. The ED submitted a charge sheet against them before a special court in Kolkata on September 1. Subrata Mukherjee, the most senior member among the accused, died in Kolkata on November 4. “I was surprised to see the agencies bypassing my office. It is mandatory to seek the speaker’s permission before filing a charge sheet against a sitting legislator,” Banerjee had said before sending the second summons to the ED, asking its officers to appear before him. On October 4, four junior CBI officers appeared before the speaker hours after a single-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court directed the agency to do so. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha, while hearing a petition from the CBI, said the agency has to respond to the summons as the speaker is a Constitutional authority but also directed that no harsh action should be taken against the officers. The judge asked the CBI to file a report on the discussions with the speaker during the next court hearing. The CBI and ED did not make any comment till Wednesday afternoon. Tapas Roy could not be contacted despite efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assembly-moves-privilege-motion-against-cbi-ed-officers-in-narada-case-101637154354353.html
17-11-2021||India||5 terrorists gunned down in 2 separate encounters in J&K's Kulgam||In south Kashmir's Kulgam district, a joint security force consisting of personnel from the Indian Army and the local police on Wednesday gunned down five terrorists in two separate armed encounters. According to the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the terrorists were killed in the Pombay and Gopalpora areas of the Kulgam district in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K).In the Gopalpora encounter, a commander of the militant outfit ‘The Resistance Front’ (TRF), Afaq Sikander alias Kashif Bhai, was killed. Sikandar was the divisional commander of the outfit, active since December last year. The second terrorist who was killed in the encounter was identified as one Iran Mushraq Lone of the same outfit, a resident of the Shadcheck Aweneera area in Shopian, and active in terrorism since June this year.In the Pombay encounter, two of the slain terrorists have been identified as Shakir Najar, active since April 2018, and Sumair Najar, active since May this year.Gunfight had broken out earlier in the day between terrorists and security forces at Pombay and Goplapora in the Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in two areas of the district after receiving information about the presence of militants there, said an official familiar with the development.The search operations turned into encounters after militants fired upon the security forces and they who retaliated, the official added.In a separate operation, the Pulwama Police apprehended two active terrorist associates of the proscribed terrorist outfit, Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), namely Amir Bashir Dar and Mukhtar Ahmad Bhat, both residents of Shopian. Two ready-to-use IEDs were also recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-gunned-down-in-2-separate-encounters-in-j-k-s-kulgam-101637152417420.html
17-11-2021||India||Haryana takes a leaf from Delhi's book, starts odd-even rule to tackle pollution||In view of mounting levels of air pollution in Delhi and the adjoining national capital region (NCR), the Haryana government has now decided to impose from next week an odd-even rule in four districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, and Jhajjar. In addition to this, the state government has also decided to extend the work-from-home option till November 22 for employees in 14 districts, including Bhiwani, Charkhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Nuh, Mehendragarh, Sonipat, Rohtak, Rewari, and Palwal.The odd-even traffic rule, first instituted in India by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi, is a modified version of the odd-even rationing system popularised in the US as part of a response to the second gasoline crisis in 1979. Under the odd-even scheme in India, alternate days are marked for vehicles with their number plates ending in odd and even numbers, respectively. Vehicles with registration numbers ending in odd numbers are allowed on the roads on odd days and even-numbered vehicles are allowed on even days.By implementing the scheme, the Haryana government hopes to see a drop in pollution levels and a reduction in road congestion. Moreover, keeping in view the toxic haze in the NCR air, an extension of the work-from-home option has also been deemed suitable.The worsening air quality in the national capital, Delhi, has, in the meanwhile, continued to rise to alarming levels. According to doctors, there has been a spike in chronic respiratory conditions – such as asthma among children. Moreover, prolonged exposure to deadly pollutants could seriously impair the cognitive development of children, health professionals added.Pollution has been hitting dangerous levels across New Delhi and other parts of northern India this month. On most days, the Air Quality Index (AQI) has stayed above 451 on a scale of 500, indicating “very poor” and “severe” conditions that affect even healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases, according to the federal pollution control board's guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-takes-a-leaf-from-delhi-s-book-starts-odd-even-rule-to-tackle-pollution-101637144766388.html
17-11-2021||India||Akhilesh says BJP will be wiped out in a ‘wave of change’||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be wiped out in a wave of change that he could “see” forming in the run up to the assembly elections to the country’s most populous and politically important state early next year. Yadav was addressing a gathering of at Ghazipur before setting out on Samajwadi Vijay Rath yatra to Lucknow.“There will be a change in UP in 2022.. for sure. I am watching a wave of change. In coming time, I am confident that from this Ghaizpur (in eastern UP) to that Ghazipur (near UP border in Delhi), BJP will be wiped out,” said Akhilesh.He said the newly constructed 340 km long expressway between Ghaizpur and Lucknow, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 16, was “incomplete”. “This expressway, which has been inaugurated, is incomplete. This is not fully ready. Samajwadis first dreamt of building this (Purvanchal) expressway so that the travelling time between Ghazipur and Delhi reduces, but this expressway is not reducing the journey hours.This expressway will be an expressway of well being [after the SP comes to power],” Akhilesh said.On Tuesday, his party had sought to take credit for “first launching” the highway during the regime of previous SP government led by Yadav and carried out parallel inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway. On Wednesday, Yadav seemed to continue to take credit for the expressway by praising it.“They couldn’t make a better road than this road in the entire country...tell me if [the] country has a better road than this anywhere,” Akhilesh said.He said if the Samajwadi Party comes to power in UP, mandis for farmers and means of employment generations for the youth will be constructed along the expressway, which will be connected to Ballia.Also Read: Ayodhya yet again on BJP’s priority list as UP assembly elections nearHe asked the people to “remove the bull and the bulldozer” in what appeared to be an indirect jibe at the problem of stray cattle and Yogi Adityanath government’s drive against properties of criminals such as Mukhtar Ansari. The state government said in March this year that it had demolished illegally constructed properties worth ₹980 crore in the preceding 14 months.SP ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Omprakash Rajbhar said his party had shut the door through which the BJP came to power in 2017 in the state and it will now make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister of UP in 2022. SBSP walked out of the BJP led government in the state in 2019 and is now leading a group of small regional political outfits under the Bhagidari Sanklap morcha which has allied with the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-says-bjp-will-be-wiped-out-in-a-wave-of-change-101637148938669.html
17-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt pushes for WFH, less vehicles to curb pollution and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Push for WFH, restricted vehicular movement: Delhi govt announces measures to fight pollutionDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday announced a number of emergency measures to reduce air pollution in the city. Under the new guidelines, vehicles, except those involved in essential services, from outside will not be allowed into the city. Read moreAmid border row with India, China says military preparing for ‘next stage’The Chinese military has conducted “major operations related to border defence” and strengthened training under combat conditions to build a modern armed force, the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) has said in a key resolution released on Tuesday. Read moreNo vaccination no ration, says MP govt’s order in bid to achieve inoculation targetThe Madhya Pradesh food and civil supplies department has issued an order stating that beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act will not get subsidised ration anymore without proof of Covid-19 vaccination. Read moreSaif Ali Khan recalls woman barging into his home, Kareena Kapoor’s reaction: ‘Aren’t you going to say something?’During a chat with Rani Mukerji, Saif Ali Khan recalled how he got ‘really scared’ when a woman once barged into his home. Read more'Till Dravid is at the crease, Indian batting is safe and strong': Gavaskar hails new coach, draws similarity with RohitThe legendary Sunil Gavaskar has welcomed the appointment of Rahul Dravid as the new coach of the Indian cricket team and believes that like his batting, the Wall will bring a lot of calm and composure to Team India during his tenure. Read moreOver four lakh Renault Kwid cars on Indian roads nowRenault, in its 10th year of operation in India, has announced that it has handed over the 4,00,000th Kwid car to a customer recently. Read moreDisha Patani’s workout video is our midweek fitness inspoDisha Patani keeps her Instagram family updated with her regular fitness routines. The actor, who is a fitness enthusiast, never takes a day off from the gym and it shows on her. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-pushes-for-wfh-less-vehicles-to-curb-pollution-and-all-the-latest-news-101637147574662.html
17-11-2021||India||New Zealand adds Covaxin, Covishield to list of recognised Covid-19 vaccines||After Australia, its trans-Tasman neighbour, New Zealand, too, has recognied Covaxin and Covishield, the two most widely-used vaccines in India's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The announcement in this regard was made by Muktesh Pardeshi, India's high commissioner to the island nation, who described it as a ‘positive’ decision by the New Zealand government.“In a positive decision, NZ includes #covishield and #covaxin in the list of 8 recognised vaccines. We keenly await lifting of travel restrictions. India is already open to vaccinated tourists,” Pardeshi tweeted. #IndiaNewZealandIn a positive decision, NZ includes #covishield and #covaxin in the list of 8 recognised vaccines. We keenly await lifting of travel restrictions. India is already open to vaccinated tourists.@MEAIndia @MFATNZ @DrSJaishankar @chrishipkins @AshBloomfield pic.twitter.com/2sU3uxksWCThe decision means that Indian nationals, who have taken both doses of either jab (inoculated with two doses, both from the same vaccine), will not have to quarantine upon touching down in New Zealand. The country's neighbour, Australia, recognised Covishield and Covaxin on October 1 and November 1, respectively.Overall, India has mutual vaccination certificates with 96 countries, as announced recently by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Also Read | 96 nations agreed to accept Indian vaccine certificates, says MandaviyaThe New Zealand government's decision, meanwhile, comes at a time when India has, for the first time since March last year, opened its borders for fully vaccinated foreign travellers. Under the rule, which came into effect from November 15, passengers from countries with which India has mutual vaccination certificates will not have to undergo a post-arrival Covid-19 test, which is, however, mandatory for people coming from the other nations.Also Read | India reopens to vaccinated foreign travellers after 18 monthsCovaxin and Covishield were the first two jabs to receive emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the nationwide inoculation drive, which commenced on January 16. The former has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, and is the first made-in-India anti-Covid shot. The latter is the Indian variant of Britain's Astrazeneca vaccine, and manufactured locally by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).Both have also received approval from the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-zealand-adds-covaxin-covishield-to-list-of-recognised-covid-19-vaccines-101637146017540.html
17-11-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: Mehbooba says her stir against killing of innocents in name of militancy||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday staged a protest against the recent alleged civilian killings by the security forces and demanded that the bodies of the deceased be handed over to their families.Mufti said there had been no accountability for the killings of the innocents in the region ever since the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) had been in force.Four people, including two civilians, were killed in a controversial gunfight by security forces on Monday evening during an anti-terror operation.The PDP leader said she was protesting because the present regime killed civilians in the name of militancy. “Nobody knows if militants are being killed. Three civilians have been killed recently. The government refuses to hand over their bodies to the families despite the latter's demand,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.I am protesting because this govt kills civilians in the name of militancy. Nobody knows if militants are being killed; 3 civilians have been killed recently. Govt refuses to hand over their dead bodies to the families despite the latter's demand: PDF chief Mehbooba Mufti pic.twitter.com/nQStxVg5JbPolice said Haider, a Pakistani terrorist, and his local associate Mohammad Amir, were killed along with two civilians - Altaf Bhat and Mudassir Gul - in the encounter in Hyderpora locality, where an illegal call centre and a terror hideout were allegedly being run.Also read | Srinagar encounter: Family of businessman killed in Hyderpora op slams policeInspector general of police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said Gul was an active associate of militants and was running the call centre on the premises owned by Bhat, who was killed in cross-firing with the terrorists.He expressed regret over Bhat’s death but said he would be counted among the "harbourers" of militants.Amir's father Latief Magray, a resident of Gool area of Ramban district, has refuted the official claim that his son was a militant.Holding a placard that read “Stop killing us, probe Hyderpora killings, end impunity and handover bodies to families”, Mehbooba, along with party activists and leaders, staged a protest against these killings outside the party’s Gandhi Nagar headquarters.A strong posse of policemen stopped the protesters from moving towards the main road.“This cruel government is not even handing over the bodies after killing people. They (BJP) want to convert this nation of Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar into a country of Godse. What else can I say?” the PDP leader said.Asked about the IGP’s claim of there being digital evidence against those killed, she said, “If they had prior evidence, why did police not arrest them, as they have been doing on a daily basis.”“Whenever anybody gets killed in their firing, they dub him an overground worker, and that is wrong. Since the AFSPA has been in force, there has been no accountability and no one’s been answerable,” she said.“They are innocent civilians and their families are being denied even the performing of their last rites,” she added.Referring to a previous incident of fake encounter in which three youths were killed, she said the security agencies made the claim of having digital evidence even then, but the reality is that they have no evidence.Three orchard labourers were killed in a staged encounter in Amshipora village of Shopian on July 18, 2020.In another incident this January, Athar Mushtaq, a class 11 student, was killed along with two other youths in Lawaypora, Srinagar. Mushtaq’s father disputed the claim that his son was a militant and demanded an investigation into the matter.Mehbooba is scheduled to return to Srinagar later in the day after completing her five-day tour of Jammu.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-encounter-mehbooba-mufti-says-her-stir-against-killing-of-innocents-101637145590774.html
17-11-2021||India||Presiding officers favour suspension of lawmakers who storm into well of House||The presiding officers of various state assemblies have said that they favour an amendment in rules to automatically suspend lawmakers who charge towards the well of the House. They have, however, expressed divergent views on a proposal to curb the power of a speaker when it comes to anti-defection cases. At the all-India conference of presiding officers in Shimla on Wednesday, several speakers said a provision - to automatically suspend lawmakers who storm into the well of the House and disturb proceedings - already exists in the Chhattisgarh assembly, while the Lok Sabha also has a similar rule, although it is used sparingly. Any amendment to the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution - the anti-defection laws - will take a longer time as legislative presiding officers have expressed contrasting opinions on a report that suggests major changes.The report, prepared by Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi, suggests curtailing the speaker’s power to decide on anti-defection cases. Also Read: Lack of discussion during passage of bills a concern: Om BirlaA top official said, “In the wake of the differences, we will have to review some parts of the report.”Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also indicated that there were some “differences” and said more discussions were required. The report suggests that while political parties give nominations or poll tickets to candidates, they should also declare if the lawmakers could lose membership in the House. At least three other speakers in the presiding officers’ conference, officials said, “raised an objection and want more power to decide on such cases”.The presiding officers’ summit also saw a decision for model rules and procedures to be prepared by the Lok Sabha to ensure universal legislative rules and processes across the country. The issue of defection has been a major bone of contention in recent years after such cases in Uttarakhand, Karnataka and some other states required the Supreme Court’s intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/presiding-officers-favour-suspension-of-lawmakers-who-storm-into-well-of-house-101637144978655.html
17-11-2021||India||Caught on cam: Maharashtra shopkeeper killed with sword, robbers flee with cash||A 55-year-old shopkeeper was stabbed to death with a sword inside his shop in Buldhana district of Maharashtra on Tuesday night. The entire incident was captured on CCTV cameras installed on the premises of the shop named Anand Electronics, police said.According to a PTI report, three robbers, posing as customers, entered the deceased Kamlesh Popat’s electronics shop in Chikli city of Buldhana around 10pm when he was preparing to bring the day to an end and demanded that he hand over the cash.Available CCTV footage captured them threatening Popat as he sat alone behind his desk. One of the miscreants then pulled out a weapon resembling a gun and pointed it at Popat, an NDTV report stated. Meanwhile, another man pulled out a sword.When Popat refused to comply with their demand and tried to raise an alarm, the robbers stabbed him. Police said he tried to fight them off but the robbers overpowered him and fled with cash and other valuables, leaving him in a pool of blood to die.The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. A case has been filed and an investigation was underway. The incident has instilled fear among local shopkeepers in Chikli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-on-cam-maharashtra-shopkeeper-killed-with-sword-robbers-flee-with-cash-101637139583539.html
17-11-2021||India||BJP leader files police complaint against Vir Das for ‘insulting India’||A ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader has filed a complaint against actor-comedian Vir Das in New Delhi for allegedly insulting India in his monologue at an event in the US, a police officer said on Wednesday. “A complaint was lodged and an inquiry is going on,” said the officer, who did not want to be named.Aditya Jha, a spokesperson for the BJP in Delhi, said he filed the complaint on Tuesday and police were yet to register a case.Das uploaded a video of his monologue on YouTube and faced immediate backlash. In the six-minute video, he refers to the most talked about issues facing India including the battle against Covid-19, incidents of rapes, the crackdown on comedians, and farmer protests.In a tweet, Das said his intention was to remind the country that despite its issues, it is great. “The video is a satire about the duality of two very separate India’s that do different things. Like any nation has light and dark, good and evil within it. None of this is a secret. The video appeals for us to never forget that we are great. To never stop focusing on what makes us great,” he said. “It ends in a gigantic patriotic round of applause for a country we all love, believe in, and are proud of. That there is more to our country than the headlines, a deep beauty. That’s the point of the video and the reason for the applause.”Vir Das clarifies after his ‘Two Indias’ monologue kicks up a storm | WatchDas wrote people cheer for the country with hope and not “hate” and asked his followers to not be misled by edited clips of his monologue. He added people clap for India with respect, not malice. “You cannot sell tickets, earn applause, or represent great people with negativity, only with pride. I take pride in my country, and I carry that pride across the world.”He added to him, a room full of people anywhere in the world, giving India an ovation is pure love. “I ask of you, the same thing I asked of that audience...To focus on the light, remember our greatness, and spread the love.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpleader-files-police-complaint-against-actor-comedian-vir-das-for-insulting-india-101637144498211.html
17-11-2021||India||Number of students opting for private tuitions rose sharply in 2021: ASER||About 40% of school going students were found to be dependent on private tuition classes in 2021 against last year’s figure of 32.5%, the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 released on Wednesday, said, calling the rise a “natural response” to prolonged closure of schools due to Covid pandemic since early 2020. The report also shows that the maximum number of such students were from less advantaged families.The 16th edition of the report by the Pratham foundation was based on a household telephonic survey conducted in rural areas across 581 districts in 25 states and three Union Territories, between September and October. As many as 76,706 households that included 75,234 children in the age group of 5-16 years apart from teachers and staff from 7,300 government schools were covered.According to the survey, more students were found dependent on paid tuition classes during the pandemic period with their percentage rising from 32.5% in 2020 to 39.2 % in 2021. This figure was 28.6% in 2018 in the pre-Covid times. The jump was seen across states, including in Bihar and West Bengal, where students were found to have greater dependence on tuitions even before the pandemic stuck. “In fact, the incidence of tuition has increased across almost all states- perhaps a natural response to prolonged school closure,” the report states.States like Arunachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Nagaland saw the sharpest increase in tuitions between 2018 and 2021. In Arunachal Pradesh, the number of students opting for tuitions increased by 19.7% from 26.6% in 2018 to 46.3% in 2021, followed by UP and Nagaland where it rose by 19.1% each. In UP, the number went from 19.6% in 2018 to 38.7% in 2021 and in Nagaland, it increased from 27.9 % in 2018 to 47% in 2021. Kerala bucked the trend with the number of students opting for private tuitions dropping from 28.3% in 2018 to 18.8% in 2021. Dr Wilima Wadhwa, director of ASER centre suggests it could be because children may not have been able to attend even tuitions due to relatively higher number of infections in the state during the second wave, which persisted longer than most other states.Also Read | Enrollment in govt schools went up during Covid-19 pandemic: ASER surveyIn terms of gender, the report highlighted that the percentage of girls seeking tuitions remained less than the number of boys. However, from 2018 to 2021, there was a 10% increase in tuition-taking practices of both sexes, reflected in the jump from 30% to 40.3% in case of boys and 27.2% to 37.9% in case of girls.The highest dependency on tuition classes was reported among children from less advantaged families. “Taking parental education as a proxy for economic status, the proportion of children with parents in the ‘low’ education category who are taking tuition, increased by 12.6%.” said the report. This data was compared to the 7.3% increase in children whose parents were in the ‘high’ education category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-students-opting-for-private-tuitions-rose-sharply-in-2021aser-101637144198513.html
17-11-2021||India||AIMIM delegation meets Hyderabad top cop, seeks action against Waseem Rizvi over book on Prophet Mohammed||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Wednesday filed a police complaint in Hyderabad against Waseem Rizvi, the former chief of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, seeking action against him over a book which allegedly depicts Prophet Mohammed in bad light. “Today, on behalf of the AIMIM, a delegation of party leaders met the police chief. We represented to him that Rizvi has written a book which is full of lies and bad words for the Prophet. We urged that a case be filed him against under relevant sections of the IPC,” AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, who led the delegation, said. We met Hyderabad Police Commissioner.Ex-Chairman of UP Shia Waqf Board Wasim Rizvi wrote a book that has objectionable statements on Prophet Mohammed. We requested that he be booked.Commissioner assured us of a criminal case.We hope he'll be arrested: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi pic.twitter.com/iQPh6J6hGrThe Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad further said that the officer assured him that the force would register a criminal case against Rizvi. He added, “We hope that once the criminal case is registered, the Telangana government will arrest him as well. This man only wants to provoke Muslims, and is being used as a tool by the anti-Muslim forces. We appeal to peace-loving people and Muslims across the country to file a criminal case against him.”Taking to Twitter, the AIMIM said that Rizvi’s books and speeches were creating enmity against the Muslims, which, the party, said, is likely to cause a breach in peace. It has sought cases against the former UP Shia Waqf Board chief under sections 153A, 153B, 295A, 504 and 505(1)(c) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). His books and speeches are creating enmity against Muslims of India which is likely to result in a threat to the breach of peace. [2/2]The latest controversy surrounding Rizvi is over a book authored by him, which was released earlier this month. Titled ‘Muhammad,’ it has triggered protests in some cities of the country. Previously, he supported the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, and, in November 2018, scripted and produced a film titled ‘Ram Janmabhoomi.’ When the Supreme Court, in November 2019, unanimously ruled in favour of  the temple, Rizvi hailed the verdict as being the ‘best-ever.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-leaders-meet-hyderabad-top-cop-seek-action-against-waseem-rizvi-over-book-101637141441108.html
17-11-2021||India||Modi to visit UP on Friday, inaugurate development projects worth over ₹6,250 crore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of the 600 megawatts (MW) ultramega solar power park and the Atal Ekta Park in Jhansi during his visit to Uttar Pradesh on Friday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) informed on Wednesday. Along with these, Modi will also launch several developmental projects, worth more than ₹6,250 crore, in the state on the same day. The Prime Minister will also inaugurate projects in Mahoba to help alleviate the problem of water shortage and bring much-needed relief to farmers, his office added.According to the PMO, the 600MW solar power park, proposed to be set up in Jhansi's Garautha area, is being constructed at a cost of more than ₹3,000 crore. The project will be inaugurated, as per the statement, by the Prime Minister when he participates in the foundation laying ceremony at 5:15pm on Friday. The solar power park is expected to help provide the dual benefits of cheaper electricity and grid stability for consumers.At Jhansi, the Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Atal Ekta Park, which has been named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The park has been built at a cost of more than ₹11 crore and is also spread across an area of about 40,000 square meters. The park will also house a library, as well as a statue of Vajpayee's, built by the renowned sculptor Ram Sutar, also the man behind the Statue of Unity.In addition to these projects in Jhansi, the Prime Minister will also make a visit to the district of Mahoba. There, Modi will inaugurate multiple projects, including the Arjun Sahayak Project, Ratauli Weir Project, Bhaoni Dam Project, and the Majhgaon–Chilli Sprinkler Project.According to the PMO, the cumulative cost of these projects is more than ₹3,250 crore and their operationalisation will help in the irrigation of around 6,500 hectares of land – in the districts of Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, and Lalitpur – benefitting lakhs of farmers in the area. These projects are also expected to deliver portable drinking water for the entire region, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-visit-up-on-friday-inaugurate-development-projects-worth-over-rs-6-250-crore-101637139363906.html
17-11-2021||India||Don’t reveal girl’s identity in assault, suicide case: Coimbatore cops to media||The Coimbatore Police have warned against the publishing of details that may reveal the identity of a 17-year-old student, who died by suicide after her teacher allegedly sexually assaulted her. It is punishable under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, they added.Police have denied reports of booking 48 YouTube channels for revealing the girl’s identity even as they warned journalists against disclosing the girl’s name, address, family details or “any other particulars which may lead to disclosure” of her identity.“We have been seeing that people on social media, television, and print media are using the victim’s photo and revealing her identity. It is also being used in posters and flyers,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The matter came to light last week and provoked a public outcry. On November 11, the girl died by suicide following which her parents filed a police complaint. Within a day, the accused teacher was arrested. Later, police also arrested the school principal for failing to take action after receiving a complaint. The alleged sexual assault happened earlier this year. In September, the accused resigned from the school and the girl sought a transfer.Also Read: Reports of two swine flu cases a typing error, clarifies Coimbatore corporationPolice were questioning the principal and the teacher. They were examining the veracity of a handwritten and unsigned note of the girl which names two people.Chief minister M K Stalin has promised stringent action. “Human beasts have snatched away a student’s life,” Stalin said in a tweet. “Schools should ensure that there is no sexual harassment. We would present the perpetrators before the law and ensure women’s safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicide-sexual-assault-case-coimbatore-police-warn-media-against-revealing-girl-s-identity-101637141198064.html
17-11-2021||India||Enrollment in govt schools went up during Covid-19 pandemic: ASER survey||A significant number of schoolchildren in India have switched from private schools to government-run schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) survey released on Wednesday.Financial distress precipitated by the pandemic, free facilities at government schools, inability of privately-run schools to conduct online classes, and migration caused by Covid-related lockdowns have been cited as the main reasons - in that order - by the respondents of the survey when asked about the reasons behind the switchover from private to public schools.The 16th edition of the report, issued by the non-profit Pratham, was prepared on the basis of a household telephonic survey conducted in rural areas of 581 districts across 25 states and three union territories between September and October. The survey covered 76,706 households, 75,234 children in the age group of 5-16, and teachers and staff from 7,300 government schools.The survey found a jump in enrollment in government schools between 2018 and 2020, going up from 64.3% to 65.8%. In 2021, it has leaped to 70.3%, the survey revealed, meaning there’s been a 4.5% increase in government school enrollment across the country over the last one year.It also means there has been approximately a 6% increase in government school enrollment between 2018 and 2021.On the other hand, enrollment in private schools decreased from 28.8% in 2020 to 24.4% this year, the survey said. In terms of state-wise break-up, the maximum increase in government school enrollment has taken place in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, by 13.2% and 11.9% respectively, between 2018 and 2021. “Other than Telangana, more than 8% increase in government school enrollment was witnessed in all the southern states [during the same period],” the report said. In Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand, there has only been a slight increase in enrollment in government schools during that period. The survey findings show that government school enrollment has gone up across age groups, but the maximum rise was reported among younger students. For classes 1 and 2, the enrollment of boys in government schools rose 10.9% while for girls the rise was 7.4%, between 2020 and 2021. For classes 6 to 8, the enrollment of boys in government schools increased 5.1% and girls by 2.2% during that period. The overall proportion of girls enrolled in government schools continued to remain high like in pre-pandemic times, the report said.According to the survey, 52% of the respondents, including teachers and principals in government schools, cited financial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason behind the increase in government school enrollments; 50% said it was because of free facilities available at government schools; 40% said private schools’ failure to conduct online classes forced parents to move their children to public schools; and 15% cited migration during lockdowns as the main reason behind the switchover. The report says changes in the pattern of enrollment will become clearer when schools across the country will completely reopen. The report highlighted that 40% of school-going children have been taking tuitions while schools were shut due to the pandemic, with the trend of tuitions increasing across all the states except Kerala. “At an all-India level in 2018, less than 30% of the children took private tuition classes. In 2021, this proportion has jumped to almost 40%. This proportion has increased across both sexes and all grades and school types,” the survey says.The report says while the availability of smartphones increased from 36.5% in 2018 to 67.6% in 2021, more children in private schools have a smartphone at home (79%) as opposed to kids going to government schools (63.7%). The report cautioned that smartphone availability doesn’t necessarily translate into access to schooling, saying, “Although over two thirds of all enrolled children have a smartphone at home (67.6%), over a quarter of them have no access to it (26.1%). There is also a clear pattern by grade, with more children in higher classes having access to a smartphone as compared to children in lower grades.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enrollment-in-govt-schools-went-up-during-covid-19-pandemic-aser-survey-101637138737760.html
17-11-2021||India||Lack of discussion during passage of bills a concern: Om Birla||Less than two weeks before the winter session of Parliament begins, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that presiding officers’ focus remains on making discussions more “disciplined, substantive and dignified.” He also pitched for more effective working of the parliamentary committees and said lack of discussion during passage of bills is a “matter of concern.”“The decreasing number of meetings of the legislatures and the lack of discussion at the time of making laws are also a matter of concern for us. During Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, we should prepare such a model document that when the hundred years of our independence are completed, there should be uniformity in the rules and procedures of all the legislatures and legislative bodies work to fulfil the aspirations of the people,” Birla said.The Speaker’s comments at the 100th year of the legislative presiding officer’s conference on Wednesday assumes significance as both the treasury bench and the presiding officers are bracing for a stormy winter session of parliament starting from November 29. The Congress and other Opposition parties are likely to raise issues such as Pegasus, Rafale , price rise and extension of CBI and ED chiefs’ tenure through ordinance route. Possibilities are strong that this too would be a disruptive session after the monsoon session was a near washout. “Our focus has also been that the discussions in the legislatures should be more disciplined, substantive, dignified, clarity should be brought in parliamentary privileges, the working of parliamentary committees should be made more effective in the changing context,” Birla said at the inaugural event of the conference. Also Read: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of solar park in Jhansi on November 19Speaking before Birla, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh also spoke on importance of discipline and decorum in the House. He also cited examples of the science committee of the British parliament and the future committee of the Finnish parliament to advocate that Indian parliament and its committees too need to focus on the future. Birla, who faced repeated appeals for allowing online meetings of House panels during the pandemic, said, “there should be greater use of information technology so that the people’s representatives can properly discharge their parliamentary responsibilities.” However, any immediate switch over to digital meetings was ruled out by officials, who said IT will be used for better connectivity and making it easier for lawmakers to work as public representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-discussion-during-passage-of-bills-a-concern-om-birla-101637136517874.html
17-11-2021||India||Hi-fi cars, ‘polluting’ TV debates & bureaucratic inertia: As Delhi chokes, SC spares none||The Supreme Court on Wednesday came down heavily on the Centre and state/city governments of the national capital region (NCR) while hearing their submission on the air pollution crisis that has been termed as a health emergency by experts.Besides pulling up governments and bureaucracy for not doing enough, the apex court also hit out at critics making statements on farm fires sitting at starred hotels. The SC, led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, also called out television debates that it said were more polluting than anybody else. The matter will be heard again next Wednesday.Following are the top quotes of the Supreme Court:- Bureaucracy has gone into inertia and they don't want to do anything. Like using sprinklers or water buckets we have to say, this is the attitude of the executive- You all say vehicles are the main cause, but gas guzzlers, hi-fi cars run on Delhi roads. Who'll encourage them to stop this? Delhi says no point in banning vehicles or introducing WFH (work-from-home) if not implemented in neighbouring states. We thought the Commission will give us steps to stop thisAlso read | Centre unwilling to ask Delhi staff to work from home, advocates for carpooling- There has to be some responsibility, not everything can be done through judicial order. What is the reason for the burning of firecrackers in Delhi in past 10 days after Diwali- What we see is the plight of farmers. People sitting in Delhi in five, seven-starred hotels criticise how they (stubble burning) contribute four, 30 or 40 per cent to pollution. Have you seen their (farmers) earning per landholding? We ignore the fact that firecrackers are burning despite the ban- Debates on TV are creating more pollution than everybody. They don’t understand, statements are taken out of context. Everyone has their own agenda- When solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court that nasty appearances were being made against him in the media that he misled the court on stubble burning, the court said it was not misled and such criticism is bound to happen in public offices. "We 're clear, our conscience is clear, forget about all this," said CJI Ramana.- The SC also asks Mehta about how many vehicles were there and how were Central government officials traveling to office. "You don't need all 100 officers in the office, you can instead call 50 officers. There are several government localities, can't they travel in public transport?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hifi-cars-polluting-tv-debates-inertia-as-delhi-chokes-sc-spares-none-101637135037674.html
17-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi proposes 'One Nation, One Legislative' platform and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Modi urges legislative bodies to work with sense of national dutyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged legislative bodies to work with a sense of national duty, encourage healthy debates, rise above political considerations, make room for more social workers in politics, and set a new standard of politics. Read MoreCan see plight of farmers, TV debates creating more pollution: Supreme CourtChief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday said there had to be some responsibility and not everything could be done through judicial orders. Read MorePM Modi proposes 'one nation, one legislative platform', separate timing for 'quality debate'Ahead of the Winter Session of the Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday suggested separate timings for “quality debate” in the House as he proposed a slew of reforms. Read More Kangana Ranaut wants action against Vir Das after bit from his show goes viral, he offers clarificationsActor Kangana Ranaut has reacted to actor-comedian Vir Das’ viral video titled ‘I come from two Indias’, in which he said Indian men worship women during the day and gang-rape them at night. Read MoreWhy fruits should not be eaten with meals, explains an Ayurveda expertMany people love to add fruits to their salads and have them along with their meals, while some prefer to enjoy them in their desserts post meal. Read MoreAnand Mahindra keeps his promise, helps ‘Iron Man’ suit boy to continue his educationAnand Mahindra often takes to Twitter to share special stories about people from different parts of India and their various achievements. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-proposes-one-nation-one-legislative-platform-for-a-technological-boost-for-parliaments-and-all-the-latest-news-101637132905912.html
17-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur case: Ex-Punjab and Haryana HC judge appointed to monitor probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed Justice (retired) Rakesh Kumar Jain, former judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, to monitor the ongoing probe in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers have also been inducted into the special investigation team (SIT). The Supreme Court will hear the case after the charge sheet is filed and a report is received from justice Jain.Also Read| Lakhimpur violence: 8 key witnesses want their police security removedThe appointment comes two days after the Uttar Pradesh government agreed to appoint a former high court judge to monitor the probe into the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people including four farmers died in October.Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, has been named as the prime accused. Ashish was arrested on October 9 and continues to remain in jail. Apart from him, 12 others have also been arrested by the police.Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra has repeatedly said that his son is innocent, adding evidence is available to prove he was not involved in the violence.On Monday, the Lakhimpur Kheri district and sessions court rejected the bail pleas of Ashish Mishra and two others—Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana.Also Read| Lakhimpur Kheri: Bail pleas of Ashish Mishra, two others rejectedThe first FIR in this incident has been filed regarding the mowing down of four farmers by a vehicle after which the violence erupted near Banbirpur village.Meanwhile, the second FIR was filed in connection with the violence where four other people, including two BJP workers, a journalist and the driver of the car, which allegedly mowed down the farmers, were killed, Hindustan Times reported on Monday.Last month, the Uttar Pradesh police provided security to 60 witnesses after the Supreme Court's directive.More than 50 people, who were present at the site when the violence erupted, turned up to record their statements at the crime branch office at Lakhimpur Kheri reserve police lines on October 30, after the SIT shared contact details of its officials and urged eyewitnesses to come forward to record their statement and provide digital evidence.(With inputs from Utkarsh Anand)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-ex-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judge-appointed-to-monitor-probe-101637133602601.html
17-11-2021||India||Enhanced jurisdiction aimed at strengthening efforts of state cops, says BSF day after Bengal opposes move||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday said enhanced jurisdiction along international borders was an enabling provision aimed at strengthening efforts of the state police. The BSF said it had been acting in close coordination with with police to conduct operations, patrolling, deploying joint nakas and establishing anti-human trafficking units along the India-Bangladesh border.The BSF’s statement came a day after the West Bengal government passed a resolution against the Centre's decision to extend the forces’ jurisdiction. With this, Bengal became the second state after Punjab where such a resolution has been tabled and passed.The enhanced jurisdiction is an enabling provision aimed at strengthening efforts of State Police. BSF has been acting in close coordination with police to conduct Ops, patrolling, deploying joint Nakas & establishing Anti Human Trafficking units along Indo-Bangladesh border: BSFThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday said enhanced jurisdiction along international borders was an enabling provision aimed at strengthening efforts of the state police. The BSF said it had been acting in close coordination with with police to conduct operations, patrolling, deploying joint nakas and establishing anti-human trafficking units along the India-Bangladesh border.The BSF’s statement came a day after the West Bengal government passed a resolution against the Centre's decision to extend the forces’ jurisdiction. With this, Bengal became the second state after Punjab where such a resolution has been tabled and passed.|#+|The resolution, moved by parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, said the House believed that increasing the BSF's jurisdiction was against the country's federal structure, as law and order was a State subject. It stated that the notification exceeded the provision of the BSF Act and that it would lead to coordination issues between the state police and the BSF.The BJP-led central government recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enhanced-jurisdiction-aimed-at-strengthening-efforts-of-state-cops-says-bsf-101637133049807.html
17-11-2021||India||Modi urges legislative bodies to work with sense of national duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged legislative bodies to work with a sense of national duty, encourage healthy debates, rise above political considerations, make room for more social workers in politics, and set a new standard of politics. Modi said a section of the people showcases elected representatives as those only interested in political developments. He added if social workers, who prefer to stay away from politics, come into politics, it will help to improve the quality of public life.Modi referred to 25 years—up to 2047—after the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, a government initiative to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence. “Can we work only for our duty in these 25 years? In the speeches of the members, their work, during discussions, can we keep the sense of duty as supreme?” Modi said in his address at a conference of presiding officers of legislative bodies. Modi said when public representatives and legislative bodies emphasise the message of performing their duties, it would have an impact on the entire nation. “Our sense of duty will fulfil a pious resolve of moving our country forward.”Also Read: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of solar park in Jhansi on November 19Modi, whose legislative career spans nearly two decades, proposed a slew of reforms including a “One Nation, One Legislative” platform for a technological boost for Parliament as well as the state assemblies. He asked assemblies to encourage healthy debates and add value to discussions. “Our assemblies have to be careful about any voice against the unity and integrity of the nation.”Modi suggested separate times or days for healthy debates rising above politics to add value to the public discourse. He suggested more time for legislators, who are young, women or come from backward areas. Modi underlined democracy in India is not just a system but a way of life and national instinct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-urges-legislative-bodies-to-work-with-sense-of-national-duty-101637132917237.html
17-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh governor Harichandan diagnosed with Covid-19, rushed to hospital||Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhusan Harichandan was rushed to a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday after falling sick. He has been diagnosed with Covid-19, according to the Raj Bhavan.A Raj Bhavan official in Vijayawada earlier said the 87-year old Harichandan complained of uneasiness and was flown to Hyderabad on a special aircraft from Gannavaram airport. His wife Suprava Harichandan and son Prithvi Raj Harichandan accompanied him.He has been suffering from cough and cold over the last two days following a recent trip to New Delhi, according to a bulletin issued by the Raj Bhavan.Harichandan was rushed to the Asian Institute of Gastroenterology in Hyderabad’s Gachibowli area, where he was admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU). His condition is said to be serious. Also Read: A day after major fall, India’s daily Covid tally up again with 10,197 new cases“Doctors are examining him. The hospital is expected to release a health bulletin later in the day,” the official said.The veteran leader from Odisha was a five-time MLA, having represented the Chilika and Bhubaneshwar (Central) assembly constituencies. He has also worked as revenue minister in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Biju Janata Dal coalition government in 2004.A lawyer by profession and a member of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh during 1970s, Harichandan was one of the founding members of BJP. He had switched over the Janata Dal for a brief period before returning to the BJP in 1996. Since then, he has been associated with the party.Harichandan quit active politics in 2014 and was appointed as the Andhra Pradesh governor in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-governor-harichandan-diagnosed-with-covid-19-rushed-to-hospital-101637132316915.html
17-11-2021||India||PM Modi proposes 'one nation, one legislative platform', separate timing for 'quality debate'||Ahead of the Winter Session of the Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday suggested separate timings for “quality debate” in the House as he proposed a slew of reforms. The Monsoon Session was virtually washed out as the Opposition parties disrupted the working over the Pegasus issue and the farm laws.Addressing the all India presiding officers conference, PM Modi suggested that no political mudslinging will be allowed and the debate will be conducted in complete seriousness during the separate timing set aside for quality debate."In a way, it should be the most healthy time and health day of the House," PM Modi said.The prime minister also suggested setting aside 3-4 days for those elected representatives who are doing “something special” for society, when they can share this aspect of their social life in the House. He said that sharing such experiences would be a learning curve for other representatives. “Can we keep 3-4 days in a year in which public representatives, who are doing something special for the society, tell the country about this aspect of their social life as well? With this, other public representatives will also get to learn a lot,” he said.The prime minister further proposed 'one nation, one legislative platform' as a technological boost to the parliamentary system which would also connect all state assemblies in the country.
17-11-2021||India||Can see plight of farmers, TV debates creating more pollution: Supreme Court||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday said there had to be some responsibility and not everything could be done through judicial orders. Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday said there had to be some responsibility and not everything could be done through judicial orders. The CJI made the statement while hearing submissions of the Centre and state/city governments in the Supreme Court regarding the pollution crisis in Delhi and the national capital region. The matter will be heard next Wednesday.He asked why were firecrackers burnt for 10 days after Diwali. Hitting out at those putting the blame on farmers for stubble burning that is being said to be a major contribution to the air pollution, the apex court said firecrackers were being burst despite a ban on the same.The CJI said debates on television channels were creating more pollution than anybody else. It said everybody had their own agenda and statements were taken out of context during such debates.The court said what it saw was the plight of farmers. “People sitting in Delhi in five/seven-starred hotels criticise how they contribute four, 30 or 40 per cent to pollution. Have you seen their (farmers) earnings per landholding? We ignore the fact that firecrackers are burning despite the ban?" Also read | Centre unwilling to ask Delhi staff to work from home, advocates for carpoolingThe court’s comments came after advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, said the figures on stubble burning would be much higher in November and should be ignored. However, he added that source-based breakup of contribution to pollution was yet to be done.Meanwhile, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a meeting of the commission for air quality management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas was held on Tuesday and mandatory directions were issued to all chief secretaries of NCR states."All governments in NCR have been directed to put a ban on construction activities except four exempted categories till November 21. The commission also directed use of smog towers, sprinklers, and dust suppressants in vulnerable hotspots at least three times a day," the SG was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mehta further informed the court that the commission had directed the NCR states to strictly ban the use of diesel generator sets except for emergency services.Regarding vehicular pollution, the commission asked state authorities to ensure diesel vehicles that were over 10 years of age and 15-year-old petrol vehicles should not be allowed to ply. “Have asked Delhi government to put on road adequate number of CNG buses at the earliest,” he added.Also, industries using unapproved fuels should be closed with immediate effect and industries having gas connectivity should be immediately shifted to gas, the SG said. The Delhi government then informed the court that 90 per cent of what the Centre proposed had been done by it already and the suggestions were modelled on its measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tv-debates-creating-more-pollution-can-see-plight-of-farmers-supreme-court-101637129587748.html
17-11-2021||India||IMD's weather alert: Heavy rainfall expected in these states and UTs||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said as many as seven states and Union territories will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated areas on Wednesday and Thursday. According to IMD, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, coastal and south interior Karnataka, north Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will receive showers in isolated places on these two days.IMD said in a release on Tuesday that light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and coastal Andhra Pradesh during next four days and over Rayalaseema during next two days.Also read | IMD sounds heavy rain alert for Chennai, adjoining districts todayIsolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and coastal Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday, November 17, and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Thursday, November 18, are also expected.Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning are also expected in isolated places in north and south Goa, according to IMD. Strong winds—speed reaching 40-50kmph gusting to 60 kmph—are very likely over the southwest Bay of Bengal, along with and off south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coasts on November 17 and 18, it added.Also read | Peninsular India to continue receiving rainfall over the next 5 daysThe weather agency also said that strong winds with speed reaching 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph are very likely over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra coast on Wednesday, over the east-central Arabian Sea on Thursday, and over Central and adjoining the north Arabian Sea on November 19.Fishermen have been asked not to venture into these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imds-weather-alert-heavy-rainfall-expected-in-these-states-and-uts-101637128733745.html
17-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Congress corporator stabbed to death, 11 persons detained||A Congress corporator from Durg district in Chhattisgarh was murdered by unidentified persons late on Monday night, police said. Cops have detained 11 people who were accompanying him when the murder took place and were questioning them, while an investigation was underway. Suraj Banchhor, 39, a corporator at Bhilai Charoda Municipal Corporation, was stabbed to death by multiple, unidentified individuals near Hathkhoj pond where they were holding a party, according to police. Banchhor was a corporator from Hathkhoj ward. “We have detained 11 persons in connection with the crime and are probing the matter. According to doctors, Banchhor was stabbed multiple times with a sharp, long object,” said assistant superintendent of police Sanjay Dhruv. Dhruv, who called Banchhor’s death “mysterious”, said his friends had rushed him to a nearby hospital after the stabbing incident where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-congress-corporator-stabbed-to-death-11-persons-detained-101637129076555.html
17-11-2021||India||Complaint filed against Vir Das as row over 'two Indias' video heats up||Delhi Police have received a complaint against actor-comedian Vir Das at Tilak Marg Police station for allegedly using derogatory language against the nation in his six-minute long video "I come from two Indias”, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.Das, who is currently in the US, uploaded the video on YouTube on Monday, which was an excerpt of his recent performance at the John F Kennedy Centre in Washington, DC.In the short video, which has since then gone viral, Das talks about some major contemporary issues like farmers protest, rape, India’s response to Covid-19, the crackdown on comedians.In a particular portion of the video highlighted by many Twitter users, Das can be heard saying, “I come from an India where we worship women during the day and gang-rape them during the night."The comedian took to Twitter on Tuesday to issue an apology, stating that his words were not meant to insult the nation.“The video is a satire about the duality of two very separate India's that do different things. Like any nation has light and dark, good and evil within it. None of this is a secret. The video appeals for us to never forget that we are great. To never stop focusing on what makes us great,” Das said in his statement.He added that the video "ends in a gigantic patriotic round of applause for a country we all love, believe in, and are proud of. That there is more to our country than the headlines, a deep beauty. That's the point of the video and the reason for the applause.”Das urged netizens to not be fooled by edited excerpts of the video doing their rounds on the internet, and that he takes “pride” in his country and he carries “that pride across the world”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-vir-das-s-alleges-derogatory-language-against-india-a-police-complaint-101637128430959.html
17-11-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Gen Rawat to honour epic Rezang La heroes with new memorial||Fifty-nine years after Major Shaitan Singh and 98 of his men from the Charlie company of 13 Kumaon Battalion laid their lives in defence of the Chushul-Dungti-Leh axis in Ladakh sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh along with chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat will inaugurate the new memorial on Thursday to honour the heroes of the epic battle of Rezang La, who gave a bloody nose to the aggressive Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) in the 1962 war.The Shaitan company inflicted so many losses on nearly 400 PLA troops that the Chinese took no prisoners of war at Rezang La on November 18, 1962. The Rezang La battle was fought in freezing temperatures way below zero. Temperatures in Chushul heights are known to touch minus 25 degrees Celsius and more. While the past governments took their time in recognising the 1962 war heroes and the first formal function was held in 2012 lest it upsets the Chinese, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Gen Rawat will not only inaugurate the revamped war memorial but an auditorium containing the photo gallery to commemorate the battle. Such was the humiliation heaped by the Chinese and their communist influencers that successive Indian governments under the advice of the army chose not to upgrade border infrastructure along the LAC lest the PLA used to it make inroads into Indian hinterland in the worst-case scenario.According to the official history of the 1962 war, the Chinese attack on the isolated post of 1800 feet Rezang La began at 4am on November 18 with the intention of blocking the road link between Leh and Chushul via Dungti so that the garrison at Chushul was isolated and starved of supplies. The last Indian guns sounded at 10pm on November 18 with only 14 out of 112 ranks surviving to tell the tale. Major Shaitan Singh and his company major first fought with three-inch mortars, then rifles, bayonets and bare hands without any artillery or air support against the marauding Chinese who attacked the post from two sides.“The fight at Rezang La was hard and bitter… In November 1963, nearly a year after the battle, the dead bodies were recovered by Indian Red Cross. The parties that visited Rezang La saw the place littered with field dressings and blood narks, giving an indication to the heavy losses suffered by the Chinese,” states the official history of war.After the May 2020 transgressions by the PLA on the north bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian troops again occupied Rezang La after a fierce riposte on the south banks of the icy saltwater lake on theAugust 29-31 offensive. It was this counter-offensive that forced the PLA to disengage from the north banks of Pangong Tso as the Indian troops were threatening the PLA garrison at Moldo. On Thursday, Rezang La and the much-decorated Charlie Company of 13 Kumaon under Param Vir Chakra winner Shaitan Singh will come alive again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-gen-rawat-to-honour-epic-rezang-la-heroes-with-new-memorial-101637126057216.html
17-11-2021||India||SpiceJet-Boeing pact for re-induction of ‘efficient’ 737 MAX aircraft||SpiceJet has signed an agreement with Boeing to settle outstanding claims related to the grounding of 737 MAX aircraft and to allow the induction of efficient and younger planes into the airline’s fleet.“SpiceJet is pleased to announce that it has entered into a settlement agreement with Boeing wherein Boeing has agreed to provide certain accommodations and settle the outstanding claims related to the grounding of 737 MAX aircraft and its return to service,” a SpiceJet spokesperson said. “This paves the way for the induction of efficient and younger MAX aircraft into SpiceJet’s fleet and ensures the resumption of new aircraft deliveries from our order of 155 MAX aircraft.”India lifted the ban on 737 MAX aircraft in August and allowed them to fly again in the country after hardware and software modifications to ensure safety. None of SpiceJet’s 13 737 Max planes resumed flying.Also Read: Aviation ministry allows airlines to serve food in all domestic flightsAll operations of 737 Max were banned in the country in March 2019 after two crashes involving them in five months. In October 2018, a 737 Max crashed shortly after takeoff from Jakarta in Indonesia. Another 737 Max crashed in Ethiopia in March 2019. Overall, 346 people lost their lives in the crashes...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejetboeing-pact-for-re-induction-of-grounded-737-max-aircraft-101637127576439.html
17-11-2021||India||India, France seek concerted action against LeT, JeM, al-Qaeda||India and France on Wednesday sought concerted action against terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizbul Mujahideen and al-Qaeda, including bringing the perpetrators of terror attacks to justice speedily. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, a joint statement issued after a meeting in Paris of the India-France joint working group on counterterrorism said the two sides condemned all forms of terror activities, including cross-border terrorism. The two countries also “stressed the need for all countries to ensure that territories that are under their control cannot be used to plan [and] launch terrorist attacks against any other country, shelter or train terrorist fighters”. France has consistently backed India’s efforts at multilateral forums such as the UN Security Council and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to counter the activities of Pakistan-based terror groups and individuals. It also played a key role in the sanctioning of JeM founder Masood Azhar by the Security Council. Also Read: Day after encounter, 3 detained in Kashmir with around ₹30 lakhThe joint statement described counterterrorism cooperation as a cornerstone of the India-France strategic partnership, especially in the Indo-Pacific region. The joint statement also noted the joint working group’s meeting was held in a month that marks the 13th anniversary of the November 2008 attacks in Mumbai and the 6th anniversary of the November 2015 attacks in Paris, and allowed the two sides to express solidarity with victims of both terror attacks and to “share their resolve to stand together in the common fight against global terrorism”. The Indian and French delegations exchanged views on threats posed by UN-sanctioned terror entities and individuals and “emphasised the need for taking concerted action against all terrorist networks including al-Qaeda and ISIS/Daesh, as well as Lashkar e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Hizbul Mujahideen”. This action should include “making sure that perpetrators of terrorist attacks are systematically and expeditiously brought to justice”, the joint statement said. The two sides also exchanged views on banning terrorist individuals and entities and shared information on their priorities for pursuing sanctions and designations against terrorists. The delegations also shared their assessments of terrorist threats in their respective territories and regional environment, and underlined the need to ensure Afghanistan’s territory “does not become a source of radicalisation and terrorism, regionally or globally, and is never again used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter, recruit or train terrorists, or to plan or finance terrorist attacks in accordance with the UNSC Resolution 2593”. The two sides also discussed various areas of cooperation in counterterrorism and countering illegal narcotic drugs and arms smuggling, and decided to continue sharing information to curb radicalisation, violent extremism, the financing of terrorism, and misuse of the internet for terrorism, and to act against internationally designated entities and individuals. They also discussed counterterror cooperation at multilateral forums, including building on India’s non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council for 2021-22, and the FATF. They also agreed to coordinate for the preparations of the third edition of the “No Money for Terror” international conference to be hosted by India. The Indian side was led by Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary (counterterrorism) in the external affairs ministry, while Philippe Bertoux, director for strategic affairs, security and disarmament in the French foreign ministry, led the French delegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tackling-terror-india-france-seek-concerted-action-against-let-jem-alqaeda-101637126856319.html
17-11-2021||India||Over 1.8m second vaccine dose overdue in West Bengal||More than 1.8 million West Bengal residents have not taken the second dose of the two Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, despite completion of the prescribed intervals between the two doses, forcing the state government to step up its drive to bridge the gap, which it claims is gradually narrowing. “Till date at least 1,809,884 people in West Bengal haven’t taken their second dose on time. The maximum number of such cases has been reported from Alipurduar district in north Bengal where around 218,000 doses are overdue followed by 140,000 cases in Hooghly district. In Kolkata, around 108,451 people have not taken their second dose,” said a health department official. The prescribed gap between the first and second dose of the vaccine is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Two doses of any of the two vaccines are required for adequate protection against severe Covid infection and hospitalisation, especially those caused by mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In October, the Union health ministry wrote to several states including West Bengal, pointing out that the lag in administering the second dose, asking them to address the issue on priority. “We have stepped up the drive to administer the second dose. On November 16, while the number of first doses given was 241,568, the number of second doses given was 290,145. In October, the number of overdue cases was more than 3.2 million, which has come down now,” said the official quoted above. Also Read: Mamata Banerjee condoles death of Bangladeshi writer Hasan Azizul HaqueThe official suggested there could be plenty of reasons beyond the government’s control for a high number of second dose of Covid vaccines remaining overdue. Citing an example, he said several personnel of the Central security forces might have taken their first dose of vaccine in West Bengal during the assembly elections in April and May but had since left the state. He added that some recipients of the first dose might have died and many others might have been forced to delay their second dose after contracting Covid-19 in the interim. Lately, West Bengal is registering more than 800 new Covid cases daily, showing an increasing trend after the festive season. “Covid-19 safety protocols were rampantly flouted during the festive season. Many were not wearing masks, leave aside adherence to social distancing and sanitisation,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advice chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-8m-second-vaccine-dose-overdue-in-west-bengal-101637126496175.html
17-11-2021||India||Centre unwilling to ask Delhi staff to work from home, advocates for carpooling||The Central government has expressed unwillingness before the Supreme Court to ask its employees in Delhi to work from home, instead advising them to opt for carpooling in an effort to control the air pollution in the national capital region. In an affidavit, the Centre told the apex court that the number of vehicles used by the Central government employees is a minuscule fraction of the total vehicles in Delhi, adding that the action would not make much impact towards improving the air quality.The government also pointed out the directives issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management late Tuesday for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas. The latest directive by CAQM has widened the curb across NCR cities, including the ban on entry of trucks in Delhi till November 21 except those carrying essential commodities.The air quality in Delhi continued to be in the 'very poor' category for the fourth consecutive day as the Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 379 on Wednesday.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta apprised the court about the direction issued by CAQM to Delhi and the other NCR States, asking them to ensure that all industries having gas connectivity run only on gas as fuel failing which the industry has to be close. Mehta said that industries using unapproved fuels should be closed with immediate effect and industries having gas connectivity should be immediately shifted to gas.In a series of instructions, the CAQM advised NCR state governments to allow at least 50% of staff to work from home. It has also extended the ban on construction and demolition activities to all cities in the NCR.For field level implementation of the directions issued by the CAQM, the commission has directed five states to submit a compliance report before November 22. The directions will be closely monitored by the chief secretary of NCR states, GNCTD on a regular basis, as per the official release.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-unwilling-to-ask-delhi-staff-to-work-from-home-advocates-for-carpooling-101637125543723.html
17-11-2021||India||Night curfew in Jammu amid rising Covid-19 positivity rate||The administration in Jammu has imposed a night curfew from Wednesday in the wake of an increasing positivity rate in Covid-19 cases in the region.The curfew would be in place from 10pm to 6am and violation of the same would invite strict action, a senior official said.The decision was taken during a review meeting of the district disaster management authority (DDMA) on the pandemic situation in the city, said district magistrate Anshul Garg.It was decided that immediate measures were required as the positivity rate had increased by 0.2 per cent recently, he added."In view of increasing positivity rate in Jammu, DDMA imposes night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am from 17th November (Wednesday) onwards," Garg said in a tweet on Tuesday.He also advised people living in the city to follow all standard operation procedures in place to contain the spread of the viral disease and get fully vaccinated.All station house officers and tehsildars shall ensure that announcements are made on public address systems to make people aware of the new development, an order issued by the district magistrate added.The current active case count of Jammu and Kashmir stood at 1,517, while the total death toll reached 4,453. So far, 3,28,318 have been cured from the disease.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-jammu-amid-rising-covid-19-positivity-rate-101637124964280.html
17-11-2021||India||Over 100 women lawyers request CJI to continue with virtual or hybrid hearings||Over 100 women lawyers, including young mothers and main caregivers, have requested Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana to continue with virtual or hybrid hearings on all days at the Supreme Court. They said that it will not only help them but other lawyers too who due to health or other responsibilities cannot attend physical court hearings. In a letter to CJI dated November 12, the lawyers stressed the importance of taking forward the “gains that have been made during the pandemic” due to the digital revolution in courts. The letter has been signed by 103 women including senior advocates Indira Jaising, Geeta Luthra, and Pinky Anand. “…the sudden digital revolution in the courts proved to be a blessing in disguise for a large cross-section of regular Bar, especially women lawyers, young lawyers, and elderly lawyers. Digitally equipped courts became more equal for women lawyers, more so, for women with care-giving responsibilities in the family, pregnant women and mothers having children of tender age as also those who have to tend to elderly parents,” the letter said.Also Read: Delhi HC likely to get first openly gay judge“Not only could they (women) avoid the risk of exposing themselves and their babies to the risk of the pandemic but also managed to continue their active practice from the safety of their homes.”Supreme Court advocate Ruchira Goel, who is standing counsel for the Uttar Pradesh government and a young mother, said that she was back to work within three weeks after giving birth to her firstborn in August this year.“I was working till the last day of my pregnancy. This was possible only because of the hybrid/virtual hearing option,” said Goel.She said that she is able to manage work, which is very demanding and takes care of her baby only because of the virtual hearing option.The Supreme Court resumed physical hearings, on a limited scale, after 19 months on October 21. Currently, virtual/hybrid hearings are scheduled on Tuesday.“We want the option of attending hearings virtually should be allowed on all days. This option (virtual hearing) will help not only women with kids but also other lawyers who have elderly parents or are not able to come to court due to other personal reasons,” said Goel.Advocate Priya Sharma, who has been practicing for eight years, said that this mode of hearing has made it easier for her to take care of her elderly parents and continue with her work. “We just want this to be an option available to lawyers. It is a lot more convenient,” said Sharma.Chitrangda Rastravara, another lawyer and mother of a one-year-old boy, started the discussion about this among women lawyers after the apex court resumed physical hearing.Rastravara, who has a one-year-old son, said that women lawyers have been facing problems while balancing between their professional and personal lives. But as such a set-up was not in place, women lawyers had to make a tough choice either to take a break from the profession for some time or continue with it. “Thinking about such a setup was a far-fetched dream then. But now, when we have invested huge amounts of resources in putting in place such a set-up, which is working efficiently, why do it away?” She said that it took her less than a week to get 100 plus women lawyers, including some senior lawyers, to sign the letter. “The court has been planning to have such a system in place for a long time, especially for criminal cases.”Luthra said virtual hearings will not only help women lawyers, especially those who have children and other family responsibilities but will also help all lawyers as they can attend matters, which do not necessarily need a physical presence, online. “Women lawyers who maybe would have been out of the workspace during the Covid period, as there were no creches and other supporting infrastructure, continued to work as the hearings were held virtually,” said Luthra.She added now infrastructure for virtual hearing is in place. “There are various challenges which have to be addressed, but we cannot get rid of the system when so much effort has gone into putting in place the infrastructure. It will help in reducing the footfall in courts. It will reduce vehicular traffic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-women-lawyers-request-cji-to-continue-with-virtual-or-hybrid-hearings-101637124456411.html
17-11-2021||India||A day after major fall, India’s daily Covid tally up again with 10,197 new cases||India's daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again on Wednesday after 10,197 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the country’s caseload to 34,466,598, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Kerala reported 5,516 Covid-19 infections, 6,705 recoveries and 39 related deaths.Also Read| Aviation ministry allows airlines to serve food in all domestic flightsMore than 300 patients died and 12,134 recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s data showed. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries climbed to 464,153 and 33,873,890. Active cases of Covid-19 in India have dropped to 128,555 and have been the lowest in 527 days.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/x7kZtoNxSkWednesday's case count is 1,332 higher than that of Tuesday's when 8,865 people were detected as Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day tally in 287 days. The toll on Wednesday is also 104 more than that of Tuesday's when 104 people died.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 627,016,336 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,242,177 were tested in the last 24 hours.Also Read| India reports 8,865 new Covid-19 cases, a low of 287 daysThe country's cumulative vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.13 billion. Of the total doses administered, 381,155,604 people have received both vaccine doses and the remaining 755,724,081 are partially vaccinated against Covid-19. More than 6.7 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday chaired a meeting with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), civil society groups and development partners to discuss ways to take the Centre's "Har Ghar Dastak" vaccination drive across the country.During Tuesday's meeting, Mandaviya suggested that stickers should be given to notify the fully vaccinated status of families, which he said would encourage the uptake of vaccines among the country's population.The “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign was launched for those people who are yet to take the dose and those whose second dose is overdue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-major-fall-india-s-daily-covid-tally-up-again-with-10-197-new-cases-101637121495625.html
17-11-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of solar park in Jhansi on November 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of a 600 MW solar power project at Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand on Friday as part of attempts to make the region with abundant land and sunlight a solar power hub, people aware of the matter said.The project is one of the three solar parks proposed to be set up in the region to generate 2,000 MW of power under the Centre’s Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks scheme.“Besides the 600 MW solar park in Jhansi...work is also being taken up to set up a 600 MW solar park in Lalitpur and 800 MW solar park in Chitrakoot,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Also Read: Kashi Vishwanath Corridor gets finishing touches, set to be inaugurated on Dec 13The official said the cost of the Jhansi solar park is ₹3,013 crore. “Of this ₹313.18 crore will be spent on the creation of the park and ₹2,700 crore will be used in setting up solar units in the park,” the official said. “The Centre will provide 30% of the project cost.”The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd will buy the power to be generated from the solar park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-solar-park-in-jhansi-101637124096356.html
17-11-2021||India||CPI's Binoy Viswam moves resolution in RS against extension of CBI, ED chiefs' tenures||Binoy Viswam, a Rajya Sabha MP belonging to the Communist Party of India (CPI) has moved a Notice of Statutory Resolution in the Upper House of Parliament raising objections to an ordinance passed by the Narendra Modi government to extend the tenure of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) chiefs up to five years.Viswam has moved Notice of Statutory Resolution under sub-clause (a) of clause (2)0 of Article 123 of the Constitution. The Winter Session of Parliament is scheduled to begin from November 29."The House disapproves Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 (No. 9 of 2021) promulgated by the President on November 14," the notice read.On Sunday, the Centre brought in the ordinance amending the Delhi Police Special Establishment (DPSE) Act and the Central Vigilance Act (CVC) to extend the tenure CBI and ED chiefs up to five years. The extension includes the fixed two year terms for the directors of both the premier investigation agencies. Both the heads can get an extension of three years, but this will require three separate annual extensions.Also read | ‘Parties should challenge in Supreme Court’: Manish Tewari on Centre's ordinances on CBI, ED chiefsThe development came two months after the Supreme Court ruled that extensions beyond the date of superannuation of an individual should be rare, in exceptional cases only.Opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist), CPI and Rashtriya Janata Dal, have slammed the Centre’s move just ahead of the Winter Session.Opposition leaders said the issue would come up in the upcoming Parliament's winter session.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpis-binoy-viswam-moves-resolution-against-extension-of-cbi-ed-chiefs-tenures-101637122891365.html
17-11-2021||India||ED arrests real estate tycoon Lalit Goyal over alleged money laundering case||After several days of questioning, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested Lalit Goyal, real estate tycoon and managing director of IREO group, in connection with an alleged money laundering probe. The alleged case involves more than ₹2,600 crore, according to officials handling the investigation.Goyal was taken into custody under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Chandigarh. He will be produced before a local court for seeking his remand.Goyal was stopped by immigration authorities last Thursday at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport based on an ED lookout notice against him.“Real estate company IREO’s promoter Lalit Goyal was detained at the Delhi Airport by immigration officials and was handed over to the ED. He is being questioned and his statement is being recorded by the ED in a case of money laundering and diversion of funds of investors,” an ED official said.Also Read: Housing sales across Delhi, Mumbai, 6 other cities may rise up to 20% in 2021The ED said that during the probe, he didn’t cooperate and didn’t divulge any relevant information. A special court has remanded him for seven days in ED custody.Goyal’s name had earlier appeared in the Pandora Papers exposition.Separately, the ED also raided the premises of the Ghosh Brothers Group of companies, a prominent business group handling multiple car dealerships in Guwahati, as part of a money-laundering probe linked to an alleged bank loan fraud. During the investigation, the ED found that the Ghosh Brothers Group and its promoters Pranab Ghosh, Pratul Ghosh and Gita Rani Ghosh had allegedly diverted a part of the bank loan money after shuffling it between multiple accounts they handled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-real-estate-tycoon-lalit-goyal-over-alleged-money-laundering-case-101637122235826.html
17-11-2021||India||Peninsular India to continue receiving rainfall over the next 5 days||Peninsular India will continue to receive light to moderate rainfall over the next five days under the influence of two low-pressure areas in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea off the coast of Goa and Karnataka.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and south coastal Andhra Pradesh will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday. Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and coastal Andhra Pradesh received rainfall last week under the influence of another low-pressure area.Two troughs, an elongated low-pressure system, are in play at the moment. One of them is associated with the low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea that extends off Goa-Karnataka coast to Gujarat coast covering the entire Maharashtra. The other is also associated with the low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea and extending up to the low-pressure system in the Bay of Bengal, the IMD said.Also Read | Reports of two swine flu cases a typing error, clarifies Coimbatore corporationThe systems will lead to rough seas and the fishermen have been warned to stay out of the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday and Thursday and parts of the Arabian Sea on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.IMD said there will be an increase in the minimum temperatures across Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan by 2 to 3 degrees C during the next two to three days. There will be no other significant temperature change elsewhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peninsular-india-to-continue-receiving-rainfall-101637122176261.html
17-11-2021||India||Congress launches campaign in Bihar for awareness over price rise||The Congress launched a “Jan Jagaran Yatra” last week in Bihar to create awareness about the impact of the price rise.Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said that as part of the mass-awareness campaign he will visit Laheriyasarai in Darbhanga and meet people to know their views on the range of issues affecting them. “Working presidents of the (party) have also been assigned different districts to supervise the mass-contact drives and stay with the people,” he said.The current phase of the mass-awareness drive will conclude on November 29.Brajesh Kumar Munnan, the chairman of the party’s membership drive, said Jha has also directed the district presidents to nominate the booth-level agents during the ongoing membership drive, which started on November 1.This comes after Congress parted ways with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and unsuccessfully contested the October 30 by-polls to the two assembly seats. The ruling Janata Dal (United) won both seats.The RJD has also launched district-level meetings to facilitate the enrolment of voters.Also Read | Purnia leader’s killing: Police claim key leads, minister denies chargeState RJD chief Jagadanand Singh chaired a meeting of district party presidents and general secretary of the south Bihar region and asked them to finalise the booth-level agents, who would help people enlist their names in the voters’ lists.State RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said the issues that led to the defeat of the party’s nominee in Tarapur in south Bihar were also discussed. “... the main emphasis of the meeting was to re-organise booth-level operation.”Another RJD leader added that a meeting of the north Bihar functionaries will be held soon to finalise the booth-level agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-campaign-in-bihar-for-awareness-over-price-rise-101637121755845.html
17-11-2021||India||Delhi’s air in ‘very poor’ category, projected to worsen to ‘severe’||Delhi will have a partly cloudy sky with shallow fog on Wednesday morning as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The city’s air quality was at the higher-end of the very poor category early morning. The minimum temperature is likely to be 9 degrees Celsius with the maximum predicted to reach 26 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 10 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 27 degrees Celsius -- one degree below normal.As per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board, air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 392. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was in the severe category at 403. The prominent pollutants in Delhi’s air were PM2.5 and PM10. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that air pollution levels in Delhi may grow worse due to drop in wind speed. “The AQI today indicates very poor category. AQI is likely to reach the higher end of very poor category by tonight and then slip to Lower end of Severe category by tomorrow. Surface Winds are likely to be very calm with a low ventilation index pushing AQI to severe by tomorrow and fluctuate between severe to upper end of very poor thereafter until 18th Nov,” a statement by SAFAR said. Also Read: Amid ‘very poor’ Delhi air quality, expert lists suggestions to avoid pollution The agency added that intrusion of stubble burning related pollutants into Delhi was unlikely for the next two days due to unfavourable winds coming from east direction, also called transport level winds. “The effective farm fire count has reduced to 1820 and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 today is 8%. The peak in fire count appears to have reached last week and fire counts are now starting to show a declining trend which is delayed by about 1 week from the previous year due to late withdrawal of the monsoon,” SAFAR statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-in-very-poor-category-projected-to-worsen-to-severe-101637121215772.html
17-11-2021||India||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor gets finishing touches, set to be inaugurated on Dec 13||Finishing touches were being given to the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor connecting the Ganga and Varanasi’s Kashi Vishwanath temple before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to inaugurate it on December 13.Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board chief executive officer Sunil Verma said 24 buildings along the corridor have been constructed and finishing touches were being given to the corridor that will be fully ready by the second week of December.Shlokas and Vedic hymns were being carved on the walls of the buildings along the corridor, which is estimated to be worth nearly ₹1,000 crore.Over seven million devotees and tourists visit the temple annually. On average, over 10, 000 devotees, mostly from Varanasi and the adjoining areas, visit it daily. On Mondays, over 40,000 to 50,000 people offer prayers at the temple. The number goes up to 30,00,00 on Mondays during the holy month of Shravan (July-August).Built over 5.5 lakh square feet, the corridor has decongested the temple complex, which was earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides.Also Read: Union minister Karad helps co-passenger midair, earns PM Modi’s praiseAn over 7,000 square metre temple platform for meditation for 10,000 people, seven grand entrance gates, a cafeteria, a food court, a Vedic and spiritual library, a virtual gallery, tourist centre, a multi-purpose hall, and a security hall are part of the corridor. A special sky beam light system was also being installed along the corridor.Modi laid the foundation of the corridor in March 2019. Over 300 buildings were purchased and demolished to create the space for the project. The Uttar Pradesh government constituted the board to expedite the work on it. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has inspected the work on it three dozen times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-inaugurate-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-on-dec-13-101637119895512.html
17-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM to inaugurate first global summit on pharma sector tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to inaugurate first global summit on pharma sector tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the first global innovation summit of the pharma sector on Thursday via video conferencing. The summit will focus on opportunities in the Indian pharma industry and the potential for further growth. Read more…‘Established history, policy of supporting terrorists’: India slams Pakistan at UNSC over Kashmir issueIndia has slammed Pakistan at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for raking up the Kashmir issue and called upon the neighbouring country to “immediately vacate all areas” of Jammu and Kashmir “under its illegal occupation”. Read more…Amid ‘very poor’ Delhi air quality, expert lists suggestions to avoid pollutionAmid worsening air quality in Delhi-NCR, experts have suggested avoiding crowded places and using N95 masks outdoors. Dr Richa Sarin, Consultant Pulmonologist, expressed concern over the air quality in Delhi and adjoining areas, advising people to go out in the sun to avoid the peak hours of pollution as the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at 379 on Wednesday. Read more…Salman Khan to the rescue, Maha will rope in actor to tackle vaccine hesitancy in Muslim areas: MinisterBollywood star Salman Khan will help convince people to take the Covid-19 vaccine in Muslim-dominated areas where there is hesitancy about taking the jab, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said. Read more…He came and said to me 'you will be playing this game': Rohit Sharma recalls making his India debut under Rahul DravidSuch is the beauty of cricket that things come full circle in the strangest of ways. As the Indian cricket team ushers into a new era, with Rohit Sharma as captain of the T20I team and Rahul Dravid as their coach, the mind harks back to the year 2007. Read more…Shraddha Arya asks groom to lift her up at wedding, tells friends ‘be jealous’ as she bids them goodbyeKundali Bhagya lead actor Shraddha Arya tied the knot with Rahul Sharma, a naval officer, on Tuesday. Pictures and videos from the traditional Hindu wedding have been shared online and show a glimpse of the bride and the groom. Read more…Loved Anushka Sharma's green swimsuit in happy pool day pics? It is worth ₹8kActor Anushka Sharma has dished out some major red carpet sartorial moments in her long-spanning career in the industry. But it is her collection of breezy off-duty OOTDs and love for lively colours that always brightens up our style files. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-inaugurate-first-global-on-pharmaceuticals-sector-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101637117845530.html
17-11-2021||India||‘Pay and recover’ can’t be applied in cases of lapsed insurance policies: HC||The “pay and recover” principle requiring insurance firms to pay accident claims and then recovering them from vehicle owners cannot be applied in cases where the policies have lapsed, the Bombay high court has said.The court said on Tuesday the principle can be resorted to when the contract of insurance and the insurer is exonerated from the liability on account of some breach of conditions of insurance or causes like nature. It added it cannot be in cases where no such contract exists.The court made the observations while hearing an appeal filed by Oriental Insurance Company against a 2014 order of Nashik’s Motor Accident Claims Tribunal holding the insurer jointly liable to pay compensation of ₹6.68 lakh to family members of Milind Gaikwad, 27, who had died in a road accident in 2009. Gaikwad was riding a motorcycle when another motorcyclist Uday Pathak collided with him.Gaikwad’s family staked an accident claim before the tribunal, which held the accident occurred due to Pathak’s rash and negligent driving. The tribunal added Pathak and his insurer Oriental Insurance Company were jointly liable to pay the compensation.Also Read | Led by part-time CM, MVA most corrupt government: Devendra FadnavisThe insurer questioned the tribunal’s order primarily saying there was no subsisting insurance contract between the company and Pathak on the date of the incident. It added the tribunal erred in holding the company jointly liable.The high court accepted the contention, noticing that the insurance certificate specifically mentioned that the policy was valid from October 17, 2006, to October 16, 2007, and as such expired long before the accident.It held the insurance company cannot be held jointly liable for paying the compensation.The claimants urged the court to apply the principle of “pay and recover”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-and-recover-can-t-be-applied-in-cases-of-lapsed-insurance-policies-hc-101637119415678.html
17-11-2021||India||Activist who helped make voting accessible to differently abled hails change||Dr Niru Kumar, who has been working with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to increase the accessibility to voting booths for the marginalised and the differently abled, says it has been a continuous process and facilities such as ramps for wheelchairs at booths are now getting institutionalised.“I remember, five years ago my voting experience was vastly different from what it is now. Back then, even a wheelchair could not go inside because there was no ramp. However, now ramps are non-negotiable,” Dr. Kumar, who was awarded Padma Shri last week, said.Accessibility at the polling sites is an ongoing conversation at the election commission. During the general elections, lots of measures were taken regarding ramps, sensitisation of personnel and Braille markings on Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs)… and now, with the upcoming elections, we continue to improve and rectify voter accessibility,” she told HT. Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate first global summit on pharma sector tomorrowIn June 2020, EC invited Dr Kumar to partner with them to benefit from her expertise in diversity and inclusion to create a more pleasant voting experience for the marginalised sections. “Accessible voting has become a major agenda for the EC, so, I was able to contribute from three points of view. The first was from a diversity and inclusion consultant’s point of view. The second was from being differently-abled myself due to polio; and the third emanating from the principle of leaving no voter behind,” explained Dr. Kumar.Dr Niru Kumar began her gender inclusionary work 15 years ago when there were no formal conversations around gender diversity in the public and private spheres. She began by visiting several industrial plant locations in remote areas, like Renusagar in Uttar Pradesh, where she shared her knowledge about gender intelligence which enables understanding of gender differences instead of simply acknowledging them. “Initially, I was hesitant to go to these locations, but once I understood the value of the conversations and the transformation that took place amongst people, I found the process very fulfilling,” the Padma Shri awardee said.So far, EC’s National Icon has worked in the private sector with multinational companies like Pepsi Co., Vodafone and Walmart. However, she aspires to work in the public sector. “I want to bring diversity and inclusion in the government… Now with the Padma Shri, I have a voice which will not go unheard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-who-helped-make-voting-accessible-for-differently-abled-says-change-is-happening-101637118575432.html
17-11-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate first global summit on pharma sector tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the first global innovation summit of the pharma sector on Thursday via video conferencing.“It is a distinctive initiative that aims to bring together key Indian and international stakeholders from the government, industry, academia, investors and researchers to discuss and strategise priorities to foster a thriving innovation ecosystem in the pharmaceuticals industry in India,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.The summit will focus on opportunities in the Indian pharma industry and the potential for further growth.Also: Union minister Karad helps co-passenger midair, earns PM Modi’s praiseThe two-day event, which will comprise 12 sessions, will be attended by more than 40 national and international speakers covering a range of subjects such as the regulatory environment, funding for innovation, industry-academia collaboration, and the innovation infrastructure.The summit will see the participation of leading members from the domestic and global pharma industries, along with officials, investors and researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Johns Hopkins University, Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIM-A), and other top institutes.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will also attend the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-first-global-summit-on-pharma-sector-tomorrow-101637117975414.html
17-11-2021||India||Amid ‘very poor’ Delhi air quality, expert lists suggestions to avoid pollution||Amid worsening air quality in Delhi-NCR, experts have suggested avoiding crowded places and using N95 masks outdoors. Dr Richa Sarin, Consultant Pulmonologist, expressed concern over the air quality in Delhi and adjoining areas, advising people to go out in the sun to avoid the peak hours of pollution as the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at 379 on Wednesday.According to the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR), Delhi's air quality continued to be in the 'very poor' category for the fourth consecutive day."Delhi's air quality has worsened for a few days. People should not go to crowded places and go out in the sun. They should also use N95 marks for their protection," Sarin said, as quoted by news agency ANI."People should not go out early in the morning and late at night to avoid pollution," she added.Authorities are scrambling to combat the air pollution crisis, with the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) widening the curbs across NCR late Tuesday. It extended the ban on construction and demolition activities, and offline classes in Delhi to all cities in the NCR. Entry of all trucks, except those carting essential commodities, have also been banned till November 21.In a series of instructions, it further advised NCR state governments to allow at least 50% of staff to work from home.For field level implementation of the directions issued by the CAQM, the commission has directed five states to submit a compliance report before November 22. The directions will be closely monitored by the chief secretary of NCR states, GNCTD on a regular basis, as per the official release.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-worsening-delhi-air-quality-expert-lists-suggestions-to-avoid-pollution-101637115192714.html
17-11-2021||India||‘When a minister can get free electricity, then...’: Kejriwal slams Cong, BJP over his free electricity promise in Goa||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hit out at the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for censuring him over his promise of providing free electricity to the people of Goa.As a part of his promises in poll-bound Goa, Arvind Kejriwal, the national convener of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said that every family in the coastal state will get 300 units of electricity per month for free, all old and pending electricity bills will be waived off, there will be 24x7 supply of electricity in Goa and farmers of the state will also get free electricity.Also Read| Will resume mining in Goa, if AAP voted to power in elections: KejriwalAddressing a gathering in Sattari on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, “The BJP and Congress say that Kejriwal is distributing everything for free. When a minister can get 3,000 units of electricity free of cost every month, why cannot I give 300 units to the common man?”The Delhi chief minister also said that political leaders were hurt because all such schemes of the AAP will ensure that all money from corruption is finished.In July, Goa chief minister and BJP leader Pramod Sawant claimed that Kejriwal's promise of free electricity won't be taken seriously by the state's residents.“There are some people who won't be able to even open their accounts in Goa. So they can say or offer anything. People of Goa are very smart and they won't take such things seriously,” Sawant said.In recent days, the AAP and the BJP have engaged in a war of words over the copying of welfare schemes for Goa. On November 7, chief minister Sawant accused his Delhi counterpart of copying Goa government-sponsored pilgrimages and passing them off as his own.Also Read| ‘Copy master’: Pramod Sawant on Kejriwal’s free pilgrimage promise to Goa votersWhile the AAP hit out by saying that the pilgrimage scheme was announced a year before Sawant became the coastal state's chief minister.Arvind Kejriwal also said on Tuesday that the AAP will eradicate corruption in Goa if it forms the government next year. “I am not a politician. I am not a leader. I am an aam aadmi like you all,” Kejriwal told the gathering in Sattari.He also accused Congress and the BJP of having a “setting” with each other, sharing power alternatively every five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-slams-congress-bjp-for-criticising-his-free-electricity-promise-in-goa-101637112703224.html
17-11-2021||India||Kartarpur Sahib Corridor reopens for pilgrims today: All you need to know||Kartarpur Sahib Corridor will reopen from Wednesday, ahead of Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary or Gurparab, the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre on Tuesday announced and said that it will benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims.“The nation is all set to celebrate the Prakash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji on November 19 and I am sure that PM Narendra Modi government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country,” Union home minister Amit Shah said in a tweet.Also Read| ‘Laudatory’ says Punjab CM Channi on reopening of Kartarpur CorridorLeaders across the political spectrum, including Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, lauded the Centre’s move to reopen the corridor, which had been closed since March last year given the coronavirus pandemic.Across the border, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) also expressed happiness over the reopening by saying that it will help Indian Sikhs to visit the last abode of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev without any hindrance.What is the Kartarpur Corridor?The Kartarpur Corridor is a visa-free border crossing that joins the Indian border to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan. The 4.7-kilometre long stretch allows devotees from India to pay a visit to the Gurudwara without a visa. Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev lived and died at this Gurdwara at the start of the 16th century.When was the idea proposed?In 1999, the Indian and the Pakistani governments proposed the idea of the Kartarpur corridor as a part of the New Delhi-Lahore bus diplomacy.In 2018, the foundation stone of the corridor was laid on the Indian side on November 26. And on November 28, the stone was laid on the Pakistani side.When was the corridor inaugurated?Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan inaugurated the Kartarpur corridor in November 2019 as part of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak at a colourful ceremony, paving the way for Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit one of their religion’s holiest sites in Pakistan without a visa.Also Read| Captain thanks Modi for ‘timely opening’ of Kartarpur Sahib corridorHow many pilgrims have visited the corridor since inauguration?According to a report by Hindustan Times last year, more than 59,000 pilgrims visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur from its opening in 2019 up to March 8.The external affairs ministry said last week that it expects Pakistan to allow a visit this month by a group of 1,500 pilgrims on the occasion of Guruparab.How to register?The Centre has come up with an online portal (prakashpurb550.mha.gov.in) through which pilgrims can register themselves and choose their date of travel.They will receive an SMS and email confirmation of registration three or four days in advance of the date of travel. An Electronic Travel Authorisation will also be generated.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kartarpur-sahib-corridor-reopens-for-pilgrims-today-all-you-need-to-know-101637108220969.html
17-11-2021||India||For 1st time, number of fully jabbed surpasses partially vaccinated||For the first time since the start of India’s vaccination programme, the number of people in the country who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 has surpassed those who are partially vaccinated, data shows.The development comes on the back of several weeks of the administration of second doses outstripping that of first doses, a trend that became very clear through October and November as the vaccine coverage reached 80% of the eligible population (at least one dose), a level at which experts expect it to hit a ceiling.As of Tuesday night, of the 755.4 million people who have received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine in India, 380.7 million people are fully vaccinated (have received both shots) and another 374.7 million have received only one shot, according to data from the CoWIN dashboard. When seen alongside India’s estimated population of 940 million adults, this means that 40.3% of the country’s adults have been fully vaccinated while another 40.2% have been given a single jab so far.The mathematical significance of this number is that, in combination with non-pharmaceutical interventions such as masking and social distancing, 40% was the level of exposure (or vaccination) at which herd immunity was expected to set in according to a model created by researchers at the University of Nottingham and the University of Stockholm.On Tuesday, India recorded 10,351 new cases of Covid, pushing the case rate to the lowest in 274 days. Thus far, the country has reported nearly 34.5 million Covid-19 cases and 464,213 deaths from the viral disease.According to data maintained by the website Our World in Data, on average, 54.1% of India’s population (the entire population, not just those above 18 years) have received at least one shot of the vaccine, while 26.8% are fully vaccinated. The global average for these figures is 52.2% and 40.9%, respectively. This means that while India leads the global average in total coverage, it is considerably behind in the proportion of people fully vaccinated.The gap can be partly attributed to the revision of the prescribed gap between the two doses in the case of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield (a vaccine that accounts for nearly 90% of all doses administered in the country). On May 13, the Union health ministry announced the widening of the gap between the doses of Covishield from 4-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. And due to the large proportion of those vaccinated having received Covishield, this change in policy has had a cascading effect on the number of people getting second doses. It has ended up having a plateauing effect on the total number of people completely vaccinated in the country (see chart) after mid-May, even as more people received first doses.The country, however, has been closing this gap since the start of October, when administration of second doses started outstripping that of first doses. The number of people who have been administered just one dose of the vaccine have been steadily dropping since the first week of October, data shows.Officials fear that a drop in first doses with nearly 20% of the country yet to be given even a single dose can dent the larger goal of fully vaccinating all of India’s adults by the end of the year -- holding on to their aim of universal vaccination, something no country has managed to achieve.On Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya stressed that the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive with 100% administration of both the doses to India’s adults is an “immediate necessity.”“We have to all ensure that everybody is vaccinated,” he said. Mandaviya was interacting with stakeholders helping the government in furthering the reach and coverage of vaccination under the government’s ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ drive under which officials are conducting door-to-door vaccinations of people eligible for second dose as well as those who are yet to be administered their first jab.As part of this push earlier this month, the Union government directed all states to plan to achieve at least 90% first dose coverage by the end of the November, stressing on the need to accelerate the immunisation drive in several regions with relatively lower coverage rates.Experts said that a brief drop in vaccination rate for first dose administration was expected due to the festive season and may not immediately be a cause for concern. “People who are yet to receive even a single dose of the vaccine generally tend to be a little more wary of any side effects they may get from their first shot. I have a feeling that since there have been so many festivals in the country from October onwards, many people would have delayed getting their first jabs because they did not want to experience side-effects like fever that may hamper their celebrations... Hopefully should see the first dose administration pick up again soon,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.But at 80.5% coverage, India may have well hit saturation coverage of all those willing to take the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-1st-time-number-of-fully-jabbed-surpasses-partially-vaccinated-101637107123531.html
17-11-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti: BJP govt creating rift between Hindus, Muslims||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of polarising people ahead of the next year’s assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing PDP workers at the party’s headquarters here on the penultimate day of her six-day visit to Jammu, Mehbooba said, “The biggest problem confronting the youth is unemployment, which the present government has failed to resolve. Farmers have been agitating for more than a year, but there is no one to listen to them. On the contrary, efforts are being made to polarise the people in the name of Hindu and Muslim.”“This government only knows about Hindu-Muslim politics, which started from Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. This is the plan of this government to get votes,” she added. “Similar attempts are being made here in Jammu to poison the society,” the PDP chief said. She recalled how she grew up in Jammu in the house of a Hindu, but never felt any difference between a Hindu and a Muslim. She advised the youth against falling prey to the BJP’s “machinations” in Jammu. “Instead, you should ask them (BJP) about how many locals have got jobs in power projects and factories set up here following the abrogation of Article 370,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-mufti-bjp-govt-creating-rift-between-hindus-muslims-101637091390227.html
17-11-2021||India||Missing woman in Kasganj case not a minor, say police||A woman whose alleged abduction led to the police interrogating a 22-year-old man, who died in police custody in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj town last week, is 19 and not a minor as claimed by her father earlier, police said on Tuesday.The woman’s father had filed a First Information Report on November 9, alleging that his 16-year-old daughter was abducted by two men, one of whom was identified as 22-year-old Altaf. On November 9, police picked up Altaf from his home for interrogation in the case. He was found dead in police custody the next day with police claiming that he died by suicide and his family saying that policemen tortured him to death. Five policemen have been suspended since and an investigation is on.The Hindu woman was found by police on Friday and presented before a local court in Kasganj on Monday when she recorded her statement. She was allowed to go with her father on Tuesday. “It has now being learnt that the girl was born in month of March of year 2002 and was thus not a minor when she was allegedly kidnapped. It was her father who stated that his daughter was a minor,” said superintendent of police (SP) for Kasganj, Rohan Pramod Botre. He said police will remove section 363 of the Indian Penal Code (kidnapping) invoked in the “The matter will continue in investigation as case under section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code,” added the SP. Police also dropped the idea of adding relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, said the SP.Kasganj police is yet to arrest unidentified friend of Altaf mentioned in the FIR. Altaf, a resident of Ahroli village of Kasganj district, worked as a tile fixer and was accused on November 8 of abducting and eloping with the Hindu woman by her family. A case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj under Sections 363 and 366 against Altaf. Police said during the interrogation, he went to the washroom at the police station and he hanged himself to death from the tap. “The accused was wearing a jacket with a hood and used its string which he tied to the tap in the toilet and hanged himself,” said additional superintendent of police AK Singh. But the family pointed out that the tap was made of plastic, and fixed in the washroom just a couple of feet from the floor.His father, Chand Mian, wrote to a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday, threatening to go on a hunger strike if his demand for a CBI or judicial probe was not met with within a week. A murder case has been filed against unidentified policemen. An inquiry ordered by Kasganj district magistrate is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-woman-in-kasganj-case-not-a-minor-say-police-101637090189973.html
17-11-2021||India||NITI Aayog lists 11 measures to improve school education system||NITI Aayog, the Centre’s public policy think tank, has suggested 11 measures to improve the country’s school education system, especially learning outcomes, for effective implementation of National Education Policy, 2020. The recommendations, released as part of a report Systemic Transformation of School Education on Tuesday, are based on findings of NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital (SATH-Education) initiative, which was launched in 2017 to identify and build three ‘role model’ states -- Jharkhand, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh -- for the school education sector. Officials familiar with the matter said the interventions undertaken by these states under the initiative resulted in an average 20% improvement in the education system in the past few years. The report referred to an instance in which the learning level of 15-25% children in Madhya Pradesh was found to have increased in the two months between baseline and midline (far more than what was seen in the same duration in previous years). The experiences of these states and learnings from measures taken by four other states, namely Rajasthan, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, has helped NITI Aayog chalk out 11 implementable measures to fix problems in their education system, a senior official said, seeking anonymity. “It is imperative that we make school education, especially, at the preschool level, more inclusive. In our school-level learning process, no one should be left behind or have disadvantage,” NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said while addressing a webinar on SATH-E initiative. The report proposed interventions in five key areas, i.e, focus on academic reforms, strengthening human capacity, strengthening administrative systems, driving accountability and creating a shared vision for change.While the implementation of the Right to Education Act resulted in providing “near-universal access to education with over 96% enrolment of students in age group 6-10 years”, the report said that learning outcomes did not reflect the improved quality of education. The report suggested that states prepare a Learning Outcome Framework (LOF) to resolve this issue. For instance, Haryana has created a unified LOF called Saksham Taalika for classes I to 5 for English, Mathematics and Hindi. Similarly, In Jharkhand, the Learning Tracking Format has been developed to track student-wise learning levels on key competencies for classes 1-8, the report said. It also suggested the need to simplify the assessment process and the need for learning enhancement programmes.To bridge the learning gap, remedial measures are essential, but it is not a long-term solution, the report said. “States need to implement remediation in campaign mode for 4-5 years to bring all children to grade-level,” it added. “The problems in most states are almost similar. These implementation toolkits can be used by state governments to address specific problems. We have given in detail how these measures can be implemented. All the solutions suggested are based on the experience of these seven states (mainly three states part of SATH-E initiative),” an official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitiaayog-lists-11-measures-to-improve-school-education-system-101637090070184.html
17-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Wrong to attribute motive to SIT, says SC||Attributing motives to the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) in the Gujarat riots cases is not proper, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, while hearing a petition filed by Zakia Jafri challenging the clean chit given to 64 people in the larger conspiracy probe behind the 2002 riots.One of the those given a clean chit is Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was the chief minister of Gujarat at the time. Jafri is the wife of slain Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, who was killed during the communal riots in the state in which the toll was over 1,000, according to government data.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Zakia, accused the SIT of “collaborating” in the crime by either not acting on the evidence available before it, or refusing to probe deeper into the role of certain accused who were caught on tape confessing to their role in the brutal killings during the riots.The bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar took exception to these comments. “So far as your argument of collaboration of police and state officials is concerned, we can understand. But how can you say so about the SIT appointed by this court?” it asked.The bench, which also comprised justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, added: “How can you attribute motive to the SIT which investigated the FIRs as ordered by this court? If we start entertaining this argument, it is a reflection on the SIT appointed by us. When they investigated those nine cases, you made no grievance, instead you appreciated them. Now you are attacking the manner of their investigation.”In 2008, the SIT led by former Central Bureau of Investigation director RK Raghavan was formed by the Supreme Court to probe nine riot cases. In 2011, the top court directed the SIT to examine Jafri’s complaint made to the Gujarat police in June 2006, alleging a larger conspiracy. Finding no substance in the complaint, SIT filed a closure report before a Gujarat court in February 2012. Jafri appealed before the magistrate’s court and the Gujarat high court, and the matter finally reached the Supreme Court in 2018.Sibal read out portions from documents running into 23,000 pages to contend that the SIT “collaborated” in saving the accused, and pointed out instances that he argued, indicated a “farce trial” and a “mockery of investigation” in the riots cases. “We made our grievance even then and based on our complaint before the Gujarat High Court, a public prosecutor was removed from the handling of the riots case trial. But the SIT was happy with him,” he said.The bench responded that the term “collaboration” was pushing the issue too far. “We are attributing motive to the SIT that is appointed by this court. Instead, you can pitch your arguments by saying there was evidence which the SIT overlooked, or there was an error of judgment on its part. But don’t pitch it so high to attribute motives to it.”The bench indicated that it will seek the response of SIT on all points raised by Sibal. “You (Sibal) have made a point. If it is correct, it has to be accepted or rejected based on the explanation to be provided by SIT,” the bench said, posting the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.In an earlier hearing, SIT, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that all aspects of Jafri’s complaints were thoroughly investigated before coming to the conclusion that there was no reason to take the matter further and add to the existing number of accused facing trial in the riots cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-riots-wrong-to-attribute-motive-to-sit-says-sc-101637089829928.html
17-11-2021||India||Kerala high court: Swap transplant between non-relatives would be permissible||The Kerala High Court has ruled that swap transplant of organs will be permissible even if the donor and recipient are non-relatives, provided a special reason exists. The single-judge bench of Justice N Nagaresh, while passing the order on Monday, also recommended changes in the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994.“In a case where a citizen’s life can be protected and preserved only by transplant of human organ or tissue, the citizen has a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution to undergo organ transplantation, which right is subject only to the procedure established by law. Any law prescribing procedure for organ transplantation should therefore satisfy the test of reasonableness,” reported Bar and Bench, quoting the judgment. The court focused mainly on Section 9 of the Act. While Section 9(3) permits organ transplants between persons who are not near relatives but Section 9(3A) prohibits swap transplantation between not-near relatives. The court said this is illogical and unreasonable. “When Section 9(3) permits transplant of organs to persons not being a near relative, with the prior approval of the committee, there is no logic or rationale to say that swap transaction will not be allowed when members of each pair are not near relatives, even if the committee approves such transaction. Therefore, Section 9(3A) should be read down so as to give full effect to Section 9(3) under which non-near relative transplants are allowed with the approval of the authorisation committee,” it said. The ruling came on a petition filed by two patients and two donors filed through counsel T P Sajid. The wife of one of the patients was willing to donate her kidney to her ailing husband but the blood group was not matching. Similarly, another patient’s son was willing to donate his kidney to father but they also faced the blood group mismatch problem. They submitted an application for swap transplant before the transplant authorisation committee but after their pleas were rejected, they moved the high court.The government counsel justified the action of the committee saying transplant can be allowed among blood relatives or spouses as per the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994. But the court found rejection of their request lacked logic or reasoning.The court stated that it was clear that the act contemplates non-near relative organ transplantation and the condition is that the donor should have a special reason for giving authorisation for transplantation and prior approval should be obtained from the committee. The swap transplantation can also be permitted between non-near relatives and the court directed the authorisation committee to consider the applications of the petitioners afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-swap-transplant-between-non-relatives-would-be-permissible-101637089710076.html
17-11-2021||India||Kerala BJP calls for NIA probe into RSS worker’s death||A day after a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker was hacked to death in Palakkad, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday demanded a central agency probe in the matter. Identified as A Sanjith, the 27-year-old was repeatedly stabbed to death allegedly by workers of the Social Democratic Front of India (SDPI), the political wing of the Popular Front of India, in Elapully in Palakkad, the police said.A party delegation, led by state president K Surendran, called on Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan and sought his intervention for a free and fair probe. Talking to reporters, Surendran said the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) government was soft towards fundamentalist forces, and he did not expect a fair probe from the state police.“We want the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the cold-blooded murder. He is the second person to get killed by the SDPI in a month. Another party worker was similarly stabbed to death in Thrissur on Oct 31,” he said the SDPI was attacking leaders of the nationalist forces to create communal unrest. Surendran said that the BJP party workers will be forced to defend themselves if the police failed to take action against disruptive forces. He added that deceased Sanjith faced repeated threats from the SDPI and had approached police several times, but they failed to act. “The BJP is making wild allegations. We also lost some of our workers in SDPI/Popular Front attacks. SFI leader Abhimanyu was hacked to death in Maharaja’s College in Erankulam in 2018,” said CPI(M) youth wing DYFI leader S K Sajeesh.The incident took place on Monday morning when Sanjith was travelling with his wife on a two-wheeler. The assailants, who were in a car, first rammed the motorcycle, and when both fell on the road, they got out and repeatedly stabbed him in front of his wife. He died on the way to the hospital. His wife suffered minor injuries in the fall.The police recovered blood-stained daggers and swords from a roadside locality, at least three km away from the spot where Sanjith was hacked to death. Though police suspect that weapons were used for the murder they said a clear picture would emerge only after forensic examination. Police are yet to arrest in the case. “Our investigation is progressing. We are woking on some leads,” said Palakkad superintendent of police (SP) R Viswanadh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-calls-for-nia-probe-into-rss-worker-s-death-101637089652387.html
17-11-2021||India||Former collector among TRS candidates for MLC elections in Telangana||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on Tuesday nominated former Siddipet collector P Venkat Rami Reddy, who a day before quit service to join the party, to the state legislative council under the MLAs’ quota.Apart from Reddy, the TRS finalised the names of five other candidates for the six vacant MLC seats under the quota.While outgoing MLCs Gutha Sukhender Reddy from Nalgonda and Kadiyam Srihari from Warangal were re-nominated for a second term, Padi Kaushik Reddy from Huzurabad in Karimnagar district, Banda Prakash from Warangal and Takkallapalli Ravinder Rao from Nalgonda will be the fresh faces to the council.Soon after receiving the B-forms (party nomination papers) from the TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) at his residence, all the six candidates filed their nominations in the state assembly secretariat. Tuesday was the last date for filing nominations under the MLAs’ quota.Though elections to these six seats are scheduled for November 30, all the TRS candidates are likely to get elected unopposed since the TRS has 103 MLAs in the 119-member state assembly and the opposition parties do not have enough numbers to field their candidates. It requires at least 12 MLAs to elect an MLC under the legislature quota. The Congress has only six MLAs, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has seven and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has three MLAs.Interestingly, Padi Kaushik Reddy, who defected from the Congress to the TRS before the recent by-elections to Huzurabad, was earlier nominated under the governor’s quota. But, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan did not accept his nomination because he did not fulfil the criterion for appointment under the social service category. As a result, the TRS president withdrew Reddy’s nomination from the quota and selected him under the MLAs’ quota.Another surprising choice was of Banda Prakash Mudiraj, who is currently a Rajya Sabha member. Though he still has three more years to complete his term in Rajya Sabha, the TRS leadership chose to nominate him to the legislative council. The move will result in the by-election to the Rajya Sabha seat shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-collector-among-trs-candidates-for-mlc-elections-in-telangana-101637089598322.html
17-11-2021||India||Reports of two swine flu cases a typing error, clarifies Coimbatore corporation||The reports of two cases of swine flu in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore were a typing error, and the patients only tested positive for common flu, chief health officer of Coimbatore Corporation Dr Satish Kumar confirmed on Tuesday.“They have only tested positive for influenza A and negative for H1N1, it was a typing error,” said Kumar. Currently, only a 44-year-old man has tested positive for swine flu and is undergoing treatment at PSG Hospitals in Coimbatore. “But he is a native of Tiruppur,” an official in Coimbatore said. “All his contacts have been traced, their samples have been tested and we have given them a prophylactic Tamiflu.” The man had tested positive on November 12 and is stable. “We are keeping a strict vigil. So far there is only one confirmed case of swine flu.”As per reports earlier and local news, two patients were undergoing treatment at a private hospital for swine flu. However, after a team from the corporation visited the hospital, and checked all the records in the microbiology lab, they found that an error has been made and the lab reports showed negative for H1N1. The administration offered clarification and released a statement. A copy of the lab reports has been seen by HT. The report was passed on to another department, which made the typing error, officials said. The district administration has issued an advisory to the people to keep their premises and surroundings clean and to keep off infections due to the monsoon season in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-of-two-swine-flu-cases-a-typing-error-clarifies-coimbatore-corporation-101637089596985.html
17-11-2021||India||BJP staking claim to Purvanchal Expressway project started by SP, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will ride the entire length of the Purvanchal Expressway in a “rath” on Wednesday to symbolically reiterate his claim that the ₹22,500 crore project was started when he was chief minister in 2016.On Tuesday, SP workers showered flowers on the expressway in various districts and rode cycles on the six-lane road, hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 341-km highway connecting Lucknow to Ghazipur.“The ribbon came from Lucknow and the scissors came from New Delhi. There is a tussle to take credit for the work of SP,” tweeted Yadav in Hindi.Also read | Purvanchal E-way will be lifeline of eastern UP’s growth: UP CMSince the morning, SP workers in red caps rode bicycles and did “floral inauguration” of the six-lane highway.They climbed onto the expressway from the fields on either side with cycles on their shoulders, and then showered flowers on the road.SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said Yadav will begin the fourth leg of the Vijay Yatra on Wednesday morning from Ghazipur and end it in Lucknow the same evening.Yadav said the ‘Samajwadi’ Expressway’s name was changed as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s habit of renaming SP’s projects and re-inaugurating them.Yadav on Tuesday tweeted pictures and claimed that he laid the foundation of the project in December 2016. “How will BJP be able to wipe out from the pages of history that the foundation for the expressway was laid on December 16”, he said later in a statement.Yadav also said that fighter jets had landed on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway when the SP ruled the state from 2012 to 2017 and thatthe BJP government had copied the feat for the Purvanchal Expressway inauguration.After PM Modi’s address and the inauguration event in Sultanpur, Yadav released a statement. “Even as the (UP) assembly elections are getting closer, the BJP is frightened over rising public anger against it. That’s why the chief minister who sat idle for 4.5 years is on foundation-laying and inauguration spree and spinning false stories of development.”Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister Sidharth Nath Singh told ANI: “I suggest that instead of crying like a child now, he should have had focused on the development of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purvanchal-expressway-bjp-staking-claim-to-project-started-by-sp-says-akhilesh-yadav-101637089593614.html
17-11-2021||India||IMD sounds heavy rain alert for Chennai, adjoining districts today||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued an alert in Chennai and its adjoining districts and predicted very heavy rainfall on November 18 as the region is still picking up pieces to return to normalcy from two heavy spells of rains a week ago. The city has had a respite from the rains since Friday. However, rain has continuously poured in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, such as Kanyakumari and Thoothukudi, since then. Low pressure from Monday over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining North Andaman Sea now lay over the southeast Bay of Bengal. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 5.8 km above mean sea level, according to a bulletin from the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). “It is likely to move westwards and reach west-central and adjoining south-west Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh­ and north Tamil Nadu coasts on November 18,” the bulletin read. For the next 24-hours, the RMC has predicted very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Chennai, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts and extremely heavy rainfall in these regions in the next 48-hours. State chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday announced ₹300 crore funds to repair damages caused to infrastructure by the downpour and subsequent flooding. Cooperative minister I Periyasamy also submitted a report to the chief minister on the damage to crops in the delta districts, following which Stalin announced a compensation of ₹20,000 per hectare to damaged crops. Life was thrown out of gear in Chennai and districts, which have been inundated for more than five days due to the downpour. The northeast monsoon season from October to December is when Tamil Nadu receives maximum rainfall. This year Chennai and the state have received excess rainfall. Overnight between November 6 and 7, Chennai recorded 210 mm of rain, and on November 12, the average rainfall was 60.6 mm. Kanyakumari district has reported 83.96 cm rainfall from October 1 to November 15, while 38.99 cm is the average it receives. Municipal administration minister K N Nehru blamed the previous AIADMK regime for not doing enough to mitigate flooding. “There is opposition against removing encroachments, and the previous government hasn’t done even basic work,” Nehru told reporters in Trichy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdsounds-heavy-rain-alert-for-chennai-adjoining-distts-today-101637089592504.html
17-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin launches new cement brand||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday officially launched a new brand of cement named Valimai (strength) to be manufactured by the Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation (TANCEM) at a subsidised rate.Industries minister Thangam Thennarasu, while presenting the demand for grants of his department during the budget session earlier in August this year, had announced the launching of Valimai cement expected to compete with other popular brands in the market.Thennarasu told reporters that Valimai cement would be available in the market in two varieties – Portland Pozzolana and Ordinary Portland – at ₹350 and ₹365 respectively for each bag of 50 kg. “The cement is of high quality and comes with greater compression strength, and quick setting, and is heat resistant. The cement will be available in the open market and will also be used for government projects,” the minister said.“Cement produced by TANCEM has been used for construction work such as in the departments of public works, rural development and highways. This brand of cement was launched to make available quality cement at an affordable cost to all sections of society.”To begin with, the TANCEM will manufacture and sell about 30,000 tonnes of cement a month. Stalin launched the first sale in the presence of Thennarasu and additional chief secretary for industries, S Krishnan in the state secretariat.Valimai is the second brand from TANCEM, which has been selling cement under the name Arasu. The previous AIADMK regime launched Amma cement named after late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, addressed by her cadre as Amma. “Arasu cement was named as Amma cement, and it will be there,” Thennarasu clarified. TANCEM has three plants in Ariyalur and Alangulam in Tenkasi district with a combined capacity to produce 17 lakh metric tonnes of cement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-launches-new-cement-brand-101637089533408.html
17-11-2021||India||KCR plans statewide stir over Centre’s farm laws||Launching a broadside attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) on Tuesday extended solidarity with the farmers agitating on the Delhi borders against the controversial agriculture laws passed by Parliament last year and said his party would launch an agitation against the Centre on November 18 in Hyderabad.“We shall adopt a resolution in the state assembly in its next session demanding that the Centre withdraw the back legislations on agriculture,” KCR told reporters after a combined meeting of TRS legislature party and parliamentary party at Telangana Bhavan in the evening.He alleged that the Centre had been adopting anti-farmer policies all over the country. “When the farmers were protesting against the draconian farm laws at Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh, they were crushed to death under the car wheels of the BJP leaders. When the Telangana farmers were agitating for purchase of paddy by the Centre, the BJP leaders attacked them in Nalgonda,” he pointed out.He quizzed the Centre, which was purchasing the entire paddy produced in Punjab, on why it was not doing the same in Telangana. He demanded that the Centre disclose its stand on paddy purchases in various states. He also said he would write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi questioning the double standards of the Centre on paddy procurement.The chief minister announced that he, along with all the TRS functionaries, including MLAs, MPs, MLCs and other public representatives, would stage a dharna at Indira Park in Hyderabad on November 18 in protest against the Centre’s indifferent attitude towards paddy procurement.“We shall wait for two days after the dharna and then step up the agitation against the Centre in various forms. Simultaneously, we shall educate the farmers on taking up alternative cropping this Rabi season,” he said.It is for the first time in the last two and a half years that the TRS chief is putting up an aggressive front against the BJP and the Centre. After making a futile attempt to float the anti-BJP and anti-Congress federal front before the 2019 general elections, KCR had been maintaining cordial relations with the Centre after Modi returned to power for a second time.In Telangana, the saffron party, which had won just one seat in the 119-member state assembly, lost deposits in as many as 107 assembly seats in the 2018 December elections. It bounced back by winning four of 17 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections.Subsequently, it won the by-elections in Dubbak and Huzurabad assembly constituencies, and put up an impressive show in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation last year, thereby emerging as a strong political alternative to the TRS in the state.“As long as the BJP was an insignificant force, KCR ignored it. But now, with the BJP gradually gaining strength in the state, the TRS president started attacking the saffron party,” political analyst Prof K Nageshwar said. “It is a typical strategy adopted by any regional party leader. As long as he has no threat from a national party, he maintains a friendly relationship with it. But once it turns into a potential force, he starts attacking it,” he explained.KCR never adopted any confrontationist stand against the Centre in the last seven years. On the other hand, he extended full support to the Modi government on various issues, including GST, demonetisation, president and vice-president elections and policies related to Covid-19.Even regarding the controversial agriculture laws, the TRS maintained a neutral stand and did not join the other opposition parties in their agitations, including the national shutdown. KCR also agreed to implement central schemes like Ayushman Bharath, which he was reluctant to do initially.“But now with the BJP posing a big threat to his party, KCR started an attack on the BJP and the Centre,” Nageshwar added.Telangana BJP official spokesman K Krishnasagar Rao said the outburst of the chief minister against the BJP and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre was purely a political gimmick to hoodwink the people.“It appears he is preparing the ground for early elections to the state assembly sooner or later, to arrest the growing anti-incumbency among the people,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcrplans-statewide-stir-over-centre-s-farm-laws-101637089531293.html
17-11-2021||India||Caste based organizations drum up support for reservation-related demands||Influential members of the Vokkaliga community are assuring to fulfil reservation-related demands and to out pressure on the state government for releasing the findings of the caste census as part of their manifestos for the upcoming elections to the Rajya Vokkaligara Sangha.The polls to the association, founded in 1906, will be held on December 12 and has seen several leaders make reservations as its main poll plank to secure power in one of the more influential caste-based organisations in the state.Appaji Gowda, a former president of the association and contender for the top job this year, said that it was imperative to get these demands fulfilled.“I had proposed this (reservation change) thrice when I was president in the executive committee meetings,” Gowda told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The association has 650,000 primary members in 11 districts of the state and 192,000 members in Bengaluru alone, Gowda added.“The caste census was not done properly. Our demand is that the caste census itself is wrong as it would divide the people. Instead a survey should be done to identify the poor in every community and give them help,” he said.Several prominent members of the Vokkaligas and Lingayats, believed to be the two largest caste groups in Karnataka, have opposed any move to release the findings of the socio-economic and educational survey, carried out by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015.Both Vokkaligas and Lingayats are wary of any change to their dominant position in the state if the findings of the caste census do bring their exact population numbers down.Leaked findings of the caste census bring down the percentage of Vokkaligas from earlier believed 14-15% to around 8-9% and the Lingayats from around 16-17% to around 10%. Successive governments have refused to authenticate the numbers of the leaked findings.Members of the marginalized groups and extremely backward caste groups have approached the courts to release the findings of a survey for which the government spent ₹160 crore.The Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, have intensified their demands to be included in the 2A category of the state reservation list and have given the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government till the end of January to accede.Already nursing a feeling of betrayal after being overlooked for the post of chief minister to replace BS Yediyurappa, the sub-sect and its influential seers are reported to have some part to play in the BJP loss at Hanagal bypolls on October 30.Caste plays a huge role in Karnataka’s volatile political and social landscape.The BJP is believed to have the backing of the Lingayats which has forced them to replace Yediyurappa with Bommai who are both from the same community but different sub-sects, analysts said.“Any community will back those who are more likely to come to power,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting not to be named.The Janata Dal (Secular) is backed by the Vokkaligas, found in large numbers in southern Karnataka in state elections, but they support the BJP at the Centre.The Congress has depended on votes of the minorities, backward classes and Dalits among others.The Bommai government has asked for a report from the Backward Classes Commission before taking a decision on the reservation.Vokkaligas, Valmikis, Kurubas and several other dominant communities have piled pressure on the government for better reservation opportunities.The government is wary of the impact it may have on the upcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections as well as the 2023 assembly elections.The Vokkaligara Sangha elections and their demands are also expected to have significant influence on the yet-to-be announced elections to the Bengaluru city corporation.Gowda said that the community accounts for around 4 million of the over 10.2 million population of India’s IT capital that would get some attention of the ruling and opposition parties in the state looking to gain control of one of India’s richest and biggest city corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caste-based-organizations-drum-up-support-for-reservation-related-demands-101637089473015.html
17-11-2021||India||New I-T rules focus on women, children safety: Centre to Delhi high court||The Union government has told the Delhi high court that the Information Technology (IT) Rules 2021 have a clear focus on enhancing the safety of women and children.In an affidavit filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, the Centre said that the new rules aim to remove content such as “revenge porn” and other posts that breach physical privacy. The operation of these rules have in part been stayed by different high courts after they were challenged on the grounds of overreach and for being a threat to fundamental rights.“That the rule protects the dignity of the person whose pictures on the computer resource negatively impact his/her dignity. The content removal within a 24 hours timeline does not result in over censorship and it has to be seen in light of the sensitivity, which is of utmost priority. Rule 3(2)(b) has been issued for the benefit and protection of victims whose sensitive pictures have been leaked online. It is a beneficial rule. Removal of a partially nude picture from its computer resource, on the basis of a complaint received from the victim of such picture, can in no way be said to affect the right of freedom of speech and expression of a user,” the Centre said in the document.The Union government also said that the IT Rules have provisions that intermediaries providing services in the nature of messaging shall cooperate with law enforcement agencies (LEA) to identify the first originator of information related to rape and child sexual abuse material (CSAM).“The significant social media intermediaries shall endeavour to deploy technology-based measures to identify any act or simulation of rape and children engaged in any sexually explicit act, in accordance with the safeguards in the Rules,” the government said.The fresh affidavit has been filed in response to a petition filed by petitioner Uday Bedi, a practising lawyer, who challenged the impugning Rules 3 and 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 which were brought into force from February 25, 2021, as a user of social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter, Telegram etc.In response to the plea, the Centre said that the government is committed to freedom of speech and expression and privacy of its citizens as enshrined in the Constitution of India. It stated that the rules are meant to benefit a common user using any intermediary platforms, and provide a set of checks and balances for removal of unlawful content or information from social media platforms.According to the affidavit, other significant reasons for enacting the IT Rules 2021 include significant expansion of the online intermediary ecosystem in the last 10 years, exponential growth of social media users, availability of unregulated content on communication devices, growth of online social media platforms, and their influencing capabilities.Last month, the Centre defended the IT Rules saying that it was the legal obligation of social media intermediaries Facebook and WhatsApp to evolve a mechanism to identify the first originator of information without comprising end-to-end encryption or breaching the privacy of a user.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-i-t-rules-focus-on-women-children-safety-centre-to-delhi-high-court-101637089470572.html
17-11-2021||India||Karnataka promulgate ordinance to avoid refunding ₹2000 crore||The Karnataka government on Tuesday promulgated an ordinance to amend the state municipal corporations act to circumvent refunding of around ₹2000 crore collected from land owners, real estate developers and others in building and licence fee, security deposit and ground rent under the Bengaluru city corporations building bylaws.The state government notified the Karnataka Municipal corporations and Certain Other law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 on Tuesday.“The State Government may, if in its opinion it is necessary in the public interest so to do, by notification and subject to such restrictions and conditions and for such period, as may be specified in the notification, exempt or reduce the fee payable under this Ordinance, for any Board or Corporation or Organization owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government,” one of the amendments in the ordinance reads.The ordinance comes days after the Karnataka High Court asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) to refund money collected under this premise as it is against the KMC Act of 1976.The court had said that the city corporation had no authority to impose any fees deposited or paid by several petitioners, land owners, real estate developers and others.The BBMP is one of the richest and biggest city corporations in India and has several streams of revenue to funds its yearly budgets of around ₹10,000 crores each year.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law and parliamentary affairs, had earlier said that the government would come out with an ordinance to save the city corporation from refusing the money and avoid any serious financial impact on the BBMP and its budgets.“Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority to the contrary levy, assessment or collection of any amount as fee or penalty for sanctioning plan or commencement certificate or occupancy certificate made or purporting to have been made under section 299A and any action or thing taken or done, (including any notices or orders issued or assessment made) and all proceedings held and any levy and collection of fee or amount purported to have been collected by way of fee or penalty in relation to such levy, assessment or collection under the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act 14 of 1977) or any rules, notifications, order, guidelines or letters before the commencement of this Ordinance shall be and shall be deemed to be valid and effective for all purposes as if such levy, assessment or collection or action or thing had been made, taken or done under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act 14 of 1977) as amended by the Karnataka Municipal Corporations and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021,” according to the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-promulgate-ordinance-to-avoid-refunding-rs-2000-crore-101637089469303.html
17-11-2021||India||Rajasthan government slashes VAT on petrol, diesel||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday decided to slash VAT on fuels, making petrol cheaper by ₹4 per litre and diesel by ₹5 per litre.The new prices came in effect from Tuesday midnight.“In the cabinet meeting today, it was unanimously decided to reduce the rate of VAT on petrol/diesel. After this, the rates will be reduced by ₹4 per litre in petrol and ₹5 per litre in diesel from 12 o’clock tonight,” state chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted.Currently, the price of petrol in Rajasthan is ₹111.10 and diesel ₹95.71 per litre.Despite an estimated loss of ₹1,800 crore in the state’s revenue due to the reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel by the GoI, the cabinet has taken this decision keeping public interest paramount, the chief minister’s office said in a release.On November 3, the central government slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre, respectively. Following this, BJP-ruled states, Punjab and Odisha reduced VAT on fuel to further reduce the prices. Some Congress-ruled states, including Rajasthan, however, had not cut VAT and had demanded further reduction in central excise duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-government-slashes-vat-on-petrol-diesel-101637089171934.html
17-11-2021||India||Bengal moves resolution against Centre’s order on BSF jurisdiction extension||The West Bengal assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km of the international borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, becoming the second state to oppose the move through its state legislature.On November 12, the Punjab assembly passed a resolution asking the Centre to withdraw its October 11 order. The third state affected by the change in law is Assam, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power.The resolution was placed before the West Bengal House by parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee under Rule 169 of the conduct of business, and passed amid pandemonium in the House, with 112 Trinamool Congress (TMC) members voting in support and 63 BJP members opposing it.“We see the law as an effort to establish central rule in Bengal through the back door. This goes against the federal structure of the nation. Law and order is a state subject. The Supreme Court had earlier said in one of its verdicts that a state’s consent is necessary for extending the BSF’s jurisdictional area but no such consent was sought from Bengal,” Chatterjee later said.The West Bengal assembly witnessed noisy scenes as the BJP participated in a heated discussion on the issue, opposing the resolution of the grounds that the Centre’s decision was meant to tighten security in areas close to the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders.Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the assembly, alleged that during the debate some TMC legislators made statements that showed their support for illegal infiltrators from Bangladesh and their “anti-India” activities.“A resolution passed under Rule 169 of the assembly has no locus standi,” said Adhikari who demanded during the debate that the BSF’s jurisdiction should be increased to at least 80km in Bengal. He argued that Bengal has turned into a hub for terror groups such as the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), and referred to the recent arrests of suspected JMB members in Murshidabad and South 24 Parganas districts.Among Indian states that share borders with neighbouring nations, Bengal’s 2,216.7km border with Bangladesh is the longest, and covers 10 of the state’s 23 districts -- Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Malda in north Bengal and Nadia, Murshidabad, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal.If the BSF’s jurisdiction is geographically extended, then it will cover more than 30 % of Bengal’s territory and include several important cities.TMC leaders said a copy of the resolution will be sent to the Centre.Though they have no legislator in the assembly for the first time since Independence, the Congress and Left parties have stood beside Mamata Banerjee on this issue.Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also opposed the Centre’s move last week, saying it was interfering with powers of the state. On Monday, Left Front chairman and veteran CPI(M) leader Biman Bose wrote to the chief minister.“The Left Front partners will organise protests against the Centre’s decision. We request the Bengal government to immediately register its opposition to the move as it goes against the spirt of federalism enshrined by the Constitution of India,” Bose wrote in his letter.The Mamata Banerjee government decided to introduce a resolution in the legislative assembly on November 12, a day when Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla came to Kolkata for a meeting on border issues with state bureaucrats.On October 26, the chief minister set the tone for the action by declaring that she will not accept the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction.“This is direct interference with our state’s sovereignty and India’s federal structure. Law and order is a state subject. We have high respect for the BSF but they cannot operate inside our districts. We will oppose this,” Banerjee said in the state secretariat at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-moves-resolution-against-centre-s-order-on-bsf-jurisdiction-extension-101637089110235.html
17-11-2021||India||6 booked for assaulting Muslim man travelling with Hindu woman||At least six people have been booked in Karnataka’s Mangaluru for threatening and assaulting two people from different faiths for being seen together amid a series of moral policing cases in the state.According to their complaint in the case, the two college students, who are around 20, were returning home when they were waylaid by around half-a-dozen people on two-wheelers. The mob then asked for their names and started to verbally abuse them for moving together despite being from different faiths. The complaint said the mob asked the woman among the two why was she with a Muslim and if she could not find any Hindu. The two were later assaulted and warned of consequences if they were seen together again.Police said further investigation was underway.There has been a spate of moral policing cases and hate crimes in the state. The Opposition has blamed Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statements for emboldening such crimes.“There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai said in Mangaluru on October 13. “Even youngsters should watch their actions to ensure it does not hurt sentiments of the society. Bommai said there should be morality in society. “We cannot live without it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-booked-for-assaulting-muslim-man-travelling-with-hindu-woman-101637088871084.html
17-11-2021||India||Welfare state must ensure nobody dies of hunger, says Supreme Court||A welfare state must ensure that nobody dies of hunger, the Supreme Court observed on Tuesday as it pressed for the framing of a pan-India scheme to run community kitchens across the states. Directing the Union government to formulate a scheme in consultation with the states, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana also pulled up the Centre for filing its affidavit in the court through a low-ranking officer. “You have to respect the institutions. You are undermining the Supreme Court. We will throw this affidavit. We won’t accept this affidavit,” said the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli.The court was hearing a petition filed by a bunch of social activists led by Anun Dhawan, seeking directives to the Centre and all states for starting subsidised canteens and community kitchens in all states to ensure food security in the wake of the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.On October 27, the court had asked the Centre to come out with a policy decision about the implementation of a community kitchen scheme after taking into consideration similar programmes already in operation in different states.However, when the proceedings started on Tuesday, the bench noted that not much progress has been made since the last order of the court and that the Union government is still in the process of collecting information from the states. It was also noticed that no categorical statement had been made about a model scheme that could be implemented across the country. Apart from the slow progress, what irked the court was the fact that the Union government’s affidavit was filed by an under-secretary despite the court’s directive that only officers at the secretary level and above are competent to file affidavits in the Supreme Court.“How can an under-secretary file an affidavit? Despite the judgment of this court, you let an under-secretary file this. Tomorrow, some desk officer will file it. Is this how you want to treat the Supreme Court?” the bench asked additional solicitor general Madhvi Divan.“We are saying it for the last time. We will not let this continue,” added the bench, prompting Divan to tender an apology. She also informed the bench that the central government is in the process of framing a scheme.The bench responded: “There has to be some focus areas. Focus has to be on some areas in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand where hunger is more.”At this point, attorney general KK Venugopal also appeared in the case on behalf of the central government, saying a meeting was held on September 9 but it did not lead to anything concrete. He further submitted that a scheme can be made in four weeks. To this, the bench replied: “If you want to take care of hunger and save people from dying, no state will say no. Responsibility of every welfare state is to look into this. It is the first and foremost duty of every welfare state to provide food to the hungry people.”It further remarked: “We are concerned about hunger. We are not on malnutrition right now. Food supplements, etc., can be taken up separately. We want all to take care of hunger first...the purpose of this matter is to ensure food to hungry people...for people who are dying of hunger.”In its order, the court recorded: “Finally, three weeks’ time from today is granted to the Union of India to come up with a model community kitchen scheme agreeable to the states/UTs...We direct all the state governments/UTs to attend the meeting to be organized by the Union of India and cooperate with them in coming up with the said scheme, which can be made uniformly applicable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-state-must-ensure-nobody-dies-of-hunger-says-supreme-court-101637088869854.html
17-11-2021||India||Tripura cops start questioning 2 women journalists after court gives them bail||A day after a Tripura court granted bail to two women journalists arrested on charges of spreading communal hatred, the police questioned the two journalists, Samriddhi K Sakuna and Swarna Jha, till late on Tuesday evening.“Their questioning is still going on, “ a police officer at Kakraban police station said at 8.30pm on Tuesday. The two walked into the police station to appear for questioning at about 2.30pm. “They have cooperated with us,” the officer said.Journalists Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha, employed with Delhi-based news channel HW News Network, were arrested by Tripura police in the early hours of Monday for alleged criminal conspiracy and spread of communal hatred while reporting on the October 26 violence.The two journalists came to Tripura on November 11 for a ground report on the alleged vandalism of religious structures. Later on November 14, two cases were lodged against them at Kakraban police station in Gomati district and Fatikroy police station in Unakoti District.Soon after the two journalists were released on bail, Tripura information and cultural affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury claimed the two journalists were “agents” of a political party who came to create a communal riot-like situation by instigating people through fake footage and to malign the state.“These two people, who identified themselves as journalists, actually came here as agents of a political party and tried to create communal riot-like situation in the state. They even tried to incite a section of people against our government. I doubt they are journalists,” he told reporters.Reacting to the statement, Trinamool Congress leader Sushmita Dev said, “ I don’t know who they ( BJP) indicated. The religious violence started here with the BJP coming to power. If they claim that there is no such incident, then they should invite some journalists here to see for themselves. And moreover, they adopted the Gujarat model in Tripura and not Bengal. It’s because the Bengal model means development".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cops-start-questioning-2-women-journalists-after-court-gives-them-bail-101637088811467.html
17-11-2021||India||Centre says new IT rules enhance safety of women, children||The Centre has told the Delhi high court that the Information Technology (IT) Rules 2021 have a clear focus on enhancing the safety of women and children.In an affidavit filed before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, the Centre has said that the new rules aim at the removal of content such as revenge porn and similar content breaching physical privacy.“The rule protects the dignity of the person whose pictures on the computer resource negatively impact his/her dignity. The content removal within a 24 hours timeline does not result in over censorship and it has to be seen in light of the sensitivity, which is of utmost priority,” the Centre said in the document.“Rule 3(2)(b) has been issued for the benefit & protection of victims whose sensitive pictures have been leaked online. It is a beneficial rule. Removal of a partially nude picture from its computer resource, on the basis of a complaint received from the victim of such picture, can in no way be said to affect the right of freedom of speech and expression of a user,” it added.The Union government has said that the IT Rules 2021 also have provisions that intermediary providing services in the nature of messaging, shall cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA) to identify the first originator of information related to rape and child sexual abuse material (CSAM) imagery for prosecution.“The significant social media intermediaries shall endeavour to deploy technology-based measures to identify any act or simulation of rape and children engaged in any sexually explicit act, in accordance with the safeguards in the Rules,” the Union government said.The fresh affidavit has been filed in response to a petition filed by petitioner Uday Bedi, a practising lawyer, who has challenged the impugning Rules 3 and 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 which have been brought into force from February 25, 2021, as a user of social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter, Telegram etc.In response to the plea, the centre has said that the government is committed to the freedom of speech and expression and privacy of its citizens as enshrined in the Constitution of India.It stated that the IT Rules, 2021 are meant to benefit a common user who is using any intermediary platforms and provide a set of checks and balances for the removal of unlawful content/information available on the social media platform.“Online platforms are dynamic in nature. Unlawful content spreads faster from one platform to another. Hence the intermediaries are required to swiftly ensure compliance action (removal of content) to prevent further loss of damage to individuals or the state,” the Centre said.The government also submitted the legislative intent behind the IT Rules that the internet should be open, safe and trusted and social media platforms to be accountable to the users.According to the affidavit, other significant reasons for enacting the IT Rules 2021 include significant expansion of the online intermediary ecosystem in the last ten years, the exponential growth of social media users and availability of unregulated content on all sorts of communication devices, growth of online social media platforms and their influencing capabilities.Last month, the Centre defended the IT Rules saying that it is the legal obligation of social media intermediaries Facebook and WhatsApp to evolve a mechanism for identifying the first originator of information without compromising end-to-end encryption or breaching the privacy of a user.Opposing the pleas by the social media intermediaries— (Facebook and WhatsApp) challenging the new Information Technology Rules, 2021 specifically the “traceability” provision, which allows the messaging app to “trace” chats and identify the first originator of the information, the Centre has said that these companies cannot assert the violation of their rights to privacy when WhatsApp shares information with Facebook or third party for commercial interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-new-it-rules-enhance-safety-of-women-children-101637088092059.html
17-11-2021||India||Curbs widen across NCR in scramble to fix bad air||The ban on construction work and offline classes in Delhi was extended to all cities falling in the National Capital Region (NCR) and trucks carrying non-essential supplies will not be allowed to enter the national capital, the Commission on Air Quality Management announced late on Tuesday, after officials scrambled for ways to battle the air pollution crisis nearly two weeks after hazardous conditions first set in over the region.The CAQM, states government officials and agencies held a meeting earlier in response to a 24-hour deadline set by the Supreme Court on Monday to meet and prepare a list of urgent action that can be taken, and came as weather forecasters predicted meteorological parameters to remain such that pollution may not naturally be blown away for at least 10 more days.Also read | Delhi asks Centre to clarify data in SC affidavit on stubble firesIn an order issued late in the night, CAQM cited predictions by the India Meteorological Department that show the air quality was likely to remain in very poor category till at least November 21 to issue a slew of new directions.The orders, in addition to the ones above, mention a strict enforcement of the ban on diesel-generator sets and the closing of schools and colleges for in-person classes indefinitely. Industries using fuel are only allowed to run if they use gas, or will need to close, and six of 11 thermal plants in 300km of radius of Delhi will have to stop functioning till November 30.Authorities in NCR “shall ensure that no vehicle of more than 10 years (diesel) and 15 years (petrol) are found plying on the road”, it added.Also read | ‘Pollution-related’: Pvt hospital in Delhi’s diagnosis for respiratory problemsChief secretaries of each NCR state have been asked to submit a compliance report of all these activities on November 22, the order reads.Air pollution in Delhi, meanwhile, rose back into the severe category with the AQI reaching 403 at 4pm on Tuesday. Since November 5, the day after Diwali, the air quality in the capital has been in the severe category for seven days, and very poor for the remaining four. This period has seen hospitals record a spurt in people coming in with respiratory diseases, with some now officially diagnosing it as pollution-related ailments in order to draw attention.The central ministry and the states of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as well as their pollution control boards, attended the meeting.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai later said that the state government suggested the curbs implemented in Delhi be extended to other NCR states.“In the meeting, on behalf of the people of Delhi, we proposed that work-from-home be implemented, all construction work and industries in the Delhi-NCR region be shut for the meantime. The other states presented their proposals too and the final decision and minutes of the meeting are still awaited,” said Rai.According to a person who asked not be named, the Delhi government also suggested a temporary ban on heavy vehicles not carrying essential supplies.A senior Haryana Pollution Control Board official that they have volunteered to temporarily shut down all industries that are not operating on Piped Natural Gas (PNG) and also suggested that in order to bring down pollution levels, two of the biggest thermal power plants of the state, located in Panipat, can also be temporarily shut down.“In the coming days we will also start a major crackdown against all aged diesel (over 10 years) and petrol (over 15 years) vehicles. We are also requesting corporate houses to encourage work from home, so that vehicular emissions can be controlled,” the Haryana official said, asking not to be named.According to the first official, the CAQM was also briefed by the India Meteorological Department, which said weather conditions are likely to remain unfavourable at least for the next 10 days, which meant stringent pollution control measures will have to be taken by all NCR states.The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Union and several state governments – Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh included – for the continuing crisis in NCR. The judges gave 24 hours for them to hold an emergency meeting and prepare a list of urgent steps that can be put in place immediately to bring down the levels of pollution in the “forseeable future”.But multiple experts believe steps such as lockdowns and post-facto measures in response to the crisis, will achieve little, causing major economic disruption, and triggering an emissions rebound once they are rolled back.“First and foremost there is no difference in air pollution levels even after the air quality commission is established. With so much fanfare, the Centre established an air quality commission (CAQM) but we don’t know what directions they have issued. They are not under the air or water act but the Commission is a law passed by parliament which has independent power to issue directions and take action against air pollution,” said Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer.“The commission has said no construction but we don’t know if even a single action has been taken. There is no will to police. They are not like the Pay Commission. They are a statutory body with power to police. The Grap (graded response action plan) is very clear on what interventions should be made when air pollution has crossed a particular threshold but now they are not even debating the odd-even scheme. Same drama continues every year,” Dutta added.On Monday, experts warned against steps like lockdowns, one of the steps suggested by the court. “It will set a terrible precedent, and show that we are not able to handle the spikes in pollution at this time of the year. We also cannot judge the meteorological factors that will be at play, even if a lockdown is imposed,” said Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), told HT on Monday.The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-widen-across-ncr-in-scramble-to-fix-bad-air-101637088089311.html
17-11-2021||India||Where law stands on eating, selling, displaying meat||The Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled civic bodies in Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Junagadh in Gujarat have last week ordered roadside food vendors and hawkers to cover non-vegetarian food, including eggs, saying an open display of the food could “hurt religious sentiments”. The roadside vendors have been asked to either stop selling non-vegetarian food items or keep them covered so that people cannot see them while passing on the roads or walking on footpaths.
17-11-2021||India||104-year-old scores 89/100 in Kerala literacy examination||Scaling new heights, a 104-year-old woman from Kottayam scored 89 out of 100 marks in a literacy examination conducted in Kerala last week and has now qualified for the Class 4 equivalent test of the state’s Saksharata (literacy) mission.Kerala education minister V Sivankutty was one of the first to highlight the feat when he posted a photo of Kuttiyamma and congratulated her for bringing laurels to the state. “104-year-old Kuttiyamma from Kottayam has scored 89/100 in the Kerala State Literacy Mission’s test. Age is no barrier to enter the world of knowledge. With utmost respect and love, I wish Kuttiyamma and all other new learners the best. #Literacy” tweeted Sivankutty. He said Kuttiyamma’s feat would inspire many to enter the beautiful world of education. As praises are pouring in from different quarters, Kuttiyamma’s family said she has already started preparing for the class 4 equivalent exam. Last week’s examination was a basic proficiency test in Malayalam for aged people. which is equivalent to primary education and includes basic mathematics. State organised volunteers approach people and conduct their teaching at home.Born in a poor family in Ayarkunnam village, Kuttiyamma never had an opportunity to go to school and married at the age of 15. Though she can read well, writing was quite alien to her all these years. When literacy mission volunteer M Rehna approached her two months, she grabbed the opportunity. “Her only condition was that the teacher should speak louder because she has a hearing issue. She attended classes at home in the morning and evening religiously,” said Rehna, adding that she was moved by the centenarian’s desire to learn more. “She keeps nagging me with her doubts,” said her great-granddaughter M Sheeja, a high school student in Kottayam. When invigilators came for the examination she flashed a toothless smile and repeated her plea to speak louder. Her family members said she was not tense on the examination day and kept the enthusiasm of a school toddler, and was studious enough about her books and pencil. “She made our panchayat famous. She is a role model for many. We salute her enthusiasm and spirit,” said Jiji Nagamattom, panchayat member and education standing committee chief. Interestingly Kottayam is known as a city of letters. It was declared the first 100 per cent literate city in the country in 1989. The Kerala State literacy mission has been conducting classes and equivalent examinations for those who missed their opportunities to learn for many years. Its education centres under the local self-government institutions have empowered many like Kuttiyamma. In 2018, a then 96-year-old woman, Karthiyayani Amma from Alappuzha district cleared the first formal examination under state’s literacy mission ‘Aksharalaksham’ with 98 out of 100 marks. She also got a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Maan ki Baat’ programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/104yearold-kerala-woman-scores-89-in-basic-literacy-exam-101637064148073.html
17-11-2021||India||Kartarpur corridor reopens for pilgrims||The Centre has decided to reopen from Wednesday, Kartarpur Corridor, which connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib Gurudwara on the Indian side of the border with Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, Union home minister Amit Shah announced on Tuesday.The visa-free 4.7km corridor was shut last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In a series of tweets, Amit Shah said reopening the Kartarpur Corridor will benefit a large numbers of Sikh pilgrims.“This decision reflects the immense reverence of the Modi government towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji and our Sikh community. The nation is all set to celebrate the Prakash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji on November 19, and I am sure PM Narendra Modi government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country,” the home minister tweeted on Tuesday.Also read | Dera Baba Nanak erupts in joy over reopening of Kartarpur corridorPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi welcomed the Centre’s decision of reopening the Kartarpur corridor and said the state cabinet will be part of the “Jatha”, which will visit the historic shrine in Pakistan on November 18.“The entire cabinet will be part of the first ‘Jatha’ (group) which will visit and pay obeisance on November 18,” Channi told reporters.”I warmly welcome the decision to reopen the Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor on the auspicious occasion of 552nd Parkash Purb of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. This laudatory step has fulfilled aspirations of millions of devotees who’ve been deprived of ‘darshan didare’ due to the Covid pandemic,” Channi said later in a tweet.Also read | SGPC jatha to visit Kartarpur to celebrate parkash purbBesides Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former CM Amarinder Singh, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also hailed the Centre’s move.Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh thanked Modi and Shah for their decision to reopen the corridor. “It will provide a chance to thousands of devotees to pay obeisance at the holy shrine on the occasion of Guru Purab of Guru Nanak Dev ji,” Singh tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leaders in Punjab met President Ram Nath Kovind and Amit Shah on Monday, requesting that the corridor be reopened.A delegation from the BJP’s Punjab unit also met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, seeking his intervention over the reopening of the corridor, which has been closed since March 16, 2020 when the Indian government suspended all travel to and from Pakistan due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Channi, too, had written to Modi and Shah, requesting that the Kartarpur Corridor be reopened.The proposal for the special corridor was first pitched back in 1999 by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and his then Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif.Sikh pilgrims from India earlier used to take a bus to Lahore to eventually get to Kartarpur, which made the journey almost 125km long.The Kartarpur Corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019 to mark the 550th “Parkash Guruparab (birth anniversary)” of Guru Nanak.The corridor has been touted by the BJP as one of the many accomplishments of the Modi government, and recently featured in the party’s national executive committee meeting held earlier this month.As reported by HT in March 2020, over 59,000 pilgrims visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan, since the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor in November 2019 until March 8 last year, according to data compiled at the integrated check post set up at Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur.The government said last Thursday that it expects Pakistan to allow a visit this month by a group of 1,500 pilgrims on the occasion of Guruparab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.“In view of the significance of Guruparab and sentiments associated with it, it has been decided that a ‘jatha’ of around 1,500 pilgrims will visit Pakistan from November 17-26 via the Attari-Wagah integrated check post,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday.In June, Pakistan denied permission for visits -- on the occasion of the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev and on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh -- even though both occasions were covered under the 1974 bilateral protocol on visits to religious shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-government-decides-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-from-tomorrow-101637059168057.html
17-11-2021||NA||Breaking: Schools & colleges in Delhi, NCR to remain closed till further notice; only online classes from today||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Schools, colleges in Delhi to remain closed until further ordersSchools and colleges in Delhi, NCR will remain closed till further notice, orders Centre’s panel on air pollution. Teaching will be held only through online classes from Wednesday.‘Doctor at heart’: PM Modi applauds after MoS Bhagwat Karad helps patient on flightA doctor at heart, always! Great gesture by my colleague @DrBhagwatKarad. https://t.co/VJIr5WajMHMinister of state for finance and a doctor by profession, Bhagwat Karad helped a fellow passenger in an IndiGo flight who complained of giddiness and is a hypotension patient. Karad immediately rushed and helped him out. The co-passenger appreciated the Minister's gesture.Rajasthan cuts VAT on petrol and diesel prices, new rates effective midnightRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the state cabinet had decided to reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel prices by ₹4 and ₹5, respectively. The new prices will be effective from midnight of November 16, the chief minister added. Read MoreRajasthan gives nod to allocation of land for new greenfield airport in KotaRajasthan Cabinet gives nod to the allocation of free land for a new greenfield airport in Kota, reports ANI.BJP leader Vishwajit K Rane joins AAP in Goa in presence of KejriwalBharatiya Janata Party leader Vishwajit K Rane joined Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of its National Convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in Sattari, North Goa.Preparations on for Kartarpur border reopening tomorrowAhead of reopening of Kartarpur Corridor, Land Ports Authority of India Chairman Aditya Mishra today visited Dera Baba Nanak Integrated Check Post and held a meeting with other stakeholders like Bureau of immigration, Customs & BSF to felicitate movement of pilgrims.CBI conducts 76 raids for crackdown on online child sexual abuseCBI says it is conducting searches at around 77 locations in 14 states in connection with 23 separate cases registered against 83 accused on November 14 as part of a nationwide coordinated crackdown on crimes related to online child sexual abuse material. Read moreDelhi minister suggests temporarily shutting factories to curb pollutionTemporarily shutting down industries in Delhi and neighbouring cities could help reduce a toxic smog, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday, a day before the Supreme Court reconvenes on plans to combat air pollution.The government has also favoured extending a ban on construction and letting people continue to work from home to help reduce toxic air pollution.Rajasthan cabinet expansion soon, says CM Ashok GehlotThe expansion of the State Cabinet would happen soon, said Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot at an event in Jaipur.Newly-appointed US envoy in Afghanistan meets NSA, foreign secy in Delhi, discusses ongoing crisisNewly appointed US Special Representative for Afghanistan, Thomas West visited New Delhi today. He called on the national security advisor and the foreign secretary. Discussions were focused on the current developments in Afghanistan, news agency ANI quoted official sources.Topics included recently held Regional Security Dialogue of NSAs on Afghanistan in Delhi, movement of people in and out of Afghanistan, coordinating global efforts on humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, regional security issues and other bilateral and international issues of mutual interest, sources said.India's Akasa Air orders 72 737 MAX aircraft from Boeing, reports AFPRakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Indian airline Akasa Air has ordered 72 737 MAX aircraft from Boeing, news agency AFP quoted an official statement.Body of Naxal commander found two days after encounter in MaharashtraTwo days after an encounter in Gadchiroli, Maharashtra, the body of Naxal commander Sukhlal Parchaki (33) has been found at the encounter site. He was carrying a reward of ₹25 lakhs. With this, the number of Naxals killed in the encounter reached 27.Pfizer announces global licensing deal for Covid-19 treatmentPfizer Inc said on Tuesday it will allow generic manufacturers to supply its experimental antiviral Covid-19 pill to 95 low- and middle-income countries through a licensing agreement with the international public health group Medicines Patent Pool (MPP).Russian military admits 'destroyed' satellite during test, reports AFPRussian military has admitted that it 'destroyed' a satellite during test. Earlier, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov had dismissed accusations by the United States that Moscow blew up one of its own satellites with a missile strike that created a debris cloud threatening the International Space Station.Amid pollution emergency, Delhi transport minister asks DDMA to allow standing commuters Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot has sent a proposal to Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for allowing standing commuters in DTC and cluster buses and metro trains, and also to hire private buses to increase the frequency.West Bengal Assembly passes resolution against Centre’s move to extend BSF jurisdictionWest Bengal Assembly passes resolution against Centre's decision to extend BSF jurisdiction in the state.AN-32 lands on airstrip carrying special commandosNext, AN-32 lands on the airstrip carrying special commandos.Mirage 2000 fighter aircraft first to landAir Force's Mirage 2000 fighter aircraft is the first to land at the event. Mirage 2000 fighter jets have previously participated in Balakot operation and Kargil war.Air Force conducts air show on Purvanchal ExpresswayThe Air Force conducts an Air show at the inaugural event on the 3.20 km long airstrip constructed on the Purvanchal Expressway. The IAF announced that Mirage 2000, Jaguar and Sukhoi fighter aircrafts, along with AN- 32 , Kiran Mk II will participate in the Air show.‘People of Bihar will also benefit’: PM at Purvanchal Expressway event“Now the west and East UP is moving fast on development. The people of Bihar will also benefit. It will not only connect the nine districts but connect the cities which have potential of development,” PM Modi says at the event.For previous govts development was limited to their family, native place: PM Modi targets opposition in UPFor previous govts development was limited to their family, native place, says PM Modi targetting the opposition in Uttar Pradesh.Area left to mafia now writing script of development in UP: PM Modi“In UP, the previous governments neglected the development of the eastern region. The area was left to mafia, the same area is now writing the script of the development of UP,” says Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Purvanchal expressway an 'expressway of UP's growth', says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that the Purvanchal express way is an expressway of Uttar Pradesh's growth and development.  “The expressway will give momentum to development. It is an expressway that will strengthen the state's economy.”Kartarpur Corridor to reopen from November 17Union home minister Amit Shah announced on Tuesday that the Kartarpur Corridor will reopen from Wednesday. Purvanchal Expressway to give momentum to UP's development: CMUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that the Purvanchal Expressway will give momentum to the state's development. PM Modi inaugurates Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar PradeshPrime Minister Narendra Modi is currently inaugurating the Purvanchal Expressway in Uttar Pradesh.Purvanchal Expressway inauguration: PM Modi lands on Expressway in C- 130J Super HerculesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday landed on the Karwal Kheri in Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. In some time from now, he will inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway. CBI conducts searches across India on allegations of online child sexual abuseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting searches at around 76 locations across the country in 14 states and Union territories (UTs) in connection with online child sexual abuse and exploitation. Read moreDelhi's ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign to extend by 15 daysDelhi air crisis | 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign (to curb vehicle pollution) which ends on November 18 will be extended by 15 days - Second phase from November 19 to December 3: Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai pic.twitter.com/MS29cExkbgCentre trying to steal credit for Purvanchal Expressway, says SP chief AkhileshHours before the inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre is trying to steal the credit for the work done by his party. Read more2 cases of Swine flu reported in Tamil Nadu's CoimbatoreTamil Nadu: Two cases of Swine Flu reported in Coimbatore, both patients are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.Two cases of swine flu have been reported in Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore. Both patients are undergoing treatment at a private hospital, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Bengal assembly speaker allows discussion on increasing BSF jurisdiction in stateWest Bengal Legislative Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee permits a 1.5 hour-long discussion on the issue of increase in BSF jurisdiction in the state. Earlier today, TMC Minister Partha Chatterjee had moved a resolution against the issueWest Bengal legislative assembly speaker Biman Banerjee has allowed a 1.5 hour-long discussion on the issue of increase in BSF jurisdiction in the state. Stoking Taiwan independence is 'playing with fire,' Xi tells Joe BidenChinese president Xi Jinping told his American Joe Biden that stoking Taiwan's independence is playing with fire. Myanmar junta charges Suu Kyi with fraud during 2020 polls: ReportThe Myanmar junta on Tuesday charged ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi with electoral fraud during 2020 polls, news agency AFP reported. Read more'CAG is a heritage, all should cherish it,' says Modi on Audit DiwasThere are very few institutions that become stronger, more mature & more relevant with the passage of time. Most institutions lose relevance after some decades. But CAG is a heritage & every generation should cherish it. It's a huge responsibility: PM on 1st Audit Diwas, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/ZoKoOJtEzd“There are very few institutions that become stronger, more mature and more relevant with the passage of time. Most institutions lose relevance after some decades. But CAG is a heritage and every generation should cherish it. It's a huge responsibility,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on the first Audit DiwasPM Modi addresses event to mark Audit DiwasPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated a statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at CAG office. He is here to take part in the programme to mark the first Audit Diwas.Shombi Sharp appointed as United Nations' Resident Coordinator in IndiaUnited Nations Secretary‑General António Guterres has appointed Shombi Sharp as the UN Resident Coordinator in India.Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category for 3rd straight dayThe national capital's air quality remained in the 'very poor' category for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with the air quality index being recorded at 396.‘ ₹1.5 crore, not ₹5 crore’: Hardik Pandya clarifies on watch seizureTeam India cricketer Hardik Pandya issued a clarification on Tuesday regarding the seizure of two of his watches by the Mumbai customs department on Sunday night. Pandya said that he voluntarily went to the customs counter of the Mumbai airport to declare the items that he brought and pay the requisite customs duty. Read moreIndia's daily Covid tally sees major fall with 8,865 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a major fall on Tuesday after 8,865 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.Custom officials seize 2 watches worth ₹5 crore from Hardik Pandya: ReportThe Mumbai customs department has seized two watches worth ₹5 crore from Hardik Pandya, saying the cricketer neither had a bill for the watches nor did he declare them as custom items. Read moreOver 1.1 million samples tested for Covid in India in last 24 hrsCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/VHkO9bB0QJNirmala Sitharaman to meet heads of banks, FIs today for credit pushUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Tuesday meet heads of banks and financial institutions to remove friction in credit flow to productive sectors of the economy battered by the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreTamil Nadu reports 802 new Covid cases, 918 more recoveriesTamil Nadu reported 802 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to over 2.71 million, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 918 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, and the total recoveries have climbed to 2,669,848. Virtual hearing option open for lawyers during pregnancy: Supreme CourtThe Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a petition to keep the option of virtual hearings open for the benefit of working women lawyers who have to sacrifice their careers during pregnancy, or while providing maternal care to their newborns. Read moreNeed ‘guardrails’ to prevent any US-China conflict, Biden tells XiDuring the virtual summit, United States President Joe Biden told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that both countries need guardrails to prevent any conflict. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to chair review meeting on liquor prohibition todayBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will on Tuesday chair a review meeting on liquor prohibition in the state, which will be held after at least 40 people have died in the state after consuming hooch in recent days, the latest death being reported from Muzaffarpur. Read moreUS Prez Joe Biden opens virtual summit with Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping United States President Joe Biden on Tuesday opened a virtual summit with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping. This is the first meeting between the two leaders since Biden assumed office. According to a report by the New York Times, a senior administration official, on the condition of anonymity, said that Biden might address issues of disagreement, including China's human rights abuses, USA's commitment to defending Taiwan, China's support of its state-based industries and its policies regarding cyber-technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-16-2021-101637023620874.html
