18-11-2021||India||India slams Pakistan for denying consular access to Jadhav||India on Thursday accused Pakistan of denying unimpeded and unhindered consular access to Indian death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav and said a new Pakistani law to facilitate his right to appeal his death sentence contains shortcomings. The Pakistan government pushed through a bill during a joint session of the Parliament on Wednesday to help Jadhav appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Act of 2021 is on the same lines as an ordinance issued last year to facilitate his right to appeal. “Pakistan continues to deny unimpeded and unhindered consular access to Shri Jadhav and has failed to create an atmosphere in which a fair trial can be conducted,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said while reacting to the Pakistani law. “The law simply codifies the shortcomings of the previous ordinance,” he added. Bagchi said Pakistan had enacted into law “the earlier ordinance that was ostensibly enacted to bring into effect the judgement of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case”. “Nothing could have been further from the truth. As stated earlier, the ordinance did not create the machinery for an effective review and reconsideration of Shri Jadhav’s case as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ,” he said. India, Bagchi said, has repeatedly called on Pakistan to abide by the letter and spirit of the ICJ judgement. Experts have already said the new law will not make a material difference to Jadhav’s case and it was more about meeting legal requirements so that he could mount a proper appeal in Pakistani courts. The law allows a foreign national to file a petition in a Pakistani high court for review and reconsideration of a sentence given by a military court. After India approached the ICJ, the court said in its judgement that “Pakistan is under an obligation to provide, by means of its choosing, effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentence of Mr Jadhav” given the violation of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 in Balochistan on charges of spying and sentenced to death the following year. India rejected the charges levelled against the formal navy officer and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slams-pakistan-for-denying-consular-access-to-jadhav-101637257984526.html
18-11-2021||India||‘Such politics not good’: Arvind Kejriwal scoffs over denial to AAP delegation to visit Kartarpur on Gurupurab||A delegation of Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs and MLAs, which includes MLA and state in-charge Raghav Chadha, has been denied permission to visit the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur on November 19. Reacting to the news, AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it’s “highly wrong” to stop anyone to go and pay their obeisance in the ‘darbar’ of Guru Nanak on the occasion of Gurupurab.“Such politics is not good for both the country and the society. No one, even the enemies should not be stopped from paying their obeisance and performing ardas at the darbar,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Thursday.गुरु पर्व के दिन गुरु महाराज जी के दरबार में माथा टेकने से रोकना तो बहुत ग़लत है। ऐसी राजनीति देश और समाज के लिए अच्छी नहीं है। गुरु महाराज जी के दरबार में माथा टेकने और अरदास करने से तो किसी दुश्मन को भी नहीं रोकना चाहिए। https://t.co/PMFZRp49DeChadha confirmed the denial, saying that the AAP delegation did not receive “political clearance” owing to “match-fixing between Punjab and central governments".A delegation of Aam Aadmi Party, comprising MPs & MLAs, has been denied permission to visit Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara. We have not received 'political clearance' due to match-fixing between Punjab & Central Govts: AAP leader & in-charge of party's Punjab unit, Raghav Chadha pic.twitter.com/58FHrUHO8mThis comes after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his cabinet colleagues, along with family, visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib on Thursday. The 4.7km long visa-free corridor, which was shut down last year due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covi-19) pandemic, was reopened on Wednesday.The Gurdwara is located in Narowal district in Pakistan’s Punjab.Channi, who went across the border, with 30 of his colleagues, appealed to both the Centre as well as the Pakistan government on simplifying the procedure for getting permission for the pilgrimage. “A procedure of on-arrival permission should be allowed,” he said.The chief minister also announced the running of free buses in Punjab, India for pilgrims visiting Kartarpur in Pakistan. He also sought to reopen trade between India and Pakistan.Channi also thanked both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan for reopening the Kartarpur corridor.Punjab cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla, who was part of Channi’s 30-member delegation to Kartarpur, said the central government hasn’t permitted all ministers to visit the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib “at once” and that some of them “will be going on Friday".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-denies-aap-leaders-nod-to-visit-kartarpur-on-gurupurab-kejriwal-scoffs-101637255789178.html
18-11-2021||India||Newborn dies after being held hostage in Bengal village; Pamaria singer arrested||A newborn died after being held hostage for around three hours by a Pamaria singer at Manikchowk in West Bengal’s Malda district on Wednesday morning. The singer from the Pamaria community had come to the residence of a villager, Mampi Sarkar, who had given birth to two boys and a girl on October 29. The accused, Aulad Ali, after blessing the children demanded ₹1500, which the poor family was unable to produce. Ali refused to hand over one of the babies and was beating drums. The child died on his lap. Later, villagers assaulted the accused and handed him over to the police. He was arrested. “One of my sons was suffering from mouth ulcer. He also had fever. On Wednesday, a ‘Pamaria’ came to our house and took my son in his lap and started singing and dancing. Thereafter he demanded ₹1500 from us. We told him that we could not give more than ₹300, but he refused to take the amount and kept my son hostage for over three hours. I kept requesting him to hand my baby over to me but he refused to pay heed to my pleas. After three hours when I tried to breastfeed my son he didn’t open his mouth,” the woman said.. The accused, however, told the media, on the way to court, that he had kept the baby only for 5-10 minutes. “It is a baseless allegation that I kept the baby hostage for money. Local people thrashed me brutally after the death of the baby and snatched ₹5000 from me,” he said.Pamaria is a community which sings and dances at special occasions like weddings and child birth. “The accused has been arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Sarkar family. He has been charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” said a police officer of Manikchowk police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newborn-dies-after-being-held-hostage-in-bengal-village-pamaria-singer-arrested-101637255583087.html
18-11-2021||India||Zydus Cadila to supply 10 million doses of Covid-19 jab to Centre by December: Report||Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, which has developed India’s second indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, will reportedly supply the initial doses of the jab to the central government by December. Also, though the vaccine has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) for those aged 12 and above, the first doses will only be for people aged 18 and above, the report said.Also Read | Zydus jab cleared for kids to cost govt ₹265“Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine for persons above 18 years of age will be supplied to the government by December. The government has placed an initial order for one crore doses of the vaccines,” news agency ANI reported citing government sources. Zydus Cadila's COVID vaccine for persons above 18 years of age will be supplied to Govt by December. Govt has placed an initial order for one crore doses of the vaccine: Govt sourcesThe latest report is in line with that from earlier this month, which stated that the Union government has placed an order for 10 million (1 crore) doses with the vaccine manufacturer. It has also been reported previously that the needle-free jab will be administered to adults first.Also Read | Govt to buy one crore doses of Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccineHowever, if the initial batch is indeed delivered only by next month, then it would mean an additional delay in including ZyCoV-D in the national inoculation programme, which began on January 16 this year. The shot was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in August.The vaccine has a three-dose regime, with a gap of 28 days each between the first and second, and the second and third doses. The first shot will be given on day zero, with the next two to follow on the 28th and 56th day respectively. It is also India’s only coronavirus vaccine to be approved for an age group below 18. However, an inoculation drive for kids is yet to be announced.Meanwhile, of the other five vaccines granted EUA by the drugs regulator, the only indigenous jab is Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. ZyCoV-D was the sixth to receive emergency use approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-to-supply-doses-of-covid-19-jab-to-centre-by-december-report-101637252440379.html
18-11-2021||India||More evidence of China building villages in disputed areas along borders with India, Bhutan||Further evidence has emerged of China constructing villages in disputed sections of its borders with India and Bhutan, an activity believed to be part of Beijing’s efforts to bolster its claim on these regions. According to satellite imagery posted by the Twitter user who uses the handle @detresfa_, China has built at least four new villages nearly three to four kilometres within disputed territory along the border with Bhutan. These villages are in an area of about 100 sq km that is under Chinese occupation and located a short distance from Doklam, the region where Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a faceoff for 73 days in 2017. Satellite imagery of the area from May 2020 showed no construction activity within the disputed region of about 100 sq km. However, satellite imagery of the same region from November this year showed four villages where construction work was still ongoing. The satellite imagery showed several rows of houses and new roads at all the four villages. Two of the villages are larger than the others, and all are located in mountainous terrain. Satellite imagery obtained by NDTV from Maxar Technologies and Planet Labs, two leading imagery providers, also showed a village with at least 60 buildings built by China in disputed territory along the border in Shi-Yomi district of Arunachal Pradesh. This is the second such village in a disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh, which China claims as “south Tibet”. It is located 93 km east of the first village with some 100 homes, whose existence was first reported by the media in January this year. Experts have contended the second village falls within Indian territorial claims. A report submitted on November 3 by the US department of defence to the US Congress said China had built the large 100-home village in disputed territory between the Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh. The external affairs ministry responded to the US report last week by saying India has never accepted such “illegal occupation” of its territory and will takes all steps to safeguard the country’s sovereignty. The Indian side has stepped up the building of infrastructure, including roads and bridges, in border areas in the wake of China’s construction activities in regions it has illegally occupied over the decades, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on November 11. The construction of villages in disputed areas follows the upgrading and construction of Chinese military facilities, including heliports and missile bases, all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the aftermath of the 2017 standoff at Doklam. A report released last year by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy, had said China has more than doubled the number of airbases, air defence positions and heliports near the LAC since 2017. China began building at least 13 new military facilities near the LAC after the Doklam standoff, and work on four heliports began after the faceoff in Ladakh began in May last year, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-evidence-of-china-building-villages-in-disputed-areas-along-borders-with-india-bhutan-101637254142996.html
18-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea against Rakesh Asthana’s appointment next week||The Supreme Court will hear next week a petition challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Commissioner of Delhi Police. On July 27, the 1984-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner for a one year term with just four days remaining for his superannuation.A petition pending on this issue was taken up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna.The petitioner – Centre for Public Interest Litigation – represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan informed the court that a judgment on the same issue was delivered by the Delhi high court on October 12 upholding the appointment of Asthana. He requested that the CPIL petition was deferred by the top court on August 25 awaiting a decision by the high court. Bhushan requested the Court to consider his petition in the light of the October 12 order.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre objected to this suggestion and told the bench that once the high court had passed its decision, the CPIL petition will not be maintainable. Only an appeal against the high court order can be heard, Mehta added.He was supported by counsel for Asthana, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who informed the Court that the appeal alone was sufficient to be heard and not the petition.The bench said, “We will not direct the petitioner to file an appeal. But to obviate technicality, would the petitioner not be well advised to also file an appeal against the HC judgment, so that in the final hearing this should not come in the way.”Bhushan agreed to file the appeal and said that this will only delay the hearing. The bench allowed the appeal to be filed by Monday and ordered the petition to come up for hearing with the fresh appeal on Friday.The petition questioned Asthana’s appointment on the ground that no panel of names was formed by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as held by the Supreme Court in the Prakash Singh case. Also, a clear direction to ensure a secured, two-year tenure for the DGP stood violated with the one-year appointment of Asthana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-against-rakesh-asthana-s-appointment-next-week-101637253242938.html
18-11-2021||India||‘Nothing further from truth’: India punches holes in Pak claim over Jadhav law||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday accused Pakistan of denying unimpeded and unhindered consular access to Indian death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav and said a new Pakistani law to facilitate his right to appeal his death sentence contains shortcomings. Pakistan on Wednesday pushed through a bill during a joint session of Parliament to help Jadhav appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Act of 2021 is on the same lines as an ordinance issued last year to facilitate his right to appeal.“Pakistan continues to deny unimpeded and unhindered consular access to Shri Jadhav and has failed to create an atmosphere in which a fair trial can be conducted,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said while reacting to the Pakistani law.“The law simply codifies the shortcomings of the previous ordinance,” he added.Bagchi said Pakistan enacted into law “the earlier ordinance that was ostensibly enacted to bring into effect the judgement of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case”. “Nothing could have been further from the truth. As stated earlier, the ordinance did not create the machinery for an effective review and reconsideration of Shri Jadhav’s case as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ,” he said.India, Bagchi said, has repeatedly called on Pakistan to abide by the letter and spirit of the ICJ judgement.Experts have said the new law will not make a material difference to Jadhav’s case and it was more about meeting legal requirements so that he can mount a proper appeal in Pakistani courts. The law allows a foreign national to file a petition in a Pakistani high court for review and reconsideration of a sentence given by a military court.After India approached the ICJ, the court said in its judgement that “Pakistan is under an obligation to provide, by means of its own choosing, effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentence of Mr Jadhav” in view of the violation of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.According to Pakistan, Kulbhushan Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 in Balochistan on charges of spying. He was sentenced to death the following year. India rejected the charges levelled against the formal navy officer and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistans-new-law-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-appeal-codifies-old-shortcomings-india-101637249402932.html
18-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP minister from Himachal outlines reason for bypoll defeat and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP minister from Himachal outlines reason for bypoll defeatHimachal Pradesh minister Rakesh Pathania on Thursday said that the ‘overconfidence’ among the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led to its defeat in the recent bypolls. Read moreKangana Ranaut's idea of 'freedom' not new, says Congress leader; explains whyJairam Ramesh said the actor is only mouthing what RSS-affiliated pseudo-historians and self-styled scholars have been desperately trying to mainstream for years. Read moreEnglish cricketer issues apology to Cheteshwar Pujara for 'racist', 'unacceptable' behaviourSomerset's Jack Brooks has apologized to India's Cheteshwar Pujara for “racist" behavior during the latter's time at Yorkshire. He also issued apology for using racist language in tweets that date back to 2012. Read moreSaif Ali Khan reveals he got scammed in Mumbai property deal: ‘Gave 70% of what I had earned till that time’During a conversation with Rani Mukerji, Saif said that a few years ago he had invested about 70% of what he'd 'earned till that time’. The video of their chat was released by Yash Raj Films (YRF) on their YouTube channel. Read moreLunar Eclipse 2021: Is it safe to watch lunar eclipse with naked eye?The internet is buzzing about the longest partial lunar eclipse or Chandra Grahan in 580 years that is set to occur on November 19 and will last for 3 hours 28 minutes and 24 seconds. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-minister-from-himachal-outlines-reason-for-bypoll-defeat-and-all-the-latest-news-101637245233265.html
18-11-2021||India||Ahead of organisational polls, Congress revives disciplinary panel||The Congress party, which has been busy tackling in-house rebels and issues related to discipline, revived its disciplinary committee on Thursday ahead of organisational elections. Party veteran AK Antony continues to head the panel while Ambika Soni, Tariq Anwar, JP Agarwal and G Parameswar are its other members.A senior party functionary added that G Parameswar, former Karnataka PCC chief and former deputy CM has been given a central post in a balancing act since the state leadership is now tightly in control of DK Shivkumar and Siddaramaiah. While Ambika Soni remains one of the most trusted lieutenants of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Tariq Anwar has been brought in to be given additional responsibilities. The veteran leader re-joined the Congress from NCP a few years ago. Former Delhi PCC chief JP Aggarwal has been included in the committee that handles all issues related to indiscipline and can recommend action to the Congress president. While the party has other such state-level panels, this central disciplinary panel handles cases at the AICC level. The circular, signed by general secretary organization KC Venugopal, mentioned that the appointments have come into force with immediate effect. The AICC also appointed seven national coordinators in the data analytics panel led by Praveen Chakravarthy. A second party leader added that in view of the membership drive related to the organisational polls, there is a lot of data related work to be done as the party also goes online to invite people to join the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-organisational-polls-congress-revives-disciplinary-panel-101637248862896.html
18-11-2021||India||Assam rebuts Mizoram minister’s construction charge along inter-state border||SILCHAR: Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya on Thursday rushed to rebut Mizoram’s accusation that his government was not adhering to the Union home ministry’s November 5 advisory that required both states to maintain status quo on construction works along their 164.6km inter-state border.“Our districts are maintaining the status quo and no construction is going on in the border areas. We are trying to save our trees which a few groups from Mizoram are trying to destroy,” Parimal Suklabaidya said, his rebuttal to Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana, who uses only one name.At a meeting of Mizoram’s state boundary committee on Wednesday, Lalchamliana instructed deputy commissioners of Kolasib and Mamit districts to resume construction activities on the ground that Assam hasn’t halted the civil works on its side. The instruction to rescind Aizwal’s order came hours after a locally influential body - the JAC on Inner Line Reserve Forest Demand - served an ultimatum to the Mizoram government to withdraw the November 11 move to stop construction in the border districts.Suklabaidya’s well-publicised instructions to the deputy commissioners of the border districts followed on Wednesday.Officials in Assam’s Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts denied the Mizo claim.Hailakandi deputy commissioner Rohan Kumar Jha said, “We have instructions from the government and there is absolutely zero construction going on. Officials of Mizoram should enquire properly before making statements which can mislead common people.”Cachar superintendent of police Ramandip Kaur said, “There are some old works going on but we didn’t allow undertaking any fresh construction following the status quo. The allegations of Mizoram are false. Rather there were attempts of illegal construction from Mizoram on our land which we stopped.”The home ministry’s November 5 advisory that asked the two states to halt border works was issued against the backdrop of renewed signs of tension along the inter-state border, mostly around construction activities. A flare-up along the border on July 26 led to the death of six Assam police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rebuts-mizoram-minister-s-construction-charge-along-inter-state-border-101637247962565.html
18-11-2021||India||Why talk about Vir Das and not Kangana? Congress's swipe at Narottam Mishra||As Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra has announced a ban on comedian, satirist Vir Das for his recent 'Two Indias' video, the state Congress questioned why the minister is choosing to talk about the Vir Das issue while he chose to be silent over the Kangana Ranaut issue. Kangana Ranaut and Vir Das are two celebrities in soup over their recent comments. While Kangana criticised India's freedom movement by slamming Mahatma Gandhi, Vir Das has been accused of belittling India on an international platform in his video 'I come from two Indias' where he presented two exactly opposite sides of India.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra, who had issued an ultimatum to designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw his mangalsutra ad, has now issued a ban on Vir Das. Mishra said Vir Das will not be allowed to perform in the state. But if he apologises, then the state government will reconsider the decision. While taking a dig at Vir Das, Mishra slammed Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and said that they like 'clowns' like Vir Das as they too defame India on foreign land."Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also defames India on foreign land. MP Congress chief Kamal Nath also does it," Mishra said. "I call such people 'vidushak' (jester). He (Das) would not be allowed to perform in the state. If he apologises, we are going to think over it," he said.State Congress general secretary KK Mishra asked why the home minister was silent on Kangana Ranaut's comment. "She (Ranaut) has made an anti-national statement, but why is Mishra or the BJP government in MP not breaking the silence over it? Why is Mishra not giving a statement against traitor Ranaut?""Will he announce a ban on Ranaut's entry into Madhya Pradesh?" he asked.Madhya Pradesh BJP spokesperson Neha Bagga, however, said Ranaut was neither a member of her party nor the party had supported the actor over her statement. "But it is very unfortunate that Congress leaders like Kapil Sibal are backing Das who has sullied the country's image in the US," she said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-talk-about-vir-das-and-not-kangana-congress-s-swipe-at-narottam-mishra-101637246903792.html
18-11-2021||India||Idukki, Mullaperiyar dams opened as Kerala braces for another wet spell||With another spell of rainfall round the corner, the shutters of Idukki and Mullaperiyar, the two major dams of Kerala, were opened on Thursday to let out surplus water. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said in Idukki that the dams were opened as a precautionary measure after meeting all requirements. This is the first time that the shutters of Idukki arch dam were opened thrice a year since it was built in 1973. Tamil Nadu also opened the shutters of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam for the second time this year. Though the heavy rainfall has declined in other parts of the state in the last couple of days, the catchment areas received heavy downpour leading to swelling of water in the dams. “Idukki dam was opened as a precaution. Now the water level is manageable. We have alerted people living in downstream areas,” said the minister. Idukki district collector Sheeba George also said all precautionary measures had been taken before opening both dams. The public works department of TN informed its counterpart about the decision to open Mullaperiyar after the water level crossed 141 feet. It opened two shutters to release excess water-- since Tamil Nadu is being lashed by heavy rain it is taking minimum water from Mullaperiyar for the southern districts these days. Kerala dam authorities said Idukki was opened after shutters of Mullaperiyar were opened in the neighbouring state. In Idukki district alone there are 20 big and small dams. The catchment areas of Idukki dam received 30 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours and in Mullaperiyar it was 22 mm. The inflow of water doubled in the two dams forcing authorities to ease them immediately. Shutters of the Idukki dam were opened initially on October 27, then on November 14 and for the third time on November 18. The usual rainfall pattern during northeast monsoon in Kerala is 492 mm between October 1 and December 31, but this time between October 1 and November 15 the state received 820 mm rain against the expected fall of 392.8 mm during the same period, IMD statistics show. Going by the present pattern, the rainfall will be at least 200 per cent higher than usual by the end of December. After a brief respite from the wet condition, the rainfall is likely to pick up by Friday; the India Meteorological Department said adding heavy rain will continue till November 21. It has issued an yellow alert in nine districts. The low-pressure formation in the Bay of Bengal is expected to get stronger and will make landfall along the Tamil Nadu-Andhra coast on Friday. This time Kerala received two heavy spells of northeast monsoon-- in the second-third week of October the state witnessed many landslides and flash floods after torrential downpour claimed 42 lives and in November second week eight lives were lost when the second spell of heavy rain battered the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/idukki-mullaperiyar-dams-opened-as-kerala-braces-for-another-wet-spell-101637247122676.html
18-11-2021||India||BJP minister from Himachal outlines reason for bypoll defeat||Himachal Pradesh minister Rakesh Pathania on Thursday said that the ‘overconfidence’ among the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led to its defeat in the recent bypolls, news agency PTI reported. Pathania, however, pointed out that the BJP now has learnt its lessons and is preparing in a united manner to fight the 2022 assembly elections.Pathania’s comments on the BJP’s defeat came weeks after it faced a 4-0 defeat in the bypolls as Congress wrested the Mandi Lok Sabha seat along with Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency.“Senior party leaders, including BJP national president JP Nadda and HP former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal besides others, are handling the party unitedly,” Pathania was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also refuted speculations of cabinet reshuffle as well as any change in party’s state leadership and reiterated that the state will head into polls under the Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. He said the party’s state unit will also discuss the poll strategy on November 24 in a working committee meeting.The BJP also lost a seat to Congress in Karnataka while it faced a Himachal Pradesh-like fate in West Bengal where all four legislative assembly constituencies which went to bypolls were won by Trinamool Congress (TMC) as it wrested two seats won by the BJP earlier this year in Bengal elections while retaining two other seats.The Congress defeated the BJP in the bypolls which were held on October 30, as it wrested Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency while maintaining its grip on the Fatehpur and Arki legislative assembly constituencies. The Congress also is looking at the prospect of projecting Pratibha Singh, Congress’ winning candidate in the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and wife of deceased former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, as its chief ministerial face ahead of the upcoming polls next year.Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh will go to polls in 2022. These assembly elections are also seen as a precursor to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-minister-from-himachal-outlines-reason-for-bypoll-defeat-101637246076718.html
18-11-2021||India||3 class 10 students nabbed in J&K trying to cross over to PoK for arms training to join back terrorism in Valley||Three youth were nabbed in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday as they were en route to cross over to the Line of Control (LoC) to the PoK for arms training in order to join back terrorism in the Valley. The trio was apprehended from a hideout in Kupwara district.In a statement, police said that the three youth – all 16-year-olds and students of class 10, had established contact with a terrorist commander named Tayab Farroqi, operating from Pakistan. They were on their way to meet him by crossing the LoC via Kupwara and take illegal training in handling of arms and ammunition for joining terrorism back in Jammu and Kashmir.The three individuals have been identified as Furqan Sultan Khanday (16), Furqan Nazir Khanday (16), and Kamran Sajad Sheikh (16). All of them hail from Pulwama district in the Valley.Following interrogation, the police found that the teenagers were radicalised by Farroqi through social media platforms.Owing to their young age, Jammu and Kashmir Police decided to counsel them to give them a chance to reform into responsible and peace-abiding citizens. They were handed over to their parents, the statement said.“Jammu and Kashmir Police also appeals to the parents of young people to monitor their activities to prevent them from falling prey to the Pakistani agenda of destabilising the peace in the UT…and also appeals to youth to not get misguided by the propaganda of the terrorists,” the statement by the police read.Meanwhile, between Tuesday and Thursday, as many as five terrorists were gunned down, three overground workers were apprehended with ₹43 lakh and three individuals were detained with ₹30 lakh.Also Read | Day after encounter, 3 detained in Kashmir with around ₹30 lakhJammu and Kashmir has been rife with tension since the controversial Hyderpora encounter on Monday in which besides two terrorists, two civilians died. While police said that both Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul were “overground workers” of the deceased terrorists, their families have claimed they were killed in “cold blood” and also used as “human shields.”Former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah and PDP supremo Mehbooba Mufti have been criticising the killing of Bhat and Gul and also burying their bodies in the absence of their family members.Also Read | Omar Abdullah protests over no return of civilians’ bodies killed in HyderporaEarlier in the day, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Kumar’s office said in a statement that the Valley administration has ordered a magisterial probe into the Hyderpora encounter. As per an update by news agency ANI, Srinagar additional district magistrate Khurshid Ahmad Shah has been appointed to investigate the matter. He has also issued a notice to the people, asking them to record their statements and provide information pertaining to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-class-10-students-nabbed-in-j-k-trying-to-cross-to-pok-for-arms-training-101637244201207.html
18-11-2021||India||India-China meet ends only with agreement on next round of military talks||India and China emerged from the latest round of diplomatic talks on the border standoff in Ladakh sector on Thursday with little to show but an agreement on holding the next discussions between senior military commanders at an early date. The virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held against the backdrop of growing evidence of China building infrastructure and villages in disputed sections of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and a lack of forward movement on disengagement at friction points such as Hot Springs and Depsang. The external affairs ministry said in a statement after the WMCC meeting: “It was agreed that both sides should hold the next (14th) round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols.” A readout from China’s foreign ministry said the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue through diplomatic and military channels, and “actively prepare for the 14th round of military commander-level talks, and make efforts to resolve the remaining issues” in the western sector. Both sides described the discussions at the WMCC meeting as “candid and in-depth”. The last round of talks between the senior military commanders, which was held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10, had failed to make any substantive progress as Beijing contended that New Delhi had made “unreasonable and unrealistic demands”. The Chinese readout also said the two sides will “continue to work hard to further ease the border situation and strive to shift from emergency response to normalised control as soon as possible”. The shift from “emergency response” to “normalised control” was a repeat of what Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi had told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar during a meeting in Dushanbe in September. The Indian statement said the two sides recalled the agreement between Jaishankar and Wang during their meeting in Dushanbe that military and diplomatic officials should continue discussions to resolve remaining issues along the LAC. They also reviewed developments since the meeting of the military commanders on October 10, and “agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues” in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols to restore peace and tranquillity, the Indian statement said. The two sides also agreed that they would continue to “ensure a stable ground situation” and avoid any untoward incident, the Indian statement added. The Chinese readout said the two sides had agreed to consolidate the existing disengagement results, strictly abide by agreements and consensus, and avoid recurrences in the current situation. The Indian side at the WMCC meeting was led by additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry, while the Chinese delegation was headed by the Hong Liang, director of the boundary and oceanic department of the foreign ministry. India and China withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, but there has been no further movement on disengagement and de-escalation since then. The two sides have been locked in the military standoff for more than 18 months, sending bilateral ties plummeting to their worst in decades. The Indian side has insisted relations can be normalised only when disengagement is completed at other friction points such as Hot Springs and Depsang. On the other hand, China has pushed for delinking the standoff from the overall bilateral relationship and greater contacts in areas such as trade and investment. Sameer Patil fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the outcome of the WMCC meeting showed both sides were sticking to their respective stated positions and this is yielding no solution. “In light of recent revelations about China’s activities in other sections of the border, this would mean that China won’t budge from its position. Clearly, there is no incentive for both sides to compromise. This stalemate will continue for some time to come,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-meet-ends-only-with-agreement-on-next-round-of-military-talks-101637244603959.html
18-11-2021||India||When will overseas flight operations to India be ‘fully normal’? Here's what civil aviation minister said||In a possible indication that the regular overseas commercial passenger flight operations to India are unlikely to be ‘fully normal’ in the near future, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday that though the country was getting back to normal, the resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic in other parts of the world, including Europe, can’t be ignored. Speaking at an event organised by the industry body CII, Scindia also said that the government was ‘evaluating the process’ to normalise international flight operations.Also Read | India reopens to vaccinated foreign travellers after 18 months“Let me commit to you that we are evaluating that process. However, keep in mind what’s happening in the world, including in Russia, parts of Europe, they are going through a fourth wave that too despite the vaccines,” the civil aviation minister said, according to news agency PTI. He further urged people not to ‘erase our short-term memories so soon,’ in what was a possible reference to the devastating second wave of the viral illness, which was at its peak across the country during April and May.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also said that there was a process to be followed, under which there has to be a dialogue with other ministries before arriving at a decision on overseas flight operations.“I’m all for regaining our space in the civil aviation arena in the world and making a hub in India for more wide body aircraft. We will get there, but bear with me and trust me, I’m on your side. We will work together but in a safe environment,” Scindia remarked.Also Read | 96 nations agreed to accept Indian vaccine certificates, says MandaviyaRegular international flights to and from India were suspended in March 2020, when the first national Covid-19 lockdown was announced; the suspension is yet to be lifted. Domestic carriers were grounded around the same time, though resumed services in May last year and, last month, were allowed to operate at full capacity.Also Read | Suspension on International flights extended till November 30At present, overseas flights are allowed in India as repatriation flights or can operate under special permission by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). India also has air bubble arrangement with more than 25 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-overseas-flight-operations-to-india-be-fully-normal-here-s-what-civil-aviation-minister-said-101637243135781.html
18-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 19, 1996 — Miss World crown for Indian girl Reita Faria, a medical student from Bombay||London- Miss Reita Faria, the 23-year-old medical student from Bombay (vital statistics 35-24-35 inches), was elected Miss World in the beauty contest held here last night (November 17). She won against 51 competitors from all over the world, all of them the chosen beauties of their countries. The second place was awarded to Miss Yugoslavia, the first contestant from a Communist country, and the third to Miss Greece. Miss Faria gets a prize of £2,500 and can earn up to £30,000 in the year she “reigns” as the world’s beauty queen through film and public relations parts. But she surprised the British public accustomed to seeing beauty queens making a dash for films or modelling when she said she was not interested in any of these things. She was anxious to sit for her final examination in April next year and her ambition was to be a gynaecologist. What seems to have helped her in her victory was her obvious intelligence added to her charm and good looks. She is probably the best educated girl to have competed in these contests and having been a medical student for five years has the composure and dignity to withstand the ballyhoo that accompany them. She withstood with calm the long ordeal of the elimination rounds televized over the British and Eurovision networks for 90 minutes.At the end of it all, asked what she wanted to do with her prize money, she said she had longed for a Mercedes car, but because India was going through a difficult time, she would not spend it on such a luxury. She intended to return to Bombay and marry her financee, Mr. Osbourne Labo, who works in a plantation in West Bengal after she passes her final examination. Blondes dominated the competition. Four of those who entered the finals were blondes, the other three brunettes. Miss Canada-Diane Coulter, 18-year-old blonde model who had been made the favourite by Britain’s bookies-did not appear among the 15 finalists. But these included Miss South Africa (Johanna Maud Carter).The new Miss World today called on the Lord Mayor of London, Sir Robert Belinger, at his 200year-old office. She wore a turquoise blue sari for her visit to the Lord Mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-19-1996-miss-world-crown-for-indian-girl-reita-faria-a-medical-student-from-bombay-101637241902573.html
18-11-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut's idea of 'freedom' not new, says Congress leader; explains why||Amid the raging controversy over Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's comment that India got actual freedom in 2014 and what India received in 1947 was mere 'bheek', senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the actor is only mouthing what RSS-affiliated pseudo-historians and self-styled scholars have been desperately trying to mainstream for years. "A recent Padma Shri awardee has been hitting the headlines for her outrageous statements on Indian history. She’s only mouthing what RSS-affiliated pseudo-historians and self-styled scholars have been desperately trying to mainstream for years. Her sutradhars are in power today," Jairam Ramesh tweeted. A recent Padma Shri awardee has been hitting the headlines for her outrageous statements on Indian history. She’s only mouthing what RSS-affiliated pseudo-historians and self-styled scholars have been desperately trying to mainstream for years. Her sutradhars are in power today.The political controversy that followed Kangana's statement was inevitable as the Bollywood actor slammed the Congress and disrespected Mahatma Gandhi and also issued statements defending her claim. Kangana said the battle of 1857 was a major battle in the history of India's freedom movement, whereas the freedom that India attained in 1947 was 'bheek' as no battle was fought in 1947, she defended. In her further comments on her 'bheek' remark, she slammed Mahatma Gandhi and said, "Those are the ones who taught us, if someone slaps you offer another cheek for one more slap and that is how you will get aazaadi. That's not how one gets aazadi, one can only get bheekh like that. Choose your heroes wisely.""So you need to choose who you support because just placing them all in one box of your memory and every year wishing them all on their birth anniversaries is not enough. In fact, it is not just dumb, it is highly irresponsible and superficial. One must know their history and their heroes," the actor whose Twitter account has been suspended recently posted on Instagram.The Congress demanded the withdrawal of Kangana's Padma Shri which Kangana offered to do if anyone could tell her which battle was fought in 1947, the Kangana wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-says-kangana-s-idea-of-freedom-not-new-explains-101637241229068.html
18-11-2021||India||Hema Malini, Prasoon Joshi to be film personalities of the year at IFFI||Actor and Member of Parliament Hema Malini and chairperson of the Central Board of Film Certification Prasoon Joshi have been named film personalities of the year for the International Film Festival of India, the ministry of information and broadcasting said on Thursday. The festival will be held from November 20-28 in a hybrid format. “I am delighted to announce the names of Ms. Hema Malini, Actor, Member of Parliament from Mathura, UP and Mr. Prasoon Joshi, Lyricist and Chairperson, CBFC as the Indian Film Personality of the Year 2021. Their contributions to the field of Indian cinema is spread over decades and their body of work has enthralled audiences across generations. They are Indian cinematic icons who are admired and respected the world over. They shall be conferred this honour at the 52nd International Film Festival of India in Goa,” Union minster for I&B Anurag Thakur said. Hema Malini is an actor, writer, director, producer, dancer and politician. She made her acting debut in 1963 with the Tamil film Idhu Sathiyam and later on, entered Hindi cinema as the lead actress of Sapno Ka Saudagar in 1968. Since then, she has acted in over 150 films like Sholay, Seeta Aur Geeta, Satte pe Satta and Baghban among many others.From 2003-2009, Hema Malini served as a Member of Parliament to the Rajya Sabha, after being nominated by the then President of India. In the 2014 General Election, Hema Malini was elected as a Member of Parliament from Mathura constituency. She is also the recipient of several awards, including the fourth highest civilian honour, the Padma Shri. Joshi is a poet, writer, lyricist, screenplay writer and communication specialist. He published his first book of prose and poetry at the age of 17. Currently, he is the chairman Asia and CEO of McCann World Group India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hema-malini-prasoon-joshi-to-be-film-personalities-of-the-year-at-iffi-101637240822104.html
18-11-2021||India||Delhi pollution: Gopal Rai urges Centre to call joint meeting of NCR states||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Gopal Rai on Thursday urged Union minister Bhupender Yadav to call an urgent joint meeting of environment ministers from NCR states to chalk out a joint action plan to curb the rising air pollution in the region. "Responsibilities of each state should be fixed to implement that plan and reduce pollution," he also said in a press conference in Delhi.The Delhi environment minister also cited a study from the Indian Institute of Tropical Management (IITM), a central government-run body, that 69 per cent share in Delhi's air pollution between October 24 and November 8 was from external sources. "People of Delhi can't reduce the 70 per cent of the external sources of pollution," he said. "That's why I am requesting again the Union environment minister to call a joint meeting of environment ministers from NCR states and make a joint action plan," he addedHe also quoted a similar study done by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) in 2016 which had shown that 64% pollution of Delhi is due to external sources.This comes as the air quality in Delhi plunged to hazardous levels as the pollutant particles in the environment grew. The city faces a similar situation every year with an onset of winters due to the stubble burning, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city and other industries, as well as open garbage burning and dust.On Wednesday, the Delhi environment minister unveiled a 10-point plan which included curbs on vehicular movements, work from home for all government employees and a ban on all construction and demolition work.Schools in the city have also been until further notice in view of the pollution.Speaking during the conference on Thursday, Rai also informed that the Delhi government has taken a number of steps to control the pollution, but "requires a joint effort from all NCR states such as Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh."He alleged that construction activities are going unabated in surrounding areas of Delhi, which is further worsening the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-pollution-gopal-rai-urges-centre-to-call-joint-meeting-of-ncr-states-101637239766701.html
18-11-2021||India||Omar Abdullah stages protest against Hyderpora killings, calls off after families inform of assurance to return bodies||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Thursday staged a sit-in protest at Gupkar near his home in Srinagar, demanding the return of bodies of the two civilians who were killed during an encounter between police and terrorists in Hyderpora on Monday.Taking to Twitter, the official account of JKNC wrote that the protest was “called off” after the family of the slayed civilians “informed him (Abdullah) that the authorities have assured the return of dead bodies.”
18-11-2021||India||In a fresh twist, Nawab Malik says Sameer Wankhede framed ex-wife's cousin; HC order on caste case on Nov 22||In a fresh twist in the case of Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday claimed since the family members of Wankhede's ex-wife have spoken up in the religion-caste controversy, Wankhede has now framed the cousin of his former wife in a drugs case.In a fresh twist in the case of Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday claimed since the family members of Wankhede's ex-wife have spoken up in the religion-caste controversy, Wankhede has now framed the cousin of his former wife in a drugs case.|#+|“Wankhede thought his first wife will speak against him. So, through a peddler, Wankhede planted drugs and got her cousin arrested through the Anti-Narcotics Cell of the state police," Malik said. “His first wife's family was threatened that if they spoke against Wankhede, the entire family will be dubbed as drug peddlers and arrested,” he said.Sameer Wankhede, who was the man behind the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan, got married in 2006 according to Islamic rituals to Shabana Quraishi. The minister has alleged that despite being a Muslim, Wankhede forged an SC certificate and got the government job on an SC quota.Though Wankhede's first wife did not comment on the issue, his former father-in-law Dr Zaheed Quraishi said he knew Sameer Wankhede's family as a Muslim family. He also confirmed that Sameer Wankhede practised Islam at that time when his daughter got married to Sameer. The government job came a year after the Wankhede's first marriage, his father-in-law said.Amid this ongoing controversy, Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede approached the Bombay high court asking it to pass an order prohibiting Nawab Malik from tweeting about the Wankhede family. The court on Thursday said it will pass the order on November 22. Among other things, the court took on record a school admission form and a school leaving certificate submitted by Malik that the NCP leader claimed belongs to Sameer Wankhede and shows that he was born a Muslim. . Dnyandev Wankhede submitted a set of counter documents that included his son's birth certificate and his caste certificate allegedly showing that he indeed belongs to a Scheduled Caste.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-fresh-twist-nawab-malik-says-sameer-wankhede-framed-ex-wife-s-cousin-hc-order-on-caste-case-on-nov-22-101637237051167.html
18-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress concerned over PM's ‘continued silence’ on China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress concerned over PM Modi’s ‘continued silence’ on China; BJP hits backThe Congress on Thursday expressed concern over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “continued silence” over China’s territorial aggression as it cited satellite images suggesting the purported construction of Chinese villages on Bhutanese territory over the last year. Read more.New rule: No liquor for the unvaccinated in this district of Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh’s Khandwa district excise office on Thursday announced a new rule where it mandated that liquor will be sold only to those who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Read more.12 shops gutted, 16 flats damaged in fire at Noida’s Gardenia Golf CityAround twelve shops were gutted and sixteen flats were damaged in a fire that broke out in Gardenia Golf City in Noida Sector 75 on Thursday. officials said. Read more.'I am surprised Rahul Dravid took it up': Ricky Ponting reveals 'some people' were 'hell bent' on making him India coachFormer Australia captain Ricky Ponting has revealed that he had reached out to certain people during the IPL to know what it was to be India coach. Read more.Love to have strawberries with milk? Why Ayurveda doesn't approve of this comboWhile many people love to have strawberry milkshake, Ayurveda considers it Viruddha Ahara as the combination of milk and strawberries could lead to digestive trouble. Read more.Suzuki Avenis sporty scooter launched in India at ₹86,700, to rival TVS NTorqSuzuki Motorcycle India on Thursday announced the launch of the new Avenis sporty scooter. Read more.Javed Akhtar responds to Kangana Ranaut's 'bheekh' remark, here's what he tweetedLyricist Javed Akhtar, on Thursday, responded to actor Kangana Ranaut's 'bheek (handout)' comment. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-concerned-over-pm-s-continued-silence-on-china-101637232869586.html
18-11-2021||India||‘My good fortune': Rajnath Singh meets Army veteran who fought in battle of Rezang La||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday described himself as ‘fortunate’ after he met Briagdier (retired) RV Jatar of the Indian Army, one of the very few men who survived the epic battle of Rezang La, fought between the Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh on November 18, 1962. “It was my good fortune that today, I got an opportunity to meet Brigadier (retired) RV Jatar, who was a company commander at the time,” Singh's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Also Read | 1962 bravest of braves honoured at new Rezang La memorial“I am overwhelmed with respect towards him, and salute his courage. May God keep him health and grant him a long life,” the defence minister, who was in Ladakh to inaugurate the revamped Rezang La memorial, added. मेरा सौभाग्य है कि आज मुझे रेज़ांग ला की लड़ाई में बहादुरी से लड़े ब्रिगेडियर (रिटा.) आर. वी. जटार से भेंट करने का अवसर मिला। वे उस समय कम्पनी कमांडर थे। उनके प्रति सम्मान के भाव से मैं अभिभूत हूँ और उनके साहस को मैं नमन करता हूँ। ईश्वर उन्हें स्वस्थ रखे और दीर्घायु करें। pic.twitter.com/XoCLUGdzVrSingh further showed his respect by ‘escorting’ the wheelchair-bound war veteran towards the memorial.  Brigadier(Retd) R V Jatar of 13 Kumaon, who bravely fought in the 1962 Sino-Indian conflict, being escorted by Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh. pic.twitter.com/OWFpWk16M6The minister, accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and senior Army officers, inaugurated the revamped structure on the 59th anniversary of the battle, which was fought during the 1962 Sino-Indian war. During this episode, the vastly outnumbered 13 Kumaon Battalion, led by Major Shaitan Singh, was attacked by the intruding Chinese troops. However, the Kumaon Battalion fought back, and, besides inflicting a large number of casualties on the Chinese, also saved the Chushul Garrison from being run over.A total of 114 Indian soldiers, including Major Shaitan Singh, sacrificed their lives in the battle of Rezang La.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-good-fortune-rajnath-singh-meets-army-veteran-who-fought-battle-of-rezang-la-101637229752152.html
18-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav concludes yatra on newly inaugurated expressway||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav finished his travel on the newly-inaugurated 341 km Purvanchal Expressway at 4.30 am on Thursday as a “symbolic reiteration” that the project was that of his previous government.Around midnight, he tweeted pictures of his vehicle and supporters saying: “But I have promises to keep and miles to go before I sleep...” Hours later, he tweeted again that night brings in a new dawn. “Now will be a new morning, there will be a change in 2022 (assembly polls).”The fourth leg of Yadav’s Vijay Yatra began at the zero point of the expressway in Ghazipur’s Haiderya around 11 am on Wednesday. It ended at the Chanda Sarai village in Lucknow at 4 am on Thursday. “I think this is one of the longest Yatras of Samajwadi (SP)... but in a real sense, I think the yatra has not ended...It will go on and stop when the SP government is back.”Originally, the yatra was to end in Lucknow on Wednesday evening. “But due to many unscheduled halts because of the crowds of supporters along the way, the yatra went on all night,” said SP leader Rajendra Chaudhary.Yadav undertook the expressway yatra the morning after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated it at an emergency airstrip of the Indian Air Force in Sultanpur on Tuesday. On Tuesday, SP workers did a “symbolic inauguration” of the expressway calling it Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway.Yadav has maintained the expressway was his previous SP government’s project which the BJP has appropriated.The fourth leg of Vijay Yatra was originally scheduled from Ghazipur to Azamgarh on Tuesday. But the Ghazipur district administration denied permission for it citing security reasons for Modi’s event.Yadav said the expressway is incomplete at the start of his Vijay Yatra on the Purvanchal Expressway. “Samajwadis saw the dream and conceived the plan to build it to cut the travel time between Ghazipur and New Delhi. It was to be an expressway to prosperity. They could not make a better road than this in the entire country. After the SP government comes to power, it will build mandis along the expressway and take the expressway to Ballia and connect it with Bihar.”Political analyst SK Dwivedi said it is high time that political parties shelve identify politics. “They should do development politics. They should not fight over who made what. The expressway was built and it is a good thing for the state, the country, and its people. Credit should be given to both who conceived it, and those who built it.”SP sees Yadav’s yatras as a lucky charm. “Before this Akhilesh went on a statewide Kranti Rath in 2011 and the party returned to power with full majority and he became the chief minister for the first time. It is going to happen again now,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-concludes-yatra-on-newly-inaugurated-expressway-101637232422009.html
18-11-2021||India||Bring Anupama Chandran’s baby from Andhra, conduct DNA tests: Kerala panel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM The Kerala Child Welfare Committee on Thursday ordered authorities to produce the child of former Students Federation of India (SFI) leader Anupama S Chandran that was given up for adoption by her family against her wishes.The committee, a quasi-judicial body, also told the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare, the nodal agency for adoption in the state, to get DNA tests conducted to confirm the baby’s biological parents.The baby was reportedly given to a couple in Andhra Pradesh in August without the mother’s consent. A deputy superintendent of police will be in charge of the safety of the child during travel from Andhra Pradesh, it ordered.An official of the state child welfare council later said the baby’s foster parents have agreed to co-operate with the ongoing investigation. Once the baby is back in Kerala, the child will be under protection of a senior official provided for in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, until a final decision is made, the committee said in its order.Anupama Chandran, who is on a stand-in protest outside the office of the state council of child welfare for the past week, welcomed the decision but said she will continue her protest till officials who allegedly colluded with her parents are punished.“It is a good development and I wish it should not happen to any mother. I will continue my fight till action is taken against the guilty officials who flouted norms,” she said. Her protest has` embarrassed the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and led to appeals to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to intervene. The chief minister has so far adopted a hands-off approach, a move in sync with the CPM line that Chandran’s protests and the controversy around her child’s adoption were essentially a family matter. The party did, however, remove her father CS Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPM’s trade union wing CITU, from all party posts in view of the kidnapping charges filed against him by his daughter.On October 20, Anupama Chandran filed a police complaint against her parents, alleging that they took away her newborn last year and given it up for adoption despite her opposition. She alleged that her parents opposed her relation with her husband K Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family. Her father has insisted that he has her daughter’s written consent for the adoption. Chandran, however, countered that her father forced her to sign the document under duress and that the baby was given for adoption in connivance with the state council of child welfare officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-anupama-chandran-s-baby-in-5-days-conduct-dna-tests-orders-kerala-panel-101637231761393.html
18-11-2021||India||Congress concerned over PM Modi’s ‘continued silence’ on China; BJP hits back||The Congress on Thursday expressed concern over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “continued silence” over China’s territorial aggression as it cited satellite images suggesting the purported construction of Chinese villages on Bhutanese territory over the last year.“The new construction by the Chinese on Bhutanese soil is particularly worrying for India since we advised Bhutan on their external relations policy and are also training their armed forces,” said Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh. “Our forces have taken on the illegal Chinese incursion. Why is the Modi government disrespecting and dishonouring the sacrifice of our brave hearts?”Also Read: China adopts new land border law amid military impasse with IndiaVallabh referred to the images at a media briefing. He listed instances where the government allegedly failed to respond to Chinese aggression. “When will the government respond to China’s verbal, geographical, military, and strategic aggression?” Vallabh urged Modi not to hide behind “a smokescreen” and answer to the people.Asked to comment on the issue, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Tom Vadakkan rubbished Vallabh’s claim, calling it “unverified information”. “Firstly, this absent-minded professor is sharing unverified information on behalf of the Congress. Secondly, we have been asking them to share the content of the MoU signed between then Congress president and China. However, they have not done so,” said Vadakkan. “The [current] government has always acknowledged the sacrifices of our soldiers, and claiming that we don’t care is absolutely wrong and misleading.”The Congress has said it will raise the issue during Parliament’s winter session beginning this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-concerned-over-pm-modi-s-continued-silence-on-china-bjp-hits-back-101637230744914.html
18-11-2021||India||12 shops gutted, 16 flats damaged in fire at Noida’s Gardenia Golf City||Around twelve shops were gutted and sixteen flats were damaged in a fire that broke out in Gardenia Golf City in Noida Sector 75 on Thursday. officials said. The fire broke out at around 4 am. The shops were on the ground floor and the flats on the upper floors. The firefighters doused the fire in half an hour and no one was injured. The developer said there are 1026 flats in 13 towers out of which 650 flats are occupied. Vikram Singh Yadav, president of the society’s market association, said there are 43 shops on the ground floor in the society. “The security guard spotted a fire in a shop at 3:30 am. The guard then informed other officials and police,” he said. The firefighters and police team from Sector 49 police station reached the spot and controlled the fire. Vinod Kumar, SHO, Sector 49 police station, said, no one was injured in the incident. He said it appeared a short circuit led to the incident. The fire swiftly spread on the upper floors and damaged the flats situated in the I and J towers of the housing complex. “This is a serious security concern and must be probed. Mostly the shops are run by workers and not the shop owners. There is no security check on them,” said a resident requesting anonymity.Basant Upadhyay, general manager, Gardenia Golf City, said the fire damaged windows, DTH, and air conditions of some flats. “We took swift measures and tried to douse the fire. Since the fire was massive, we called police and firefighters,” he said. He said that only three shops were gutted while other shops had minor damages.He said the developer is repairing the flats. “We have also called a meeting in the society on Monday with the shopkeepers and residents to discuss the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-shops-gutted-16-flats-damaged-in-fire-at-noida-s-gardenia-golf-city-101637230743515.html
18-11-2021||India||'Will take action against Amazon if...': MP minister on ganja peddling through e-commerce site||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday said the government has asked e-commerce site Amazon to cooperate in the recent case of drug peddling that was believed to be using Amazon's e-commerce website for moving more tham 1,000kg of marijuana from Viskhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh to three states. The Madhya Pradesh Police claimed to have busted the interstate gang. "There are no guidelines for online businesses but Madhya Pradesh will make one. Amazon was called but they are not cooperating. I appeal to Amazon's MD-CEO to cooperate. Else, we will initiate action," the home minister said.According to reports, the racket might have smuggled marijuana through Amazon claiming them to be curry leaves.“A company registered in 2007 as an Ahmedabad-based textile firm, Babu Tex Private Limited, which used to sell Marijuana as stevia dry leaves. Acting on a tip-off, police raided a Dhaba in Gohad of Bhind and recovered packaging material of amazon e-commercial company and two air tickets from Visakhapatnam to Delhi,” Bhind police chief Manoj Kumar Singh said.While the consignment was busted on Sunday, Amazon India on Monday said it is investigating the issue. "The issue was notified to us, and we are currently investigating it. We assure full co-operation and support required to Investigating Authorities and Law Enforcement agencies with ongoing investigations to resolve the issue at the earliest," an Amazon spokesperson said.The Madhya Pradesh police summoned Amazon India's executives on Monday and Amazon's lawyers were supposed to meet MP Police on Tuesday. But as the home minister confirmed, there has been no response from Amazon as of now. "The international company has the power of artificial intelligence, so it's a big thing happening on their platform," Manoj Singh said. "There is involvement of Amazon at many levels in this marijuana delivery - from providing logistical support to delivery," Singh said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-action-against-amazon-if-mp-minister-on-ganja-peddling-through-e-commerce-site-101637229502798.html
18-11-2021||India||Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw shares Koo giving ‘sneak peak’ into India’s first pod hotel||India got its first pod hotel on Wednesday at the Mumbai Central railway station, and to celebrate the success, Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw shared a “sneak peek” into the place by posting a Koo. “Welcome to the new-age Pod retiring rooms by Railway Ministry at Mumbai Central,” the Koo post read.The message was the same as the one he posted on Twitter on Wednesday. Both the posts reveal the inside of the pod hotel, and give a tour of the capsule-like rooms.
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi draws up blueprint for financial inclusion, asks bankers to be proactive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked bankers to shun their age-old “approver-applicant” attitude and make customers their partners in progress by stepping up the government’s financial inclusion initiatives and proactively reaching out to small entrepreneurs. The bankers, he emphasized, should also show willingness to invest in new ideas for the country’s inclusive economic development.PM Modi said the Indian banking sector is robust due to several reforms undertaken in the last six-seven years, which helped to provide immediate relief to millions of poor though instant transfer of money in their ‘Jan-Dhan’ accounts. He was addressing a conference on ‘Creating Synergies for Seamless Credit Flow and Economic Growth’ in the capital. He said, banking sector reforms undertaken during his regime not only unearthed hidden huge non-performing assets (NPAs) but also recovered about ₹5 lakh crore from willful defaulters, and another ₹2 lakh crore stressed assets will be resolved through recently created National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL). A transparent Asset Quality Review (AQR), undertaken during the Modi government’s tenure in 2015, gross NPAs of public sector banks (PSBs) soared from ₹2,16,739 crore on March 31, 2014 to ₹8,95,601 crore in March 31, 2018 mainly due to indiscriminate lending to unscrupulous influential people such as Vijay Mallya in the past. After the government’s four ‘R’ strategy – recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms – it went down to ₹6,16,616 crore on March 31, 2021, according to official data.The Prime Minister said the government has strengthened banks by recapitalising them and transparently resolving their NPA issues that included transformative legislation -- the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). “Today, Indian banks have become so strong that they are capable of energising the economy of the country, to give it a big push. They can play a big role in making India self-reliant,” he said in Hindi.He asked bankers to become proactive and instead of waiting for the customer to visit them, they should approach people who need finances. “You must shun the feeling that you are an approver and the person in-front of you is an applicant, and banks must adopt the partnership model,” he said.PM Modi underscored the importance of using data to enhance business and improve services. He gave the example of Goods and Services Tax (GST) data that capture financial history of an entrepreneur, which banks should leverage to proactively reach out to scrupulous businessmen who may need funds to further expand their businesses.Recalling his school-days, when banks were not nationalised and the private bankers used to visit schools explaining the importance of opening a bank account to children, he said public sector banks should not wait for their customers to visit them, instead bank branches must approach at least 10 local micro, small and medium enterprises in their vicinity and offer financial help and advice to enhance their businesses. “This is the time when banks should act as wealth creators and job creators, which will help in enhancing the country’s balance sheet,” the PM said.This is possible, he said citing the example of one of the world’s largest financial inclusion initiatives – ‘Jan-Dhan’ accounts. India could accomplish this because of dedication of executives working in public sector banks, he added. “The initiative paid off during the pandemic as it ensured that no poor person was left hungry during the period,” he said. The Covid-19 pandemic hit India in March 2020 and led to a 68-day nationwide lockdown. During this period the government released free food grains and financial assistance to the poor. The financial assistance went directly to the ‘Jan-Dhan’ accounts of the beneficiaries at the click of a button.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-draws-up-blueprint-for-financial-inclusion-asks-bankers-to-be-proactive-101637229601238.html
18-11-2021||India||Congress leader Surjewala challenges CBI, ED chiefs’ extension in SC||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala has approached the Supreme Court challenging the two Ordinances allowing the Centre to extend the tenure of heads of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Directorate of Enforcement for up to five years.In his petition, Surjewala said that such “ad hoc extension” goes against the Supreme Court rulings that intend to insulate these agencies from any kind of political interference. He cited the 1997 decision in Vineet Narain case where the Court held a minimum secured tenure for CBI and ED directors followed by the Alok K Verma case (2019) where the need to insulate CBI Director from all extraneous influences was laid down.On September 8, the top court, in yet another decision, considered the extension granted by the Centre to the incumbent ED director and said that such an extension has to be in “rare and exceptional” circumstances and for a short period.“These investigative agencies were created to serve the public but with these amendments, they are being subordinated in a clear and malicious fashion to serve the will of the executive,” said the petition filed through advocate Abhishek Jebaraj.It further said that the ordinances go against the Supreme Court rulings that gave much-needed stability to the tenure of Director of Enforcement and Director, CBI to protect them from political interference.The two ordinances – Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance and Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance – that amend Section 25 and Section 4B of the CVC Act 2003 and DSPE Act 1946 respectively were promulgated on November 14.The CBI and ED directors are appointed for a two-year tenure. The twin amendments allow the Centre to extend their original tenure by one year at a time with a rider that “no such extension shall be granted after the completion of five years in total, including the period sanctioned in the initial appointment.” The petition further questioned the two ordinances on the ground that there are no criteria provided save for a vague reference to ‘public interest’ and is in fact, based on the subjective satisfaction of the respondents. “This has the direct and clear impact of eroding the independence of the investigative bodies in question,” the petition added.The petition also questioned the reason for bringing the ordinance 15 days before the Parliament is to convene and said, “This hurried rush, of promulgating the ordinances three days before the retirement of the incumbent director ED, is only intended to allow the government to extend the term of the said director ED which comes to an end on November 17.” He called the ordinances an exercise of abuse of power that is manifestly arbitrary.Surjewala said that this Court has held time and again that the CBI is required to function independently and be insulated from extraneous influences to discharge its functions in accordance with the rule of law. However, such a “piecemeal extension system”, creates a perverse incentive for officials to serve at the pleasure of the government, the petition stated.On Wednesday, Trinamool Congress MP Mohua Moitra filed a petition challenging the two ordinances. She stated that by an ordinance, the Centre cannot nullify a Supreme Court decision and a one year extension period cannot be termed as a “short” extension, considering the fact that the total tenure of both CBI and ED directors is two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-surjewala-challenges-cbi-ed-chiefs-extension-in-sc-101637229123565.html
18-11-2021||India||At seamless credit flow meet, PM Modi promises support to banks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended his support to banks and said that he is standing behind them, as he spoke about the financial health of these institutions during a conference on seamless credit flow in Delhi.Addressing the concluding session of the two-day symposium, Modi underlined the Centre's initiatives to improve the financial health of banks amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The Prime Minister said the banking sector of India is currently in a major milestone phase that can give a great push to the country's economy."The reforms made by the government in the banking sector in the last six-seven years, supported the banking sector in every way, due to which the banking sector of the country is in a very strong position today," he said at the session titled ‘Creating Synergies for Seamless Credit Flow and Economic Growth’."You might also feel that the financial health of the banks is in a much-improved condition now," PM Modi added.The conference was organised by the finance ministry and was attended by representatives of various industries, banks and financial institutions. It was held to remove friction in credit flow to productive sectors of the economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was also present at the conference.He further said a dedicated Stressed Asset Management Vertical was formed in the country during the Covid period. "We have found ways to solve problems and challenges that were there before 2014. We addressed the problem of Non-Performing Assets (NPA). We recapitalised the banks and increased their strength," PM Modi also said."Today the capacity of the banks of India has increased so much that they can play a great role in giving new energy and a great push to the economy of the country and making it self-reliant. I consider this phase as a major milestone in the banking sector of India," he also said.PM Modi also said that the banks should adopt the model of partnership leaving the traditional approver-applicant system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-seamless-credit-flow-meet-pm-modi-promises-support-to-banks-101637226074865.html
18-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu pitches for timeframe for Governors to decide on bills||With Tamil Nadu awaiting a decision from constitutional authorities on two crucial issues- exemption of NEET and the release of prisoners in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case - the state’s Speaker M Appavu came down heavily on Governors sitting on bills indefinitely and also said that if the President rejects a bill, people are entitled to know the reason. Appavu was speaking at the Presiding Officers conference held in Shimla on Wednesday.Appavu said that this was an important issue facing state legislation and also pitched for fixing a timeframe within which the Governors need to send bills to the President for consideration. “When a bill is passed by a majority and sent for the assent of the Governors, the latter, sometimes, sit over the bill without giving his assent or returning the bill for an indefinite period, even though the Constitution requires it to be done “as soon as possible”,” Appavu said. He added that “another problem” which erodes the authority of legislatures is that where a bill is required to be reserved for the consideration of the President, the Governors “are taking months together” even though they are bound to do so immediately. Pointing out that though Governors are heads of the State Executive since they are appointed by the Union government they are overruling the will of the state’s people when they stall the assent to a bill. “We have to work together to set a binding time frame within which bills have to be assented to, returned or reserved for the consideration of the Hon’ble President of India by the Hon’ble Governors,” Appavu said.He further said that another “Constitutional issue” is for the President to give reasons if he withholds the assent and returns the bill. This would help the House to enact another bill by correcting shortfalls that caused the bill to be rejected, he said. “How else will the House that enacted the bill know what is the real impediment in withholding the assent?” he questioned saying that the House reflects the will of the people so it amounts to the rejection of them too. “Therefore, are not the people entitled to know at least the reason why the bill was not assented to?”The Speaker’s comments assume significance in the backdrop of a bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly on September 13 seeking exemption for students from the state from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) required for undergraduate medical college admissions. The bill was passed by the ruling DMK with the support of all parties except the BJP and it happened during the time when the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was transferred and before Governor RN Ravi took charge on September 18. The bill is pending with Ravi and it is unclear if it has been sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. In 2017, the President rejected a similar bill seeking NEET exemption passed by the Assembly under the previous AIADMK regime. In another sensitive issue in the state, the Tamil Nadu cabinet passed a unanimous resolution in 2018 in the assembly regarding the release of the seven prisoners convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The resolution was sent to then Governor Purohit but he did not take any action for more than two years. In January the Supreme Court, while hearing a plea, expressed that they were unhappy with the delay. In February, Purohit, without taking a call, passed the buck and said that the President was the competent authority to decide on the resolution. After forming the government in May, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote a letter to President Kovind urging him to remit the life sentence of the seven convicts and to direct their immediate release.The BJP in Tamil Nadu reacted saying that the Speaker should have had more awareness on the issue. “The Governor and the President operate as per the Constitution and nowhere is a time frame set,” said BJP’s spokesperson Narayanan Thirupathy. “Also the Supreme Court has so many times refused to instruct a time frame in several cases. I think the Speaker should have been aware of these aspects.”Appavu recalled that President Kovind participated in the centenary celebrations of the Tamil Nadu assembly where he unveiled a portrait of DMK’s late patriarch M Karunanidhi. Quoting Karunanidhi, Appavu said that the Legislature is like a mirror to the executive branch. “The mirror reflects not only the beauty but also the flaws. Similarly, the Legislature should not only laud the good work of the Government but also criticize it when it falls short,” he said while seeing changes. On the role of presiding officers, he said that they are the ultimate arbiters. “A very heavy responsibility is cast on the Presiding Officers to ensure that the independent and sovereign functions of the Legislature are guided in accordance with the Constitution so that the Judicial branch is not called upon to test the decisions of the Speakers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-pitches-for-timeframe-for-governors-to-decide-on-bills-101637227802562.html
18-11-2021||India||Soon, book Covid-19 vaccination slots using Google Assistant: All you need to know||The Union health ministry announced in August that slots for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be booked through WhatsApp. Now, in a fresh development, Google India announced on Thursday that beginning early 2022, beneficiaries will be able to book their vaccination slots through the US technology giant's Google Assistant feature. “(Senior Vice President) Prabhakar Raghavan announced a pilot of the first-ever Google Assistant-enabled, end-to-end vaccine booking flow in India. Set to begin rolling out in early 2022,” Google India tweeted after the Google For India 2021 event, during which the initiative was announced. Prabhakar Raghavan announced a pilot of the first-ever Google Assistant-enabled, end-to-end vaccine booking flow in India. Set to begin rolling out in early 2022. #GoogleForIndia@WittedNote @mandaviya_in @PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA @AyushmanNHA pic.twitter.com/3dbALaaJWCHere's all you need to know about the Assistant-enabled vaccination slot booking:(1.) On the search box, type ‘Covid-19 vaccine’ or a similar query, such as ‘Covid-19 vaccine registration’ etc. (2.) Enable Google Assistant and select the preferred language. You can choose English or any of the eight available Indian languages.(3.) To register a beneficiary, enter his 12-digit Aadhaar card number. Also enter details such as full name, birth year (YYYY format). Then, select the beneficiary for whom a vaccination slot is to be booked.(4.) Using pin code or district name, search for vaccination centres. Then, choose from free or paid categories of vaccine. Next, select the jab for inoculation.(5.) Select the date and time slot as per your convenience. The appointment will finally be scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-book-covid-19-vaccination-slots-using-google-assistant-all-you-need-to-know-101637225007151.html
18-11-2021||India||IAF copter crash-lands in Arunachal Pradesh, all crew safe: Report||An Mi-17 helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) reportedly crash-landed in eastern Arunachal Pradesh with two pilots and three crew members on Thursday.An ANI report quoted sources saying all the crew members and pilots were safe.An IAF Mi-17 helicopter today crash-landed in eastern Arunachal Pradesh with 2 pilots&3 crew members. All are safe. Helicopter was carrying out air maintenance sortie when the incident took place. Court of inquiry will be ordered to ascertain the reasons for the incident: Sources pic.twitter.com/LGMfGrwc5PThe helicopter was carrying out an air maintenance sortie in the area when the incident took place.A court of inquiry is likely to be ordered to ascertain the cause of the incident.This is a developing st(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-copter-crash-lands-in-arunachal-pradesh-all-crew-safe-report-101637226613699.html
18-11-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: Mehbooba Mufti says she is under house arrest again||People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday claimed that she has been put under house arrest amid a row over the Hyderpora encounter in Jammu and Kashmir. Taking to Twitter, she further said local police have arrested two of her party colleagues -- party chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari and spokesperson Najmu Saqib -- in a post on Twitter.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also posted pictures of locked doors and a surveillance vehicle outside the main gate of her residence. "Again under house arrest and PDPs Sqib and Suhail Bukhari too have been arrested," she wrote on the micro-blogging site. "The pattern of using innocent civilians as human shields and then denying their families the right to a decent burial shows that GOI has plumbed new depths of inhumanity," the PDP leader added.Again under house arrest & PDPs @SAAQQIIB & @Suhail_Bukhari too have been arrested. The pattern of using innocent civilians as human shields & then denying their families the right to a decent burial shows that GOI has plumbed new depths of inhumanity. pic.twitter.com/COnUZdJnixOn Monday, a Pakistani terrorist, his associate Aamir Magray and two civilians - Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul - were killed in the encounter in the Hyderpora area of Srinagar. The family of the two civilians -- Altaf Ahmad and Mudasir -- have claimed that they are innocent and demanded their bodies be returned for burials as per their rituals. However, police have charged them as "terror associates".Mufti said the "narrative right from the start was based on lies to escape accountability". "They don't want to be held accountable for their actions and that's why they are muzzling voices that speak up against such injustice and atrocities," she added.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered a magisterial probe into the Hyderpora encounter. "The government will take suitable action as soon as the report is submitted in a time-bound manner. Jammu and Kashmir administration reiterates the commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians and it will ensure there is no injustice," tweeted the Office of Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha.Earlier in the day, the family members of two civilians were forcibly removed from the sites, where they were staging a sit-in. The demonstration was staged to demand the bodies of their family members to be returned to them for burials. Several protesters were detained by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-encounter-mehbooba-mufti-says-she-is-under-house-arrest-again-101637226170209.html
18-11-2021||India||MP minister bans Vir Das in state, explains why such 'clowns' have support of Rahul Gandhi||Comedian Vir Das, who is at the centre of a controversy because of the YouTube video 'I come from two Indias' will not be allowed to perform in Madhya Pradesh, home minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday, news agency PTI reported. Taking a jibe at Congress leaders who have spoken in support of the comedian, Mishra said, "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also defames India on foreign land. MP Congress chief Kamal Nath also does it." "Such type of people like him, I call them 'vidushak' (jester) would not be allowed to perform in the state. If he (Das) apologises, we are going to think over it," Narottam Mishra said.Several police complaints have been filed against the satirist, who is in the United States right now. He uploaded the video on his YouTube channel on Monday and it is part of his recent performance at the John F Kennedy Centre in Washington DC. In the video, he talked about two India, juxtaposed with each other, and touched on issues like farm protests, Covid-19, rape, freedom of speech etc. Delhi BJP vice president and spokesperson Aditya took objection to Vir Das's comment that women are worshipped in the day and raped at night in India and said these remarks maligned the image of Indian women on a global platform. All such "derogatory" statements were made on an international platform maligning the image of women and the country, Jha claimed.Congress leader Kapil Sibal supported Das and said, “…Just that we don’t want an Indian to tell the world about it. We are intolerant and hypocritical.” Shashi Tharoor praised Das as a stand-up comedian who knows that the real meaning of the term "stand up" is not physical but moral.The video has drawn sharp reactions from politicians, celebrities with Kangana Ranaut, who created a stir with her 'independence' comment, demanding strict action against Vir Das. The Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE), a film body that claims to have over 2.5 lakh registered members, earlier said its members won't work with Das unless he issues a public apology.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-kamal-nath-like-vir-das-minister-bans-das-from-performing-in-madhya-pradesh-101637225301532.html
18-11-2021||India||NIA sleuths raid residences of alleged CPI (Maoist) sympathisers||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted search operations at the residences of alleged Communist Party of India (Maoist) sympathisers, civil rights activists and several other individuals on suspicion that they were extending support to the banned outfit, said people familiar with the developments.The NIA carried out searches in 14 places in Hyderabad and also in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. “The searches are based on specific information the NIA obtained after a recent encounter in Gadhchiroli district in which 27 Maoists were killed in a shootout with the police,” said an Andhra Pradesh police official, who wished not to be named.The search operations began at 5am with a raid on the residence of G Kalyan Rao, a poet and leader of Viplava Rachayitala Sangham (Revolutionary Writers’ Association), in Alakurapadu village of Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh. The NIA authorities are known to have seized pro-Maoist literature from him.Also Read: ‘Knew you were strong’: Emotional reunion of C’garh official abducted by MaoistsKalyan Rao is known to be closely related to the Maoist party’s central committee member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna or RK, who died from kidney-related ailments in Chhattisgarh on October 14. Ramakrishna was married to Kalyan Rao’s sister-in-law and both took part in the 2004 talks between Maoist party members and the Andhra Pradesh government.NIA authorities also raided the residence of Annapurna, advocate and leader of a progressive women’s association in Visakhapatnam on suspicion that she had close contacts with the banned Maoists.In Hyderabad, NIA sleuths carried out searches at the residences of Padma Kumari, president of Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham (Association of Friends and Relatives of Martyrs) and Bhavani, the organisation’s secretary, in Subhash Nagar, Alwal.Search operations were also conducted at the residence of former Maoists Narla Ravi Sharma and his wife B Anuradha in Hyderabad’s Nagole. In the past, Ravi Sharma was a central committee member of the Maoist outfit while Anuradha had worked in the state committee of the outfit’s Bihar-Jharkhand unit.Last Friday, the Hyderabad police thwarted an attempt by a group of Maoist sympathisers to hold a condolence meeting in Hyderabad to mark the death of central committee member Ramakrishna.The police also raided a printing press at Amberpet, which was publishing a book on Ramakrishna listing out his speeches, interviews and various articles. Cops seized over 1,000 copies of the book apart from computers, hard disks and pen drives among other things. The police arrested V Ramakrishna Reddy, husband of social activist Sandhya, for allegedly “supporting” the activities of the outlawed CPI (Maoist).The NIA made enquiries about the people who tried to hold the condolence meeting and also those who published the book. “The current raids could be part of those enquiries,” the Andhra Pradesh police official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-sleuths-raid-residences-of-alleged-cpi-maoist-sympathisers-101637225341330.html
18-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu moves SC against HC order setting aside internal quota for Vanniyars||The Tamil Nadu government and Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK) have filed separate petitions in the Supreme Court challenging the Madras high court’s November 1 order setting aside 10.5% internal reservation for the Vanniyar community within the 20% quota for Most Backward Class.In its plea, the government said it has acted diligently and the admission process will suffer as a result of the high court order while calling it erroneous. Advocate D Kumanan, representing the government, prayed the Supreme Court to grant special leave to appeal against the high court judgement and pass appropriate orders. The government has also sought interim relief such as a stay on the judgement.The previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government introduced the reservation in jobs and education just before the model code of conduct came into effect in February ahead of the assembly elections. The quota was implemented after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam formed the government in May. The high court said the quota violated the Constitution as it treats one caste- Vanniayars--differently and discriminates against others.The government has argued the quota was enacted based on Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission’s “adequate, authenticated” data on the population of the MBCs and Denotified Communities. Retired bureaucrat J A Ambasankar led the commission, which submitted its door-to-door enumeration of the entire state’s population in 1985. “The caste-wise population data disclosed by Ambasankar Commission is the only authenticated data available as of now before the state and such data can be effectively used to plan for sub-classification within the backward classes,” the government said in its petition.A quota under an existing reservation is called sub-categorisation.The government cited the Supreme Court’s May 2021 judgement in the Jaishrilakshmirao Patil versus the Chief Minister and others case on the powers of the state to legislate for the identification of socially and economically backward classes. It added the judgment favoured the existing powers for special reservation and sub-classification within backward classes.The apex court held the state’s power remains undisturbed to provide reservation to a particular community, caste. The state argued there is no necessity to consult the National Commission for Backward Classes. It said the high court referred to the 1992 Indra Sawhney versus Union of India case but did not follow a Supreme Court observation saying caste is often a social class in the country. “As such, a caste, which is socially and educationally backward may be classified as Backward classes,” the petition said.The PMK, which counts Vanniyar as its core vote bank, filed two petitions in the Supreme Court. “One is by the party and the other has been filed independently by the party founder (S Ramadoss) as both are respondents in the original case in the high court,” said PMK spokesperson K Balu.In his petition, Ramadoss argued internal quotas for Muslims and Arunthathiyars have been provided within the overall 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu and courts have upheld this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-moves-supreme-court-against-hc-order-setting-aside-internal-quota-for-vanniyars-101637224142065.html
18-11-2021||India||‘Disclose whereabouts’: Supreme Court tells Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, declared a proclaimed offender, to disclose his whereabouts. Singh had moved the top court seeking protection against arrest.The court told his lawyer that Singh's petition will be heard "only after he tells which part of the country or the world he is in".The top court posted the matter for further hearing on November 22.A magistrate's court in Mumbai had on Wednesday declared Singh a "proclaimed offender" in an extortion case registered against him and some other police officers in the city.This is the first instance of a Mumbai Police commissioner being declared a proclaimed offender. Singh, 59, was the city's 43rd police commissioner.Watch: Param Bir Singh declared 'proclaimed offender', what it meansCurrently posted as Director General of Home Guards, Singh last attended his office in May, after which he went on leave. The state police had told the Bombay high court in October that his whereabouts were not known.The crime branch of Mumbai Police, which is probing the extortion case, had sought the proclamation against him, saying that the IPS officer could not be traced even after the issuance of a non-bailable warrant.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale also directed Singh to appear before court in 30 days in connection with the case. If he fails to appear, police can initiate the process for attachment of his properties under section 83 of Code of Criminal Procedure.The extortion case against Singh is based on a complaint filed by a real estate developer and hotelier, who claimed the incidents happened between January 2020 and March 2021. Singh is facing an extortion case in Thane too.The IPS officer was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March 2021 after the arrest of now dismissed policeman Sachin Waze after an SUV with explosives was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence 'Antilia' and the subsequent death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran.Singh was then appointed as Director General, Home Guards, following which he accused then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption, a charge the latter denied.Deshmukh later stepped down as minister and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case against him based on Singh's allegations. Param Bir Singh was last seen in public on April 7, when he appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mumbai to record statement in the Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disclose-whereabouts-supreme-court-tells-param-bir-singh-101637221157450.html
18-11-2021||India||‘Hard decisions’ if denied BJP ticket: Manohar Parrikar’s son||Utpal Parrikar, son of late former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, warned on Thursday that he may have to take “hard decisions” if he is denied ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket to contest assembly elections from Panaji even as he was ‘fully confident’ that he would get it. Manohar Parrikar represented the seat for over 25 years.“I have already told the party that I wish to contest the elections from Panjim and I am fully confident that the party will give me a ticket,” said Utpal Parrikar.Atanasio Monserrate, who represents the seat, defected to the BJP along with nine other lawmakers, who won the 2017 elections on Congress’s tickets.Utpal Parrikar said it was not the time to speak about it when asked to elaborate on what he intended to do in case he is denied the ticket for the polls due next year. “I do not need to speak about that now. Manohar Parrikar did not get anything easy in his life. Similarly, I too will have to work for what I want. I may also be forced to make some hard decisions and I pray for the strength... I (need)...to take these decisions.” He added he may also stay with the BJP to fight. “When the time comes to make a decision, I will listen to the people. I have told the party and the party will give me (the ticket). I am confident.”Utpal Parrikar, who visited a temple where a group of supporters wished him, was in contention for the BJP ticket for the by-election when his father passed away in 2019. But the ticket eventually went to Siddharth Kuncalienkar, who had resigned to allow Manohar Parrikar to contest when he returned to the state after a stint at the Centre as the defence minister to take over as Goa chief minister again. BJP allies sought Manohar Parrikar’s return as a condition to support the BJP in forming the government.After minister Francis D’Souza passed away, the BJP gave the ticket to Joshua to contest the by-election from Mapusa.State BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that decisions regarding the party’s tickets are taken by the parliamentary board. “Anyone can stake a claim for the party’s ticket. The decision is ultimately taken by the party’s parliamentary board and not at the local level. I met him (Utpal Parrikar) recently we did not discuss anything about the ticket,” Tanavade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hard-decisions-if-denied-bjp-ticket-manohar-parrikar-s-son-101637221202347.html
18-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: 5 accused get bail in ED’s money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Five accused get bail in ED’s money laundering case against Anil DeshmukhA special court has granted interim bail to five people booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Read MoreSC sets aside HC ruling that held 'skin-to-skin contact' key for sexual assaultThe Supreme Court on Thursday set aside a verdict of the Bombay high court that said skin-to-skin contact was a necessary ingredient for punishing persons accused of sexually assaulting minors. Read MoreLet’s ensure cryptocurrency doesn’t end up in wrong hands, says PM ModiModern technologies have the potential to be used as instruments of conflict and domination, and democratic nations should work together on cryptocurrency to ensure it does not end up in the wrong hands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Read More'I rated him highly. But he hasn't lived up to my expectations': Inzamam says explosive India batter is 'under pressure'India brushed off the disappointment of the T20 World Cup with a win over New Zealand in the first T20I on Wednesday in Jaipur. However, the victory wasn't as easy as it seemed at one stage. Read MorePreity Zinta, Gene Goodenough welcome twins Jai and Gia, thank surrogate for being 'part of this incredible journey'Preity Zinta and her husband Gene Goodenough have welcomed twins – Jai Zinta Goodenough and Gia Zinta Goodenough. Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the actor shared the news with her fans. She also posted a picture of herself with Gene. Read MoreVarun Dhawan's intense workout to Harrdy Sandhu's Bijlee Bijlee is all the motivation you need: WatchActor Varun Dhawan enjoys the title of one of the fittest celebrities in Bollywood. The star is a fitness buff and is known for his dedication to living a healthy and fit lifestyle. Read MoreDucati's flagship superbike, Panigale V4 SP launched in India at over ₹36 lakhDucati India on Thursday announced the launch of its new flagship superbike in the country, the Panigale V4 SP. The motorcycle has been priced at ₹36,07,000 lakh in India (Ex-Showroom). Read MoreWatch | How PM Modi warned against Crypto, Bitcoin at Sydney Dialogue I Key Highlights||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-5-accused-get-bail-in-ed-s-money-laundering-case-against-anil-deshmukh-and-all-the-latest-news-101637218854694.html
18-11-2021||India||India, China to hold another round of border talks today||India and China will hold discussions over pending border issues today. The talks will be held under Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC).Three major friction points had emerged between the two countries including both the banks of Pangong lake, Gogra heights and the Hot Springs area following Chinese build up along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.Through multiple rounds of talks, both sides have resolved issues involving Pangong Tso and Gogra heights friction points as troops have disengaged from there.India and China held the 13th round of the India-China Corps Commander-level meeting last month.India conveyed that it expects the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of all the remaining issues on the LAC in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-another-round-of-border-talks-today-101637219674417.html
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi to address meet on seamless credit flow today, Sitharaman in attendance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the concluding session of the conference on 'Creating Synergies for Seamless Credit Flow and Economic Growth' on Thursday in New Delhi. The conference is being organised by the financial services department of the Union finance ministry. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will remain present during the session.The two-day conference will see the participation of representatives of various industries, banks and financial institutions.The event is scheduled to be held at 12pm at the Ashok Hotel in New Delhi. It is being held to remove friction in credit flow to productive sectors of the economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The main focus of the conference is on flow of credit into different sectors of the economy in a seamless manner.It would also undertake a comprehensive review of various segments and progress in government schemes, including the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, according to a report by PTI.The meeting between the government and the heads of banks and financial institutions comes at a time when banks are undertaking outreach programmes to push lending in the productive sectors of the economy.Since the commencement of the government's nationwide Credit Outreach Programme on October 16, banks have sanctioned 13.84 lakh loans totalling ₹63,574 crore through 10,580 camps held across the country as of October 31.As per the data shared by the finance ministry, as much as ₹21,687.23 crore in business loans were sanctioned to about 3.2 lakh beneficiaries, while vehicle loans worth ₹4,560,39 crore were sanctioned to 59,090 borrowers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-meet-on-seamless-credit-flow-today-sitharaman-in-attendance-101637218574390.html
18-11-2021||India||Let’s ensure cryptocurrency doesn’t end up in wrong hands, says PM Modi||Modern technologies have the potential to be used as instruments of conflict and domination, and democratic nations should work together on cryptocurrency to ensure it does not end up in the wrong hands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday.India has created a “robust framework of data protection, privacy and security”, and is using data to empower people within a democratic framework with strong guarantees of individual rights, Modi said in a virtual keynote address at the Sydney Dialogue organised by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.Describing technology and data as “new weapons”, Modi said: “Technology has already become a major instrument of global competition and key to shaping the future international order...The biggest strength of democracy is openness. At the same time, we should not allow a few vested interests to misuse this openness.”While it is essential for democracies to work together to develop governance standards and norms consistent with democratic values, this process should recognise national rights and promote the larger public good, he said.Also Read: Cryptocurrency crash: Bitcoin drops below $60,000, Ether falls“Take cryptocurrency or Bitcoin for example. It is important that all democratic nations work together on this and ensure it does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth,” he said.Modi added, “We are at a historic moment of choice – whether all the wonderful powers of technology of our age will be instruments of cooperation or conflict, coercion or choice, domination or development, oppression or opportunity. India, Australia and our partners in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond hear the call of our times.”The prime minister’s remarks came five days after he chaired a meeting on the way forward on cryptocurrency, during which the issue of misleading non-transparent advertising on cryptocurrency was flagged. Officials had also warned that such unregulated markets cannot be allowed to become avenues for money laundering and terror financing.The government is considering strong regulatory steps and planning to forge global partnerships and collective strategies since the issue cuts across geographical borders.Describing data as the “greatest product of technology”, Modi said India has “created a robust framework of data protection, privacy and security”, and also has unmatched experience in using data to empower people within a democratic framework with strong guarantees of individual rights.He suggested democracies should come together to build a future that reflects democratic values by investing in research and development of future technology, developing a trusted manufacturing base and trusted supply chains, and deepening intelligence and operational cooperation on cybersecurity and protection of critical information infrastructure.Democracies should also work jointly to prevent manipulation of public opinions, develop technical and governance standards and norms consistent with democratic values, and create standards and norms for data governance and for cross-border flow that protect and secure data, he said.ACHIEVEMENTS IN FIVE AREASModi also listed India’s achievements in five key areas related to technology. He said the country is building the world’s most extensive public information infrastructure, and more than 1.3 billion Indians have a unique digital identity.“We are on our way to connect 600,000 villages with broadband. We have built the world’s most efficient payment infrastructure, the UPI. Over 800 million Indians use internet, 750 million are on smartphones,” he added.Secondly, India is transforming the lives of people by using digital technology for governance, inclusion, empowerment, connectivity, delivery of benefits and welfare. “Recently, we have used technology to deliver over 1.1 billion doses of vaccines, across India’s vast geography using Arogya Setu and CoWIN platforms,” he said.Third, India has the world’s third largest and fastest growing startup ecosystem that is providing solutions to everything from health to national security, and fourth, industry, services and agriculture are undergoing a “massive digital transformation”.The fifth key area listed by Modi was preparing India for the future by investing in indigenous capabilities in telecom technology such as 5G and 6G. “India is one of the leading nations in artificial intelligence and machine learning, especially in human-centred and ethical use of artificial intelligence. We are developing strong capabilities in cloud platforms and cloud computing,” he said.All of this is key to resilience and digital sovereignty, and India’s space programme is now open to innovation and investment from the private sector.“India is already a major centre for providing cybersecurity solutions and services to corporates around the world. We have set up a task force with our industry to make India a global hub for cyber security,” he said.India is also preparing a package of incentives to become a key manufacturer of semiconductors and the country’s production-linked incentive schemes in electronics and telecom have attracted local and global players, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-ensure-cryptocurrency-doesn-t-end-up-in-wrong-hands-says-pm-modi-101637218020523.html
18-11-2021||India||J-K govt orders magisterial probe into controversial Hyderpora encounter||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday ordered a magisterial inquiry into the controversial encounter in Hyderpora earlier this week. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said suitable action will be taken as soon as a report is submitted in a time-bound manner. He also spoke about the government’s commitment to protecting the lives of civilians and ensuring there was no injustice.“A magisterial inquiry by an officer of ADM rank has been ordered in the Hyderpora encounter. The government will take suitable action as soon as a report is submitted in a time-bound manner. The Jammu and Kashmir administration reiterates its commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians and it will ensure there is no injustice,” Sinha said on Thursday.Also Read| Hyderpora encounter: ‘My son was killed under a conspiracy’On Monday, a Pakistani terrorist, his associate Aamir Magray and two civilians - Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul - were killed in the encounter in the Hyderpora area of Srinagar.While Bhat was the owner of the shopping complex where the encounter happened, Gul was one of the building's tenants.Families of Bhat, Gul and Magray have claimed the deceased people were innocent and demanded their bodies be returned. On Wednesday, protests were held at several places across the valley demanding an inquiry into their deaths.However, the J-K police maintained that Gul was an active associate of militants and was running the call centre on the premises owned by Altaf.Inspector general of police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday that Bhat was killed in cross-firing with the terrorists. However, even as expressed regret over his death, Kumar added that Bhat would be counted among the "harbourers" of militants.Also Read| Hyderpora encounter: Mehbooba Mufti says her stir against killing of innocentsMeanwhile, as the protests intensified on Wednesday, National Conference (NC) patron Farooq Abdullah had a telephonic conversation with Sinha and had apprised him of the situation."I informed the LG about the contradictory statements made by the police. On Monday, they are civilians trapped in crossfire and Tuesday they are harbourers of terror. If they had so much of the so-called inputs about the deceased on Tuesday, they could have shared on Monday. This is a cooked-up story and needs to be probed," Abdullah was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-govt-orders-magisterial-probe-into-controversial-hyderpora-encounter-101637215691880.html
18-11-2021||India||Supreme Court orders CBI probe into HZL stake sale in 2002||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered a court-monitored Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the initial stake sale of Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) to Anil Agarwal-run Sterlite Opportunities and Ventures Ltd (SOVL) in 2002 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was in power.A bench, led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, allowed the union government to disinvest its remaining shareholding of 29.5% in HZL since the company was no more a government-held company. It directed the CBI should register a regular case into the 2002 sale and submit its reports to the court quarterly.The court cited a report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India besides other instances and added there were “sufficient materials on record” to conduct a full-fledged investigation into the bidding process and valuation of shares and assets of HZL.A preliminary inquiry was started by the CBI in November 2013 to look into alleged corrupt practices. But the government informed the top court that the case was closed since there was no evidence of criminality.In 2002, the Centre decided to divest its controlling shares in HZL.Also Read: Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra challenges CBI, ED Ordinances in top courtAn association of officers related to the public sector undertaking filed a plea alleging illegalities in the disinvestment for benefits to a few by undervaluing the shares. It asked for a CBI probe into the deal and restraining the government from further divesting its share. The petition pointed out that the final decision to close the case was taken even though several officers of the CBI recommended the registration of a regular case for further inquiry.HZL was incorporated as a public sector firm in 1996. The NDA government in August 2000 decided to disinvest 26% of its equity through a strategic sale. Sterlite Industries emerged as the highest bidder, offering ₹40.5 per share for the government’s stake. The transaction was completed in April 2002.Further, as part of the “call option” part of the deal, the government further divested around 19% stake at the same price to the private entity in November 2003. Through this two-phase transaction, the government sold 45% of its stake in the firm for around ₹769 crore.The Madras high court in 2012 approved the Scheme of Amalgamation of SOV with Sterlite Industries (India) Limited owned by Vedanta Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-hzl-stake-sale-in-2002-101637216520438.html
18-11-2021||India||Top Hizb terrorist killed in Kulgam encounter, Kashmir IGP says big success||A top commander of the militant outfit Hizbul Mujahideen was killed along with two other terrorists during Wednesday’s encounter in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir.Calling it a bid success, inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said Shakir Nazar, the district commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen was active since 2018.In a statement, police said the other slain terrorists were identified as Aslam Dar and Sumair Najar.While Dar, a resident of Qaimoh, was active from May 2019, Najar, a local of  Kanipora Shopian, was active from May 2021. Earlier, police said four terrorists were killed in Pombai and Gopalpora villages of Kulgam district in separate encounters with the security forces on Wednesday, adding that the gun battles were underway.Earlier on Tuesday, a Pakistani terrorist and his associate have been eliminated in an encounter in the Hyderpora area of Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hizb-terrorist-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-kashmir-igp-says-big-success-101637216094667.html
18-11-2021||India||SC sets aside Bombay HC ruling that held 'skin-to-skin contact' key for sexual assault||The Supreme Court on Thursday set aside a verdict of the Bombay high court that said skin-to-skin contact was a necessary ingredient for punishing persons accused of sexually assaulting minors.The apex court said the most important ingredient in convicting sexual offenders under POCSO Act is "sexual intent and not skin-to-skin".In a controversial ruling, the HC had acquitted a man of sexual assault charges under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for groping a 12-year-old child.The top court directed the accused to surrender in four weeks and undergo a punishment of three years and five years punishment as awarded by the Special POCSO court.Earlier in January, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court had set aside the conviction of a man who was found guilty under the POCSO Act for groping a 12-year-old girl four years ago, commuting his punishment.The court had ruled that it could not be deemed an offence under the Pocso Act because there had been no skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent as the child was clothed. "Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration," the court observed on January 19.Therefore, the court acquitted the accused under Section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the POCSO Act. However, the court maintained his conviction under Sections 354 (assault of criminal force) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC, and said that the act which he committed amounted to the use of criminal force to outrage her modesty.The punishment for sexual assault under Section 8 of the POCSO Act is imprisonment of three to five years. Whereas, the punishment under Section 354 of IPC is imprisonment of one to five years.The matter was taken up by the top court after Attorney general KK Venugopal had urged the top court to reverse the judgement, saying it was a "very disturbing conclusion" and it would set a dangerous precedent. The country’s top law officer also said that going by the approach of the high court, anybody can get away with a sexual assault offence by wearing surgical gloves.Subsequently, appeals challenging the judgment were filed by the National Commission for Women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sets-aside-bombay-hc-ruling-that-held-skin-to-skin-contact-key-for-sexual-assault-101637214891216.html
18-11-2021||India||Low pressure area over Bay of Bengal triggers heavy rain in coastal Tamil Nadu||Heavy rainfall began in coastal Tamil Nadu in the early hours of Thursday with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying peninsular India will continue to receive rain under the influence of a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal. The low-pressure area will move to the Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu coast on Friday. Another low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal was likely to intensify into a depression over the next 12 hours.The IMD said Coimbatore received 6 cm of rainfall, Karaikal 5 cm, Nellore 4 cm, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Tiruchirapalli 3 cm each, and Puducherry and Nungambakkam 2 cm each on Thursday morning.Also Read: Red alert issued for Chennai, adjoining districts todayIsolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was expected in Tamil Nadu and coastal Andhra Pradesh on Thursday and Friday, and Rayalaseema on Friday. The IMD said there will also be strong winds gusting up to the speed of 65 kmph over the Bay of Bengal and along and off the coasts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Andhra Pradesh. With rough sea conditions likely, fishermen have been advised not to venture into parts of the Bay of Bengal till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-over-bay-of-bengal-triggers-heavy-rain-in-coastal-tamil-nadu-101637212320356.html
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi to host President Putin for one-to-one meeting on Dec 6||Joining hands to tackle new challenges affecting strategic stability at regional and global levels, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host Russian President Vladimir Putin for a one-to-one bilateral meeting followed by dinner at his Lok Kalyan Marg (LKM) residence on December 6.As in his previous visit to Delhi on October 5, 2018, President Putin will focus on hardcore discussions with PM Modi on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific, strategic stability, climate change, Middle-East and terrorism at LKM residence without going through elaborate ceremonial routines. Last time, a small tent was put inside the PM’s residence, where the two friends had close discussions over Indian delicacies with only the presence of interpreters. The two plus two dialogues between India and Russian defence and external affairs ministers is expected to be held on the same day before the summit.While President Putin’s visit is expected to last for a few hours due to raging Covid situation in Russia, it could be extended as the discussions between the two leaders - who have close personal chemistry - are known to continue for hours, into wee hours of the morning.Although India and Russia are going to sign several agreements on that day, the two countries are unfazed about the orchestrated brouhaha over the Modi government acquiring the much-needed S-400 missile systems from Moscow. While the media reports every time India engages the US or Russia threaten that Washington will impose sanctions citing CATSA Act on New Delhi, the Modi government has had lengthy discussions with the Biden administration on the issue to mutual understanding of each other’s positions. The relevance of S-400 systems to India assumes much importance now as Chinese PLA has already deployed the same Russian systems at Ngari Gar Gunsa airbase, next to Demchok on Ladakh LAC, and at Nyingchi airbase next to Arunachal Pradesh LAC. The PLA as of now is fully deployed at the Ladakh LAC with no less than three divisions of troops, missiles, and rocket regiments with the Air Force on standby. China has deployed two S-400 systems towards India and three towards protecting Beijing and the East coast against Taiwan. It is already in discussion with the Russians to acquire the S-500 systems which is in last stages of development.“One must understand that the purchase of five S-400 systems was contracted early in 2018 when other options were not on the table. It is a must requirement to counter China which has a formidable arsenal on the LAC since May 2020,” said a former foreign secretary in knowledge of the issue.Although PM Modi and President Putin are known to have sweeping discussions over regional and global events, the key focus this time would be stabilization of Afghanistan under the Taliban rule as there is a strong possibility of present Kabul chaos spilling over to the Central Asian Republics and even Pakistan. The rise of ISKP and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan due to no governance experience of the Taliban will not only rally around all the Islamic jihadists to Kabul but also spark off radicalization all over the globe particularly in neighboring countries. Both India and Russia believe that the Taliban first much secure legitimacy within Afghanistan before seeking international recognition.The other major topic of discussion will be Indo-Pacific as new shipping routes to Europe via Arctic Circle will open due to climate change and in this context the discussion will be centered on the Chinese and the US posture in East Asia. Although Russia has close relations with China, Moscow has its own strategic perception of its global status as it has the capacity and capability to stand alone.Just as Russia has good ties with China, India has also excellent ties with the US but the basic equation between age old special strategic partners allies has not changed and under PM Modi will not change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-host-president-putin-for-one-to-one-meeting-on-dec-6-101637211530863.html
18-11-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally above 11,000-mark after 3 days; new deaths at 470||India recorded close to 12,000 daily cases (11,919 to be exact) of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the caseload to 34,478,517, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8 am. Previously, the 24-hour count crossed the 11,000 mark on November 14 (Sunday) when 11,271 new cases were reported. On November 16, only 8,865 cases were seen in the country, the lowest single-day spike in 287 days.As many as 11,242 patients recovered and 470 died due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, according to health ministry's data. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and death has climbed to 33,885,132 and 464,623 and respectively. The active cases stand at 128,762 and have been the lowest since March last year. The overall recovery rate, on the other hand, has climbed to 98.28%.Thursday's cases are 1,722 more than that of Wednesday's when 10,197 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. The toll on Thursday is also 169 more than that of Wednesday's when 301 patients died.More than 1.2 million samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total figure has climbed to 628,248,841, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday.Authorities in India have administered more than 1.14 billion vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries of which 7,344,739 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.For the first time, the number of fully vaccinated beneficiaries against Covid-19 surpassed the partially inoculated, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday."In a significant achievement to the nationwide vaccination coverage for the country, for the first time the number of fully vaccinated individuals has surpassed those who have been administered only a single dose of vaccine," Mandaviya said in a statement and urged all citizens to take the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-above-11-000-mark-after-3-days-new-deaths-at-470-101637207508163.html
18-11-2021||India||'Can spoil our youth': PM Modi urges nations to work on cryptocurrency||All democratic nations must work together to ensure cryptocurrency "does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, in his first public comments on the subject.He was speaking during his keynote address at The Sydney Dialogue."We've offered our CoWin platform to the entire world free and made it open-source software. India's extensive experience with use of technology and policy for public good, inclusive development and social empowerment can be of great help to the developing world," PM Modi said."Take crypto-currency or bitcoin for example. It is important that all democratic nations work together on this and ensure it does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth," he added.Giving an overview of India's approach to new technologies, PM Modi said the country is investing in developing indigenous capabilities in diverse areas including in 5G and 6G for the telecom sector.The central government is still considering a regulatory framework required to manage and oversee investments made by millions of Indians in the digital currency.Last week, PM Modi chaired a meeting to discuss the future of cryptocurrencies amid concerns that unregulated crypto markets could become avenues for money laundering and terror financing, reported news agency Reuters.On Monday, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance convened a meeting on the issue, where a consensus was reached that a mechanism should be put in place to regulate cryptocurrency, according to people aware of the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-urges-democratic-nations-to-work-together-on-cryptocurrency-101637209382823.html
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi warns against ‘vested interests’ misusing openness of democracy||Delivering the keynote address at The Sydney Dialogue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the digital age has redefined politics, economy and society and is raising new questions on sovereignty, governance, ethics, law, rights and security. PM Modi said that openness is the biggest strength of democracy but warned against “few vested interests” misusing the openness.“The biggest strength of democracy is openness. At the same time, we should not allow a few vested interests to misuse this openness,” he said.The prime minister also highlighted five “important transitions” taking place in the country as he spoke on India’s technology evolution and revolution at the three-day event organised by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. The transitions include India's investment in developing indigenous capabilities in telecom technology such as 5G and 6G.PM Modi said India is building the world's most extensive public information infrastructure, adding that over 1.3 billion Indians have a unique digital identity. Highlighting the fast-growing Startup Ecosystem of India, the prime minister said new unicorns are coming up every few weeks which provide solutions to everything ranging from health and education to national security.“India's IT talent helped to create the global digital economy. It helped cope with the Y2K problem. It has contributed to the evolution of technologies and services we use in our daily lives,” he added.PM Modi's address was preceded by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison remarks where he said that Australia and India share a deep friendship.The initiative is aimed at bringing together political, business and government leaders to “debate, generate new ideas, and work towards common understandings of the opportunities and challenges posed by emerging and critical technologies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-warns-against-vested-interests-misusing-openness-of-democracy-101637205783285.html
18-11-2021||India||Use technology to prevent diversion of funds, CVC tells banks||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has asked banks to use technology, especially artificial intelligence (AI), to create profiles and understand the lifestyles of their borrower customers so that any diversion of funds can be identified at an advanced stage in the future, people familiar with the matter said.The apex vigilance body believes that a large number of high-value frauds take place not only due to disregard of systems and procedures in lending but also because banks fail to monitor the usage of loaned money.“The banks have been asked to take advantage of AI to track the usage so that a red flag is raised where there is any abnormality in the operation of the loan account, and money is being diverted. A thorough analysis is required particularly in those cases where large transfers are reported in overseas branches,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Investigations into high-value frauds reported in the past five-six years have found that accused persons splurged on purchasing bungalows, jets, helicopters, yachts, jewellery, high-end cars and properties abroad using the public money, which was otherwise supposed to be used for the business activity mentioned while taking loans.Vijay Mallya owned a luxury private jet, yachts including one of the largest in the world, a villa in Goa, where he reportedly organised parties, apart from several prime properties in the UK, France and the US, while banks kept on waiting for him to return the money. He owes ₹9,000 crore to Indian banks.Similarly, Nirav Modi used the bank money in properties such as a sea-facing apartment in Worli, a Rolls Royce worth ₹5 crore, art collecting worth several dozen crores, flat in New York, and other countries apart from high-profile launch parties for his brand. Mehul Choksi too diverted his money abroad in the US and Antigua and Barbuda, where he currently resides as a citizen. Nirav Modi and Choksi and are accused of cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore.Banks failed to monitor and analyse these activities, which could help in alerting about fraud at an early stage, said a second officer.Among the problems noticed by the CVC in handling/approval of loans is same officers are made members of different finance/sanctioning committees.“Another glaring issue noticed by CVC is the considerable delay in declaration of frauds by various banks in cases of consortium/multiple financing, which not only enables the borrower to defraud the banking system to a large extent but also allows him considerable time to erase the money trail,” said the first official cited above.CVC has advised the banks “to give priority for the prevention of frauds at every level through the use of technology and discreet inquiries.It has asked them to continue loan recovery efforts even after lodging complaints with the Central Bureau of Investigation and other agencies.“It was also advised that the Internal Advisory Committee of the banks should consider the role and responsibility of each official while categorising the matter as vigilance and non-vigilance,” said the first official.CVC has asked the probe agencies to improve the quality of investigation by providing adequate training to the investigating officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-technology-to-prevent-diversion-of-funds-cvc-tells-banks-101637207761069.html
18-11-2021||India||Air India pilots warn of ‘industrial action’ if payment issues aren’t resolved||A total of about 900 Air India pilots, representing their two unions – the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) and the Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA) – have warned of “industrial action” if payment-related issues are not resolved soon.The protesting pilots are complaining over what they are calling an “illegal pay-cut” of 55%. In a letter to the management, the pilots have demanded payment as per market standards, while the airline awaits handover to the Tata Group, its new owner.The Air India pilots listed a number of demands, including the release of 25% arrears along with interest, a statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for permanent employees, tax-related implications of withheld layover substance allowance, and the release of pending grades to first officers.Also Read: India, Singapore in talks to resume commercial flights soon: ReportThe pilots wrote they gave “more than enough” time to the Air India management to resolve the issues listed. “It is inexcusable that even now, when we are in the 11th and a half hour before the disinvestment process [is completed], there is not even a concrete roadmap, let alone a satisfactory resolution,” the pilots wrote in the letter dated November 17.“The shareholders’ agreement has been signed, the Tatas have to fully take over the company and start flying by January 22, 2022, and service conditions are already being adversely changed... Yet, the management’s silence on our service conditions and arrears is deafening,” said one of the protesting pilots. The pilots’ letter, addressed to Air India’s former chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal who is currently civil aviation secretary, read, “This state of affairs is no longer tenable. If we do not see the issues… addressed and communicated to us, we will have no choice but to seek justice through ‘industrial action’.” “Any disruption of operations and its fallout will be attributable to director personnel, who are directly responsible for the abysmal management of these HR issues,” the pilots warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-warn-of-industrial-action-if-payment-issues-aren-t-resolved-101637207099796.html
18-11-2021||India||India, Singapore in talks to resume commercial flights soon: Report||It is learnt that Singapore is in talks with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs to restart scheduled commercial services with two daily flights each from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai.As of now, only repatriation is taking place through Air India, under the Vande Bharat mission. Singapore has announced that from November 29 it will open up its Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTL) for India and once the programme is in place there will be no need for quarantine for vaccinated passengers.There is huge pent up demand for travellers from both sides. Technically, repatriation flights cannot be included under Singapore's VTL arrangement and only scheduled commercial flights are included in this programme.It is learnt Singapore is keen that Singapore airlines should restart partial operations to India. Sources say that talks for resumption of commercial flights between Singapore and India are moving in the right direction and there can be a decision soon.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is currently in Singapore and holding talks with top leadership, resumption of connectivity also came up during his talks.Yesterday, Jaishankar met the Singapore transport minister and discussed enhancing travel arrangements between the two countries."Began my Singapore visit by meeting S. Iswaran, Minister of Transport. Discussed enhancing travel arrangements between the two countries," Jaishankar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-singapore-in-talks-to-resume-commercial-flights-soon-report-101637205766952.html
18-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath Singh to inaugurate revamped Rezang La memorial, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.1962 bravest of braves to be honoured at new Rezang La memorialThe 18,000 feet Rezang La is a desolate wind-swept pass lying 11 kilometres south of Spangur Gap, from where nearly two thousand Chinese troops attacked mere 114 men of Charlie Company of 13 Kumaon led by Major Shaitan Singh at 4am on November 18, 1962. Read more…Scientists in Ahmedabad discover exoplanet 1.4 times bigger than JupiterScientists from the Ahmedabad-based Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) have discovered an exoplanet that is 725 light years away from us and orbiting an ageing star that has 1.5 times the mass of our Sun, according to the department of space. Read more…Islamic State expanding to nearly all Afghan provinces, Taliban unable to control, warns UN envoyThe UN envoy to Afghanistan on Wednesday said that the regional affiliate of the Islamic State group now appears present in nearly all Afghan provinces and “increasingly active”. Read more…After Russia destroys satellite, USA says 'will respond', amid space arms race alarmA weapons test by Russia has heightened fears about rapid weaponisation of space. Using missiles, Moscow destroyed an old satellite, Tselina D, which was in orbit since 1982. Russia was accused of endangering the International Space Station, or ISS, with the resultant debris. Western powers reacted strongly with NATO General Secretary Jens Stoltenberg calling it 'reckless', and the US warning of a 'response'. Watch video'Played more than 100 Test, work ethics are unbelievable': Gambhir lists 3 reasons why Dravid will be a successful coachTeam India rang in a new era on Wednesday when they took on New Zealand in the first T20I of the three-match bilateral series. It was the side's first game under their new permanent T20I captain Rohit Sharma and their new head coach Rahul Dravid. The new partnership holds a lot of promise and former India opener Gautam Gambhir concurs. Read more…Shraddha Arya can’t stop smiling during jaimala ceremony, pheras. Watch unseen wedding videoActor Shraddha Arya tied the knot with Rahul Nagal on Tuesday. A new video from her wedding has been shared by the Instagram page of ‘The Glam Wedding’, her wedding photographer. Read more…Newlyweds Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa return to Mumbai in red and white ensembles, see all picsNewlyweds Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa made their first appearance after getting married in an intimate ceremony held in Chandigarh. The couple arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday night and was clicked by the paparazzi outside the airport. The two stars looked charming in chic ensembles as they posed happily for the shutterbugs. Their first appearance is already melting hearts online. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-revamped-rezang-la-memorial-and-all-the-latest-news-101637204588435.html
18-11-2021||India||IT minister to felicitate Cyber Security Grand Challenge winners||The winners of the Cyber Security Grand Challenge will be felicitated by the Union minister for electronics and IT Ashwini Vaishnaw and MoS Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Thursday. This is the “first of its kind cyber security challenge to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the country,” read the press release issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY). It added, “The winner of the Cyber Security Grand Challenge is entitled for a prize money of INR one crore while the 1st runner-up and 2nd runner-up will win INR 60 lakh and INR 40 lakh respectively.” Furthermore, a unique feature of this competition is that the intellectual property rights of the created product will be owned by the respective start-up.The Cyber Security Grand Challenge was collectively launched by the Data Security Council of India and the MeitY in January 2020 as a way to promote innovation and to motivate the growth and expansion of Indian cyber security products. It can be viewed live on DSC India’s official YouTube page from 10:30 am onwards.The press release explains, “Participants had to create a solution among 6 defined problem statement areas and upon evaluation through three stages (Idea, MVP and Final), the winners have been chosen by an esteemed jury panel from Academia, Government, and Industry, chaired by Dr. Gulshan Rai, former National Cybersecurity Coordinator, GoI.”In total, 76 ideas were submitted at the ‘Idea Stage’, consisting of 220 participants. After the selection process was over, shortlisted teams received ₹5 lakhs and ₹10 lakhs respectively. To finally create the product, multiple mentorship workshops were held to aid the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-minister-to-felicitate-cyber-security-grand-challenge-winners-101637205240881.html
18-11-2021||India||1962 bravest of braves honoured at new Rezang La memorial||The 18,000 feet Rezang La is a desolate wind-swept pass lying 11 kilometres south of Spangur Gap, from where nearly two thousand Chinese troops attacked mere 114 men of Charlie Company of 13 Kumaon led by Major Shaitan Singh at 4am on November 18, 1962. In the next 18 hours, virtually the entire Shaitan company was decimated but not before the 13 Kumaon inflicted massive casualties on the PLA troops and also saved the Chushul Garrison from being run over by the marauding Chinese.#RezangladayRaksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh paying homage at the Revamped Memorial of Fallen Heroes of the war in #RezangLa theatre during the 1962 Sino-Indian conflict@PMOIndia @DefenceMinIndia @HMOIndia @ianuragthakur @adgpi @BharatShaktiBSI @ani_digital @SpokespersonMoD pic.twitter.com/TD8JOscS0gToday, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, along with chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Vice Chief of the Army Staff Lieutenant General Chandi Prasad Mohanty and Northern Army Commander YK Joshi, inaugurated a newly-revamped war memorial in Ladakh on Thursday to honour the heroes of the epic battle of Rezang La and the Galwan braves led by Col Santosh Babu who took on the PLA on June 15, 2020 and did not allow the Chinese to forcefully change the LAC line in Galwan sector. Since Army Chief MM Naravane is in Israel on an official visit, Vice Chief Mohanty attended the ceremony."The new memorial is like a place of worship and true homage to soldiers who gave excellent account of themselves, worth a visit," said a senior Army commander.The original war memorial - a column - was constructed by the 3, divisional headquarters of the Indian Army. This is the first major revamp, and was undertaken by the Modi government.The war memorial was inaugurated on the 59th anniversary of the Rezang La battle when Major Shaitan Singh and 98 of his men from the Charlie company of 13 Kumaon Battalion laid their lives in defence of the Chushul-Dungti-Leh axis in Ladakh sector.The Shaitan company inflicted so many losses on nearly 400 PLA troops that the Chinese took no prisoners of war at Rezang La on November 18, 1962. The Rezang La battle was fought in freezing temperatures way below zero. Temperatures in Chushul heights are known to touch minus 25 degrees Celsius and more.According to the official history of the 1962 war, the Chinese attack began at 4am on November 18 with the intention of blocking the road link between Leh and Chushul via Dungti so that the garrison at Chushul was isolated and starved of supplies. The last Indian guns sounded at 10pm on November 18 with only 14 out of 112 ranks surviving to tell the tale.Major Shaitan Singh and his company major first fought with three-inch mortars, then rifles, bayonets and bare hands without any artillery or air support against the marauding Chinese who attacked the post from two sides.The move to inaugurate the revamped war memorial in Rezang La is seen as India's show of strength in the area which is very close to the Chinese territory and is visible from the other side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1962-bravest-of-braves-honoured-at-new-rezang-la-memorial-101637203741972.html
18-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rain: Red alert issued for Chennai, adjoining districts today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Chennai and adjoining districts that are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall on Thursday due to the formation of a low pressure around the coast.Chennai, which was battered by heavy downpour last week, was slowly recovering from its impact and another wet spell is likely to affect relief and rescue work."Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall as the low-pressure around the coast on Thursday. Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall," Dr S Balachandran, the deputy director-general of IMD Chennai, told news agency ANI on Wednesday.Also Read| As rainfall pounds parts of Tamil Nadu, districts shut schools and collegesDr Balanchandran said that heavy rainfall is also expected in Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Salem, Perambalur, Tiruchirappalli, Karur and other districts of Tamil Nadu.The weather bureau has also advised fishermen to not venture into the sea from Thursday onwards.A total of 14 people have lost their lives due to rain-related incidents in the state. The state government has been continuing with rescue and relief operations in all affected regions in Tamil Nadu.Also Read| Tamil Nadu seeks ₹2,629 crore rain relief, central team to assess damageLast week, chief minister MK Stalin had distributed flood relief to affected people in several areas of Chennai and also inaugurated special medical camps in the Nehru Mandapam area.Among key relief measures, the state government has announced a ₹300-crore fund to repair infrastructural damage caused by incessant rainfall in Tamil Nadu.The government announced a compensation of ₹20,000 per hectare for damaged crops, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rain-red-alert-issued-for-chennai-adjoining-districts-today-101637201320365.html
18-11-2021||India||As rainfall pounds parts of Tamil Nadu, districts shut schools and colleges||A number of districts in Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Theni, Tuticorin and Dindigul, have announced closure of schools for the day in the wake of very rainfall in the area.The announcements about the same were made by the respective district collectors late on Wednesday night.In Chennai, a war room has been set up at the civic body office for corporation where the corporation officials are monitoring the situation.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chennai, has issued a red alert and predicted extremely heavy rainfall on Thursday in the capital and adjoining districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet districts due to a low pressure that has formed around the coast.Also read | Tamil Nadu seeks ₹2,629 crore rain relief, central team to assess damageAlso, very heavy rainfall is expected in Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Salem, Perambalur, Tiruchirappalli, Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukkottai, Dindigul, Madurai, Theni, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi, the IMD said, adding remaining districts may see light to moderate downpour.Tamil Nadu: War room set up at Chennai Corporation where the corporation officials are monitoring red alert on heavy rain announced for today in Chennai.#ChennaiRains pic.twitter.com/M87IPWUEOdThe weather office further advised fishermen against venturing into the sea. "Fishermen are not advised to venture into the west-central and southwest Bay of Bengal, along the coast of north TN and south Andhra from November 18 onwards," a senior official said.At least 14 people have lost their lives in the southern state due to the recent heavy spell. Besides, massive flooding and waterlogging were witnessed in several areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-rainfall-pounds-parts-of-tamil-nadu-districts-shut-schools-and-colleges-101637202232062.html
18-11-2021||India||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi-led jatha to visit Kartarpur gurdwara today, Navjot Sidhu won't be part of it||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with his ministers, will be part of the 'jatha' (group) which will visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur (Pakistan) on Thursday. Some MLAs and officials are also expected to accompany Channi.Watch: Indian pilgrims cross over to Pakistan via Kartarpur corridorPunjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will not be part of the jatha travelling to Kartarpur. On Wednesday night, Sidhu's media adviser Surinder Dalla claimed that Sidhu has been officially intimated that he could go on November 20 instead of November 18. Sidhu had submitted his application on Tuesday for travelling to the historic shrine in Pakistan to offer prayers, he added.According to a customs official, around 100 people are expected to visit the shrine on Thursday, a day before Gurpurab, which marks the birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak.The Kartarpur Corridor, which links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district, reopened on Wednesday.A 28-member jatha visited the gurdwara on the first of the reopening of the visa-free corridor. The jatha comprising the panj pyare (five beloved of Guru) crossed over to Pakistan at 11am.Officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and the Border Security Force (BSF) honoured the members of the jatha with siropas (robes of honour) and sweets at the Dera Baba Nanak integrated check-post.A delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders will also visit the historic gurdwara via the corridor on Thursday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is taking a delegation to pay obeisance at Kartarpur on Friday.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-led-jatha-to-visit-kartarpur-gurdwara-today-sidhu-won-t-be-part-of-it-101637197954152.html
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at The Sydney Dialogue today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at The Sydney Dialogue today.He will speak on the theme of India's technology evolution and revolution, with the address being preceded by introductory remarks by the Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Prime Minister's Office said in a statement.The Sydney Dialogue is being held from November 17-19. It is an initiative of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. It will bring together political, business and government leaders to debate, generate new ideas and work towards common understandings of the opportunities and challenges posed by emerging and critical technologies.The event will also witness a keynote address by the Former Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-the-sydney-dialogue-today-101637197712725.html
18-11-2021||India||Delhi riots 2020: Facebook India officials to appear before Assembly panel today||Facebook India public policy director Shivnath Thukral and legal director G V Anand Bhushan will appear before the Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee in connection with the 2020 northeast Delhi riots. The panel had issued summons to Facebook India to depose its views on the role of social media in preventing the spread of false and malicious messages that can cause disharmony and affect peace.Meta Inc., Facebook’s parent company, has long been accused of not doing enough to prevent misinformation on its social media platforms. While the company, from time to time, has published the steps taken by it to curb the spread of such misinformation, questions have repeatedly been raised over the scope and impact.Earlier this week, Thurkal wrote to the panel saying he and GV Anand Bhushan will be appearing before the Committee on behalf of Facebook."We again thank you for the opportunity to appear before the Committee on Peace and Harmony ("Committee") to provide our views to assist the Committee in its 'aims to recommend preventative and remedial measures concerning issues of governance, social cohesion, unity, brotherhood and peace' and 'to strengthen overall social and economic development' through communal harmony. Facebook shares the Committee's aim to improve harmony among religious communities, linguistic communities, and social groups," the letter read.The panel will convene its meeting at 12.30pm at Delhi Vidhan Sabha and the proceedings will be live-streamed.The committee, chaired by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha, has so far heard seven witnesses while the role of social media in connection with the Delhi riots that claimed over 50 lives and injured hundreds.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-2020-facebook-india-officials-to-appear-before-assembly-panel-today-101637196220856.html
18-11-2021||India||Didn’t introduce ‘phase down’ in COP26 statement, clarifies India||India did not introduce the phrase “phase down” in the Glasgow Climate Pact text, senior officials aware of the negotiations at the COP26 said on Wednesday, rejecting criticism that Delhi was instrumental in watering down a tough stance on phasing out coal to fight the climate crisis.The controversy relates to the change of the phrase “phase out” to “phase down” in the context of using coal. Sources in the Indian delegation previously have said India opposed hard targets on phasing out coal as well as other fossil fuels like gas and oil, but was particularly opposed to the singling out of coal alone, which is still among the key sources of energy for developing nations.Officials aware of the mater on Wednesday said environment minister Bhupender Yadav, representing India, read out the reworded text because the COP26 Presidency requested the Indian side to do so, and it was required in the interest of achieving a consensus at COP26.COP26 president Alok Sharma, in an interview to Guardian recently, said India and China will “have to explain themselves to poor nations” for their stance on coal. He also said he was deeply frustrated with Delhi’s and Beijing’s attitude.Earlier during the formal plenary for Glasgow Climate Pact, Sharma said he was deeply sorry for the way negotiations ended, while holding back tears.“Phase out” was recommended by small island countries, Indian officials said on Tuesday. “The initial text had “phase out” for both coal and fossil fuel subsidies which we did not agree with. It’s our basic position in any case. But we did not introduce the phrase ‘phase down.’ We had problem with the language on coal and phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies. We did not agree to that language which they kept pushing till the end,” said one of the senior officials.India’s problem, they reiterated, was not with phase out or phase down but introducing equity and safeguards on fossil fuel subsidies for the poor. On the last day (November 13) phase out got modified to phase down because there was that language on the table that came out of the US-China joint statement.“It was evolved following discussions between Presidency which is the UK side, US, China, India and EU. The chair (Alok Sharma) has to steer these discussions. It’s the chair’s duty to steer it towards consensus. We agreed to the amendments. The reason why we read out the text is because we were asked to by the Presidency. When you look at the proceedings you will feel that this is India’s language, but we only read out the statement. We were trying to help achieve a consensus. We also wanted to introduce certain safeguards and had some concerns. We did not have a strong objection to the phrase ‘phase down’ either because we were trying to find a language to ensure an outcome for COP itself,” the first official said.India was pushing for consensus because, the official explained, “if we did not have the cover decision, then none of the other documents (including rulebook on carbon markets) would move ahead. Therefore, it was in our interest to achieve a consensus. Phasing out of coal and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies we do not have a problem as such, but it should be qualified,” he added.Another official pointed out that instead of the chair (Alok Sharma) presenting it, which is the norm to read out the text, the chair chose to request India to read out the compromise text. Yadav was clear during his intervention that it was not India’s position alone but in consultation with the presidency and other stakeholders.“We are dependent on coal, we probably have to enhance it and we are giving subsidies to poor people to help them have a basic subsistence level. To compare that with general utilisation, 20 times of the kind of energy (used) in some developed countries, is unfair,”the second official said.Officials also said India did not subscribe to picking and choosing one fossil fuel, that is coal, over the others. “They (developed countries) used coal as much as they could and now they have transitioned to gas and oil. EU for example is highly dependent on gas. But now they are singling out coal which the developing nations are dependent on,” said one of the officials.“The amendments to the text, such as targeted support to the poorest and the most vulnerable, in line with national circumstances, and recognising the need for support towards a just transition were India’s contribution. We wanted a constructive and positive approach which must have the principle of equity. Our delegation would have lived with ‘phase out.’ Our Ujjwala scheme is also fossil fuel subsidy meant for poor so we wanted to build in those safeguards,” said the second official.He also mentioned that many countries had a problem with any language on coal and fossil fuels: South Africa, Australia, Indonesia, Venezuela and China. The words “unabated” coal and “inefficient” fossil fuel subsidies were introduced because other countries had problems with the first text. “There is no new unabated coal in India, they are coming with new technology checks. There are countries where fossil fuel subsidies are not targeted to the poor but in India the case is different,” he added.Overall officials said they were disappointed with the outcome at COP26 with respect to climate finance but the rulebook on carbon markets had been concluded and India’s concerns of pending credits from Kyoto era has been addressed. India also managed to introduce the phrase “deep regret” in the Glasgow Climate Pact. The text states that it “notes with deep regret that the goal of developed country parties to mobilize jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation has not yet been met.”“It’s very strong language. The text says that the amount will be delivered through 2025 and the text concludes that there will be a structured time bound process on evolving the new collective quantitative goal for post 2025,” the second official said.Overall COP26 has been a success for India, experts said. “The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR) is enshrined in the UNFCCC. Even the Paris Agreement has reaffirmed CBDR which is the fundamental principle of UNFCCC. More importantly, ‘phase down’ is the same word used in the US-China agreement presented in Glasgow. India has huge development imperatives but we have also made huge commitments on renewables. India’s intervention was a directional statement and India is making efforts to achieve it. There is no vast difference between phase out and phase down,” said Manjeev Singh Puri, former negotiator and ambassador had said on Monday responding to India’s stand at COP26.The officials added that what PM, Narendra Modi presented at COP 26 were national goals for India but not a nationally determined contribution (NDC) yet. “PM did not mention NDCs, they are national goals. At some point we expect that we will send an NDC which will incorporate some or many of the goals that PM announced in Glasgow. Let’s not prejudge them as NDCs.”During his address to over 120 heads of countries in Glasgow on November 1, PM Modi said India will increase its non-fossil fuel energy capacity to 500 GW by 2030; fulfil 50% of its energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2030; reduce its total projected carbon emissions by 1 billion tonnes by 2030, and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070. PM Modi said he expects developed countries to make $ 1 trillion available as climate finance to developing countries to make this transition to decarbonisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didnt-introduce-phase-down-in-cop-26-statement-clarifies-india-101637196023549.html
18-11-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti’s brother for questioning in money laundering case today||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s brother on Thursday for questioning in connection with a money laundering case, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday.Tassaduq Hussain Mufti, who served as the minister of tourism in his sister’s cabinet, has been ordered to appear before the ED in New Delhi at 11am and record his statement under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Also Read| Mehbooba Mufti stages protest against Hyderpora killingsPTI quoted some officials to report that the questioning of Tassaduq Hussain is regarding some funds which he allegedly received in his accounts from some businessmen based in Jammu and Kashmir.“The moment I raise my voice against any wrongdoing, there is a summon waiting for someone from my family. This time it was my brother,” Mehbooba Mufti told PTI on Wednesday and said that the summons was a political vendetta against her.Previously, the ED had summoned Mufti’s mother Gulshan Nazir in July this year in connection with a money laundering case. According to PTI, the case filed under the PMLA is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the central agency following raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba. The diaries comprise details regarding purported payments made from the chief minister’s discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules, PTI further said in its report.Mehbooba herself has been questioned by the central agency in another money laundering case.The 62-year-old PDP president, who has been sharply criticising the Union government over the recent civilian killings in the Union Territory, was reported to have been placed under house arrest at her residence in Srinagar until further orders.According to police officials, Mufti was on the way to Press Colony in Srinagar to participate in a protest but was not allowed to move towards the location.However, the police clarified that she is not under house arrest and was stopped to participate in the protest because of security reasons.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mufti-s-brother-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-today-101637193533541.html
18-11-2021||NA||Highlights: 110 nations recognise Covishield and Covaxin, says government official||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Biden plans to skip January’s World Economic Forum in Davos: ReportPresident Joe Biden plans to skip January’s World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, a gathering of global political and economic elites that many of his predecessors also chose not to attend, according to a Bloomberg report. 110 nations recognise Covishield and Covaxin: Govt officialAs many as 110 countries now recognise Covid-19 vaccines Covishield and Covaxin, ANI reported citing a government official.Rajasthan reports first Covid death after 3 months; toddler succumbsA two-and-half-year-old boy, who died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, has become the first patient to succumb to the infection in the state after three months. Srinagar Mayor says bodies of civilians killed in Hyderpora encounter have been exhumed at Handware for last rites by familiesSrinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu took to Twitter on Thursday to say that the bodies of civilians Altaf Ahmed and Mudasir Gul, who were killed in Hyderpora encounter on Monday, have been exhumed at Handwara for last rites and burial by families. “his is the first step towards ensuring justice is done in this case. I also hope the magisterial probe is now changed into a judicial probe,” Mattu's Twitter post added. Locals have also confirmed the both Ahmed and Gul's bodies have been exhumed.Schools from classes 1-10, Anganvadis, play homes in Bengaluru to remain closed tomorrow amid heavy rainfallBengaluru DC J Manjunath said that schools from classes 1 to 10, Anganvadis, and play homes will remain closed tomorrow in Bengaluru Urban district owing to heavy rainfall, ANI reported.Schools in Puducherry, Karaikal to be closed on Nov 19Schools in Puducherry, and Karaikal (also in Puducherry) will be closed tomorrow owing to heavy rainfall in the Union territory (UT).BJP leader sends legal notice to Bengali filmmaker for allegedly calling BSF personnel ‘murderers’ and ‘rapists’BJP leader Anirban Ganguly has sent a legal notice to Bengali filmmaker Aparna Sen, demanding unconditional apology for allegedly calling BSF personnel "murderers" and "rapists", ANI reported.Pfizer to sell 10 million Covid-19 pills to US for $5.3 billionPfizer has said that the company will sell 10 million Covid-19 pills to the United States for $5.3 billion, AFP reported on Thursday.NIA conducted searches at 14 locations in 7 districts of Andhra and TelanganaThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) today conducted searches at a total of 14 locations in seven districts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in CPI Maoist encounter case of Bastar, Chattishgarh, ANI reported citing a statement by the central agency.Allahabad HC grants police protection to same-sex coupleThe Allahabad High Court on Thursday granted police protection to a same-sex couple after noting that it is is not against live-in relationships.Srinagar additional DM Khurshid Ahmad Shah to probe Hyderpora encounter, reports ANIAccording to a latest update by news agency ANI, Srinagar additional district magistrate Khurshid Ahmad Shah has been appointed to investigate the Hyderpora encounter on Monday. He has issued a notice asking people to record their statements and give information related to the incident in which two civilians, who J&K Police have hailed as “overground workers” of terrorists, were killed.Hong Kong clothing company supporting democracy announces closure of shops next year citing ‘unprecedented harrassment’A clothing company in Hong Kong, which supported democracy with colourful, tongue-in-cheek cartoon designs announced on Thursday that it will close its shops in 2022 citing "unprecedented harassment" from officials and political opponents.Alibaba's profit dips by 81 per centChinese MNC Alibaba says its profit has dropped by 81 per cent, AFP reported.Punjab CM announces free buses for pilgrims visiting Kartarpur GurdwaraPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced free buses in the state for pilgrims visiting the Kartarpur Gurdwara. He also urged the governments of both India and Pakistan to simplify the procedure of getting the permission for the pilgrimage.‘Pharmacy of world’: PM hails Indian healthcare sector at 1st Global Innovation Summit of Pharmaceutical sectorPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the global trust earned by the Indian healthcare sector has resulted in the country being called the “Pharmacy of the world”. He is participating at the first Global Innovation Summit of Pharmaceuticals sector via video conferencing.Mohali court sends Cong's Sukhpal Singh Khaira to judicial custody in money laundering caseA Mohali court on Thursday sent Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira to judicial custody in money laundering case, following a seven-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) remand. The next date of hearing has been fixed for December 2, 2021.Hema Malini and Prasoon Joshi to be awarded Indian personalities of 2021Union I&B minister announced on Thursday that Hema Malini and Prasoon Joshi will be awarded Indian personalities of this year at the International Film Festival of India. The event will be held this month in Goa.Delhi Assembly panel asks Facebook India to give records of users' reports on posts shared before and after of Delhi riotsThe Delhi Assembly committee on Thursday asked Facebook India to provide records of users' reports (complaints) on posts shared on the platform one month before and two months after the Delhi riots in February 2020, news agency PTI reported.Bombay HC takes on record additional documents submitted by Nawab Malik and Dyandev WankhedeThe Bombay High Court on Thursday took on record the additional documents submitted by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik such as school leaving certificate and admission certificate, and also the documents submitted by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede's father Dyandev Wankhede (birth certificate and caste certificate) in connection with the defamation suit filed by Dyandev. The court will pass order on the suit on November 22 at 5.30pm.On Guru Nanak Dev eve, Satvir Singh and Sorjit Singh evacuated from AfghanistanOn the eve of the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the Indian World Forum in coordination with the Indian government and the assistance from Sobti Foundation has evacuated Satvir Singh and Sorjit Singh from war-torn Afghanistan earlier in the day. The duo will be arriving tomorrow at 10.10pm at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on Thursday.AAP's CM candidate for U'khand polls Col Kothiyal to contest from GangotriThe Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly elections Colonel Ajay Kothiyal (retd) will contest from the Gangotri seat in Uttarkashi district, party leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday.Efforts being made to defame CBI, ED: BJP on privilege motion in Narada caseBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dilip Ghosh on Thursday hit out at the West Bengal government for moving a privilege motion in the Assembly against two senior officers of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Read moreSC dismisses Anil Deshmukh's petition for SIT probe in PMLA caseThe Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a petition by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for a direction to the CBI to adduce the records of the preliminary inquiry against and for constitution of a SIT to probe alleged corruption and money laundering charges.J-K govt orders magisterial probe into Hyderpora encounterThe Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday ordered a magisterial probe into the Hyderpora encounter.Hizbul Mujahideen district commander killed in Kulgam encounterShakir Nazar, the terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen's district commander, was killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam on Wednesday. Nazar had been active in the valley since 2018. SC sets aside Bombay HC's 'skin-to-skin contact' judgementThe Supreme Court on Thursday set aside two decisions of Bombay High Court passed in January that held skin-to-skin contact to be a necessary ingredient for punishing persons accused of committing sexual assault of minors under POCSO Act.“The most important ingredient in convicting sexual offenders under POCSO Act is sexual intent and not skin-to-skin contact,” the top court said. Supreme Court tells CBI to register regular case in disinvestment of 26% shares of HZL during NDA govt in 2002The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to register a regular case in the disinvestment of 26% shares of   Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee's NDA Govt in 2002. The Supreme Court said that there is a prima facie case of investigation in view of irregularities in the bidding process, sale of shares. However, the top court has allowed the Centre to disinvest its remaining 29.5% shareholding in HZL.Schools won't open in C'garh unless children are vaccinated against Covid: MinisterChhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo said on Thursday that schools will not open in the state unless children are vaccinated against the coronvirus disease (Covid-19). Schools to remain closed in Puducherry today in view of heavy rainAll schools and colleges to remain closed in Puducherry and Karaikal today in view of the heavy rain forecast.As per IMD's forecast, Puducherry is likely to experience a 'generally cloudy sky with heavy rain' today.In view of heavy rain, all schools and colleges will remain closed in Puducherry and Karaikal today. India records 11,919 new Covid-19 cases, 470 more deathsIndia recorded nearly 12,000 cases and 470 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the caseload and death toll to 34,478,517 and 464,623 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8 am. Digital age raising new questions on sovereignty, governance, and law: PM Modi at The Sydney DialogueDuring his address at The Sydney Dialogue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the digital age is new questions on sovereignty, governance, and law.Tamil Nadu rain: Red alert issued for Chennai, adjoining districts todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Chennai and adjoining districts that are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall on Thursday due to the formation of a low pressure around the coast. Read moreK'taka to upgrade 250 primary health centres this year, says CM BommaiKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai announced that his government will be upgrading 250 primary health centres this year, adding 250 more will be upgraded next year. Eye on panchayat polls, Karnataka BJP to launch ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ todayWith an aim to win the upcoming panchayat polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will launch a four-day long ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ in Karnataka on Thursday. Read moreDelhi's air quality continues to remain in 'very poor' categoryDelhi continues to witness 'very poor' air quality with overall Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 362 (at 06:33am): System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR)ED summons Mehbooba Mufti’s brother for questioning in money laundering case todayThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s brother on Thursday for questioning in connection with a money laundering case, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. Read moreReady to deliver humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, says RussiaRussia's Permanent Representative to the United Nations said that Moscow is ready to deliver humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, including food and medicine in the coming days, news agency Sputnik reported. "The top priority at the moment is providing Afghanistan with urgent humanitarian assistance," Vassily Nebenzia said during a meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-18-2021-101637195230001.html
18-11-2021||India||India re-elected to Unesco executive board for 2021-25 term with 164 votes||India on Wednesday was re-elected to the executive board of the UN's cultural and education organisation for the 2021-25 term with 164 votes. India was re-elected to Group IV of Asian and Pacific States which also include Japan, Philippines, Vietnam, Cook Islands and China."India gets reelected to the Executive Board of UNESCO with 164 votes for the term 2021-25,” tweeted the Paris-based Permanent Delegation of India to Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization).The executive board of the UN's cultural and educational organisation is one of three constitutional organs of the UN agency. The other two are the General Conference and the Secretariat. The General Conference elects members of the executive board.After India's re-election to the body, Union minister of state (culture) Meenakshi Lekhi thanked all the member countries who supported New Delhi's candidature.“Delighted to inform that India has made it to the Executive Board Of UNESCO. Heartiest congratulations and thankful to all the member countries who supported our candidature,” Lekhi tweeted. Delighted to inform that India has made it to the Executive Board Of UNESCO . Heartiest congratulations 👍and thankful to all the member countries who supported our candidature 🙏🏽The executive board consists of 58 member-states, each with a four-year term. It examines the programme of work for the organisation and corresponding budget estimates submitted to it by the director-general, according to the Unesco website. The board represents exercises the power delegated to it by the General Conference and deals with the questions with which it is entrusted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-re-elected-to-unesco-executive-board-for-2021-25-term-with-164-votes-101637192326084.html
18-11-2021||India||Stubble fires go past 2020 tally, rise four-fold since November 1||The number of fires in farmlands in Punjab this year has surpassed last year’s tally to become the highest since 2016, and taken together with the incidents recorded in Haryana, the instances recorded this month are four times that seen till the end of October.Data from SAFAR, accessed by HT, shows that contribution of farm fires to PM2.5 levels in Delhi has ranged from 6% to 48% in November. On an average basis, this comes to 23% although the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 levels has come down in the last few days. From November 14 to November 17, its contribution was 12%, 10%, 8% and 6%.The farm fire analysis is based on a study of VIIRS-SNP satellite data by a NASA scientist, who said that while daily numbers have begun to reduce, it is unclear whether the 2016 record will remain unbroken – and if fires continue, the threat of bad air continues to loom over Delhi.An analysis of past air quality data and farm fires at the time published by HT on Tuesday showed that , stubble burning serves to push the AQI into the very poor (300-400) or severe (400-500) category, once winter conditions already make local pollution worse.For instance, between October 20 and November 14 this year, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the severe zone on seven days. On each of these days, the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 contribution was between 26% and 48%.Also read | Delhi’s model to tackle pollution unrealistic, claims Punjab BJPPawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association (USRA), who carried out the farm fire data analysis, said: “While the numbers have started to dip, the daily count is still over 1,000, which is still high. This is now the second-worst year ever, but we will have to see whether this trend continues in the next two weeks or not”.Till November 16, Punjab recorded 74,015 farm fire counts, compared to 72,373 in the same period last year. In 2016, the figure stood at 84,886.A similar analysis carried out by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) showed the farm fire count for the same period in Punjab, Haryana and UP has collectively touched 85,604 fires – more than 5,000 up in the same period last year. This total also is now the second-highest behind 2016, when 104,605 fires were recorded.Haryana too continues to record alarming figures, with CEEW data showing 8,663 fires spotted from satellites between October 1 and November 16, nearly double than last year’s figure of 4,831.“While the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana combined was recorded at just 20,723 until the 31st of October, it has increased four times to 82,870 in the first half of November. With the season’s close approaching, fire counts are now expected to start dipping in the coming days,” said LS Kurinji, programme associate at CEEW.She said with Punjab’s figure now eclipsing last year’s count, there is also a need to carry out an ex-post policy analysis to identify why the figure continues to remain high.S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said a majority of the area under paddy cultivation in the state had already been harvested, with very little left still. “We are tracking each district, as per CAQM’s guidelines and using the ISRO satellite numbers. Our numbers show the fire count total is only around 6,000 fires. Very little area in Haryana is now left for harvest,” he said.K Garg, member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) also cited ISRO’s satellite figures, and claimed the fire count this year has been lower than last year.“The data shows last year, the fire numbers were around 79,000 till this time, whereas the count so far according to us is 69,000. The burnt area is also lesser this year,” said Garg, stating fire count had reduced considerably in Punjab. “It is only a matter of a few days now,” he added.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said Punjab has seen a late spike in numbers this year, making it difficult to predict when the numbers will reduce. “Generally, we see a sharp drop after November 15. We will see a clearer trend by next week,” she said.(with inputs from Abhishek Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-fires-go-past-2020-tally-rise-four-fold-since-november-1-101637187045437.html
18-11-2021||India||Hyderpora encounter: ‘My son was killed under a conspiracy’||Family of Mohammad Aamir Magray, a local associate of the Pakistani terrorist killed during the Hyderpora encounter, on Wednesday demanded a thorough probe into his death and sought his burial at their ancestral graveyard in Gool area of Ramban district. His father Mohammad Lateef Magray said, “We are true Indians and my son can never think of becoming a militant.” “I appeal Jammu and Kashmir LG to give me justice. I am an Indian, who has been feted for my counter-insurgency work. I have taken bullets on my chest but my son was declared a militant, which is totally false. He was killed under a conspiracy…he was a patriot and a true nationalist like me,” he added. “We were given security for 15 years for our anti-terror work. My son had gone to do labour in Srinagar but some wrong source took money and labelled him a militant . Therefore, I want a thorough probe into it. I also appeal the authorities to hand over the body of my son,” Aamir’s father said. His elder sister Momina Begum said, “My younger brother worked in an office in Hyderpora where he prepared tea and tended to work. We used to live together. Had he been a militant, I would have never kept him with me.” Prohibitory orders imposed in GoolMeanwhile, additional district magistrate of Ramban, Harbans Lal Sharma on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in order to maintain law and order in Famrote, Sangaldan and Seripura areas of Gool subdivision till further orders. “The prohibitory orders have been imposed as a precautionary measure to pre-empt any possible law and order trouble,” he said. Two Kashmiri Pandit bodies lend support to kin of slain civiliansTwo Kashmiri Pandit bodies, one comprising migrant Pandits and another who did not migrate from Kashmir, have come forward in support of the families of two civilians.Reconciliation, Return and Rehabilitation of Migrants said the families of two of the four persons killed in Monday’s gunfight have categorically disputed the police version. The association’s chairperson, Satish Mahaldar, said that the ultimate aim of criminal law is protection of the right to personal liberty against invasion by others – protection of the weak against the lawless perpetrators.“In the case of the Hyderpora incident, it appears to be the case of utter selfishness, greed and intolerance that lead to the deprivation of life, liberty and property of other citizens requiring the state to step in for protection of the citizens’ rights,” he added. ‘Move beyond Twitter condemnations’“Time has come for those who have given the new slogan Hindustaniyat instead of Kashmiriyat to hand over bodies of the citizens who got killed recently in Srinagar,” said Sanjay Tickoo, president of Srinagar-based KPSS. He said it is easy to label people in Kashmir by “state and non-state actors” who are then endorsed by people from different camps. “You label him an OGW (over the ground worker of militants), a mukhbir (informer of security agencies) or an IB agent or a Jan Sanghi and we as citizens die. Makhan Lal Bindroo was also given a particular tag,” he said. Bindroo, a 68-year-old Kashmiri Pandit and prominent Srinagar chemist, was killed by suspected militants last month.Tickoo asked the mainstream leaders from the NC, the PDP, the Congress, the Peoples Conference and others to move beyond ‘Twitter condemnations’. (With inputs from Ashiq Hussain in Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hyderpora-encounter-my-son-was-killed-under-a-conspiracy-101637179677259.html
18-11-2021||India||Centre constitutes panel for promotion of Indian languages||The Centre has constituted a ‘high-powered’ committee to explore and recommend pathways for the promotion and growth of Indian languages as envisaged in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The committee will also suggest ways to improve studies of Indian languages in both schools and higher education institutions.The committee will be chaired by Chamu Krishna Shastry, an educationist and founding member of RSS-affiliated NGO Samskrita Bharati whose mission is to revive the Sanskrit language. Shastry had earlier worked as an advisor to the ministry of education. According to a communication sent by the ministry to Shastry on Sunday and shared on its official website on Wednesday, there will be three other members in the panel including the vice-chancellor of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, New Delhi, Ramesh Kumar Pandey.The panel has been tasked with a mandate to study the existing institutional set up and suggest “ways for improvement of study of Indian Languages” in both schools and higher education institutions in the country. It will also recommend ways to “revamp, consolidate and integrate” the existing set up to ensure best utilization of existing language teaching facilities in educational institutions for development of Indian Languages.It will also cover all categories of languages including scheduled, endangered, non-scheduled, minor, tribal, classical languages, among others. “(It will) recommend ways for making available technological tools and labs in various languages for the benefit of students and researchers...and ways to improve employability of language students as well as ways to improve employment opportunities by learning global languages as a skill,” the communication added. The committee will closely coordinate with various student centric initiatives of the Ministry like Innovation Cell, and Indian Knowledge System. It will have the authority to appoint sub-committees and assign them tasks. NEP 2020 advocates promotion of Indian languages and recommends that efforts should be taken to preserve and promote all Indian languages including classical, tribal and endangered languages will be taken on with new vigour. Earlier this month, the Centre had asked all universities in the country to translate their learning material and literature into all Indian languages as a part of the government’s Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM) celebration to mark 75 years of India’s independence. The universities have been asked to chalk out plans with a timeline by November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-constitutes-panel-for-promotion-of-indian-languages-101637178957499.html
18-11-2021||India||Parents of murdered Odisha school teacher move court to seek quicker probe||Bhubaneswar: The parents of Mamita Meher, the schoolteacher of Kalahandi district allegedly murdered and buried by the president of the school’s managing committee last month, have filed a petition in Orissa High Court seeking a quicker trial in the case.Meher. 26 was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling grampanchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 after she allegedly threatened to expose him. Sahu is alleged to have dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in judicial custody.Since then, the opposition BJP and Congress has been stridently demanding sacking of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra from the Naveen Patnaik ministry because he was believed to be close to the Kalahandi school official Sahu.On Wednesday, Mishra rubbished allegations that he was linked to the case and accused Gobinda Sahu.Addressing a public meeting in Kalahandi, Mishra said his name was dragged into the case by weaving a fictional story.“I have served in the Indian Air Force as a fighter pilot. I am a law-abiding citizen. I am the president of the governing body of Mahaling College and the prime accused in Mamita Meher murder case, Gobinda Sahu, happened to be a member of that body. Just because I represent this assembly constituency, I cannot be held responsible for a murder in which I am in no way involved,” he said, underlining that chief minister Naveen Patnaik has never spared anyone found guilty and ultimately truth will triumph despite the ‘malicious campaign’ against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-of-murdered-odisha-school-teacher-move-court-to-seek-quicker-probe-101637178898481.html
18-11-2021||India||ED approaches Supreme Court for custodial interrogation of Chandra brothers||The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court for permission to take custody of former Unitech promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra since the top court, while shifting them to Mumbai jails, required them to be produced during trial through video conferencing facility.ED request was mentioned before a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah by additional solicitor general (ASG) Madhavi Divan. The court told ED to file an application and said it will take it up on Wednesday.ASG Divan read out the August 26 order of the top court shifting the Chandra brothers out of Tihar jail to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Jail where it said, “The video conferencing facility at the jails to which the accused are being transferred shall be made available so as to enable them to record their presence in the court proceedings where their presence is required.”Divan said the federal anti-money laundering agency requires the custody of the Chandra brothers for interrogation. “After they are physically produced, we will be arresting them for custodial interrogation,” the government law officer said. She said Mumbai prison authorities are reluctant and are willing to do so virtually. On the virtual medium, confronting evidence is not possible.”Advocate Shradha Deshmukh, assisting the ASG, produced an order passed by a Delhi court on November 12 directing the physical production of the Chandra brothers for November 17. When they did not appear, ED decided to approach the top court for clarification.“You have to submit an application and tell us what you wish to do. We can then pass an order,” the bench told Divan. Till such time, the judges suggested ED to postpone the hearing before the Delhi court. The Chandra brothers, lodged earlier at Tihar Jail in Delhi were shifted to Mumbai after ED came to know about an illegal nexus between the accused and the jail authorities in dissipating proceeds of crime and influencing witnesses in the case. An investigation was ordered based on ED inputs and the then Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana submitted a confidential report to the Supreme Court that confirmed ED allegations and identified 32 jail officials who were allegedly involved.ED began its inquiry against Chandra brothers after a Supreme Court-mandated forensic audit of Unitech conducted in 2018 revealed that part of the ₹14,000 crore invested by nearly 30,000 homebuyers in 74 Unitech housing projects was laundered to offshore shell companies. ED has since managed to attach crime proceeds worth ₹7,638 crore and arrested Sanjay Chandra’s wife and his father in connection with the case as well.The top court is monitoring the probe against the former Unitech promoters being conducted by multiple agencies; ED, Delhi Police and Serious Fraud Investigation Office. The case was last heard on November 10 when the top court directed the agencies to submit a status report on probe in four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-approaches-supreme-court-for-custodial-interrogation-of-chandra-brothers-101637177458105.html
18-11-2021||India||Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra challenges CBI, ED Ordinances in top court||All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) parliamentarian Mahua Moitra has approached the Supreme Court challenging the twin Ordinances issued by the Centre allowing the heads of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Directorate of Enforcement (ED) to remain in office for up to five years.The petition by Moitra has attacked the two Ordinances -- Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance and Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance on four grounds – legislative incompetence, circumventing the Supreme Court order of September 8 directing extension of ED Director only in “rare and exceptional circumstances”, independence of investigation agencies, and malafide attached to government decision.The TMC MP, in her petition said that the CBI Director and Director, Enforcement have a fixed minimum tenure of two years protected by the 1997 Supreme Court decision in the Vineet Narain case.On September 8 the Supreme Court had upheld the Government’s decision to grant a one-year extension to the incumbent ED Director but with a rider stating that such “extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases”.The petition said, “Executive cannot nullify a judgment of this Court through an executive act, like an Ordinance….The CVC (Amendment) thus suffers from legislative incompetence.” She further stated, “A one-year period cannot be termed as a short extension in view of the fact that the total tenure of both CBI and ED Directors is contemplated as two years in law.”By the present Ordinances under challenge, amendments have been made to Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 and Section 4B of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The twin amendments allow the Centre to extend the original tenure of CBI, ED chiefs by one year at a time. The amendment to both the Acts suggests, “No such extension shall be granted after the completion of five years in total, including the period sanctioned in the initial appointment.”The Ordinances further require that the extension should be in “public interest”, backed by the recommendation of the respective appointment committees with reasons for such extension, to be recorded in writing. The ED Director is appointed on recommendation by a committee headed by the central vigilance commissioner (CVC) while a high-powered committee (HPC) headed by Prime Minister and comprising Chief Justice of India (or his nominee) and leader of largest opposition party in Lok Sabha, recommend the CBI Director.The petition states that the standard of “public interest” is very “vague and significantly broader” than the standard of “rare and exceptional” as prescribed by the top court in September. The SC had held, “Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-mp-mahua-moitra-challenges-cbi-ed-ordinances-in-top-court-101637176676785.html
18-11-2021||India||Bangalore Talkies: Do women in power make you uncomfortable?||In Bengaluru where many of the top IT companies thrive, DEI or diversity, equity and inclusion have become watchwords. How do women handle this?Some time ago, at the Bengaluru book launch of “Women of the records,” musician Ricky Kej made an interesting observation-- which in turn prompted fellow panelist Kiran Mazumdar Shaw to respond. Like many book launches, this too was a panel discussion held at the ever-popular Bangalore International Centre, and is available on YouTube.Co-produced by Vikram Sampath and Ricky Kej, Women of the Records, highlights 25 women musicians-- courtesans-- devadasis and tawaifs-- who were bold, broke the mould and led the way-- all the qualities that we want and encourage in today’s young women-- our daughters and nieces for instance. Bengaluru is full of such women. Kiran Mazumdar Shaw is of course, held up as the poster child but there are others. Entrepreneurs such as Meena Ganesh of Portea, Shubhra Chadda of Chumbak, Rashmi Daga of Freshmenu, Anisha Jain of Zivame, and Shradha Sharma of YourStory. Venture capitalists like Vani Kola, Ankita Vasishta and and NassComm president, Rekha Menon.Yet there is one quality that women struggle with to this day, and that is power. Simply put, women have trouble owning and wielding power-- perhaps not the ones in my list above, but many others. How to address this? How to make women learn to use and wield power? One method is to model it for your children by being equal parents, or at least the kind where Mom doesn’t defer to Dad. The other way is to change the system so that women get a chance to exercise power. This is what Kej was alluding to when he made his comment.The panel discussion veered to the music industry of today. Kej said that in today’s music world, there were many great women professionals but they were all in the “entertainment” side (singers, musicians) not the “production” side (sound engineers, editors). The production side had a male majority and men didn’t not want women to enter their field, because they like to hang out together late at night, smoke and drink together, he said. Women would only complicate this. This is true of most professions. Day traders in the stock exchange don’t want women because things get complicated with the other sex. The way to change it is not by inserting one single woman into the fold but having a great many women in every field in every level of power.“I think you need a quota system to ensure that women are equally represented,” said Kej. “Anyone who says we don’t need quotas is speaking from a place of male privilege.” The audience clapped. In response to Kej’s comment, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw talked about DEI being the buzzword in today’s corporate world: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. She said that in her firm, she quietly incentivizes men to hire and include more women. Hire women for their potential and men for their competence, she said. When I called him about male privilege, Kej added that women, typically from the previous generation, underplay the gender card. Look how far I’ve come, they will say. I am the CEO and I didn’t need a quota. But these women are the exception rather than the rule. Equally, they forget how many fires they had to jump through to get where they are.Privilege is a strange thing. Those who have it take it for granted, don’t even realize its aura because they are surrounded by this. It is only when you are stripped away of your privileges that you feel the pain of those who don’t have it.I want to end with something that nobody talks about but is essential for empowerment. Gender balance is a numbers game. Diversity is not about including one token minority but enough for them to feel included. Today’s corporate boards largely include women-- but it is usually just one or 2 among 12 men. This too doesn’t work to anyone’s advantage-- not for women certainly, but in reality, not the firm’s either. We all know from personal experience how differently we behave if we are the sole man in a room full of women. Most men go quiet. Their manner is tense and muted. The same applies to women. Put her in a board-room with all its inherent tensions and think of whether she is going to voice her opinions. And please don’t point at the token woman you know who is assertive in such a situation.So the next time someone asks you to be in a panel, check if there is some semblance of gender balance in it. If you are invited on a jury, ask yourself: is the ten-person jury going to be all men? Book awards or any award with all-male juries tend to pick books written by men as the winner. Heck, women authors don’t even make the shortlist. And that in a gloriously heterogenous country such as ours is just plain wrong. It isn’t sustainable. Simply punting the issue back to women will not help. Men need to question each other’s prejudices. They need to ask themselves this simple question: is this the milieu that I want my daughters or nieces to inhabit?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangalore-talkies-women-on-top-does-that-make-you-uncomfortable-101637176617250.html
18-11-2021||India||Centre sets up committee to promote Indian languages||The Centre has constituted a ‘high-powered’ committee to explore and recommend pathways for the promotion and growth of Indian languages as envisaged in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. According to a communication sent by the education ministry to Chamu Krishna Shastry, an educationist and founding member of RSS-affiliated NGO Samskrita Bharati on Sunday, and shared on its official website on Wednesday, there will be three other members in the committee including the vice-chancellor of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, New Delhi. The committee will be chaired by Shastry. The committee will also suggest ways to improve studies of Indian languages in both schools and higher education institutions.The panel has been tasked with a mandate to study the existing institutional set up and suggest “ways for improvement of study of Indian Languages” in both school and higher education in the country, the communication said. It will also recommend ways to “revamp, consolidate and integrate” the existing set up to ensure best utilization of existing language teaching facilities in educational institutions for development of Indian Languages.It will also cover all categories of languages including scheduled, endangered, non-scheduled, minor, tribal, classical languages, among others. “(It will) recommend ways for making available technological tools and labs in various languages for the benefit of students and researchers...and ways to improve employability of language students as well as ways to improve employment opportunities by learning global languages as a skill,” the communication added. The committee will also closely coordinate with various student centric initiatives of the Ministry like Innovation Cell, and Indian Knowledge System. It will have the authority to appoint sub-committees and assign them tasks. NEP 2020 advocates promotion of Indian languages and recommends that efforts should be taken to preserve and promote all Indian languages including classical, tribal and endangered languages will be taken on with new vigour. Earlier this month, the Centre had asked all universities in the country to translate their learning material and literature into all Indian languages as a part of the government’s Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM) celebration to mark 75 years of India’s independence.The universities have been asked to chalk out plans with a timeline by November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-committee-to-promote-indian-languages-101637175239432.html
18-11-2021||India||27.9% rural households bought smartphone for kids’ studies amid pandemic: Survey||Smartphone penetration doubled in rural households in the past three years but a quarter of the children with digital devices at home don't have access to them, said the latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) survey released on Wednesday.According to the survey, the availability of smartphones in rural India was 36.5% in 2018, which increased to 61.8% in 2020 and 67.6 % in 2021. And, at least 27.9 % households in rural India bought a new smartphone for their children’s education this year. This figure was 9.1% last year.But the report cautioned that smartphone availability didn’t necessarily translate into access to education. “Although over two-thirds of all enrolled children have a smartphone at home (67.6%), over a quarter of them have no access to it (26.1%). There is also a clear pattern by grade, with more children in higher classes having access to a smartphone as compared to children in lower grades,” the report said.Also read | Covid-19 impact: Financial stress pushed kids out of pvt schoolsAccess to smartphone became important for education after the Covid-19 pandemic hit India last year and forced schooling to shift online. For almost a year, teachers took classes virtually and distributed reading materials over smartphones. Schools have only started opening up across the country in recent months.Of the 67.6% of the surveyed children with a smartphone at home, 27% said they had complete access to the device, 47% said they got access occasionally and 26.1% said they had no access to the device.The survey covered 76,706 households, 75,234 children between 5 and 16, and teachers and staff from 7,300 government schools across 25 states and three Union Territories.The survey found an increase in access to smartphones among students irrespective of the type of school they were enrolled in. For instance, in 2018, 29.6% of children enrolled in government schools had at least one smartphone at home. This proportion increased to 56.4% in 2020 and grew further to 63.7% in 2021.“However, still more children in private schools have a smartphone at home (79%) as opposed to kids going to government schools (63.7%),” the report stated.Kerala recorded the highest number of enrolled students with smartphone availability at home, at 97.5%. It was followed by 95.6% in Himachal Pradesh, 92.9% in Manipur and Nagaland, both, and 89.9% in Punjab.In contrast, some states showed poor availability of smartphones. For instance, in Bihar 54.4% of the surveyed students had smartphones at home, in West Bengal the figure was 58.4% and in Uttar Pradesh it was 58.9%.Bihar (53.8 per cent) has the highest percentage of students who did not have access to a smartphone despite a device being available at home followed by West Bengal (46.5% ), Uttar Pradesh (34.3 %) and Rajasthan (33.4%).The report further stated that the likelihood of a household owning a smartphone rose with the parents’ educational level. “In 2021, over 80% of children with parents who had studied at least till Class 9 had a smartphone available at home, as compared to just over 50% of children whose parents had studied till Class 5 or less,” it stated.However, it also highlighted that many parents in the ‘low’ education category bought new smartphones for their children amid the pandemic.Rukmini Banerjee, chief executive officer Pratham foundation, said, “Families did everything to ensure that learning continues during the lockdown. Now, time to think about how we can continue to engage families not just in schooling but in learning as well. Based on the ASER 2021 report, I would like to make a big case for digital device libraries in schools, villages and communities where these devices can be shared by groups of children or adults in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/279-rural-households-bought-at-least-one-smartphone-for-kids-studies-amid-pandemic-aser-survey-101637175238326.html
18-11-2021||India||PM Modi urges lawmakers to work with a sense of duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged lawmakers to work with a sense of duty, encourage healthy value-added debates above political considerations, make room for people dedicated to service of the society in politics, and set a new standard of politics in India.Addressing the 100th legislative presiding officer’s conference, Modi described the next 25 years, till 2047, as the “Amir Kaal”that would come after the “azadi ka amrit mahotsav” (celebration of freedom) and said, “These 25 years is very important period. Can we use only one mantra with full strength, full dedication and full responsibility? From my point of view that mantra is duty, duty, duty only duty.”India will complete 100 years of Independence in 2047.Modi expressed confidence that when public representatives and legislatives bodies emphasise on public duties “it will have an impact on the entire nation. Our sense of duty will fulfil a pious resolve of moving our country forward.”The PM also pitched for more space in public life for people and elected representatives who work tirelessly for social welfare. “Some people create an image that political leaders must be engaged in political upheaval, some manipulation or tussle. But if you notice, in every political party, there are people’s representatives who, beyond politics, spend their life in the service of the society, in the upliftment of the people of the society,” he said.The PM, whose legislative career spans nearly two decades, proposed a slew of reforms, including “one nation, one legislative platform” to serve as a technological boost for Indian Parliament and provide resources to the assemblies.But while he asked assemblies to encourage healthy debates and value addition in discussions, he cautioned that “our assemblies have to be careful about any voice against the unity and integrity of the nation”.Modi suggested giving separate time or a full day to debates rising above politics that can add value to the public discourse. He suggested more time for legislators who are either young, women or coming from backward areas.He reiterated that democracy in India is not just a system but a way of life and a national instinct.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla took a cue from the PM’s speech, and announced that the upcoming all party meeting ahead of the winter session will discuss how to promote healthy, value added debate Maintaining that the focus remains on making discussions more “disciplined, substantive and dignified” and effective working of the parliamentary committees, Birla said that a model legislative rule will be prepared to ensure uniform rules and procedures in all legislative bodies in India. In a significant move, most presiding officers favoured automatic suspension of lawmakers if they storm to the Well of the House. Such a provision is available only in the Lok Sabha and Chhattisgarh assembly. Speaking before Birla, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh also spoke about discipline and decorum in the House. He cited the science committee of the British parliament and the Future Committee of the Finnish parliament to advocate that Indian Parliament and its committees too needs to focus on the future. But the assembly speakers couldn’t arrive at a consensus on the report of to amend the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution or the laws governing anti-defection. The report, prepared by a panel led by Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi, suggested vesting all powers on defection with political parties. ”There are some differences and some parts of the report would now be reviewed,” Birla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-urges-lawmakers-to-work-with-a-sense-of-duty-101637174876705.html
18-11-2021||India||4,000 cyber-attacks on India’s Botanical Survey website in 2 months||There were 4,000 cyber-attacks on the website of the government-funded Botanical Survey of India (BSI), the country’s premier plant taxonomic organisation, over the last two months, a huge spike from the less than 10 attacks that took place in a month before the organisation digitised its rich repository in September this year, a top BSI official said on Wednesday.To be sure, the cyber-attacks were blocked.BSI director AA Mao said most of the attacks appear to originate from China and some other Asian countries.“Earlier we hardly ever faced any attempts cyber-attacks. But since the time we digitized all valuable information available in our centuries-old repository such attacks have shot up several times. Most of the attacks originated from China,” the BSI director told HT..The BSI, the custodian of the largest repository of centuries-old textile designs, natural dyes and plant drawings, in the country completed the digital archival of all its collections preserved till date in September. India is the second Asian country after China to provide open access to its huge collections of type specimens (original specimens collected by scientists and stored in BSI).The largest proportion of the attacks - 3,300 out of 4,000 - to push malicious codes into the website were aimed at the archive of natural dyes and design. There were at least 550 more attacks on the section which contains detailed taxonomic information about 5,600 Indian plants and a checklist of more than 21,600 plants found in India. The virtual herbarium section encountered around 130 more attacks.Officials said a quick analysis of the cyber-attacks indicate that most of them were attempts to inject malicious codes and access the passwords. The attacks weren’t successful but in view of the barrage of attempts over the last two months, there is a clear recommendation to upgrade the firewalls to keep out hackers.In March this year, the government told Parliament about a 300% increase in cyber attacks in the country in 2020 over the previous year. There have been multiple intelligence reports and technical analysis that trace many cyber attacks in India to China.The BSI collection which appears to have drawn the attention of hackers includes the original set of 15 volumes of 19th-century British businessman Thomas Wardle’s specimens of Fabrics dyed with Indian Dyes. It has information on 4,100 samples of dye patterns, extracted from 64 plants, depicting Indian dying traditions, compiled by Wardle in the 19th century and is considered one of the most comprehensive and complete documentation” said the BSI official.The archive also contains 18 volumes of textile designs comprising 1,700 samples, starting with turbans, saree, dhoti, trouser, carpet, mosquito curtain, coat, shawl, tent cloth, gowns and even saddle cloths among others, compiled by John Forbes Watson between 1866 and 1874.The BSI has also digitised the original set of 2,532 plant drawings made by William Roxburgh, a Scottish botanist and physician who was known as ‘Father of Indian Botany’.“India is the second country after the United Kingdom which made Roxburgh’s drawing online for the public. The digitised materials of the archives are the most accurate means of recording natural specimens and are also easier to store and transport. There are 3,280 life-size botanical paintings other than Roxburgh paintings drawn by Indian artists,” said BSI director Mao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4000-cyber-attacks-on-india-s-botanical-survey-website-in-2-months-mostly-from-china-101637174816639.html
18-11-2021||India||Families of two civilians killed in J&K gunfight hold protest||The families of two civilians, who were killed in the Hyderpora encounter, staged a protest here on Wednesday, seeking justice for the victims and return of their bodies.Businessman Altaf Ahmad Bhat (48) and Mudasir Gul (43) were killed along with two terrorists during the gunbattle in Hyderpora area of Srinagar on Monday night. On Tuesday, a controversy erupted after police claimed they were over ground workers (OGWs) of terrorism and their families claimed they were used by security forces as human shields during the encounter.Staging a protest at Press Enclave on Residency Road, families of Bhat and Gul said that they were OGWs and demanded that their bodies be returned.“I knew how hardworking my husband was. The police are lying. Show me the proof that my husband was working with terrorists. Since yesterday, my one-year-old daughter has been searching for her father. Mudasir was neither an OGW nor a terrorist but a daughter,” Gul’s wife, Humaira, said.“Give me the body of my husband. I want to see his face for one last time. Give us justice. We want proper justice. If something happens to my family, this government will be responsible for it,” she added.Gul’s relatives also blamed police for his death.“This is great injustice. People are first used as a human shield and then they are killed. Families are then denied a decent burial,” a relative said, seeking anonymity.Bhat’s family also joined the protests, demanding the return of his body.“We only have one request, to hand over the body of Altaf Ahmad Bhat. We will continue our protests till the body is returned to the family,” the businessman’s elder brother, Abdul Majeed, who is a ‘numberdar’ (revenue official), said.Fearing trouble, police buried the two bodies in Handwara, around 70 km away from Hyderpora, without the participation of their families on Tuesday. “Due to law and order problems, the bodies were not handed over to the families and buried at Handwara,” Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-of-two-civilians-killed-in-j-k-gunfight-hold-protest-101637174698282.html
18-11-2021||India||Karnataka records dip in reading ability of govt school students||Bengaluru Reading ability among children studying in primary classes of government schools across Karnataka has dipped by almost half in the past two years, indicating not just the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic but the inequitable development of the southern state, a flagship nationwide survey said on Wednesday.The Annual Status of Education Report (Aser) for 2021 found that the proportion of children in the third grade, who could read grade one text, fell sharply from 41.8% in 2018 to 24.2% in 2020 in Karnataka. The report also revealed a steep drop in children’s foundational skills, particularly in lower primary grades.“In reading for example, the proportion of children in Standard 2 in government schools who were as yet unable to read even letters (beginners’ level) had increased by 13 percentage points over 2018 levels. The proportion of children in Std III who could read at least Std I level text had fallen sharply from 41.8% to 24.2% over the same period,” according to the findings of the report.In Karnataka, the percentage of children who can at least recognise double digit numbers has come down from 78.3% in 2018 to 60.7% in 2020, data showed.“Covering almost 20000 children age 5-16 across 24 of Karnataka’s 30 districts, the learning data shows a steep drop in children’s foundational skills, particularly in lower primary grades when these foundations are often still shaky” the report added.A statewide assessment was conducted in March this year in Karnataka. The study, done by the non-profit organisation Pratham, covered almost 20,000 children age 5-16 across 24 of Karnataka’s 30 districts.Karnataka was the only state where Pratham conducted a survey to gauge the learning levels of students and evaluate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on their education. In other states, Pratham said, it was unable to conduct the learning level survey, as schools were closed due to the pandemic.The report also highlighted how the Covid-19 pandemic exacerbated the challenges of the public education system in Karnataka.The state government had resumed physical classes for pre-primary students on November 8, but teachers are still struggling to bridge the digital gap.One of the main reasons for reopening physical classes in Karnataka, as explained by the technical advisory committee (TAC) in its recommendations, were not particularly centred around education.“Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further Worse,” according to the report, submitted to the BS Yediyurappa-led government on June 22.Data from the Karnataka government shows that around 9.3 million students, out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email.However, of these 9.3 million, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets while around 3,127,524 have no access to such devices. The survey also revealed that 5,134,386 students have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not, rendering the exercise of online classes redundant, especially for those belonging to rural and backward regions of the state.Interestingly, Karnataka stands at 16th in the country when it comes to the number of enrolled children who have a smartphone available at home which has gone up from 43.1% in 2018 to 71.6% in 2020, ASER data shows.The all-India average has gone up from 36.5% in 2018 to 67.6% in 2020.Kerala has the highest number of enrolled children who have a smartphone available at home from 80.9% to 97.5%, data shows.In India’s IT capital, Bengaluru (rural, south and north), there are 178,612 students who have been accounted for out of the total 1,992,100. Of this, only 1,387,299 have a mobile number in which they can be contacted and just 1,452,207 have access to smartphones or tablets. Only 1,305,527 students have access to the internet and at least 401,269 have no access, data from the education department shows.Rishikesh.B.S who leads the Hub for Education, Law & Policy at Azim Premji University, said: “We see that children have not fallen just by the missed year but by two more grades. Similar to the summer loss where a holiday needs a bridge course just after two months. When that two month extends to 18 months, it is a very natural thing that there is not just a learning loss but a learning regression.”“It is basically adding to the problem which we anyways had pre-covid. The 18 months of closure has exacerbated the problems further.”Rishikesh said that this should warn us that the government cannot just reopen schools and continue as though its business as usual which could leave behind a third of the class. He added that one way to deal with this is to give more autonomy to the teachers and we had said that this bridge course should go on till March 2023 or 500 days to bring these children on par.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-dip-in-reading-ability-of-govt-school-students-101637174639814.html
18-11-2021||India||‘BJP will be wiped out’: Akhilesh Yadav holds rally on Purvanchal Expressway||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held a ‘Vijay Rath Yatra’ on the Purvanchal Expressway, a day after it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and promised to “wipe out the BJP” in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections.Yadav has been claiming that the 341-km-long expressway was initiated by the SP when it was in power in the state.Alleging that the expressway was incomplete, he said: “This expressway, (which has been inaugurated), is incomplete. Samajwadis saw the dream of building this (Purvanchal) expressway in order that the travel time between Ghazipur in UP and Delhi reduces. But this expressway is not reducing the distance (travel time between Ghazipur in eastern UP and Delhi).It was to be an expressway of prosperity. They couldn’t make a better road than this road in the entire country.”Also read | Akhilesh Yadav promises to develop markets for farmers along Purvanchal Expressway“Through this expressway, work to strengthen the economy of rural areas will be done. Mandis were supposed to come up near this but they did not. After the SP comes to power, work will be done to set up mandis for farmers and create means of employment generation for the youths along it,” he added.The Purvanchal Expressway starts from village Chand Sarai in Lucknow district and ends at village Hydaria on National Highway number 31, 18 kilometres east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border, in Ghazipur. The key feature of the expressway is the 3.2-kilometre-long airstrip to enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter planes in case of emergency. The six-lane expressway can be expanded to eight lanes in the future.Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said, “There will be a change in UP in 2022, for sure. I am watching a wave of change. I am confident that from this Ghaizpur (UP) to that Ghazipur (near Delhi border), BJP will be wiped out.”“Ghazipur is the land of bravehearts and sacrifice. I salute all of you,” he said, addressing people from atop the rath (bus).He asked the people to “remove the bulls and the bulldozers” which are running in the state. This remark appeared to be an indirect jibe at the problem of stray cattle and the Yogi Adityanath government’s drive against criminals and demolition of their unauthorised properties.Appealing to the people, Akhilesh said, “In 2022, change the government which is changing names.”It was a reference to the Yogi government having changed the names of Faizabad to Ayodhya and Allahabad to Prayagraj, besides renaming the Faizabad railway station as Ayodhya Cantt. At a function in SP chief’s Lok Sabha constituency Azamgarh on November 13, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said laying the foundation stone of a state university will turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh in the true sense.“There should be no doubt that this university will truly turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh,” the chief minister had said. Union home minister Amit Shah had laid the foundation stone of the university.Akhilesh Yadav also targeted the BJP on petrol and diesel prices, besides “rising unemployment”.“These are the very people who had said that poor with slippers will travel by air. But the way the prices of diesel and petrol have gone up, riding a motorcycle has become difficult,” he said.“Unemployed youths waited for jobs for five years. Where are the jobs? Will the youth not bring a change? All sections of the society, be it farmers, labourers and youths, are ready to bring a change in the state,” he said.He also said the SP will hold a historic rally in Ghazipuri in future.In an ostensible reference to a video on social media where PM Modi is seen in a vehicle surrounded by his security personnel in Sultanpur and Adityanath walking, Yadav said, “It was for the people to bring them on the road, but they themselves have started trodding down that path.”The Samajwadi Party’s ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar said SBSP has shut the door through which BJP came to power in 2017. The SBSP-led Bhagidari Sanklap Morcha, in alliance with the SP, will make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister of UP in 2022, he said.Earlier, Akhilesh Yadav, along with Rajbhar, met noted vocalist Pandit Chhannu Lal Mishra at Lal Bahadur Shastri international airport, Varanasi, said SBSP state unit vice president Shashipratap Singh. Padma Vibhushan was conferred on Mishra recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-be-wiped-out-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-holds-rally-on-purvanchal-expressway-101637174457875.html
18-11-2021||India||Centre approves continuation of rural road connectivity schemes||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved a proposal of the ministry of rural development to continue Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana-I and II scheme, up to September next year, for completion of balance road and bridge works.Briefing reporters on the state, Union minister Anurag Thakur said the committee also approved the continuation of the Road Connectivity Project for Left Wing Extremism Affected Areas (RCPLWEA) up to March 2023.“The Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana which started during former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s time and got widened to cover thousands of villages during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tenure has been extended so that the remaining kilometres are met. With the RCPLWEA scheme, areas hit by left-wing extremism and tribal areas are also going to benefit from this. Roads will be built through dense forests, mountains and rivers,” he said. The Centre started PMGSY-I to provide connectivity to unconnected habitations that have a population of over 500 people in plain areas and over 250 people in the northeast and Himalayan states. In an official release, the government said that selected left wing extremism blocks, and habitations with a population of over 100 people will also be provided connectivity. “Only 2,432 habitations are left of about 184,444 habitations. About 20,950 km road length and 1,974 bridges are left for completion out of a total sanctioned 645,627 km road length and 7,523 bridges. These works will now get completed,” the release said. The release said that under PMGSY-II, upgradation of 50,000 km rural road network was envisaged. Total 49,885 km road length and 765 LSBs have been sanctioned, of which only 4,240 km road length and 254 bridges are remaining which will now get completed.“Majority of pending works under PMGSY-I and II are in the northeast and hill states due to factors such as Covid-19 lockdown, extended rains, winters, forest issues,” the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-continuation-of-rural-road-connectivity-schemes-101637174456665.html
18-11-2021||India||Contemplating legal action against Kangana Ranaut over Gandhi remark: Patole||The Congress is contemplating legal action against actor Kangana Ranaut as her recent comments on India’s independence and Mahatma Gandhi were “anti-national” and amounted to sedition, the party’s Maharashtra unit chief Nana Patole, said on Wednesday.“Our leaders have filed criminal cases against the actress. We are taking legal opinion over it to see what steps can be taken. We will move court against her,” Patole told reporters here.“There are some Hindi film actors who are given some awards and are being used to distort the historical facts. We are seeking a legal opinion on the matter. Once we arrive at a decision, the party will take its next stand regarding such coordinated attacks,” he added. Ranaut was recently awarded the Padma Shri, India’s fourth highest civilian award by President Ram Nath Kovind. Days after her India’s independence in 1947 was “bheek” remarks triggered a row, Ranaut on Tuesday claimed Subhas Chandra Bose and Bhagat Singh got no support from Mahatma Gandhi and went on to mock his mantra of ahimsa by saying that offering another cheek gets you “bheek” not freedom. Patole said that Congress leader and former minister Naseem Khan has already approached police to file a complaint against the actor. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “BJP’s attempt to murder the ideology of Gandhiji through its puppets was neither successful in the past, nor will it succeed in the future. Gandhi is the past as well as the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contemplating-legal-action-against-kangana-ranaut-over-gandhi-remark-patole-101637174338668.html
18-11-2021||India||Chinese military has conducted major ops at border: CPC||The Chinese military has conducted “major operations related to border defence” and strengthened training under combat conditions to build a modern armed force, the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) has said in a key resolution.The resolution, only the third such to be adopted in 100 years, on the CPC’s “achievements and historical experiences” also admitted that the party’s leadership over the military was “obviously lacking” for a period of time but has “made a fundamental turn for the better”.The strong support for the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) transformation in the key document comes in the backdrop of the ongoing standoff with the Indian military along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The resolution was passed at the end of a four-day, closed-door meeting of the CPC’s Central Committee held in Beijing last week.In what could be interpreted as a message to adversaries, the resolution said: “Devoting intense focus to combat effectiveness as the sole criterion that matters most and to their fundamental purpose of being able to fight and win, the people’s armed forces have strengthened their strategic forces and new-domain forces with new combat capabilities, and they have improved command systems and capacity for joint operations.”Defence mobilisation has been improved and “greater unity” has been cultivated between the military and the government and between the military and civilians, it said.The document didn’t mention India but gave an indication of the PLA’s preparation for wars along its land and maritime borders.“They (the military) have conducted major operations related to border defence, protecting China’s maritime rights, countering terrorism and maintaining stability, disaster rescue and relief, fighting Covid-19, peacekeeping and escort services, humanitarian assistance, and international military cooperation,” the document said.“They have worked hard to address ‘peacetime ills’, vigorously strengthened training under combat conditions, and built strong, well-structured, and modern border defence, coastal defence, and air defence systems,” it added.China currently has land border disputes with India and Bhutan, and maritime disputes with several neighbours over conflicting claims in the South China Sea and with Japan in the East China Sea.Troop training and battle preparedness have been bolstered across the board, the document said, adding that the military has accelerated efforts to modernise “…military theory, organisation, personnel, and weaponry and equipment and to integrate mechanisation with the application of information and smart technologies within the military”.The CPC, under the presidency of Xi Jinping, who is also chairperson of the Central Military Commission (CMC), has reversed the trend of the CPC’s weakening control of China’s vast armed forces, the resolution indicated.“For a period of time, the Party’s leadership over the military was obviously lacking. If this problem had not been completely solved, it would not only have diminished the military’s combat capacity, but also undermined the key political principle that the Party commands the gun.”The resolution named four top generals -- Guo Boxiong, Xu Caihou, Fang Fenghui, and Zhang Yang – who have been punished for corruption during Xi’s ongoing reign.They were “…thoroughly investigated and punished, and their negative influence was completely eliminated. With this, the political environment in the people’s armed forces has made a fundamental turn for the better.”“…the people’s military has been through an all-around revolutionary restructuring under the firm leadership of the Party in preparation for the next stage, while our defence capabilities have grown in step with our economic strength.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-military-has-conducted-major-ops-at-border-cpc-101637174337352.html
18-11-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal reaches out to Goa’s taxi operators; promises corporation ahead of polls||Panaji Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday reached out to Goa’s taxi operators and promised to form a corporation to address their grievances if his party is voted to power in the state.“Seventy per cent of the credit for the formation of the AAP government in Delhi is due to taxi and auto drivers. I told auto and taxi drivers that I will take up your fight, you help me form a government... They stuck AAP posters on their auto and taxis for free. Autos travel across Delhi. There can be no better canvassing,” he said, addressing a gathering of taxi operators, in the vicinity of Goa’s Dabolim airport.“Seven years ago auto and taxi drivers were being called mafia. No politician wanted to associate themselves with taxi and auto operators in Delhi. I had called a similar meeting in Delhi with taxi and auto drivers where I had asked for their support,” he added. Kejriwal promised that the corporation, so formed, would be largely staffed by the taxi operators themselves allowing them to take decisions on when and whether they can come under the umbrella of an app, and when fares should be hiked. “We will form a corporation with one or two government officers, the rest of the members will be taxi and auto drivers. You will form the policy. You will decide whether you want to start an app-based service or hike fares,” he said. Taxi operators in Goa have long been protesting against the government-promoted GoaMiles taxi service that they alleged is eating into their business as well as have been protesting against the government’s decision to make it mandatory to install digital meters from a sole provider, which they say is a scam, as it benefits only one company. Around 25,000 taxis are registered with the Goa transport department and their support is considered crucial in certain coastal constituencies where their votes are considered crucial for the aspiring candidates. However, taxi operators have not voted in unison with a lack of unity among the operators ensuring that despite coming together on issues, differing political ideologies meant the taxi operators cannot be considered a ‘bloc’ that can be captured even if their leaders vow allegiance to political parties.“We are yet unsure of what his promises entail and as such it is too early to comment on the promises that have been made,” Ravindra Vengurlekar the vice president of the North Goa Tourist Taxi Operators Association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-reaches-out-to-goa-s-taxi-operators-promises-corporation-ahead-of-polls-101637174279745.html
18-11-2021||India||IOC walks back on trans athlete rules, but gaps remain||“What we’re saying now is you don’t need to use testosterone at all,” International Olympic Committee (IOC) medical director Richard Budgett said, signalling a major shift in the way the sporting body looks at gender, and whether or not certain athletes are allowed to take the field.
18-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SC appoints retired HC judge to monitor probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed retired Punjab and Haryana high court judge Rakesh Kumar Jain to monitor the probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3. The court underscored that the appointment of a former judge from outside Uttar Pradesh to oversee the probe would “ensure transparency, fairness and absolute impartiality in the outcome of the investigation”. “This Court is equally concerned about guaranteeing an impartial, fair, just and thorough investigation into the incident which has resulted in such a tragic loss of lives of protesters as well as some other persons,” said a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, asking the former high court judge to monitor the probe and submit a report in the court after the charge sheet is filed in the case. The bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, further underlined that constitutional courts must ensure “the rule of law and constitutional guarantees of a fair and impartial investigation into alleged criminality” as it pointed out how it had previously disapproved of “slow pace, manner and outcome of the investigation conducted so far”. The court, thus, ordered a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the violence and inducted three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers in the team, asking them to complete the investigation “expeditiously” and in a time-­bound manner, and by using latest forensic investigative methods “to reach the truth”.“While investigating such offences, justice must not only be done, but also be seen and perceived to be done. We thus deem it appropriate to reconstitute the SIT hereinafter to preserve the faith and trust of people in the criminal administration of the justice system,” said the bench.The court said that 1993-batch IPS officer SB Shiradkar will head the three member-SIT and will also include IPS officers Padmaja Chauhan and Preetinder Singh. All three officers are currently serving in Uttar Pradesh but are directly recruited IPS officers and belong to other states. It took note of the fact that at present, the SIT predominantly consisted of middle-level or subordinate-level police officers posted in Lakhimpur Kheri district. “It appears to us that in spite of their perceived commitment and sincerity in carrying out the investigation, there may still be a lurking suspicion in respect of the fairness and independence of such an investigation. We, therefore, deem it appropriate to direct re­constitution of the SIT infused with directly recruited IPS officers who do not hail from the State of Uttar Pradesh though are allocated to the UP Cadre,” recorded the court in its order.The bench passed its directive in the case registered by the top court on its own motion (suo motu) after the UP government on Monday said that it has no objection to the appointment of a former high court judge to oversee the probe into the incident.It had also asked senior counsel Harish Salve, who appeared for the state government, to give names of some high-ranking and senior police officers who could be inducted in the SIT since most of the current police officers were inspector-level and were posted in Lakhimpur. A day ago, the state government submitted names of some senior police officers, following which the court named the new members of the SIT. Over the last few hearings, the top court has been critical of the manner in which the state police have so far conducted the investigation in the case. On November 8, the bench pulled up the UP police, commenting that the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident appeared to be favouring the “main accused” in the case. The remarks continued the trend of the top court’s dissatisfaction with the probe in the case where a convoy, in which at least one vehicle belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, ran over farmers protesting three controversial agricultural laws, leading them to run amok and lynch some of the occupants of the vehicles. Four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, and a journalist were killed in the incident.Ashish Mishra, the son of the minister, is one of the accused in one of the two cases (the convoy running over farmers) being investigated. His arrest came only after the bench, on October 9, criticised the lenient treatment he seemed to be receiving from the police in the murder FIR.The other case being investigated by the police relates to the lynching of some of the occupants of vehicles in the convoy. In the last hearing, the court was perturbed that some of the evidence being collected in this case was aimed at protecting the “main accused”The state maintained that it has “clinching evidence” of Mishra’s presence at the scene (something he and his father have consistently denied), but that forensic reports on this are awaited.The bench had then underscored the need for appointing a retired high court judge from outside the state to monitor the probe after noticing that the investigation in the farmers’ murder case (FIR no. 219) could be adversely impacted by the manner in which the UP police were recording evidence in the case relating to the murder of three BJP workers (FIR no. 220).It added that the court does not have confidence in the judicial commission appointed by the UP government. On October 7, the UP government set up a judicial commission, headed by retired Allahabad high court judge PK Srivastava, to probe the incident||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-sc-appoints-retired-hc-judge-to-monitor-probe-101637174277050.html
18-11-2021||India||India, Russia maiden 2+2 dialogue likely to be held in December, say officials||New Delhi India and Russia are considering the possibility of holding their maiden 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers around the time of the annual summit in December because of scheduling issues, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. It was earlier expected that the 2+2 dialogue between defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and their Russian counterparts Sergey Shoygu and Sergey Lavrov would be held in Moscow in the last week of November. However, with the 25-day winter session of Parliament beginning on November 29 and a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Russia, both sides are looking at the possibility of holding the 2+2 meeting in New Delhi around the time of the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The Parliament session will require the presence of the two senior ministers in New Delhi and make any foreign trips a difficult proposition, the people said. A final call is yet to be made and the two sides are engaged in consultations to lock down a date for the meeting. The Parliament session is also expected to affect the scheduling of the 2+2 dialogue with the US. The two Indian ministers were earlier expected to travel to Washington this month for the talks with defense secretary Lloyd Austin and secretary of state Antony Blinken. The India-US 2+2 dialogue now faces the likelihood of being pushed to January, the people said. India currently has a 2+2 ministerial dialogue with Australia, Japan and the US, and Russia will only be the fourth country with which it will have such an engagement. India and Russia also recently agreed to have a permanent channel between their top security officials for consultations on Afghanistan. This year’s annual India-Russia summit is already facing intense scrutiny as top Russian officials have announced that Moscow has begun shipping the first batch of S-400 air defence systems under a $5.4-billion contract signed in 2018. India has signalled its intention to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). During the summit, India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation for the next decade and sign several agreements in defence, trade and science and technology. One of the key pacts expected to be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases and ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-maiden-2-2-dialogue-likely-to-be-held-in-december-say-officials-101637174218431.html
18-11-2021||India||UAPA case: No coercive action, SC tells Tripura||The Supreme Court on Wednesday restrained the Tripura Police from arresting two lawyers and a journalist, who were booked under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), for their social media posts on the communal violence in the state. “We issue notice on this petition. No coercive steps to be taken against the petitioners till the next date of hearing,” directed a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana. The bench, which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, sought a response from the Tripura government within four weeks, adding the petition will be heard along with the other bunch of cases where the constitutional validity of UAPA has been challenged. No date was set for the hearing.Advocate Prashant Bhushan appeared for the three petitioners, advocates Mukesh Gaur and Ansarul Haq Ansari, and journalist Shyam Meera Singh, requesting protection from arrest. On November 6, Tripura Police booked 102 social media users, including journalists and activists, under UAPA, besides criminal conspiracy and forgery charges, and served notices to the authorities at Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and inform it about their particulars. The charges relate to spreading communal hatred through their social media posts about the violent incidents in the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state in the last week of October. Two women journalists, Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha, employed with Delhi-based news channel HW News Network, were also arrested by Tripura Police in the early hours of Monday for alleged criminal conspiracy and spread of communal hatred while reporting on the October 26 violence in the state. They were granted bail on Tuesday.A case was also registered against four lawyers under the stringent anti-terror law and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly promoting communal disharmony with their social media posts relating to the violence that followed a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) protest against the attacks in Bangladesh on Hindus during Durga Puja. In their petition before the top court, the petitioners highlighted the vagueness of the definition of “unlawful activity”; the “wide net” the law casts on freedom of speech and expression; its tendency to bring within its fold mere criticism of government policies or actions that have no effect on public order or the security, sovereignty and integrity of India; and its indiscriminate use against those critical of the government produces a “chilling effect” on the freedom of speech and expression.They also challenged the UAPA provision that bars anticipatory bail, besides contending that the law violates Articles 14 (equality before the law and equal protection of law), 19(1)(a) (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.The petitioners said they were seeking protection of their fundamental rights against the backdrop of “targeted political violence against the Muslim minorities in the state of Tripura during the second half of the month of October, 2021, and the subsequent efforts by the state of Tripura to monopolise the flow of information and facts emanating from the affected areas by invoking provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, against members of civil society, including advocates and journalists who have made the effort to bring facts in relation to the targeted violence in the public domain”.“If the quest for truth and reporting thereof itself is criminalised, then the victim in the process is the idea of justice. Such circumstances strike at the very foundations of a participative democratic society as it curbs the free flow of information and ideas and no inconvenient facts will be available in the public domain for the citizenry to demand corrective action from the State where there have been shortcomings and lapses on its part,” stated the petition.On October 29, the Tripura government had said that a vested interest group from outside hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the state and malign its image by uploading a fake photograph of a burning mosque on social media. The police have investigated the case and found that no mosque was burnt in Panisagar sub-division in North Tripura district, information and culture minister Sushanta Chowdhury had said.The Supreme Court has been seized of a batch of cases, led by a Delhi resident, Sajal Awasthi, who challenged the legality of 2019 amendments to the UAPA allowing it to declare an individual a “terrorist” and also attach his or her properties even before trial, among other provisions.In September 2019, the top court admitted Awasthi’s petition, issuing a notice to the Union government. Similar other petitions were also filed in the top court, including one by the Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR).These petitions said that the new amendments the amendments to UAPA were violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(a) and 21of the Constitution which guarantee the right to equality, the right to freedom of speech and expression and the right to life to all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uapa-case-no-coercive-action-sc-tells-tripura-101637174217172.html
18-11-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh declared proclaimed offender in extortion case||A Mumbai court on Wednesday declared former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and two others proclaimed offenders in an extortion case filed by the city police.It is for the first time that a police commissioner in the city has been declared a proclaimed offender. Singh, 59, was the city’s 43rd police commissioner. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale also directed Singh and two others -- Vinay Ramnarayan Singh (46) and Riyaz Bhati (56) -- to appear before court in 30 days in connection with the case. If they fail to appear, police can initiate the process for attachment of their properties under section 83 of Code of Criminal Procedure. The court’s order came days after the crime branch of Mumbai Police, which is probing the extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai, sought the proclamation against the three accused, saying they could not be traced even after the issuance of a non-bailable warrant (NBW) on October 30. Appearing for the crime branch, special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said that “pursuant to the warrant, crime branch officials visited Singh’s last known address in the city at Neelam Building in Malabar Hill” but a cook present there informed that the former Mumbai top cop and his family had not been staying at the residence for the past three months. Jagtap added that a crime branch team also visited Singh’s hometown in Chandigarh where his brother told police that he had not made any recent visits to the Union territory.Likewise, officials also visited Bhati’s residence in Kandivli in north Mumbai and Vinay Singh’s residence at Andheri in western Mumbai but could not trace them, Jagtap said. A short affidavit, filed by investigating officer Vishal Patil, in support of the plea sought the proclamation under section 82 of Code of Criminal Procedure, stating that Singh has been absconding since March this year. The affidavit added that in the last four months, five cases were registered against the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer but he never appeared for probe in any of the cases. Singh also failed to appear before the Justice KU Chandiwal Commission, which is probing the former top cop’s allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, the affidavit said. The affidavit added that “despite best efforts by the crime branch”, none of the three accused could be traced and therefore, the “non-bailable warrants issued against them have remained unexecuted.” The crime branch claimed that the accused were “intentionally evading the law” and that officials had even urged the court to initiate a process for attachment of their properties. The case against Singh and others was registered on August 30 following a complaint by one Bimal Agarwal that the accused had extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register false cases against two of his restaurant outlets. The incidents occurred between January 2020 and March 2021, he had claimed.Former assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who was arrested in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case, is also among six accused in the extortion case registered under sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. Mumbai-based advocate Aniket Nikam said a proclamation is meant for those accused persons who have been avoiding investigating agencies. “It seems despite several attempts the police have not been able to get hold of Param Bir Singh and for such situations, CrPC under section 82 contemplates the procedure of proclamation and section 83 provides for attachment if properties (movable/immovable) of the proclaimed offender.” “The Supreme Court has held that an absconder/proclaimed offender is not even entitled to relief of anticipatory bail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-declared-proclaimed-offender-in-extortion-case-101637174216622.html
18-11-2021||India||Covid-19 impact: Financial stress pushed kids out of pvt schools||Thousands of children in rural India switched from private schools to government-run institutions during the Covid-19 pandemic largely due to economic distress and depressed incomes of parents in the past year, a flagship nationwide survey said on Wednesday.The Annual Status of Education Report (Aser) for 2021 also found that more children were dependent on paid private tuition classes across the country -- a consequence of schools being shut for months due to the virus -- and access to smartphones for education remained difficult for children even in households with such digital devices.“The major change in enrolment that is evident in Aser 2021 is a big jump in government school enrolment accompanied by a fall in private school enrolment. The increase in government school enrolment is across the board – all age-groups, grades and for both boys and girls,” said the report.Also read | 31 children died by suicide every day in 2020, reveals govt data; experts blame Covid-19The 16th edition of the report, issued by the non-profit organisation Pratham, was prepared on the basis of a household telephonic survey conducted in rural areas of 581 districts across 25 states and three Union territories between September and October this year.The survey -- which covered 76,706 households, 75,234 children between 5 and 16, and teachers and staff from 7,300 government schools -- aimed to capture the transition in the education system at a time when schools are reopening in a staggered manner after almost 18 months due to the pandemic.There was also some good news. The survey didn’t report any sharp spike in out-of-school children numbers, which hovered between 4% in 2018, 5.5% in 2020 and 4.9% in 2021. To be sure, a survey based on mobile phones could have left out the poorest families or those tied to economic migration patterns.The report found a steady decline in private school enrolment numbers, which shrank from 32. 5% in 2018 to 28.8% in 2020 and 24.4% this year. Correspondingly, public school enrolment numbers rose from 64.3% in 2018, 65.8% in 2020 and 70.3% this year.“Incidence of private schooling in India has been rising over time. From 2006 to 2014 there was a steady increase. After plateauing around 30% for a few years, there has been a significant decline in the pandemic years,” the report said.Why did this happen? 62% of the teachers and staff surveyed attributed the shift to financial distress and about 50% ascribed it to free facilities in government schools. Around 40% said no studies were happening in private schools and 15% cited migration as the main reason for the switch to government institutions.“The government-private split in enrolment in 2021 is close to the 2010 figures...Government school enrolment has been declining since 2006 till it stabilised at around 65% in 2018, jumping only in the last year to reach 70.3% in 2021,” said the report.The maximum increase in government school enrolment was seen in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, by 13.2% and 11.9% respectively, between 2018 and 2021. Both states were among the worst hit during the pandemic.The national increase in government school enrolment is driven by large northern states like UP, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana and southern states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. All of these states had high private school enrolment (in excess of 40%) to start with. If the shift away from private schools is due to financial distress, then it is not surprising that it will be most evident in states where private school enrolment was high to begin with,” said the report.Other than Telangana, more than 8% increase in government school enrolment was witnessed in all the southern states [during the same period], the report said. In Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand, there was only a slight increase in enrolment in government schools during that period.The findings show government school enrolment went up across all age groups, but the maximum was reported among younger students. For classes 1 and 2, the enrolment of boys in government schools rose 10.9% while for girls, the rise was 7.4% between 2020 and 2021.“It has always been the case that more girls are enrolled in government schools as compared to boys. While this continues to be true in 2021, the proportion of boys enrolled in government schools has also increased from 63% in 2018 to 72% in 2021,narrowing the gender gap,” the report said.Changes in the pattern of enrolment will become clearer when schools across the country completely reopen, the surveyors added.“The enrolment in government schools over the last couple of years is reflective of the focus on education in the state. The steps taken by state government like easy enrolment of children of migrant workers who returned home during the first wave of pandemic, transfer of money in accounts of parents via Direct Benefit Transfer to purchase bags, shoes, sweater and uniform for children along with easy accessibility led to rise in enrolment,” UP basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi said.Earlier, several states, including Haryana and Delhi, had announced that their schools witnessed an influx from private schools amid the pandemic. For instance, according to the Delhi government, 270,000 students from private schools moved to their schools this year. In August, Haryana school education department released data saying around 200,000 students from private schools switched to government schools in the state.The survey flagged two other major findings.One, there was a 10 percentage point increase in the proportion of school children taking paid tuition classes since 2018. “At an all-India level, in 2018, less than 30 per cent children took private tuition classes. In 2021, this proportion has jumped to almost 40%. This proportion has increased across both sexes and all grades and school types,” the report stated.The survey said the phenomena was a “natural response” to prolonged closure of schools States like Arunachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Nagaland saw the sharpest increase in tuition between 2018 and 2021. In Arunachal Pradesh, 26.6% of children took tuition in 2018; however in 2021 the number increased to 46.3%. When comparing state-wise data, Arunachal Pradesh topped the list. This was followed by Uttar Pradesh where the percentage rose from 19.6% in 2018 to 38.7% in 2021. Nagaland also reported a sharp increase from 27.9 % in 2018 to 47% in 2021.Kerala bucked the trend with the number of students opting for private tuitions dropping from 28.3% in 2018 to 18.8% in 2021.Two, access to digital devices remained fraught with challenges for children. Smartphones became important for education during the pandemic as teaching shifted online and teachers started taking classes virtually. But the survey found that even though smartphone penetration doubled in rural India (from 36.5% in 2018 to 67.6% in 2021) it did not necessarily translate into access to schooling.“26.1 % surveyed students said they do not have access to smartphones despite having one at home,” the survey stated, adding that younger children were more deprived when it came to accessing smartphones.It also highlighted that several states including Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, were still lagging in terms of availability of smartphones among students. In Bihar, 54.4% of the surveyed students had smartphones at home, in West Bengal the percentage was 58.4% and in Uttar Pradesh it was 58.9%.The report also expressed concern over the loss of learning levels among younger students and found that one in every three children enrolled in classes 1 and 2 had never attended in-person classes. The percentage of such children is 36.8% in government schools and 33.6% in private schools. “Entry to the world of formal education can be a difficult process at the best of times but the challenges these young children face as learners are therefore likely to be far more complex than would have been the case in pre-pandemic times,” said Suman Bhattacharjea, director of the Aser research centre.The report also pointed out that the learning support at home for children decreased from 74.9% last year to 66.6% this year. Although the ASER 2021 survey didn’t cover learning outcomes due to schools being closed or partially open in several regions of the country, a sample assessment done in Karnataka in March highlighted a “huge drop” in learning levels among students, particularly among those enrolled in primary classes.Experts attributed the shift from private to public institutions to pandemic-induced distress.“Many parents lost their jobs amid the pandemic and were forced to pull their kids out of private schools and enrol them into government schools. Rather than making the child sit at home, parents put them in public schools. I think once the pandemic is over, in 2024, there will again be an increase in private school enrolments,” said educationist Gouri Ishawaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-impact-financial-stress-pushed-kids-out-of-pvt-schools-101637174156039.html
18-11-2021||India||‘Inertia, policy paralysis’: SC’s rebuke on air crisis||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the executive in the country is suffering from a “policy paralysis” and “inertia”, waiting for the top court to step in for bringing down the rising levels of air pollution in Delhi-NCR.Expressing dissatisfaction over the steps taken by the Centre and state governments of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab to address the air pollution in the Capital, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana added that it expected the authorities to do much more than calling upon the court to issue directions on issues such as work-from-home, carpooling, and the use of sprinklers.“What I have been observing as a judge that bureaucracy has developed an inertia... a policy paralysis where they want this court to do everything. As if we should give directions take a bucket, put out fire, use sprinkler and all. We have to do everything,” the CJI told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government.The bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, added: “This is an unfortunate situation to which the bureaucracy has come down to. They say ‘we won’t do anything. Let the court pass directions and we will simply put signatures saying the court has directed it’... This is the attitude developed by the executive.”
18-11-2021||India||5 terrorists killed in two gunfights in Kashmir||Five terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday, said police.Since Wednesday morning, police, Army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched two operations at Pombay and Gopalpora villages in Kulgam district, police said.“Five militants were killed in both the operations,” Senior Superintendent of Police Kulgam, GVS Sudeep said.Two terrorists were killed in Pombay while three were gunned down in Gopalpora, police said.Police said that among the killed militants, one is believed to be the top commander of The Resistance Front (TRF). TRF was created by the Pakistan army and the ISI in response to nullification of Article 370 in 2019 by the central government.“Commander of proscribed terror outfit TRF Afaq Sikander killed in encounter,” said a police spokesman quoting Inspector General of Police Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar.Both the operations were underway till the time of print.Separately, two CRPF personnel and a civilian were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Baramulla district on Wednesday, police said. “At about 11:15 am, terrorists hurled a grenade near Palhallan Chowk in Pattan area of the north Kashmir district,” a police official said.Two LeT terrorist aides heldTwo Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist associates in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama have been arrested during a joint Naka checking on Wednesday.The police have also recovered two ready-to-use IEDs were recovered from their possession.According to the police, the arrested terrorist associates have been identified as Amir Bashir and Mukhtar Bhat.“Major tragedy averted by Pulwama Police and security forces. Two LeT terrorist associates namely Amir Bashir and Mukhtar Bhat arrested by Pulwama Police and security forces during joint Naka checking. Two ready-to-use IEDs were recovered from their possession,” the Kashmir Zone police tweeted quoting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir.(with inputs from agencies).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-killed-in-two-gunfights-in-kashmir-101637174037246.html
18-11-2021||India||Pandemic did not put a lot of children out of school, but education suffered||When India announced a 68-day long nation-wide lockdown on March 25, 2020 most activities came to a standstill. While economic activities have normalised with easing of restrictions, educational institutions have seen the slowest return to normalcy.How did the pandemic affect education in India? The latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) offers the first comprehensive answer to this question. The ASER survey was conducted in September and it has looked at the status of school education in rural areas. The survey was carried out through mobile phone interviews in 581 districts and it has been to gather responses from at least 76000 households. What does the report tell us about the pandemic’s impact on school education?Enrolment levels fell marginally with the pandemicFirst, the good news. The pandemic did not, as expected, lead to a sharp fall in enrolment levels. While the share of children – the ASER report looks at children in the 6-14 years age-group – out of school increased from 4% to 5.5% between the 2018 and 2020 ASER surveys, this number has come down slightly to 4.9% in the 2021 edition. To be sure, these numbers might not tell us the true picture of school enrolment in rural areas. Because the 2021 ASER survey only contacted families through mobile phones, the 2018 comparison given in the latest report has only looked at households which had a mobile phone. This limitation in data collection might have led to the exclusion of some of the poorest households in rural areas. But the pandemic has delayed schooling for many young childrenWhere the pandemic might have hurt the most is when it comes to putting young children in school. A note by Suman Bhattacharya, Director of Research as ASER, given in this year’s report highlights this.“Among 5-8-year-olds, the proportion of children not currently enrolled is 7.2%, much higher than the corresponding proportion among older children and almost the same as in 2020 (7.5%). This year too, the proportion of children not currently enrolled is highest among 5-year-olds, reaching more than 14% in both 2020 and 2021”, Bhattacharya says. “These data point to a critical task ahead – that of ensuring that young children enrol in pre-school and school. It may be that many 5- and 6- year-olds are simply awaiting admission, as is the case every year. But this year is not a normal year, and getting these young children into school is urgent: they have already missed many months of engagement during the critical period of maximum brain development, and once this period is over, the opportunity to help them build firm foundations during the vital early years will be lost”, the report adds.
18-11-2021||India||Maiden India, Russia 2+2 dialogue likely during annual summit in December||India and Russia are considering the possibility of holding their maiden 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers around the time of the annual summit in December because of scheduling issues, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.It was earlier expected that the 2+2 dialogue between defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and their Russian counterparts Sergey Shoygu and Sergey Lavrov would be held in Moscow in the last week of November.However, with the 25-day winter session of Parliament beginning on November 29 and a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Russia, both sides are looking at the possibility of holding the 2+2 meeting in New Delhi around the time of the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Parliament session will require the presence of the two senior ministers in New Delhi and make any foreign trips a difficult proposition, the people said. A final call is yet to be made and the two sides are engaged in consultations to lock down a date for the meeting.The Parliament session is also expected to affect the scheduling of the 2+2 dialogue with the US. The two Indian ministers were earlier expected to travel to Washington this month for the talks with defence secretary Lloyd Austin and secretary of state Antony Blinken. The India-US 2+2 dialogue now faces the likelihood of being pushed to January, the people said.Also read | PM Modi urges lawmakers to work with a sense of dutyIndia currently has a 2+2 ministerial dialogue with Australia, Japan and the US, and Russia will only be the fourth country with which it will have such an engagement. India and Russia also recently agreed to have a permanent channel between their top security officials for consultations on Afghanistan.This year’s annual India-Russia summit is already facing intense scrutiny as top Russian officials have announced that Moscow has begun shipping the first batch of S-400 air defence systems under a $5.4-billion contract signed in 2018.India has signalled its intention to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).During the summit, India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation for the next decade and sign several agreements in defence, trade and science and technology. One of the key pacts expected to be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases and ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maiden-india-russia-2-2-dialogue-likely-during-annual-summit-in-december-101637171336150.html
18-11-2021||India||Modi to hand over to Armed Forces Made-in-India defence equipment. Details here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will be visiting two districts of Uttar Pradesh on Friday to inaugurate a bunch of developmental projects, will also formally hand over in Jhansi the indigenously developed defence equipment to the three chiefs of the Armed Forces.The move is being deemed as a major push to the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” programme in the defence sector, as the entire set of equipment – including the light combat aircraft (LCA), drones, and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were built part-by-part in the country by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) (in case of the LCA) or Indian startups.The Prime Minister will directly hand over to all the three service chiefs the latest defence gears, which also includes an advanced electronic warfare suite for naval ships, designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and manufactured by Bharat Electronics Limited.The LCA incorporates advanced technologies and stealth features for effective combat roles, an official statement said, adding the deployment of Indian UAVs by armed forces is also proof of the growing maturity of the Indian drone industry ecosystem. Meanwhile, the advanced warfare suite – which will be received by the Naval chief on part of the Indian Navy – will be used in different ships including destroyers and frigates.Meanwhile, other developmental projects in Jhansi to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister include the 600 megawatts (MW) ultra-mega solar power park and the Atal Ekta Park.According to the PMO, the 600MW solar power park, proposed to be set up in Jhansi's Garautha area, is being constructed at a cost of more than ₹3,000 crore. The project will be inaugurated, as per the statement, by the Prime Minister when he participates in the foundation laying ceremony at 5:15pm on Friday. The solar power park is expected to help provide the dual benefits of cheaper electricity and grid stability for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-hand-over-to-armed-forces-made-in-india-defence-equipment-details-here-101637157508090.html
18-11-2021||India||Vir Das's ‘two India’ poetry: Politician, Bollywood react||Actor-comedian Vir Das found himself in hot waters after police complaints were lodged against him in both Delhi and Mumbai for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the nation in his video “I come from two Indias”.Das soon released an explanation stating that his comments weren’t intended to insult the country, and urged his followers to not fall for edited excerpts of the video going around on social media.Support for the satirist is divided in the political circles, with Congress MP Shashi Tharoor heralding Das for “standing up” and speaking for millions.“A stand-up comedian who knows the real meaning of the term "stand up" is not physical but moral -- @thevirdas spoke for millions in this 6-minute take on the Two Indias he hails from & stands up for,” Tharoor tweeted on Tuesday. However, Congress politician Abhishek Manu Singhvi did not share Tharoor’s sentiments and criticised him for "vilifying the nation". A stand-up comedian who knows the real meaning of the term "stand up" is not physical but moral -- @thevirdas spoke for millions in this 6-minute take on the Two Indias he hails from & stands up for. https://t.co/94h4SnyZhX"This is a joke, but it's just not funny." Brilliant.Trinamool Congress MP Mohua Maitra and senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal too came out in support of Das. Sibal supported the actor's monologue on “two Indians”, stating that the existence of “two Indias” cannot be doubted “Just that we don’t want an Indian to tell the world about it. We are intolerant and hypocritical."Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who tends to be vocal on all trending issues, did not miss the opportunity to talk about Winston Churchill, drawing a comparison between Das and the erstwhile British Prime Minister."He blamed Indians sex drive/fertility for the death millions because of hunger... Such creative work targeting an entire race is soft terrorism... strict action must be taken against such criminals," Ranaut posted on Instagram. However, actors Pooja Bhatt and Hansal Mehta came out in support of Das.Das, while performing at the John F Kennedy Centre in Washington DC, spoke about topical issues like farmers protest, rapes, India’s Covid-19 response, stating that "this is a joke, but it's just not funny."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vir-das-s-two-india-poetry-politician-bollywood-react-101637156611620.html
18-11-2021||India||With sky full of colours, hot air balloon festival kick-starts in Varanasi today | In photos||The sky was filled with colours in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi on Wednesday as scores of people took the hot air balloon ride at a height of 1,000 feet to get a stunning view of the city located on the banks of Ganga river. The hot air balloon event in Kashi is being held between November 17 and November 19 at the bank of the river near Domri raj ghat.Four stations have been built by Domri, CHS Sports Ground, BLW Sports Ground and Sigra Stadium around the city for take-off and landing of the hot air balloons that are being flown under the supervision of Air Traffic Control (ATC). The stations have taken into consideration that the hot air balloons are flown safely with mutual coordination.A total of eight pilots, seven of whom are foreigners, have been called to fly the balloons. About five to eight people are able to fly in one hot air balloon for 45 minutes and experience a scenic aerial view of Varanasi."Eleven hot air balloons will be part of the event. It is a promotional event. Efforts are on to turn it into a regular event in Kashi," Varanasi District Commissioner Deepak Agrawal told news agency PTI.Speaking on the ticket prices, Agrawal said that the tourism department has fixed the ticket price at ₹500 per person.The festival was first organised in December 2017 in a 10-day event to explore the scope of adventure tourism in Varanasi and make it a permanent adventure to attract tourists to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-sky-full-of-colours-hot-air-balloon-festival-kick-starts-in-varanasi-today-in-photos-101637154607059.html
18-11-2021||India||DRDO displays drone swarm in offensive role||New Delhi: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday showcased an indigenous capability to carry out offensive missions in enemy territory with scores of drones working in assorted formations to identify, encircle and strike targets, with the loitering munitions being developed to meet a key military requirement and keep soldiers out of harm’s way, officials familiar with the development said.Surveillance and armed drone swarm figure on a new list of Make in India projects that the army plans to pursue in partnership with the industry. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane released the list last week while rooting for self-reliance in the defence sector and stressing that indigenous technology was key to victory in wars. The Indian Air Force is also fully backing the indigenous development of swarm drone technologies.DRDO’s Young Scientist Laboratory for Asymmetric Technologies is working on swarm technologies to strengthen the country’s military capabilities, the DRDO said in a statement. “DRDO demonstrated a fully operational decentralised swarm of 25 drones flying with minimal human intervention,” it said.The capability demonstration came on the opening day of a three-day defence function in Jhansi linked to the ongoing countrywide celebrations to mark the 75th year of Independence.The event,which was inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, seeks to highlight the government’s focus on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi set to hand over locally produced military hardware, including the light combat helicopter, drones and electronic warfare systems, to the armed forces on November 19.Singh said India was facing several challenges, ranging from border threats to sub-conventional ones such as terror and extremism. “There is a need to create a strong, modern and well-equipped military, along with an equally capable and self-reliant defence industry, which can provide low-cost yet top-quality equipment to our forces in a time-bound manner,” the minister added.The drone swarm showcased capabilities related to distributive sensing, decision making, reconfigurable path planning and autonomous attack, DRDO officials said, adding that swarm algorithms have advanced features for niche and distinctive capabilities.Unmanned systems are best for “dull, dirty and dangerous missions” that a military may be required to carry out, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), who heads the Centre for Air Power Studies.“Reconnaissance for long hours can be dull, exposure to nuclear contaminated zones can be dirty and areas with heavy enemy defences are dangerous. Drone swarms allow you to overwhelm the enemy’s sensors and weapons and hit multiple targets,” Chopra added.The Indian Army carried out a drone swarm technology demonstration at the Army Day-2021 parade in Delhi on January 15, with 75 locally designed and developed drones buzzing in the skies and simulating a raft of missions including offensive operations.Drones within a swarm can carry out a wide range of missions including strikes against tanks, infantry combat vehicles, ammunition holding areas, fuel dumps and terror launch pads, officials have said.The technology demonstrated on January 15 is being developed by the army in partnership with a Bengaluru-based start-up New Space Research and Technologies, with the autonomous drones capable of sneaking 50km into enemy territory and striking targets with high-impact warheads. The drones can strike targets at a range of 100km in a self-destructive assault.India is investing heavily into artificial intelligence, autonomous weapon systems, quantum technologies and robotics for a convergence between its war-fighting philosophies and military attributes of these technologies, the army previously said.The government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence manufacturing sector through several policy decisions including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware.India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in the last two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-displays-drone-swarm-in-offensive-role-101637150019067.html
18-11-2021||India||Only fully vaccinated people to get ration from next year: Madhya Pradesh govt||The Madhya Pradesh food and civil supplies department has issued an order stating that beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act will not get subsidised ration without proof of Covid-19 vaccination, move aimed at ensuring that those reluctant to be vaccinated against the viral disease are persuaded to do so. The order, released on November 8 to all district civil supplies officers, was made public on Tuesday. According to the order, the beneficiaries will not get ration after December 31 if they fail to get both doses of the Covid -19 vaccine. “A public distribution system (PDS) shopkeeper should ensure the vaccination of all eligible members of 11.5 million families by December 31. PDS shopkeepers should paste the necessary information regarding vaccination at all their shops. The Patrata (eligibility) slips have the names of all the members of the family. The shopkeepers should ensure that all the eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated,” said the order. “If they are not vaccinated, the shopkeeper has to ensure counselling sessions at nearby health facilities. The shopkeepers should also provide a list of non-vaccinated and those beneficiaries, who have taken only the first dose, to a nearby hospital every week,” said the order. According to the state health department, about 90.18 % residents of the state received the first dose while 50.1% are fully vaccinated till Tuesday. The total eligible population in the state for vaccination is 54 million.Food and civil supplies department principal secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai said: “We will review the situation on December 31. The basic objective of the no-vaccination-no-ration drive is to motivate people for vaccination against Covid-19,” Kidwai added. December 31 is the Indian government’s deadline for completely vaccinating all 940 million adults in the country. Thus far, vaccine coverage has crossed 80% (at least one dose), a level at which experts expect vaccne hesitancy to kick in. Measures such as linking Covid-vaccination certificates to government benefits will likely be needed to persuade more people to get vaccinated. A senior IAS officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “In a review meeting for vaccination of Covid 19 (held in the first week of November), it was decided to ensure vaccination of beneficiaries of all government schemes and government employees by December 31. The department has decided to release an order of no vaccination, no benefits. The order of the civil supplies department is a part of it.” The opposition Congress targeted the state government over the order and termed it as “threatening”.MP Congress committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “The MP government failed to win the trust of people to complete the vaccination so the department officers have been asked to threaten beneficiaries. How can they stop the benefits of the scheme for vaccination which is completely a personal choice?” This order only exposes the failure of the government to motivate people for vaccination, he addedHowever, state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “We have decided that all the departments of the state government will motivate people for 100% vaccination. The government’s objective is not to stop the benefits but to ensure vaccination for the safety of people.” The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that it would achieve 100% vaccination against Covid-19 by December 25. Meanwhile, in a review meeting of Covid 19 on Wednesday held with health department officers, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the end of all the restrictions invoked to contain the virus as the number of active cases are now less than 100 in MP, but he requested people to continue to use masks, said Sarang. On Wednesday, the state recorded five new Covid case and the number of total active Covid cases stood at 78.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-vaccination-no-ration-says-mp-govt-s-order-in-bid-to-achieve-inoculation-target-101637148098733.html
18-11-2021||India||Union minister Karad helps co-passenger midair, earns PM Modi’s praise||Union minister Bhagwat Karad, who is a paediatrician, on Tuesday helped a co-passenger who was feeling uneasy on an IndiGo flight from Delhi to Mumbai.According to a release from the office of the Union minister of state for finance, the passenger complained of giddiness mid-air due to a blood pressure issue and Karad reached out and provided first aid. Dr Karad helped stabilise the passenger after he fell down, it added.News agency ANI shared photographs showing the man stretched out across a row of seats as the minister helped him. "The patient was sweating profusely and had low BP. I removed his clothes, raised his legs, rubbed his chest and gave him glucose. He felt better after 30 minutes," Karad told ANI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Karad’s "great gesture" after he helped his co-passenger. "A doctor at heart, always! Great gesture by my colleague," Modi said.A doctor at heart, always! Great gesture by my colleague @DrBhagwatKarad. https://t.co/VJIr5WajMHKarad tweeted his thank you to the Prime Minister.“Thank you, Hon. Prime Minister @narendramodi ji. I am truly humbled and hope to translate your outstanding commitment and dedication to our country and citizens in my own duties. Following your guidance to serve people through "Seva aur Samarpan". Jai Hind,” he tweeted.Several politicians and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also posted their praise on Twitter.The Indigo airline also offered its gratitude and sincere appreciation to the minister.“Our heartfelt gratitude and sincere appreciation towards MoS for ministering to his duties non-stop! @DrBhagwatKarad your voluntary support for helping out a fellow passenger is ever so inspiring,” the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-karad-helps-co-passenger-midair-earns-pm-modi-s-praise-101637110524669.html
18-11-2021||NA||Breaking News: Vaccine hesitancy greatest threat to pandemic, says Adar Poonawalla||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:President Kovind appoints Madras HC's senior-most judge as its acting chief justicePresident Ram Nath Kovind appoints Madras HC's senior-most judge Justice M Duraiswamy as acting chief justice of the high court until Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari joins the high court as the chief justice.Vaccine hesitancy greatest threat to pandemic: Adar Poonawalla“The vaccine industry has worked tirelessly to provide enough stocks for the nation. Today there are over 200 million doses available with states. I urge all adults to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccine hesitancy is now the greatest threat in overcoming this pandemic,” says Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla.US adds Russia to list of ‘countries of particular concern’Pakistan, China, Burma, Russia, Saudi Arabia have been listed among countries designated as "countries of particular concern" by US State Department for having engaged in or tolerated “systematic, ongoing, and egregious violations of religious freedom”, says US State Department.Chhattisgarh likely to reduce taxes to cut petrol, diesel pricesChhattisgarh minister TS Singh Deo in Raipur said that chief minister Bhupesh Bhagel will take a decision on reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel in the Cabinet meeting to be held on November 22.Delhi bans entry of trucks till Sunday, essential services allowedAir pollution: Delhi Govt issues order to ban entry of trucks, except for those carrying essential items, into the national capital till November 21 pic.twitter.com/1h84EHbw2JAir pollution: Delhi Govt issues order to ban entry of trucks, except for those carrying essential items, into the national capital till November 21ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra given one-year extensionSanjay Kumar Mishra, the chief of Enforcement Directorate, received a one-year extension on his term, according to an official order issued by the Union ministry of finance on Wednesday.  Pak parliament okays bill to allow Kulbhushan Jadhav's right to appealPakistan parliament okays bill to allow Kulbhushan Jadhav's right to appeal, reported the ANI news agency citing country's media.5 terrorists killed in 2 separate operations in south Kashmir's KulgamFive terrorists were killed in two operations on Wednesday in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district2 terrorists gunned down in J&K's GopalporaGopalporaEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation in progress. Further details shall follow.@JmuKmrPoliceDelhi: 2 people who forced entry into Rashtrapati Bhawan sent to 14-day judicial custodyThe two people who had tried to forcibly enter the Rashtrapati Bhawan have been sent to 14-day judicial custody, reported the ANI news agency.J&K: Encounter begins at Pombay area of KulgamAn encounter began at the Pombay area of Kulgam on Wednesday afternoon. Police and security forces are carrying out the operation. Details awaited.Mobile phone lines inside Sudan cut ahead of planned protests: ReportAhead of planned protests on Wednesday in the Sudan capital, mobile phone lines were cut, both the AFP and the Reuters news agencies reported, citing witnesses in the region. Online child abuse case: Delhi court grants 3-day police remand to CBI of 4 accusedDelhi's Rouse Avenue court grants 3 days police remand to CBI of four accused who were arrested from the city for allegedly posting and circulating child sexual exploitation material on the internet.Jhansi: Rajnath Singh inaugurates arms exhibition at ‘Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv’  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurates arms exhibition at the 'Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv' in Jhansi. pic.twitter.com/Eqpnmjgti0Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday inaugurated the arms exhibition at the ‘Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv’ in Jhansi.Mumbai to get India's first ‘Pod’ concept retiring rooms. IRCTC calls it ‘gamechanger’IRCTC has commissioned its first 'Pod' concept retiring rooms at Mumbai Central Railway station, the first of its kind on Indian Railways. This facility will be a gamechanger in passengers travel in India by rail, especially those on business trips: IRCTC pic.twitter.com/J1ITFudcBZRelatives of civilians killed in Srinagar demand to return bodies for burialRelatives of two civilians killed in a crossfire between security forces and militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar staged a protest in the city on Wednesday, pleading with authorities to return the bodies so they could bury them, news agency AP reported.TMC moves privilege motion against ED, CBI in Bengal assemblyThe Trinamool Congress on Wednesday moved a privilege motion against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the West Bengal assembly. Enrollment in govt schools went up during Covid-19 pandemic: ASER surveyA significant number of schoolchildren in India have switched from private schools to government-run schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) survey released on Wednesday. Read MoreMaha Congress to take legal action against Kangana for alleged defamatory statement against Mahatma GandhiMaharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said on Wednesday that the party will take legal action against actor Kangana Ranaut for her alleged defamatory statement against Mahatma Gandhi. Read moreConstruction activities banned in Delhi till November 21Construction & demolition work will remain banned till 21st Nov in Delhi. There will be 100% work from home for Govt depts till 21st Nov. Schools/colleges/institutes/training centres/libraries will remain closed until further orders: Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai pic.twitter.com/SYqcUu9nhyDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday that construction and demolition will be banned in the national capital till November 21. “There will be 100% work from home for Govt depts till November 21. Schools, colleges, institutes, training centres and libraries will remain closed till further orders,” Rai said. Lakhimpur violence: Ex-Punjab and Haryana HC judge appointed to monitor probeThe Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed Justice (retired) Rakesh Kumar Jain, former judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, to monitor the ongoing probe in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Read more2 CRPF jawans among 4 injured in grenade attack in J&K's BaramullaFour people, including two personnel of the CRPF, have been injured in a grenade attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district. Ahead of winter session of Parliament, PM Modi suggests separate time for 'quality debate' in HouseAhead of the winter session of Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday suggested separate timing for 'quality debate' in House.Delhi-NCR air pollution crisis: Centre unwilling to ask its employees to work from homeThe Centre on Wednesday expressed unwillingness before the Supreme Court to ask its employees to work from home and instead has advised its employees in Delhi to resort to carpooling to reduce the number of vehicles used by them for commuting, news agency ANI reported. Jammu imposes night curfew amid surge in Covid-19 casesAmid a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a night curfew has been imposed in Jammu from 10 pm to 6 am from Wednesday. Earlier, the timings of the curfew were from 11 pm till 5am.  Read moreRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks govt teachers about bribes, gets this answerRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his government were embarrassed when he asked whether government teachers in the state had to pay bribes for their transfer between schools. Read moreFormer Delhi assembly speaker Yoganand Shastri joins NCPDelhi: Former Speaker of Delhi Assembly, Yoganand Shastri joins NCP in the presence of party chief Sharad Pawar. Shastri had resigned from Congress in 2020. pic.twitter.com/tuPaCy2OQkYoganand Shastri, the former speaker of the Delhi assembly, joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday in the presence of party president Sharad Pawar. Shastri had resigned from the Congress party last year.  Uttar Pradesh: 8 wagons of container train derailed, restoration work underway Chandauli: 8 wagons of a container train from Allahabad to Pt. DDU JCT derailed around 6:40 this morning. Restoration work underway; services interrupted on the said route. Trains on the route will either be diverted or will be coming via Vyas Nagar to DDU: Rajesh Kumar, CPRO,ECR pic.twitter.com/RvQ06iUg2cIndia records 15% higher infections than yesterday with 10,197 new Covid-19 casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again with 10,197 new cases in the last 24 hours. As many as 12,134 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. Wednesday's caseload is 15% higher than that of Tuesday's when 8,865 infections were reported. Mizoram reports 459 new Covid-19 case, 1 more deathCOVID-19 | Mizoram reported 459 new cases and 1 death. Active cases 5390 pic.twitter.com/AXEixAU39XMizoram on Wednesday reported 459 new cases and one more death due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 129,845 and 467 respectivelyKejriwal slams Congress, BJP for criticising his free electricity promise in GoaDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hit out at the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for censuring him over his promise of providing free electricity to the people of Goa. Read moreNITI Aayog lists 11 measures to improve school education systemNITI Aayog, the Centre’s public policy think tank, has suggested 11 measures to improve the country’s school education system, especially learning outcomes, for effective implementation of National Education Policy, 2020. Read moreDelhi's air quality remains in 'very poor category'Delhi continues to witness 'very poor' air quality with overall Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 379: System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR)Bihar to take action against employees violating liquor banBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday directed state officials to take strict action against the government employees caught in an instance related to violation of liquor ban, Chaitanya Prasad, additional chief Secretary (Home), told news agency ANI. The above direction comes after a high-level meeting on liquor prohibition was chaired by chief minister Kumar on Tuesday. "He has given instructions to identify and take action against the personnel of police stations that haven't taken any action regarding the liquor ban," Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updated-november-17-2021-101637110338220.html
