19-11-2021||India||Bengal governor seeks records of assembly proceedings against new BSF law, probe agencies||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has written a letter to assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, seeking details of the breach of privilege motion moved on Wednesday against two senior officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the resolution passed on Tuesday against the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 to 50 km of the international border in the state. “Attention of the Honourable Speaker be drawn also to the fact that on earlier occasions too proceedings were sought but unfortunately the same are not being made available,” Dhankhar wrote to Banerjee on Thursday and tweeted a copy of the letter on Friday. He gave the speaker a week to act. The speaker told the media that he will respond in accordance with parliamentary rules. Trinamool Congress (TMC) secretary general and minister of parliamentary affairs Partha Chatterjee, however, saw this as interference in the assembly’s affairs by Raj Bhawan. “This is not the first time that efforts have been made to interfere in the functioning of the state assembly,” said Chatterjee. On Wednesday, the assembly passed a motion against two senior officers of the CBI and ED, accusing them of breaching the privilege of the House by not seeking the speaker’s consent before filing a charge-sheet and arresting three TMC legislators in the Narada sting operation case in May. The privilege motion, moved by Tapas Roy, TMC’s deputy chief whip in the assembly, was passed by the House and forwarded to the committee of privileges for further proceedings. The officers - CBI deputy superintendent of police Satyendra Singh and ED assistant director Rathin Biswas - were summoned by Biman Banerjee in September but the central agencies moved the Calcutta high court seeking relief from appearance before the speaker. The ED sent a letter to the speaker saying it did not need his sanction. The CBI wrote to him that sanction for prosecution against the TMC legislators was given by the governor. The CBI filed a charge-sheet against ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim and legislator Madan Mitra in the 2014 Narada case and arrested them along with former TMC legislator Sovon Chatterjee on May 17. The ED submitted the charge-sheet against them on September 1. Mukheree, the most senior among the accused, died in Kolkata on November 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-seeks-records-of-assembly-proceedings-against-new-bsf-law-probe-agencies-101637343851119.html
19-11-2021||India||Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind demands repeal of CAA||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of farm laws, prominent Muslim organisation Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind on Friday urged the government to take back the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as well.BSP MP from Amroha Kunwar Danish Ali also called for the repeal of the CAA "without further delay"."Repealing 3 Farm Laws is a welcome move. I congratulate farmers for their will power to fight, sacrifice and defeat the mighty state power and their crony capitalist friends," Ali tweeted.Prime Minister Modi must also reconsider and repeal CAA "without further delay", he added.Jamiat president Maulana Arshad Madani welcomed the announcement of withdrawal of the three farm laws and lauded the farmers for their "success".Every effort was made to subdue the farmers' movement just as it was done with all other agitations in the country, Madani alleged.Conspiracies were hatched to divide the farmers, but they continued to make all kinds of sacrifices and remained steadfast in their stand, he said in a statement released by the Jamiat faction led by him.Madani claimed that the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act encouraged farmers to protest the farm laws.Madani also demanded that just like the agri laws, the CAA should be withdrawn.He said that the decision to withdraw the farm laws has shown that democracy and the power of the people is paramount.The CAA was notified on December 12, 2019 and came into force with effect from January 10, 2020.After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country.The CAA is aimed at granting Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamiat-ulema-e-hind-demands-repeal-of-caa-101637341164817.html
19-11-2021||India||Mahua Moitra accuses Goa CM of holding disproportionate assets, questions funds for quarry||Trinamool Congress spokesperson and Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra on Friday accused Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant of holding disproportionate assets and questioning how Sawant, could afford to buy a stone quarry in Maharashtra when his only known source of income before he joined politics was from his occupation as a government Ayurvedic doctor. Moitra released a document issued by the regional deputy director of Geology and Mining which approves the ‘mining plan’ based on an application filed by Pramod Sawant for his stone quarry in Dodamarg, a village in Maharashtra that lies along the Goa-Maharashtra border. “The letter clearly shows that Pramod Sawant, as the CM of Goa, got a mine in his name in Sindhudurg district in Maharashtra. But the big question is, where did he get the money to lease a mine if he was an Ayurvedic doctor with the government? The Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate should probe as to how a sitting Chief Minister can afford to (lease) a mine in Sindhudurg. His disproportionate assets should be checked,” Moitra said. The Chief Minister’s Office, when asked to respond to the allegations, said that Sawant had already clarified the issue ‘two years ago’ and that no fresh statement would be issued. In 2019, the Congress had accused Sawant of acquiring properties in neighbouring Dodamarg disproportionate to his known sources of income. Responding back then, Sawant said he had “nothing to hide”. “There is nothing to hide. The money was paid from my bank account and the land is in my name. If I wanted to do something on the sly would I have registered the land in my own name?” Sawant had said in November 2019.The Congress alleged that Sawant in his affidavit filed before the Goa Assembly elections had declared possession of 2966 acres of land in Dodamarg which he said was valued at ₹38 lakh. Sawant, however, responded saying that the Congress had missed to notice the decimal point in his affidavit and the actual size of the land was 2.966 acres of land.However, subsequently two more sale deeds have come to light -- one land measuring 4.39 acres cost him ₹14 lakh and another measuring 0.79 acres cost him ₹36 lakh.Back then it wasn’t clear what the land was purchased for, however, the recent revelations by the TMC suggest that the land was purchased for setting up a stone quarry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahua-moitra-accuses-goa-cm-of-holding-disproportionate-assets-questions-funds-for-quarry-101637341390833.html
19-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's open letter to farmers: A promise for support in future struggles||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has written an open letter to the farmers, in which the former president of the grand old party has congratulated the protestors on their “historic victory” and assured Congress' support in future struggles. His words come in light of the fact that the central government had earlier in the day decided to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws that prompted yearlong protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration.In his open letter to the farmers on this occasion, Congress' Rahul Gandhi declared that the struggle is not over yet. He also asked Modi not to dare again “conspire to make farmers slaves in their own land by playing into the hands of a few capitalists”. Moreover, Gandhi reminded the premiere of his promise of doubling farmers' income by 2022 and urged him to work towards fulfilling the same.“For this, they should also release a roadmap of future plans as soon as possible,” wrote Gandhi in the open letter that was issued in Hindi. “Prime minister, do not forget that power is a medium of service and there is no place in any democracy for plunder, stubbornness, and arrogance.”Rahul Gandhi referred to the farmers' struggle as a ‘satyagraha’ (a form of nonviolent political resistance, most demonstrably used by Mahatma Gandhi), and said that the farmers have won despite the freezing cold, the scorching heat, the rains, and all troubles and atrocities inflicted upon them over almost the entirety of the past year. It is unparalleled in the history of independent India, the letter noted.The Congress MP also said the Gandhian manner in which the farmers fought against “the arrogance of an autocratic ruler and forced him to withdraw his decision is a perfect example of the triumph of truth over falsehood.”“I bow down to the sacrifices made by more than 700 farmers and labourers in this struggle,” wrote Rahul Gandhi.In his address to the nation earlier this day, the Prime Minister said, “We have decided to repeal all three farm laws, will begin the procedure at the Parliament session that begins this month. I urge farmers to return home to their families and let us start afresh.”Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws since they were passed by the Centre in 2020.The three farm laws are – The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act provides for setting up a mechanism allowing the farmers to sell their farm produces outside the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Any license-holder trader can buy the produce from the farmers at mutually agreed prices. This trade of farm produces will be free of mandi tax imposed by the state governments.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act allows farmers to do contract farming and market their produces freely.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act is an amendment to the existing Essential Commodities Act. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-open-letter-to-farmers-a-promise-for-support-in-future-struggles-101637339658490.html
19-11-2021||India||Spicejet flight to Dubai from Pune airport on March 27||Direct flights between Pune and Dubai from the Lohegaon international airport in Pune will begin March 27, 2022.The official Twitter handle of Spicejet tweeted on Friday: “Direct flights will be starting from 27 March 2022. Please stay tuned with us for regular updates”.“It is a good sign that airlines are starting direct flight to Dubai - we are hoping more airlines shows an interest in starting international flights,” said Santosh Dhoke, Lohegaon airport director.Another airport official speaking anonymously said: “Airport authorities get the official timetable from the Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA). Only then will we will get to know the actual international flight schedule. We are expecting to start international operations from January 2022.”The last flight to Dubai was operated in March 2020. “ Along with Dubai, there are chances of getting the airport getting flights for other destinations,” said official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flight-to-dubai-from-pune-airport-on-march-27-101637340191036.html
19-11-2021||India||India-China ties are going through a bad patch: Jaishankar at Bloomberg New Economic Forum||India-China relations are currently passing through a “particularly bad patch” and India’s interests are better served with a closer relationship with the US and Europe, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In a reference to the standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Jaishankar said the downturn in ties was due to China’s actions that had violated bilateral pacts, and that he had conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during recent meetings where New Delhi stands on the relationship with Beijing. “We are going through a particularly bad patch in our relationship because they have taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which they still don’t have a credible explanation and that appears to indicate some rethink about where they want to take our relationship, but that’s for them to answer,” he said at a panel discussion on the theme “Greater power competition: The emerging world order” at the Bloomberg New Economic Forum in Singapore. “I don’t think the Chinese have any doubt on where we stand on our relationship and what’s not gone right with it. I’ve been meeting my counterpart Wang Yi a number of times. As you would’ve experienced, I speak fairly clear, reasonably understandably [and] there is no lack of clarity. So if they want to hear it, I am sure they would have heard it,” Jaishankar said in his reply to a question on whether China was aware of how it had mishandled relations with India. Jaishankar has said in the past that China had offered no credible explanation for the massing of troops on the LAC and the standoff that began in May last year. India has blamed China’s unilateral efforts to change the status quo on the disputed border for the face-off, which resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash in Galwan Valley in June last year. Though the two sides pulled back frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra after several rounds of talks, there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August. India has also linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. In response to another question at the discussion, which was also joined by former US secretary of state Hillary Clinton and former UK prime minister Tony Blair, Jaishankar said India’s interests are better served “with a much closer relationship with the US, with a much stronger relationship with Europe and the UK, with a...re-energising of our relationship with Asean, especially Singapore”. “I think there’s no question the US has been strategically contracting for some time. Don’t confuse it with the decline of the US, I think that’s ridiculous. But relatively and absolutely, American power or American influence is not what it used to be,” he said. The US is now a “much more flexible partner, much more open to ideas, suggestions, and working arrangements than in the past”, and this reflects a changed world, he pointed out. At the same time, China has been expanding, though the nature of its growing influence is very different from that of the US. “We don’t have a situation where China necessarily replaces the US,” he said. The world is more multipolar now and a lot of countries, including India, have “come much more into play” as part of a rebalancing of power, Jaishankar said. The overall landscape has become “more volatile”, and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad is a good example of countries coming together on a set of concerns or issues, he added. Jaishankar acknowledged that some of the positioning by India is “about China”, and the steps being taken by the country are “partly a hedging strategy” and “partly autonomous partnerships” that are issue-based. The Covid-19 pandemic had accelerated this trend because it had raised questions about the old style of globalisation and highlighted the need for more reliable and resilient supply chains, he said. In this context, he pointed to the Quad initiative to produce and distribute US-developed Covid-19 vaccine made in India with Japan’s financial assistance and Australia’s logistics support. This initiative reflects decentralised globalisation, more resilient supply chains, more trust and transparency, and more flexible combinations producing solutions for a particular challenge, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-ties-are-going-through-a-bad-patch-jaishankar-at-bloomberg-new-economic-forum-101637337370529.html
19-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Record Covid-19 infection levels mar festive cheer in Europe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Record Covid-19 infection levels, lockdowns mar festive cheer in EuropeAustria, Germany and Russia were among the nations in Europe which saw record surges in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths. Read moreMehul Choksi moves Bombay HC, says he is unable to travel; not refusing to travelHis lawyers argued that when the Dominica court had passed the order, Indian authorities were present and so it will be unfair for them to argue that Choksi is refusing to return to India. Read moreBiden, 78, to undergo first routine physical exam as presidentUS President Joe Biden was headed to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center on Friday for his first routine physical exam as president. Read moreCovid vaccine doses lying unused in private centres in ThaneWith hardly a handful of people opting for private vaccination, the chances of these doses going waste have increased. Read moreGlobetrotting tea-seller from Kerala who visited 26 countries diesKochi’s humble tea vendor, KR Vijayan (71), who travelled to 26 countries along with his wife Mohana earning the sobriquet of ‘travelling couple’, died in Kochi on Friday. Read moreIndia vs New Zealand 2nd T20I: Martin Guptill goes past Virat Kohli's world record in shortest formatNew Zealand opener Martin Guptill went past Virat Kohli for most runs in T20Is during the second match of the series against India in Ranchi. Read moreSushmita Sen says she underwent surgery days ago, reveals 'new look’ on birthdaySushmita Sen, who celebrated her 46th birthday on Friday, revealed she had to undergo surgery earlier this week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-record-covid-19-infection-levels-mar-festive-cheer-in-europe-and-all-the-latest-news-101637333164031.html
19-11-2021||India||Globetrotting tea-seller from Kerala who visited 26 countries dies||Kochi’s humble tea vendor, KR Vijayan (71), who travelled to 26 countries along with his wife Mohana earning the sobriquet of ‘travelling couple’, died in Kochi on Friday, three weeks after his last trip to Russia. His family members said he passed away due to a heart attack at a private hospital in Ernakulam. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. HT had profiled him last month before his last trip to Russia. He passed away without fulfilling his wish-- a desire to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I would like to meet Prime Minister Modi once. He has a humble origin and started his life as a tea vendor like me. I admire him a lot,” he had said. The couple became famous for their globetrotting adventures funded by the meagre income they earned by running a tea shop in Kochi’s Kadavanthara. Many celebrities like industrialist Anand Mahindra, actors Amitabh Bachchan, Anupam Kher and writer-politician Shashi Tharoor had lauded the couple. The couple’s trip to Russia (October 21-28) made headlines as they set out for yet another journey after a break of two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Kerala tourism minister PA Mohammad Riyas had also called on them before their Russia trip. The Kongani couple’s first trip was to Israel in 2007 and they visited 26 countries after this. Running a tea shop for 40 years, the travel bug bit the couple after getting their two daughters married. Several times they took loans to foot their travel bills. “It is often said experience is the best teacher. Travel is the best experience that makes you richer,” the couple had said before their visit to Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/globetrotting-tea-seller-from-kerala-who-visited-26-countries-dies-101637334130258.html
19-11-2021||India||Mehul Choksi moves Bombay HC, says he is unable to travel; not refusing to travel||Fugitive India-born businessman Mehul Choksi has moved the Bombay high court urging the court to put the proceeding of declaring him as a ‘fugitive’ economic offender as he is unable to travel at the moment, Bar and Bench reported. The proceeding has been initiated by the Enforcement Directorate before a Mumbai court.In his application, moved by advocates Vijay Aggarwal and Ayush Jindal, Choksi said that he had been permitted to be treated in Antigua and Barbuda and once he is certified to be fit and capable for travel, he would be required to return to Dominica to face the charges against him. So, it can't be said that Choksi is refusing to return to India to face criminal prosecution and that he is a fugitive. Choksi also argued that he left India much before the registration of any FIR against him in connection with the multi-crore PNB scam. Because of his medical condition, he is not being able to travel to India, which can not be seen as he is refusing to return to India to face criminal prosecution, he said.Choksi's lawyers argued that when the Dominica court had passed the order, Indian authorities were present and so it will be unfair for them to argue that Choksi is refusing to return to India.Early this year, Mehul Choksi's mysterious disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda created a storm as India was hoping to extradite the fugitive businessman. He was caught by Dominican police and was allowed to travel to Antigua and Barbuda only on medical grounds. Dominica did not have the facilities required to provide Choksi adequate medical care, the Dominican court said. Choksi will also have to face legal proceedings in Dominica for illegal entry into the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-moves-bombay-hc-says-he-is-unable-to-travel-not-refusing-to-travel-101637330035970.html
19-11-2021||India||MSP law bigger battle for farmers, govt, say analysts||Farm unions on Friday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to roll back three agricultural laws they had been opposing for year, but the government now has to contend with a tougher demand – a law guaranteeing minimum support prices or MSP to cultivators for their produce. The reforms Modi said his government would rescind aimed to allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside regulated markets, called mandis, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers feared the new economic agenda could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSP, but farmers have demanded a law that prohibits purchase of major farm produce below state-set minimum prices. MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, are set such that they offer 50% returns over cost but mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for much of their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s policy to keep food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. An MSP is an important policy tool that helped achieve food self-sufficiency because it gave farmers assured prices. It is an important price signal. It is an administrative exercise that does not have statutory backing. While the government announces MSP for 23 major crops, setting them at 1.5 times the cost of cultivation to account for inflation, analysts say a blanket law mandating that no trader can buy any farm commodity below this threshold price could be tough to implement. “The demand for a law on MSP will elicit a bigger response from farmers now because it be a direct step towards higher income. It involves huge central expenditure and this will be a bigger problem for the Modi government,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor of Lucknow University. The most immediate impact of such a law will be higher food inflation. Higher MSPs prima facie leads to higher overall prices. Every 1 percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation, according to Nomura economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally-fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce. The government already procures staggering quantities of surplus rice and wheat, which have become unmanageable. The government on average holds at least 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food-security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year. If MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate. So, the assumption behind the new changes is that free competition in agricultural markets will ultimately result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in an equilibrium. According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about ₹37 a kg. For wheat, it is around ₹27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six to eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs the FCI to buy them. On the other hand, the MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states. The 70th round of National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs. While MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops, such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. Also, MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices. They often ignore the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy. This also means surplus stocks can’t be exported without a subsidy, which invites World Trade Organisation’s objections. WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms. “Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions, such as ‘whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-law-bigger-battle-for-farmers-govt-say-analysts-101637329809715.html
19-11-2021||India||Railways to resume serving cooked meals on trains||The Railways on Friday announced that they will be resuming cooked meals on trains, a service that was discontinued due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Railway Board in a letter asked the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) to resume serving cooked meals to passengers on trains to restore normal train services as the pandemic-infused lockdown restrictions eased."In view of the restoration of normal train services, requirements of travelling passengers and easing of Covid lockdown restrictions in eateries, restaurants, hotels and such other places across the country, it has been decided by the Ministry of Railways to resume the services of cooked food in trains," the letter stated.At the same time, ready-to-eat meals will continue to be served to passengers, the Railway board noted.Earlier this month, the Railways rolled back all the regular mail timetables for the running of normal trains, withdrawing the ‘special train’ tag which had been in place for the pandemic. The Railways also decided to revert to the original fares for train tickets as applicable.The decision comes at a time when India's coronavirus cases have remained steady at around 10,000-15,000 daily infections over the past few days.Recently, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had allowed all airlines to serve cooked meals on domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-resume-serving-cooked-meals-on-trains-101637328349652.html
19-11-2021||India||CBI arrests 2 Ratnakar Bank officials for accepting bribe of ₹30 lakh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said on Friday it had arrested two senior officials of Ratnakar Bank Limited (RBL) for allegedly accepting bribe worth ₹30 lakh. The arrests were made from Ahmedabad and Pune, the agency said, adding that while one is RBL’s regional head, Agro division, in Ahmedabad, the other is its recovery head in Pune.In a statement, the CBI noted that the action was taken after a case was registered against the two accused on a complaint filed against them on allegations of demanding ₹1 crore in bribe for issuing a Valuation Certificate. “The complainant, along with 12 of his family members, applied for an agricultural term loan under the Development of Commercial Horticulture through National Horticulture Board’s Post Harvest Management of Horticulture Scheme. Under this, the government gives a total subsidy of 50 per cent of the total project cost, limited to ₹56 lakh per project,” the statement further said.Giving more details, the CBI also said that the Agri term loans of the complainant and his family became non-performing assets (NPA) due to the non-availability of the subsidy. Therefore, to avail a subsidy, a Value Certificate for mortgaged properties was required, it said.The federal agency alleged that following negotiations, the bribe was settled at ₹30 lakh. To arrest the accused, raids were carried out in five cities, including Ahmedabad, Delhi and Pune, at the office and residential premises of the duo.After a ‘trap’ was laid, the accused were caught, and will be produced in a court, the CBI said, adding that further investigation into the case was underway.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-2-ratnakar-bank-officials-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-30-lakh-101637328817857.html
19-11-2021||India||Why this old video of Rahul Gandhi is viral on social media||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three farm laws against which protests have been going on for almost a year, an old video of Rahul Gandhi is being shared and reshared on Twitter on Friday. In the video, Rahul Gandhi can be seen sayin, "I am very very proud of what the farmers are doing and I fully support the farmers. I will continue to stand with them. I raised their issue in a yatra in Punjab and we will continue to do it. Mark my words, take it from me.. these laws..the government will be forced to take them back. Remember what I said. Thank you." “Mark my words, the Govt. will be forced to take back the anti-farm laws.” - @RahulGandhi Ji#जीता_किसान_हारा_अभिमान pic.twitter.com/LezWJPp3OnOn January 14 this year, the Congress leader posted this video as he wrote, "Mark my words. The government will have to take back the anti-farm laws". As his words came true in 11 months, Rahul Gandhi re-upped his old tweet and since then the video has gone viral on social media. Reposting that old tweet with that video which Twitter users on Friday termed prophetic, Rahul Gandhi hailed the decision of the repeal of the farm laws and congratulated the farmers on crushing the government's pride.
19-11-2021||India||Congress to celebrate repeal of farm laws, plans ‘Kisan Vijay Diwas’ rallies for tomorrow||The Indian National Congress has decided to observe ‘Kisan Vijay Diwas’ across the country on Saturday, November 20, to recognise the “consistent and spirited fight of the farmers against the flawed decisions” of the central government. The announcement comes in the wake of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre deciding to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws passed earlier last year, after prompted yearlong protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to the Modi government.In an official statement, Congress celebrated the repeal of the farm laws and asked its local state units to organise Kisan Vijay rallies and related political programmes across the country tomorrow. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal directed all state units to organise such rallies and candle marches at the state, district, and block levels on Saturday.In a letter to the party's state unit chiefs, Venugopal said the repeal of the three “draconian” farm laws is a victory of the farmers and a result of farmers' protests, their sacrifices and the year-long uncompromising fight of a united opposition led by the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi.Congress leaders will also visit the families of the more than 700 farmers who died during the agitation and will organise candle marches and rallies to pray for the departed souls. “Let us extensively organise programmes to join the nation in observing this as a historic victory of the farmers,” Venugopal said. “Mark the victory of the farmers' struggle by visiting families of shaheed farmers in our areas.”“This collective victory over evil is humbly dedicated to all the annadatas of our country,” he added.In his address to the nation earlier this day, the Prime Minister said, “We have decided to repeal all three farm laws, will begin the procedure at the Parliament session that begins this month. I urge farmers to return home to their families and let us start afresh.”Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws since they were passed by the Centre in 2020.The three farm laws are – The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act provides for setting up a mechanism allowing the farmers to sell their farm produces outside the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Any licence-holder trader can buy the produce from the farmers at mutually agreed prices. This trade of farm produces will be free of mandi tax imposed by the state governments.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act allows farmers to do contract farming and market their produces freely.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act is an amendment to the existing Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-celebrate-repeal-of-farm-laws-plans-kisan-vijay-diwas-rallies-for-tomorrow-101637323891879.html
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed, but Sukhbir Badal rules out alliance with BJP||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will not join hands with its former partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Friday, reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement from earlier today that the three contentious central farm laws were being withdrawn. “…700 farmers lost their lives. We tried to convince the Prime Minister in Parliament that the black laws which you enacted are not acceptable to the farmers. Whatever we said, that turned out to be true,” Badal told news agency ANI.Also Read | Farm laws repeal could set stage for four-cornered fight, hung House in Punjab“No,” the former Punjab deputy chief minister said, when asked if his party and the BJP, whose government at the Centre introduced the legislations in September last year, would reconcile. #WATCH | Punjab: Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal denies possibilities of allying with BJP after the repeal of three #FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/qclGIEyNq9After the laws were passed, Badal’s wife, the then Union minister for food processing, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, resigned from her office. She was the only minister from the Punjab-based party in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet.
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws repeal could set stage for four-cornered fight, hung House in Punjab||There undoubtedly is an element of political expediency in the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi has timed his decision to take back the three farm laws. Regardless of the motive, it shows as much the government’s sensitivity to popular opinion despite disagreement.
19-11-2021||India||'Sending food to farmers since Nov': Robert Vadra says farm law repeal Priyanka's victory too||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi's husband, businessman Robert Vadra said the repeal of the farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also a victory of his wife Priyanka Gandhi, apart from that of the farmers, as his wife has been fighting the cause day and night. "It is a victory of the farmers and also of my wife because I know the amount of effort she has made. She has worked day and night for the farmers," Robart Vadra said to ANI.On his part, Vadra has been sending food to the farmers since November last year, the time from when the farmers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh have been protesting on Delhi borders. "They have been on the streets. Wherever I have driven, farmers came running to my car with a hope that somebody can hear them and hear their woes," Vadra said.Hoping that the announcement gets implemented, Vadra said, "I know Priyanka and Rahul stood by farmers and Congress stood by them and it is their victory. Tikait ji asked farmers not to move because they do not believe the government."In an unpredicted move, PM Modi on Friday announced that the government will repeal the three laws which were brought with the best intentions but the government failed to convince a section of farmers, he said.Welcoming the decision, Priyanka Gandhi said the decision is prompted by the party's fear of defeat in the upcoming polls. "Six hundred farmers martyred, more than 350 days of struggle, Narendra Modi ji your minister's son crushed the farmers to death, you didn't care. Your party leaders insulted the farmers and called them terrorists, traitors, goons, miscreants, you yourself called them 'andolanjeevi', beat them with sticks, arrested them," Priyanka said."The BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's arrogance had to bow before the farmers but the country will not forget your sin. People have now understood that the victory of Indians and India lies ahead of BJP's defeat," the Congress said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sending-food-to-farmers-since-nov-robert-vadra-says-farm-law-repeal-priyanka-s-victory-too-101637321883982.html
19-11-2021||India||Govt will have to introduce bill to repeal three agri laws: Experts||The government will have to move a bill in Parliament to repeal the three agri laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year, Constitution and legal experts said on Friday.       In his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the three agri laws will be repealed and the constitutional process required to do so will be completed in the Winter session of Parliament beginning later this month. "For repeal, the power of Parliament is the same as enacting a law under the Constitution," explained former Union Law Secretary P K Malhotra. "The government will have to bring a bill to repeal the three laws. There is no other way," said former Lok Sabha Secretary General P D T Acharya.  Responding to a query, Acharya said the government can repeal the three laws through a single repealing bill.In the statement of objects and reason of the bill, the government can mention the reasons why it intends to repeal the three laws, he said."When a repeal bill is passed, it is also a law," observed Malhotra.The three agri laws have not been implemented, but the fact remains that they are laws passed by Parliament which have received assent of the President, said Malhotra, noting that they can be repealed by Parliament alone.Addressing the nation, Modi insisted that the laws were in the benefit of farmers and then apologised to people of the country while adding that the government could not convince a section of farmers despite its clear heart and clean conscience.        "I have come to tell you that we have decided to repeal the three farm laws. In the upcoming Parliament session starting at the end of this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal the three farm laws," Modi said.In August, 2015, the government had allowed the controversial land acquisition ordinance to lapse amid protests by opposition parties.In his August 30, 2015 'Mann ki Baat' monthly radio address, Prime Minister Modi had announced that the government will not repromulgate the controversial ordinance on land acquisition which was expiring the next day (Monday, August 31)."We had promulgated an ordinance on land acquisition bill which will expire tomorrow. I have decided that it should be allowed to expire. It means restoration of the situation that prevailed before my government took over," the prime minister had said.Apparently referring to the political opponents, he had said lot of doubts have been created over the land bill and fear instilled among farmers even though states had suggested amendments to the act of 2013 for the benefit of villages and villagers.The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act are the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-have-to-introduce-bill-to-repeal-three-agri-laws-experts-101637321330832.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Fear of electoral defeat forced Modi to repeal farm laws’: Chidambaram||Former Union minister P Chidambaram on Friday said fear of electoral defeat forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to retreat and announce the repeal of the three farm laws that were enacted last year and triggered protracted farmer protests. “This government does not fear democracy or Parliament. It only fears a loss in elections. If you want this government to mend its ways, the best thing the people of India can do is to defeat it in every election,” he said at a press conference in poll-bound Goa. He added the government will not mend its ways and is run by a dictatorial approach. “The only way we can solve these problems is to defeat them. Once you defeat them, they will behave for five years. Otherwise, they will get more arrogant, more determined, more haughty and more undemocratic.”Chidambaram said three weeks ago, Modi said in Uttar Pradesh that anybody, who opposes the farm laws is anti-national, and that they will never withdraw them. “What has happened today? What has happened is they have feedback that they will lose very badly in the next round of elections in five states including Goa. It is the fear of losing elections which has impelled the PM to suddenly announce at 9 am this (Friday) morning that he has decided to withdraw the farm laws.”He added the government does not believe in consultation. “It does not believe in discussion, parliamentary debate. The last parliament session was washed out because the government refused to debate the farm laws, and price rise. That kind of a stubborn government has today announced the withdrawal of farm laws means that they are losing the next round of elections. This is a lesson for the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-electoral-defeat-forced-modi-to-repeal-farm-laws-chidambaram-101637321409574.html
19-11-2021||India||How does India manage its faecal waste? NFSSM traces key policies implemented by states||The National Faecal Sludge and Septage Management (NFSSM) Alliance, an umbrella body of organisations that are engaged with faecal sludge and septage management in India, on Friday today launched ‘India for the World’ – a platform tracking the key work being done for safe and sustainable sanitation practices in the country. In an official release, the NFSSM Alliance said that the ‘India for the World’ web platform provides an “orientation” to the background of the waste management sector, highlighting the progress so far and future directions aimed at the city, state, and national levels.Comprehensive infographics on the platform showcase the “best practices, case studies, and step-by-step implementation milestones and sanitation outcomes” for the entire country, as well as specifically for a few key states – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Odisha.The infographic also showcases the steps taken by the aforementioned state governments to build cost-effective and inclusive urban sanitation programs – recognising sanitation as a crucial part of urban development and sustainability.Sakshi Gudwani, a senior programme officer at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and also a member of the NFSSM Alliance, said, “India has made tremendous progress in improving access to toilets and is prioritising the treatment of human faecal waste – many states and cities have implemented innovative and scalable solutions for FSM and inclusive sanitation service delivery.”“It is imperative that the learnings from this progress are well-documented and disseminated to other states and cities within the country to replicate and for the world to learn from the great work that is happening in India,” she said while speaking of the ‘India for the World’ web platform. “It (the infographic) shares learnings on implementing effective FSSM and inclusive sanitation service delivery solutions.”Hosted on the NFSSM Alliance official website, the ‘India for the World’ series of infographics depict replicable and scalable models of faecal waste management by various cities and states across the country. According to an official release, these models speak of innovations in areas such as improving operations efficiency by building capacities of sanitation workers as entrepreneurs, exploring diverse sources of finance to move towards operational sustainability, and using technology to eliminate the need for direct human contact with faecal waste – among many others.According to estimates provided by the sanitation body, about 60 per cent of our urban population today depend on onsite sanitation systems, which require dedicated planning for faecal waste management – prioritising human excreta management, a waste stream with a high potential for spreading diseases.The planning strategies entail emptying, transportation, treatment, and safe disposal of waste and possible reuse of output products post-treatment. The web platform covers several multi-professional and low-cost sanitation programs which are implemented according to physical and socio-economic conditions ensuring proper service to everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-does-india-manage-its-faecal-waste-nfssm-traces-key-policies-implemented-by-states-101637318521560.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Wankhede violated services conduct rules,runs a bar in Navi Mumbai’:Nawab Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Nawab Malik on Friday made another allegation against narcotics control bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede. He claimed that the NCB officer violated central civil services (conduct) rules 1964 by conducting business despite being in service.Wankhede is holding a hotel liquor license since 1997-98 and is running a bar in Navi Mumbai. He said that the license was issued when he was a minor back in 1997-98, which again was illegal. It was issued when his father, Dnyandev Wankhede, was in the state excise department service. The information was concealed while joining the central government services. Only in 2017, Wankhede declared that he owns the inherited property along with his father, which is a hotel but is on a lease, alleged Malik.Wankhede, however, said he had furnished details of his properties to his department and nothing was concealed.Malik also shared documents to corroborate the claims which comprise a report from the state excise department that states that a license to serve liquor in a hotel was issued in the name of Sameer Dnyandev Wankhede on October 29, 1997. The documents further show that the license was renewed every year till February 3, 2021.At the time when the hotel liquor license was issued, Wankhede was a minor and his age was 17 years and 10 months, said Malik.The NCP leader said he will file a complaint with the department of personnel and training (DoPT), the state excise department and with all the concerned departments saying that Sameer Wankhede has no right to stay in the central government services.“It is a clear case of forgery, despite him being a minor, a hotel liquor license was issued in Sameer Wankhde’s name. For the last 24 years, the business has been operated on that license in the name of Sameer Dnyandev Wankhede. The information was concealed while joining the central government services and afterwards because no central government officer can conduct a business while being in services according to the central civil services (conduct) rules 1964,” Malik stated.“He is running a bar but again in 2017, he shared false information with the central government that the hotel property, which he owns along with his father, is on lease. I have also given one of my properties on lease to a hotel operator and all the licenses required for operation are in the name of the operator. I can provide the land on lease, but the license for conducting business will have to be obtained only by the operator,” Malik said adding, “I believe facts are being suppressed in this case as well. He has no right to remain in service. We will follow this up so that Wankhede can be punished.”“We have nothing to conceal. I have furnished all the details with my department, right from the properties I own and income,” Wankhede said in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wankhede-violated-services-conduct-rules-runs-a-bar-in-navi-mumbai-nawab-malik-101637321049546.html
19-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Failed to convince farmers, laments agriculture minister and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Failed to convince farmers of benefits of the laws: Agriculture minister TomarAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three contentious farm laws will be repealed, union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar lamented that the decision had to be taken because the government failed to explain the benefits of the laws to the protesting farmers. Read MoreFour key takeaways from the BJP’s U-turn on farm lawsFaced with a resilient farmers’ agitation for more than a year, the Narendra Modi government has decided to repeal the three contentious farm laws, making it perhaps the biggest political retreat by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since it assumed power in 2014. There are four key takeaways from the latest turn of events surrounding the farmers’ protest. Read MoreNaidu breaks down, walks out of Andhra assembly over abusive commentsFormer Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu broke down on Friday as he walked out of the state assembly vowing not to re-enter the House for the rest of its term over the abusive comments ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) members allegedly made about his wife. Read MoreHe ‘changed cricket forever’: Maxwell, Buttler lead tributes for AB de Villiers as South Africa great retiresAB de Villers announced his retirement from all forms of cricket earlier on Friday, bringing to an end a 17-year career where he established himself as one of South Africa's greatest players. De Villiers had retired from all international formats in May 2018 but was in talks about a return to the limited-overs side for the Twenty20 World Cup before deciding against playing for the Proteas again. Read MoreHarley-Davidson Sportster S India launch next month, pre-bookings openHarley-Davidson India has informed that it will be launching the new and much-awaited Sportster S in the market in the last month of 2021. The launch of the new motorcycle will take place during the upcoming India Bike Week that is slated to take place on 4-5 December 2021. The Indian arm of the iconic American motorcycle maker has also commenced the pre-bookings for this upcoming motorcycle. Read MoreBunty Aur Babli 2 movie review: Rani Mukerji is the saving grace in this snooze-fest, don't watch even if paid for itAfter just 15 minutes into Bunty Aur Babli 2, one realises what a terribly written and poorly-executed film it is. The original, which most of us so thoroughly enjoyed when it was first released 16 years ago, was best left untouched and director Varun V. Sharma should have just followed this rule. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-failed-to-convince-farmers-laments-agriculture-minister-and-all-the-latest-news-101637319652963.html
19-11-2021||India||In the past week, India’s Maoist story has changed||New Delhi: There are many accounts of the beginnings of India’s Maoist insurgency, the most popular being that it started in 1967 from Naxalbari in West Bengal, which gave birth to the word “Naxalism.” But irrespective of how and when one pins down the exact roots, the conflict between the Indian State and the Maoists, famously called India’s single largest internal security threat by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2006, has lasted upwards of five decades.
19-11-2021||India||Nine killed as house collapses in Tamil Nadu amid heavy rains||Nine people, including four children, were killed when a house in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district collapsed due to the heavy rains since Thursday, an official said on Friday. District collector P Kumaravel Pandian, who visited the spot, said the house was very old and located along the banks of a river near Pernampet. “Four people resided in this house and as the rains got heavier, people from adjacent houses moved to the first floor of this house on Thursday night for shelter.” Pernampet was severely flooded, he added. “The house was already in a dangerous condition because it was old and due to rains, it weakened further and around 7.15 this (Friday) morning, the house collapsed,” said Pandian. Officials said the injured were receiving treatment at Gudiyatham Government Hospital and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai.Chief Minister M K Stalin announced a financial assistance of ₹five lakh each for the families of those killed and ₹50,000 each for those undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-killed-as-house-collapses-in-tamil-nadu-amid-heavy-rains-101637318949163.html
19-11-2021||India||Congress leader calls PM Modi 'headlinejeevi', wonders if noteban could be reversed||In a reference to PM Narendra Modi's 'andolanjeevi' comment which was made in Parliament earlier this year, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Friday called PM Modi 'headlinejeevi' after the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for around a year now. "Alas, if only there was a way of repealing the Nov 8, 2016, decision by Headlinejeevi. This was really a demon-ic move, for which the country is still paying," the Congress leader said. Alas, if only there was a way of repealing the Nov 8 2016 decision by Headlinejeevi. This was really a demon-ic move, for which the country is still paying. https://t.co/zTNTalJvEuThe video of PM Modi terming some protesters 'andolanjeevi' was being reshared on social media after the government's climbdown on the farm issue. "A new class of people has emerged in recent times who can be seen in all agitations and protests. These are andolan jeevis. States will agree with me as they too are encountering the emergence of this section. They are actually parasites feasting on agitations and protests," PM Modi had said.In an address on Friday, PM Modi said the government will begin the procedure of repealing the farm laws in the Winter Session of Parliament which is likely to commence from November 29. The laws were brought to empower and strengthen small farmers and it was unfortunate that the government could not convince a section of farmers about the benefits of the reforms, PM Modi said.The decision has been hailed as a victory of the protesting farmers and a masterstroke of the BJP ahead of the elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab."First, bulldoze laws in Parliament. Then face unprecedented protests. Thereafter, confront election realities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, particularly. Finally, after much appeal, repeal. Kisan-ity prevails at last! I salute the tenacity of our kisans who did not give up," Jairam Ramesh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-calls-pm-modi-headlinejeevi-wonders-if-noteban-could-be-reversed-101637318229400.html
19-11-2021||India||Rape survivor denied termination of pregnancy, Orissa HC orders ₹10 lakh compensation||In a case of gang rape, the Orissa High Court slammed a lower court’s order which denied the survivor’s plea to terminate her unwanted pregnancy. The HC observed that this is something bound to severely impact her personality and womanhood.It observed that the lower court, where the victim first approached seeking termination of her undesired pregnancy, should have agreed to her request putting it above the right to life of the unborn child.“Though this issue has, time and again, knocked at the judicial threshold, it is still crying for an unperplexed solution by way of suitable amendment in the statute governing the field,” the single-judge bench of justice SK Panigrahi noted while refusing to allow the medical termination of pregnancy of a 20-year-old gangrape survivor who had approached the court last month after the court of a sub-divisional judicial magistrate in Banki refused to entertain her request on the grounds of lack of jurisdiction. The SDJM also said that the petition could not be considered on its merit as the accused persons were yet to be convicted.In April this year, the girl, from a village of Cuttack district, was gagged by a towel and forcibly taken to a school where the accused raped her and threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to her family members or police. After the incident, the victim became pregnant.“The victim is being forced to bear and care for the unwanted child is bound to severely impact her personality and womanhood. Considering the present situation, where the victim chose to approach the court through her guardianas per the MTP Act seeking termination of her undesired pregnancy albeit with some delay, her request should have been acceded to over the life of the unborn child,” the HC said.The HC said the girl and her father initially approached the police station for termination of pregnancy but were directed to approach the concerned court as the charge sheet was filed by then. “The police officers could have acted more sensibly and, at the very least, guided them to approach District Legal Service Authority or Legal Services Units at Taluk Level or to any paralegal volunteers. This would have, perhaps, helped the victim get timely legal advice and may have saved her from suffering the forced delivery which is imposed on her due to medicolegal compulsions,” the HC said, adding that every policeman should be given a proper understanding of the working of legal services authority at different levels.The HC however did not allow termination of pregnancy since the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2021, which came into force from September 14, the upper limit for medical termination of pregnancy is 24 weeks, from the earlier stipulation of 20 weeks for ‘vulnerable women’ including rape survivors. “There is no other legal option for her but to undergo suffering and deliver the baby since the pregnancy is over twenty-six weeks old. Although this court is painfully conscious of the possible impact of this decision on the life of the victim, it is bound by the legal mandate. The physical, mental, psychological trauma suffered by the petitioner is formidable. Rape is a crime not only against a woman but against humanity at large as it brings out the most brutal, depraved and hideous aspects of human nature. It leaves a scar on the psyche of the victim and an adverse impact on society,” the HC said.Holding that the welfare of the victim is an important consideration, the HC asked the State Legal Services Authority to ensure that the state government pay an amount of ₹10 lakh as compensation to the girl which will be over and above the compensation amount to be awarded by the trial court at the conclusion of the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-survivor-denied-termination-of-pregnancy-orissa-hc-orders-rs-10-lakh-compensation-101637318409982.html
19-11-2021||India||Arjun Sahayak to Bhaoni Dam: Modi inaugurates irrigation projects in UP's Mahoba||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is visiting the poll-bound state of Uttar Pradesh, on Friday inaugurated multiple projects aimed at alleviating issues of water shortage for farmers in the region. Earlier this day, in a surprise announcement, the Prime Minister had said that the central government will withdraw the controversial agriculture laws that prompted yearlong protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to his administration.The slew of projects inaugurated for farmers in Uttar Pradesh today is aimed at addressing water shortage and also bringing portable drinking water for all people in the region. While launching the schemes, Prime Minister Modi said, “Mahoba is a witness to how we have brought the government from the closed-door rooms of Delhi to every nook and corner of the country in the past seven years.”Photos posted by the ANI news agency today depicted Prime Minister Modi inspecting the models of various developmental projects that are to be inaugurated in Mahoba. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel were also seen accompanying the Prime Minister.PM Narendra Modi inspects models of various development projects that will be inaugurated in Mahoba. CM Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel also present with him. pic.twitter.com/sM5dic36xuPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates 'Arjun Sahayak Project' in Mahoba pic.twitter.com/1U2G3AWBOTAccording to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the projects inaugurated today include the Arjun Sahayak Project, the Ratauli Weir Project, the Bhaoni Dam Project, and the Majhgaon-Chilli Sprinkler Project. The cumulative cost of all these government schemes is more than ₹3,250 crore and once fully operating, the projects will help irrigate around 65,000 hectares of land in the districts of Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, and Lalitpur, benefitting lakhs of farmers in Uttar Pradesh.Later this evening, Prime Minister Modi will visit the district of Jhansi and lay the foundation stone of a 600-megawatt Ultra Mega Solar Power Park in the Garautha area. The park is being constructed at a cost of over ₹3,000 crore and will help provide cheaper electricity and grid stability, as per the PMO.The Prime Minister is also set to inaugurate the Atal Ekta Park in the Jhansi district. Named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the park has been built at a cost of over ₹11 crore, and is spread over an area of about 40,000 square meters. Built by the renowned sculptor Ram Sutar (of the Statue of Unity fame), the park will also house a library and a statue of Vajpayee's.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arjun-sahayak-to-bhaoni-dam-modi-to-launch-irrigation-projects-in-up-s-mahoba-101637314278899.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Deception aimed at elections’: Akhilesh Yadav reacts to repeal of farm laws||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday reacted to Prime minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of deciding to scrap all three new farm laws and said, “Those who are apologising will not be forgiven. Farm laws withdrawal is a deception aimed at the elections. The entire government must resign.”At a press conference, on Friday, at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow, Akhilesh said, “Janata inhe maaf nahin karegi, inhey saaf karegi (people will not forgive those who are apologising, people will oust them)”. He said those who are apologising should also announce quitting politics forever.“Saaf nahin hai inka dil, chunav baad fir layengi bill (their intentions are not clean, they will reintroduce the bills after elections),” said Akhilesh.He said, “Somewhere the government got scared because of the elections. The withdrawal is not for the farmers but aimed at elections. (The enactment of laws) was not a responsibility of one, it was a collective responsibility of the entire cabinet. So not just the cabinet, but the entire government must resign”.Cautioning farmers and people, Akhilesh said, “Sarkar ghabrakar kanoon wapas le rahi hai (the government got scared and withdrew the farm laws). The government might bring the laws back after the elections. So I call upon people to be cautious and alert and in the larger interest of farmers and people, should oust the BJP government”.Yadav congratulated all the farmers in the country. The farmers’ struggle against the three black farm laws led to the withdrawal of the laws, he said.Akhilesh mentioned his Wednesday-Thursday Purvanchal Vijay Yatra as a factor behind the withdrawal of the laws. “I can say that the kind of support Samajwadi Party got in the Purvanchal Vijay Yatra and the way farmers came out on roads to support SP shook not only the UP government but also the union government”.Akhilesh also said that like the three farm laws, the union government’s decision of demonetisation and GST were also wrong and they ruined the economy and traders. “Will the government apologise for the demonetisation?” he asked.“Along with withdrawing the black farm laws, the government should also tell when will it bring in MSP (minimum statutory price) for farm produce procurement and when will the union MoS for home, who is responsible for farmers death (in Lakhimpur Kheri incident) be removed,” Akhilesh said.“The government should also help and give aid to all those farmers who died during the farm agitation. Can BJP bring back those farmers who lost their lives for the farm struggle?” Akhilesh questioned.On PM’s frequent visits to UP, Akhilesh said, “The tours will rise further as the elections get closer”. On the increasing number of visits to the state by senior BJP leaders, he added, “Their tours will increase while elections are getting closer, and after the poll results their stature will be pruned”. On PM’s Mahoba and Jhansi visit on Friday, Akhilesh said, “Today, Mahoba, where the PM is going to speak, is the district where the highest number of farm suicides have happened. Bundelkhand is distressed”.When asked if he had any talks with the farm leader Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the farm agitation, he said, “No. I am myself a farmer”.About the 2022 UP Assembly elections, he said, “Samajwadi Party (and allies) will win more than 400 seats, we are leaving 3 seats for the opposition.” UP has 403 assembly seats.The national vice president of the party, Kiranmoy Nanda, and the leader of opposition in UP Vidhan Sabha, Ramgovind Chaudhary, were also present at the press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deception-aimed-at-elections-akhilesh-yadav-reacts-to-announcement-of-new-farm-laws-repeal-101637314509321.html
19-11-2021||India||Nine killed in Tamil Nadu's Vellore as house collapses due to heavy rain: Report||At least nine people, including four children, were reportedly killed on Friday after a house collapsed following incessant rainfall at Pernambet in Tamil Nadu's Vellore district.Among the deceased were four women and a man, besides the four children. Fire and rescue personnel and a police team rushed to the spot to carry out the rescue operation.According to an NDTV report, chief minister MK Stalin announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each to the families of those who passed away in the mishap.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more downpour for Tamil Nadu and heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of AP and Karnataka.The depression over the Bay of Bengal crossed the coast between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh early on Friday bringing massive rain in the region. The IMD said the weather system will gradually weaken.The weather office said light to moderate rain is likely to occur at many places over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the next 24 hour, while heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Vellore, Tirupattur, Erode and Salem districts of Tamil Nadu during the same period.It added squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph was likely to prevail over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts during next six hours and decrease gradually thereafter.(Wit)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-killed-in-tamil-nadu-s-vellore-as-house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain-report-101637314024182.html
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws revoked: Captain Amarinder Singh questions farmers' decision to continue protests||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday questioned why protests against the three contentious central agricultural laws should continue despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement earlier today that the legislations were being withdrawn.Also Read | PM Modi says will scrap all three farm laws“The Prime Minister apologised. Now, it's a question of when will the House meet. It will meet on November 29, 10 days from now. The bill will be brought and the laws will be repealed. Matter will end there, so what's the use of sitting now,” Singh told news agency ANI when questioned on why the farmers, despite PM Modi's announcement, were still protesting on the borders of Delhi. PM apologised. Now, it's question of when will the House meet. It will meet on 29 Nov-10 days from now, Bill will be brought & Laws will be repealed. Matter will end there, so what's the use of sitting now: Capt Amarinder Singh when asked that farmers are still sitting on protest pic.twitter.com/F2dykpbgDsThe former Congress leader was reacting to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait's statement that the stir, which will complete 12 months on November 26, will not be stopped immediately. “We are waiting for the day when the laws will be scrapped in Parliament. The Centre should also discuss other issues, including Minimum Support Price (MSP), with the farmers,” the BKU spokesperson said in a tweet. आंदोलन तत्काल वापस नहीं होगा, हम उस दिन का इंतजार करेंगे जब कृषि कानूनों को संसद में रद्द किया जाएगा ।सरकार MSP के साथ-साथ किसानों के दूसरे मुद्दों पर भी बातचीत करें : @RakeshTikaitBKU#FarmersProtestSpeaking to Hindustan Times on phone, Tikait reiterated his stand, also saying that the repeal of the farm laws was ‘just a beginning.’Also Read | ‘It’s a beginning’: Tikait says won’t return until laws repealed in ParliamentMeanwhile, the Prime Minister's surprise announcement over the farm laws, which he made during an address to the nation, marks a complete U-turn from the government's earlier stand that the laws won't be withdrawn. 11 rounds of talks failed to resolve the impasse, with the farmers demanding a complete rollback. Tikait is widely credited with reviving the movement after a tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 resulted in clashes between the protesters and city police. The winter session of Parliament is scheduled to commence on November 29, and will conclude on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-the-use-of-sitting-now-captain-amarinder-singh-questions-farmers-decision-to-continue-protests-against-farm-laws-101637311207261.html
19-11-2021||India||We failed to explain benefits to some farmers, agri minister Tomar says on scrapped farm laws||Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said he was pained by the fact that the central government failed to explain the benefits of three agri laws to a section of farmers.His statement came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced during an address to the nation that the central government will scrap all the laws in the upcoming Parliament session.“The Prime Minister had brought the three Bills that were passed by the Parliament. They would have benefited farmers. The PM’s intention was to bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers," he said.The PM had "tried to bring changes in agriculture through these reforms, but due to some circumstances, some farmers objected," he added."When we took the path of discussions and tried to explain to them, we could not succeed. Hence, on Prakash Parv, the Prime Minister decided to repeal the farm laws. It is a welcome step," he added.He further said the Modi government is committed to the welfare of farmers and the development of the agriculture sector. "A committee will be formed on Zero Budget Farming, Minimum Support Price (MSP), crop diversification issues," the agriculture minister added.The committee will have representatives from the Centre, state governments, farmers, scientists, economists. It will submit a report on making MSP effective and transparent and other issues, Tomar added..The three farm laws that have been repealed are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act that provides for setting up a mechanism allowing the farmers to sell their farm produce outside the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Any licence-holder trader can buy the produce from the farmers at mutually agreed prices. This trade of farm produce will be free of mandi tax imposed by the state governments.The second law was the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. It allowed farmers to do contract farming and market their produce freely. The third was the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, an amendment to the existing Essential Commodities Act.The Farmers who have taken to the streets since November last year have said that the laws, if implemented, would leave them at the mercy of the big corporations. Along with the repeal of these laws, the farmers are also demanding a legal guarantee on the MSP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-failed-to-explain-benefits-to-some-farmers-agri-minister-tomar-says-on-scrapped-farm-laws-101637313258515.html
19-11-2021||India||Containers believed to carry radioactive substances from Pak to China seized||Indian authorities have seized several containers believed to contain radioactive substances that were being shipped on a foreign vessel from the Pakistani port city of Karachi to Shanghai in China. The seizure was made at Mundra port in Gujarat on Thursday by a joint team from Indian customs and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), according to a statement issued on Friday by Adani Port and Logistics, the operator of the port. There was no official word on the development from the customs or DRI. The statement from Adani Port and Logistics said the joint team of customs and DRI “seized several containers at Mundra Port from a foreign vessel on concerns that they contained undeclared hazardous cargo”. The statement added: “While the cargo was listed as Non-Hazardous, the seized containers had Hazard Class 7 markings (which indicate radioactive substances).” Adani Port and Logistics said the containers “were not destined for Mundra Port or any other port in India” and “were en route from Karachi in Pakistan to Shanghai in China”. The Indian authorities “had them offloaded at Mundra Port for further inspection”, the statement said. Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) “extended all assistance possible for this operation and thanks the Customs & DRI personnel for their quick and coordinated action”, the statement added. APSEZ will “continue to fully assist any action that keeps India safe”, the statement said, adding the Adani Group “takes national security very seriously and will not allow it to be compromised in any way”. The large port at Mundra is a major gateway catering to northern India and the all-weather facility is India’s largest commercial port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/containers-believed-to-carry-radioactive-substances-from-pak-to-china-seized-in-gujarat-101637313607883.html
19-11-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede owns a bar in Vashi, got licence as a minor: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday levelled fresh allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede and said he and his family indulged in several irregularities, not just forging a caste certificate being a 'Muslim'. While the Bombay high court will pass an order on November 22 on the plea filed by Sameer Wankhede's father seeking an injunction against minister Nawab Malik, the minister addressed a press conference on Friday and released documents which showed there is a bar and restaurant registered in the name of Sameer Wankhede, operating since 1997.Malik claimed that Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede who was with the excise department got the licence in Sameer Wankhede's name in 1997. "In 1997, Sameer Wankhede was not even an adult. He was 17 years old and getting a bar licence at that time in illegal," the minister claimed.In a fresh twist, Nawab Malik says Sameer Wankhede framed ex-wife's cousin; HC order on caste case on Nov 22There are three allegations against Wankhede for which he will lose his job, Nawab Malik said. "First allegation is extortion in the case of Aryan Khan. Second is forging a caste certificate for a government job and third is running a bar and concealing the information," the minister said adding that the permit of the bar has been renewed every year and Wankhede has shown the income to the government as rent while a bar, under his name, is functioning on full swing.According to reports, Sameer Wankhede has clarified that he never concealed the information about the bar. Wankhede said he mentions the income from that property in his income tax returns and after he joined the government service, his father has the power of attorney of the property.Nawab Malik said his party will pursue the case and unmask the "illegal" activities the Wankhede family has been doing. In a tweet, Nawab Malik also said he will be travelling to Dubai. "I will be back in India on the 24th of November 2021. Requesting all government agencies to keep an eye on me and track my movement," the minister tweeted.Earlier, Nawab Malik claimed Wankhede had gone to Dubai and extorted money, which Wankhede denied and said he never went to Dubai. It is not yet known whether Nawab Malik's Twitter announcement has something to do with Sameer Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-owns-a-bar-in-vashi-got-licence-as-a-minor-claims-nawab-malik-101637312948966.html
19-11-2021||India||Soren demands agri minister’s resignation post Centre's decision to repeal laws||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday sought the resignation of the Union agriculture minister following the Centre’s decision to repeal the three controversial farm laws. Besides this, he also demanded martyr status for farmers who died during their protest, adequate monetary compensation and jobs to their family members. Speaking to reporters, Soren termed the decision of the government as ‘unfortunate and laughable’. “The BJP and their supporters are calling the PM a well-wisher of farmers. In other words, it’s like saying that one tries to choke someone’s neck but when the person still survives, you can claim you were just trying to hug the person. Some of their own leaders have spoken about the impending political damage. That is why I say this is an unfortunate and laughable decision,” said Soren, who is also the working president of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). Seeking the resignation of union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Soren said the decision (to repeal the farm laws) is backed by realisation in the BJP leadership about the impending political damage. Seeking adequate monetary compensation to those who lost their lives protesting the farm laws, Soren said their family members should also get government jobs.“The decision has established that democracy in the country is still alive. The Prime Minister should immediately provide monetary compensation of ₹5 crore each to the family of all those farmers who died in the protests. They should be given martyr status. All cases filed against protesters should be withdrawn. And other farmers who have been protesting on the street with their family members also need to be compensated with ₹10 lakh each for their crop loss,” added Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-demands-agri-minister-s-resignation-rs-5-cr-compensation-to-dead-farmers-101637311329171.html
19-11-2021||India||Education: How the pandemic has left young children vulnerable||New Delhi: The youngest learners in early primary grades require “urgent attention” as schools are reopening, stated the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) for 2021, released on Wednesday, while asserting that their situation should set off “loud alarm bells” even without measuring their learning outcomes.The 16th edition of the report, issued by the non-profit organisation Pratham, was prepared on the basis of a household telephonic survey conducted in rural areas of 581 districts across 25 states and three Union territories between September and October this year.The survey — which covered 76,706 households, 75,234 children between 5 and 16, and teachers and staff from 7,300 government schools — aimed to capture the transition in the education system at a time when schools are reopening in a staggered manner after almost 18 months due to the pandemic.The report highlighted several consequences of Covid-19 pandemic on the Indian education system, including the exodus of rural children from private schools due to financial constraints caused by the pandemic, increasing dependence on paid tuition due to the prolonged closure of schools, and the existing digital divide, among others.It, however, repeatedly emphasised how young children have been affected the most. For instance, the maximum shift from private to public schools was reported among younger students. For classes 1 and 2, the enrollment of boys in government schools rose 10.9% while for girls, the rise was 7.4% between 2020 and 2021. Similarly, more children in higher classes reportedly had access to a smartphone as compared to children in lower grades and it has also been found that the proportion of children currently not enrolled in schools was highest among 5-year-olds — reaching more than 14% in both 2020 and 2021.All these revelations make younger children more “vulnerable”. “The consequences of not designing mechanisms to address the situation of the youngest learners will be extremely grave not only for individual children but for the school system as whole,” the report stated. No classroom experienceThe ASER report 2021 found that one in every three children enrolled in classes 1 and 2 had never attended in-person classes. The percentage of such children is 36.8% in government schools and 33.6% in private schools. As per the survey, overall 35.9 % of children enrolled in classes 1 and 2 have never attended in-person classes. Suman Bhattacharjea, director of the ASER research centre, said, “Given the timeline of the pandemic, the incoming cohort of children in class 1 is unlikely to attend any pre-primary classes before beginning the primary school. Entry to the world of formal education can be a difficult process at the best of times but the challenges these young children face as learners are therefore likely to be far more complex than would have been the case in pre-pandemic times.”The report suggested that teachers now have to pay more attention to such students as the schools are reopening. Some teachers in rural areas also backed the survey observations. Akhilesh Sharma, a primary teacher at a government school in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district, said, “A large number of students in classes 1 and 2 are new and they have no classroom experience. It is very difficult to even make them sit in the class first and basics like writing, reading alphabets and numbers.”Digital divide, decrease in learning supportEven as smartphone ownership doubled between 2018 and 2021, the “youngest learners also have “least access to technology”, ASER 2021 stated. “Almost a third of all children in Classes I and 2 did not have a smartphone available at home.”While the availability of smartphones in rural India was 36.5% in 2018, which increased to 61.8% in 2020 and 67.6% in 2021, only 19.9 % of children in Classes 1 and 2 have access to the devices whenever they require. As many as 39.3% of students in these classes have no access to smartphones, the survey stated. “There is substantial variation in access to smartphones by grade of children. More children in higher classes have access to smartphones compared to lower grades,” it added.Similarly, the report raised grave concerns about the decrease in learning support to these students. Even as the ASER 2021 report found that 91.9% enrolled children have textbooks for their current grade, only about a third of children in classes 1 and 2, whose schools are yet to be reopened, reported to have received learning material from schools, in the form of worksheets in print or virtual form, and online or recorded classes. “Even fewer had had some form of contact with teachers to discuss children’s learning (28.5%). The proportion of families who had some contact with teachers was heavily skewed towards better off families, as proxied by parental education levels,” said Bhattacharjea.High proportion among not-yet-enrolled childrenThe proportion of children currently not in school is driven mainly by the 5 to 8-year old age group. “Among 5-8-year-olds, the proportion of children not currently enrolled in schools is 7.2% which is higher than the corresponding proportion among older children. This year too, the proportion of children not currently enrolled is highest among 5-year-olds, reaching more than 14% in both 2020 and 2021,” the report added.The overall percentage of currently not enrolled children was found to be 4.9%. Bhattacharjea said that getting these children into school is “urgent”. “These data point to a critical task ahead — that of ensuring that young children enrol in school or preschool. It may be that many 5 or 6 years old are simply awaiting admissions, as in the case every year. But this year is not normal. Getting these children into school is urgent. They have already missed many important months of engagements during the critical period of maximum brain development. “Once this period is over, the opportunity to help them build firm foundations during the viral early years will be lost,” he said.Lagging behind While the report doesn’t highlight the impact of pandemic on learning outcomes, a sample survey conducted in the 24 districts of Karnataka covering 20,000 students aged between 5-16-year-olds showed a “steep drop” in children’s foundation skills, particularly among those in lower primary grades. For instance, in class 3rd, only 24.2% students could read at least class 1 level of text. The figure was 41.% in 2018.70.1% of the surveyed teachers also said that the students enrolled in classes 3 to 5 finding it more difficult to catch up with their grade-level curriculum as they return back to offline classes. The way aheadEducationist Meeta Sengupta said that for the younger students, the solution lies in community participation. “We need to urgently invest in community learning with trained para teachers who can guide the little ones based on intense, continuous and mentored support from an online learning system for the teachers. Our little children need a customised hybrid, and this can be done at mass scale, very rapidly, with local community participation to bridge the gap,” she said.Sengupta said that efforts should be made to make learning joyful for younger children when they return to school. “We must revisit the idea of outcomes for the early years and redesign it to meet both the needs of socialisation into learning, and to make learning an act of joy so that they feel good about trying to do better and more,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-how-the-pandemic-has-left-young-children-vulnerable-101637311207509.html
19-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav calls for BJP's defeat in polls, says may bring back farm laws later||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said that the Central government’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws was prompted by fear of losing elections. In an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister demanded that those who have “apologised should also quit politics forever”. PM Modi earlier apologised to the citizens for “failing to explain” farmers the benefits of farm laws.“Farmers's efforts have paid off. It's the defeat of ego and victory of farmers, democracy. People will not forgive them (Centre) in the upcoming polls. This fake apology won't work...People who have apologised should also resign from politics forever,” the SP leader told a press briefing.Akhilesh Yadav urged people to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming Assembly polls, saying the government might bring back the legislation once the elections are over. He said that the kind of support his party got from farmers during the Purvanchal Vijay Yatra not only shook the Uttar Pradesh government but also the Union government."The public needs to be cautious, and alert. After the elections, the government might bring the laws back. So for the interest of the farmers, people should vote this government out. Farmers will throw this government out in these elections. They withdrew the laws, not for farmers, but for votes," he added.Govt to scrap agricultural laws, but farm protests to continueThe Samajwadi Party leader also brought up the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where protesting farmers were run over by the car of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son. He alleged that the minister is responsible for the death of the farmers, calling on the government to remove him."Along with withdrawing the black farm laws the government should also tell when will the Union minister of state for home affairs will be removed", Akhilesh Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-calls-for-bjp-s-defeat-in-polls-says-may-bring-back-farm-laws-later-101637310212209.html
19-11-2021||India||From ordinance to repeal: How HT covered the farm-laws debate||In an early morning address to the nation on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government has decided to repeal the three farm laws. Modi’s address, interestingly, has attributed the repeal to the fact that a section of farmers could not “understand” the benefits of these laws. He even apologised to the nation for his government’s failure in conveying the benefits of these farm laws. What does this move mean? HT has covered this issue extensively right from the beginning. A summary of our coverage is the best way to approach this question. There was never any unanimity about the so-called benefits of the farm laws There has never been a consensus on the supposed benefits of the farm laws. HT discussed this question as early as May 18, 2020, almost immediately after the reforms were announced (https://bit.ly/3DwOVhD). The fundamental economic premise of the farm laws being beneficial for all farmers was questionable for two reasons. One, contrary to government claims of farmers being forced to sell their produce to vested interests in Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), which the farm laws abolished, most farmers in India have already been selling their crop to private traders. The latest numbers from the 2018-19 Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) confirmed this. In a two-part series based on the business of farming in India, HT looked at SAS data to find that only 5.4% of farmers sold their output to APMCs and an overwhelming 77.5% sold their produce in local private markets (https://bit.ly/3Cun7Jh) . SAS also shows that every third farmer is unhappy with the prices he receives for his crop. When read together, these numbers suggest that private traders are not the best when it comes to guaranteeing better prices. The article also highlighted the limitations of contract farming, another key aspect of the farm laws. “Selling to contract farming sponsors or companies directly – this is often offered as a panacea for low farm incomes in the country – does not offer significant improvements in satisfaction of sale. Here, however, the main cause of dissatisfaction is delayed payments”, it said. And two, the deregulation of farm prices through amendment of the essential commodities act, was always susceptible to be suspended when high food prices became a food problem. This part has been confirmed by government actions on crops such as onions and edible oils after the reforms. This was explained in detail in an HT piece on September 23, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3CA0CTc). As the farmers’ protests gained momentum, the rhetoric became more and more anti big-business. HT explained why this was the case on September 19, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3nxQGoU). Input markets in agriculture are already dominated by big business and farmers have seen worsening terms of trade (ratio of prices received to prices paid) mostly on account of input costs in farming. With big business being allowed into output markets, they feared even worse. The move is political, not a change of heart on policy The next assembly election cycle – this includes the state of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh – will take place early next year. Punjab has been the epicentre of the farmers’ protests since day zero. It is here that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) paid the biggest price for the farm laws when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of the oldest constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) decided to break ranks on the issue. It remains to be seen whether the BJP reaches out to the SAD after this decision. Also, whether the SAD-BJP and estranged Congress leader Amrinder Singh form a joint front to fight the elections will be an interesting thing to watch out for. But the farm laws did not seem to be a big political factor elsewhere. For example, the BJP actually managed to increase its vote share in the Ellenabad assembly by-poll in Haryana even though it did not win the election. “While the Haryana elections will only happen in 2024 and the BJP has never had much of a presence in Punjab, a consolidation of non-Jat and non-Muslim votes could minimise, if not completely negate, the BJP’s potential losses in the Uttar Pradesh elections early next year”, this author said in an analysis (https://bit.ly/30GpBap) of the by-poll results on November 3. Even the opposition did not try making the farm laws into an issue (in elections such as in Bihar last year) as was explained in HT on October 30, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3DC6jBu). The farm law attracted protests in only those states, where agriculture is still a relatively high-income activity. This, in turn, is a direct outcome of government procurement. However, there can be no denying the fact that the forthcoming assembly election cycle would have presented the biggest political challenge to the BJP on this issue. Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, along with Haryana, is what forms the core of Green Revolution belt in India. The BJP’s retreat on the farm laws should be best seen as a decision to avoid a full-scale confrontation with the local elite in the Green Revolution regions, which, to its credit, was able to rally other sections in its protests as well. HT has looked at this issue in detail on September 21, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3xa73vm). By making a retreat on this front, the BJP has clearly indicated that it prefers to be risk averse on the issue than risking its political capital in the most important state of Uttar Pradesh. Western Uttar Pradesh, where the farmers’ protests are the strongest, accounts for more than hundred assembly constituencies in the 403 member assembly. Indeed, the Lakhimpur incident, where the son a BJP union minister for state has been accused of killing protesting farmers, might have increased the potential headwinds to the BJP from farmers’ protests. Status-quo in farming and all of farmers’ demands aren’t desired outcomes either Just as the government’s claims of farm laws being unambiguously beneficial do not stand scrutiny, demands of restoring status-quo-ante or even strengthening it are difficult to justify. For example, a Minimum Support Price (MSP) driven expansion of paddy cultivation in Punjab and Haryana has unleashed widespread environmental destruction on soil quality and water tables in these states and pollution in Delhi and adjoining areas because of stubble burning. HT explained the relation between paddy cultivation and pollution on November 16, 2021 (https://bit.ly/3HzZG58). An HT article published on December 2, 2020 showed that richer farmers inflicted greater environmental damage in Punjab (https://bit.ly/3CxDB3x). Then there is also the question of the dubious practice of agricultural subsidies – they are often driven by demands from farmers -- which has destroyed the financial health of distribution companies as well as state governments. Some of these issues were discussed in an HT piece on October 28, 2021 (https://bit.ly/30B2a24). Each of these challenges needs to be addressed on an urgent basis if India’s long-term growth and sustainability interests are to be preserved. This is not the end of political conflicts on agricultural policy The government’s decision to repeal the farm laws is not going to be the end of political conflict around farm policy in the country. In fact, this is the basic political economy fault line in India. “The main reason for the agrarian crisis is that agriculture employs far too many people to be remunerative. At least 40% of India’s workforce is employed in agriculture, even though it generates less than 15% of the country’s GDP”, HT explained on October 10, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3oClZOS). “The current set of reforms does nothing to address this basic income-employment asymmetry in agriculture”, the article said. An HT piece published on July 29, 2020 underlined another central contradiction in India (https://bit.ly/30CoXuX). “Maintaining terms of trade in favour of agriculture (which is what boosts farmers’ income) and ensuring reasonable food prices for consumers might not be compatible”, while adding that “to really shift the fortunes in favour of agriculture will require a demand driven sustainable policy trajectory”. These are all issues which will continue to matter in Indian politics in the foreseeable future. Will farmers’ movements gain a pan-India boost after this struggle? Not necessarily. The current farmers’ protest was not the first in India. However, not all of them have been as successful as this one. One of the biggest handicaps which prevent genuine farmers’ solidarity in India is the question of caste, which prevents farmers from the Other Backward Classes and upper castes from coming together while the Dalits are largely non-stakeholders in agriculture, HT explained on September 23, 2021 (https://bit.ly/3qVwuj0).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-ordinance-to-repeal-how-ht-covered-the-farm-laws-debate-101637310607544.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Repeal of farm laws victory of democracy over arrogance’: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that his government will repeal the three farm laws enacted last year a victory of democracy over arrogance.“This is a victory for the patience of the farmers who have been agitating for the last one year. The country can never forget that hundreds of farmers have lost their lives due to the short-sightedness...of the Modi government,” he tweeted. He paid tributes to the farmers who sacrificed their lives during their agitation. “This is the victory of their sacrifice.”Farmers in Rajasthan have been holding a sit-in against the laws at the Shahjahanpur border on the Jaipur-Delhi highway. Sanjay Madhav, convener, All India Kisan Sabha, echoed other farmer leaders and said the protest will continue until the laws are repealed in Parliament.Former lawmaker and All India Kisan Sabha national vice president Amra Ram said the agitation will not be withdrawn until the government brings a law to ensure guaranteed minimum support prices (MSP). “Modi said MSP is, was, and will be there...but it is only on paper…not a kilogram of bajra was purchased on MSP in Rajasthan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-victory-of-democracy-over-arrogance-gehlot-101637309828556.html
19-11-2021||India||'A victory for farmers': Mayawati after Centre decides to repeal farm laws||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday said the decision to withdraw the three contentious farm laws by the Prime Minister was "a victory" for farmers and their long struggle against the laws. This came after PM Modi, in a televised address, announced that the central government will withdraw the new farm legislation in the upcoming Parliament session.Underlining that the decision was delayed, the BSP chief also demanded compensation from the Centre to farmers who lost their lives over a year of the agitation. "The central government should give financial assistance to the family members of the farmers who died during the protest movement." She also suggested that a government job should be offered to the next of the kin of the deceased farmer.She also demanded that the Centre should bring a law on Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the winter session of Parliament. A legal guarantee on MSP is one of the key demands of farmers along with the complete repeal of the laws.The BSP chief also said that the central and state governments should consult farmers before bringing a law regarding agriculture or the farmers community. "It will check the unnecessary dispute between the farmers and governments," she added.The three laws that will be scrapped are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. According to the announcement, the Centre will scrap the laws in the upcoming winter session of Parliament, scheduled to begin on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-victory-for-farmers-mayawati-after-centre-decides-to-repeal-farm-laws-101637309553034.html
19-11-2021||India||From Rihanna to Greta Thunberg: Global celebs who backed the farmers’ protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the three contentious farm laws over which a section of the country’s farmers had been protesting will be repealed. The farmers’ protest, which began last year, garnered support from all sections of society, at home and abroad. Several international celebrities had also spoken out on the standoff. Here are some prominent personalities who supported the farmers’ protest: RihannaThe singer, actor and entrepreneur caused a stir in February after she posted a tweet in support of the farmers’ protest. Sharing a CNN news report related to the farmers’ protest and an internet shutdown, Rihanna tweeted, “Why aren’t we talking about this?” The post sparked a fierce debate on the crisis.Greta ThunbergThe 18-year-old climate activist shared a toolkit on Twitter in February on the protests against the farm laws. The cybercrime cell of Delhi Police filed an FIR over developments related to the post and the toolkit that was shared, citing sedition, criminal conspiracy, and promoting hatred. Amanda CernyIn February, US vlogger Amanda Cerny took to Instagram to share a post backing human rights and dignity with regard to the protesting farmers in India. Cerny not only extended her support to the farmers’ protest, but also sought direct international attention towards the standoff. In an Instagram post that was liked more than 700,000 times, Cerny said one “does not have to be Indian, Punjabi or South Asian to understand the issue. All one has to do is care about humanity”. She was later trolled for her views on the subject.Lilly SinghYouTuber Lilly Singh walked the Grammys red carpet in March with a mask that read ‘I stand with farmers’. Taking to Twitter and posting a picture of herself on the red carpet with the mask, she wrote, “I know red carpet/award show pictures always get the most coverage, so here you go media. Feel free to run with it Raised fist #IStandWithFarmers #GRAMMYs.”Meena HarrisThe author and niece of US vice-president Kamala Harris spoke out in support of the protesting farmers in India. “It’s no coincidence that the world’s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India’s internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters,” she tweeted.Hasan MinhajAfter Rihanna’s tweet that sparked a controversy, popular comedian Hasan Minhaj, too, shared a news article seeking to generate awareness about the farmers’ protest in India.Ilhan OmarMultiple members of US Congress tweeted on the farmers’ issue. One of them is congresswoman Ilhan Omar, who said, “India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate internet access, and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests.”Kyle Kuzma, Baron DavisUS basketball players came out in full support of the protesting farmers, including point forward for Los Angeles Lakers, Kyle Kuzma. Former NBA player Baron Davis made a strong remark, saying, “Are we going to address what’s happening in India?... Unfair to those who struggle… the farmers provide a way of living and they need to have a right to a way of life. Join me and let’s bring awareness.”Jazzy BJazzy B, a popular Punjabi singer of Indian and Canadian origin, spent the New Year’s Eve with farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders against the farm laws. When asked why he decided to join the protests, Jazzy B said, “You should never leave your homeland, and I am proud to be a Punjabi. Yes, I am from Canada, but you can never take the Indian out of me.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rihanna-to-greta-thunberg-global-celebs-who-backed-the-farmers-protest-101637308927314.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Fear of election loss forced move to repeal farm laws’: Congress||The Congress on Friday congratulated the farmers for their fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said the fear of election loss forced them to announce the repeal of the farm laws enacted last year.Randeep Surjewala, the chief spokesperson for the party, referred to the deaths of 700 farmers during the agitation and the mowing down of protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and added the government has accepted its crime. “Now, it is time for the farmers and citizens to decide the punishment of the crime,” he said. “The public has an infallible weapon against the government.”Surejwala said the credit for the government’s announcement goes to farmers for protesting for their rights. “...without the fear of losing the upcoming elections, these farm laws would not have been repealed.”In a tweet, Congress leader Kapil Sibal welcomed the announcement for rolling back the three farm laws and added “wisdom” dawned because of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Former Union minister P Chidambaram too linked the decision to elections rather than a change of policy or heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-election-loss-forced-move-to-repeal-farm-laws-congress-101637307608461.html
19-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Arrogance relents to satyagrah of nation's providers: Rahul Gandhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arrogance relents to satyagrah of nation's providers: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said arrogance has succumbed to the satyagrah of the nation's providers. Congratulating protesting farmers on “victory against injustice”, the former Congress president wrote in Hindi on Twitter, “Jai Hind. Jai Hind ka kisan!” Read moreFive ways in which repeal of farm laws impacts Punjab's political dynamicsThe repeal of three contentious farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Gurpurab (the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev) is imbued with huge symbolism for Punjab, which was the epicentre of dogged farmers’ protests for more than a year. Read moreFarmers at Ghazipur celebrate with ‘Jalebis’ as PM Modi repeals farm lawsA wave of happiness and celebration ensued at Ghazipur border near Delhi on Friday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will withdraw the three contentious agriculture laws in the upcoming Parliament session. Read moreGhostbusters Afterlife review: Stranger Things-style reboot of cult classic is cutesy fun but little elseGhostbusters: Afterlife is an attempt to reboot a franchise that began with the beloved 1984 cult horror-comedy Ghostbusters. Read moreIndia's Predicted XI vs New Zealand, 2nd T20: Siraj injury, Chahar's expensive outing could make way for two more debutsTeam India made a winning start to the T20 series against New Zealand, beating the Kiwis by five wickets in the first game in Jaipur. Read moreMithila Palkar gave aerial yoga ‘a shot.’ Here’s how she did itMithila Palkar spent three years in wishful thinking of giving aerial yoga a shot and that’s exactly what she did on Thursday. Read moreMercedes AMG A45 S track test review: Fastest hatchback is tailor-made for speedMercedes-Benz India have been playing in the powerplay overs for some time now as far as performance vehicles are concerned. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-arrogance-relents-to-satyagrah-of-nation-s-providers-rahul-gandhi-101637306487700.html
19-11-2021||India||Farmers at UP-Gate welcome PM’s announcement but agitation to continue||Ghaziabad: Farmers camped at the Delhi border at UP Gate since November 26 last year distributed jalebis and termed as a victory Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Friday announcement that the government will repeal three controversial farm laws passed in Parliament in 2020. The farmers have been demanding a roll back of the laws, and a law to guarantee minimum support prices (MSP) for a range of crops.Hundreds of farmers at the UP Gate protest site, mostly from districts in western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Uttarakhand, have been preparing for a march to Delhi on November 29 during the next Parliament session. On Friday, soon after the announcement, more farmers were rushing to the site, according to leaders of the farm unions.“It is indeed a victory of the yearlong agitation by farmers, and about 700 of them also gave their lives to the cause of this agitation. The PM’s announcement has come on the day of “Prakash Utsav” (Guru Nanak’s birthday) and it is a welcome step. Still, we will wait and watch till the laws finally get repealed. Further, a law on MSP should be passed. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will roll out further strategy in coming time but for now the protest site will continue to operate,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and the UP Gate site’s spokesperson for SKM, an umbrella body of several farm unions.“The government is feeling the heat of the continued agitation by the farmers, and the decision has come ahead of assembly elections in several states being round the corner,” Bajwa added. Assembly elections in three key states in the context of the farmers’ movement -- Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand -- are due early next year. The farmers at UP Gate have been occupying portions of the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageways of National Highway 9 for almost a year, and hundreds of tents have been set up at the site. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), and one of the principal leaders of the protesting farmers, indicated that the agitation would not be suspended yet. “The agitation will not be taken back immediately. We will wait for the day when the farm laws are rolled back in the Parliament. The government should talk to farmers on the issues of MSP and others,” he tweeted. There have been multiple rounds of talks between the government and the farm unions, but none since January 22 this year when both sides took hard positions on the question of repealing the laws. Sardar VM Singh, a prominent farmer leader who heads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, which moved out of UP Gate protest site in January after a Republic Day tractor march to Delhi turned violent, said that key was a guarantee on MSP. “This agitation, however long it lasts, should have something that goes for the farmers and each farmer must gain. Ordinance came in June 2020 and the crop like wheat, dhan, makka, etc., were then going at the rate of 30-40% less than MSP. Basic thing is that the MSP guarantee must be given. This is the issue we were fighting for and if the guarantee on MSP would have been given, the three laws would have become infructuous automatically,” Singh said. The PM, in his address, said that MSP will be made more robust and transparent, and a committee will be constituted to take decisions on the matters related to the issue. Some farmer leaders at the Ghaziabad site viewed the development as “political compulsion”. “The decision has come ahead of the assembly elections in UP, and it shows that the government is feeling the heat of the sustained efforts by the farmers put in the movement for almost a year. The decision by the PM is welcome step and we will wait to see it turning into reality. Further, there were other demands like law on MSP which should be fulfilled for benefit of farmers,” said Prabal Pratap Singh, spokesperson for BKU (Asli). The umbrella SKM issued a statement soon after the PM’s address. “Samyukta Kisan Morcha welcomes this decision and will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures. If this happens, it will be a historic victory of the one-year long farmers’ struggle in India. However, nearly 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. The central government’s obstinacy is responsible for these avoidable deaths,” the statement read. “SKM also reminds the Prime Minister that the agitation of farmers is not just for the repeal of the three black laws, but also for a statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers,” it added. The occupy movement at UP Gate has resulted in thousands of daily commuters taking alternate routes to enter Delhi. A huge volume of traffic also passes through the Kaushambi township near the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border. “We see the development as a welcome sign, but we think that there is no immediate relief coming our way. Thousands of vehicles pass through out township every day. So, we will wait for the developments and hope they get resolved soon to benefit thousands of commuters,” said VK Mittal, president of the Kaushambi township residents welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-at-up-gate-welcome-pm-s-announcement-but-agitation-to-continue-101637306287117.html
19-11-2021||India||India-China ties going through a 'bad patch': EAM S Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday that India and China are going through a "particularly bad patch" in their ties because Beijing has taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which it still doesn't have a "credible explanation" and it is for the Chinese leadership to answer where they want to take the bilateral relationship."I don't think the Chinese have any doubt on where we stand on our relationship and what's not gone right with it. I’ve been meeting my counterpart Wang Yi a number of times. As you would've experienced, I speak fairly clear, reasonably understandably (and) there is no lack of clarity so if they want to hear it, I am sure they would have heard it," Jaishankar said in response to a question at a panel "Greater Power Competition: The Emerging World Order" at the Bloomberg New Economic Forum here."We are going through a particularly bad patch in our relationship because they have taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which they still don’t have a credible explanation and that indicates some rethink about where they want to take our relationship, but that’s for them to answer," he further said, in an apparent reference to the eastern Ladakh border clash with China.The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.The tension escalated following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February and in the Gogra area in August. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in a stalemate.Meanwhile, on Thursday the two sides agreed to hold the 14th round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Jaishankar also dismissed as "ridiculous" the notion that the United States has been strategically contracting and yielding space to others amidst a global rebalancing of power.He said that the US is today, a much more flexible partner, much more open to ideas, suggestions, and working arrangements than in the past."Don't confuse it with the decline of the United States. I think that's ridiculous," he said in response to a question from the moderator at the session, also attended by former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair."It's clear China has been expanding. But the nature of China, the manner of its growing influence is very different. And we don't have a situation where China necessarily replaces the United States. Well, it's natural to think of China, US (and) China as the overarching happening. The fact is, there are also a lot of other countries including India, which have come much more into play. There's been a rebalancing in the world,” he said.Citing QUAD as an example, he pointed out that some countries are coming together on a certain set of concerns and issues or interests. The Quad comprising India, Japan, the US and Australia was formed to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the resource-rich Indo-Pacific free of any influence.He said the United States is today, a much more flexible partner, much more open to ideas, suggestions, and working arrangements than in the past. "I think this reflects a very different kind of world. We are moving into a world in a sense, you could say, the real transitions after 1992 are now occurring."The minister also elaborated on a question about how the world is changing. "It is certainly not unipolar and it is not really really bipolar either. There are many more players. A lot of what we are doing in terms of repositioning, working with countries, (it) is multipolar work," he said."In a sense, it is partly a hedging strategy, partly autonomous partnership, often very issue based (as) we work with different countries on different sets of issues," said Jaishankar.Noting that the COVID has called into question the old model of globalisation, he said, "we are actually at multiple levels in a very, very complex transition."He pointed out that countries are willing to pay additional costs for a greater sense of security."We all want more reliable, more resilient supply chains. We want more options. Many of us were in touch during that period and went through very difficult issues. It could have been on health, even in some cases on food. So we are actually at multiple levels in a very, very complex transition. The transition, some of it is with the rise and fall and the rebalancing of powers,” he said."The transition some of it is with the rise and fall and the rebalancing of powers. Some of it is many more players. Some of it is that our concept of what is national security has changed. We think much more of economic security, much more of health security, much more of digital security,” he said.He said that in the old days, it didn't matter beyond a point what the neighbour's domestic system was."Today, issues of trust and transparency are much more relevant in a data driven world. So it does matter to me what the character of my partner is, who they are partners with. So these are all new factors, which I would suggest is really taking the world in a very, very different direction," he said.Obviously, India would like to see how its interests are best served and those interests today are definitely served with a much closer relationship with the United States, with a much stronger relationship with Europe, and the UK as well as re-energising the relationships with the ASEAN and especially Singapore, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-ties-going-through-a-bad-patch-eam-s-jaishankar-101637304841750.html
19-11-2021||India||Farmers at Ghazipur celebrate with ‘Jalebis’ as PM Modi repeals farm laws||A wave of happiness and celebration ensued at Ghazipur border near Delhi on Friday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will withdraw the three contentious agriculture laws in the upcoming Parliament session. The landmark decision was announced after nearly a year-long protest against the reform laws, on the occasion of Guru Nanak  Jayanti.Protesting farmers distributed jalebis at the Ghazipur border and raised slogans of "Kisan Zindabad" celebrating their victory over the government's decision to pass the ordinances enacted last year.Others were seen dancing on the streets and distributing sweets amongst each other.Here are a few glimpses:“Today, I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws. In the Parliament session starting later this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal these three agricultural laws,” the Prime Minister said in a televised speech earlier today, urging the agitators to go back to their homes.The winter session of the Parliament begins on November 29. Interestingly, the decision comes months before five states, including agri-hubs of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh where there is opposition to the farm laws, will hold assembly elections.Many leaders congratulated the farmers for their relentless efforts that have finally proved fruitful. Farmers – mainly from western Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Haryana among other states – have been camping at various entry points to Delhi for almost a year. “Congratulations its win against the injustice, the farmers of the nation have compelled the arrogant govt to bend down through satyagraha,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that the protests will not die down yet. “The agitation will not be withdrawn immediately, we will wait for the day when agricultural laws will be repealed in Parliament. Along with the MSP, the government should also discuss other issues of farmers,” he tweeted.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been at the forefront of the protest, also resonated with the statement and said that they “will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-at-ghazipur-celebrate-with-jalebis-as-pm-modi-repeals-farm-laws-101637299075390.html
19-11-2021||India||'Let's take fresh start': What PM Modi said in his address today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the central government will repeal the three controversial fam laws by the end of this month, as he addressed the nation at 9am. He also asked the farmers to end their stir, which has continued for more than a year now.Addressing the nation on the auspicious occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, the Prime Minister also apologised to farmers and said, the government could not convince a section of farmers despite its clear heart and clean conscience.Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been staging a sit-in at Delhi borders since last November last year to protest against the three legislation. The laws were enacted by Parliament in September last year.These laws are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. According to the announcement, the laws will be scrapped in the upcoming winter session of the Parliament.Here are the key highlights of the address:"I appeal to all the farmers who are part of the protest... to now return to your home, to your loved ones, to your farms, and family. Let's make a fresh start and move forward.""Friends, I apologise to the countrymen and want to say with a clean heart and conscience that we must have fallen short in our efforts to explain (the benefits of the farm laws) to a section of the farmers.""The objective of the three farm laws was that the farmers of the country, especially small farmers should be strengthened, they should get the right price for their produce and maximum options to sell the produce."PM Modi also announced a "formation of a committee to promote zero budgeting based agriculture, to change crop pattern as per the changing needs of the country and to make MSP more effective and transparent."The Committee will have representatives of the central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, and agricultural economists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-take-fresh-start-what-pm-modi-said-in-his-address-today-101637303288450.html
19-11-2021||India||Timeline: Centre to repeal farm laws after a year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced the scrapping of three farm laws, which triggered protests by the farmers. Addressing the nation, the Prime Minister said that his government has always worked for the welfare of the farmers.Hailing the laws as pathbreaking for the agriculture sector, PM Modi said multiple rounds of talk were held to end farmers' protest but a section refused to budge.He also urged the farmers to now end their protest and head home.Also Read | What were the demands of the farmers?The farmer organisations, which have been sitting at Delhi's borders, welcomed the move but did not vow to end the protest immediately. The farmer leaders said their movement will end only when these laws are actually repealed.Also Read | Huge victory for farmer movement, says AAPThe protest is being led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of more than 30 farmer unions, and other independent bodies.Here's a timeline of the passage and protest over farm laws:June 2020: The three farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act - were first introduced as ordinances. Farmers oppose the ordinances as launch protest in Punjab.September 2020: Parliament passes the farm laws - by Lok Sabha on September 17 and Rajya Sabha (by voice vote) on September 20. President Ram Nath Kovind gives his assent on September 27. Farmers' protests grow, 'Rail Roko' held in Punjab.October 2020: Supreme Court hears petition challenging constitutional validity of the three laws and seeks Centre' response. The petition filed by Congress and other opposition parties. Government calls farmer unions for conference on October 8, but the demand is rejected. The first round of talks is held on October 14.November 2020: Second round of talks held on November 13, but remain inconclusive. Farmers call for taking the protest on a bigger stage. A majority of protesters begin their "Dill Chalo" march on November 26, Constitution Day. A confrontation takes place with the Haryana Police but the farmers arrive on the outskirts of Delhi. On November 29, home minister Amit Shah appeals to protesting farmers to move to Burari so that talks can take place in a "structured" manner. Farmers reject Shah’s appeal the next day.December 2020: Third, fourth and fifth round of talks take place between the government and farmers’ unions on December 1, 3 and 5 but fail to break the deadlock. Bharat Bandh is held on December 8, Shah hosts "informal" meet with farmers. Talks remain inconclusive and leaders decide not to come for December 9 talks. Farmers block the Delhi-Jaipur highway on December 13. The sixth round of talks finally takes place on December 30, consensus reached on two out of four demands of farmers. Impasse continues on legal assurance for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and total repeal of laws.January 2021: Seventh and eighth round of talks take place but once again no resolution is found. The Supreme Court hears a clutch of pleas on January 11 challenging the laws. On January 12, implementation of farm laws stayed until further orders and a four-member committee formed to handle the negotiations. Farmers hold a tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day (January 26) to build pressure on the government to repeal the laws. Violence is reported in the march, and several policemen are injured.February 2021: An online toolkit in support of farmers surfaces and the protest attracts the interest of international celebrities and activists like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg. Farmers hold a nationwide 'Chakka Jam' on February 6. Climate activist Disha Ravi is arrested on February 14 allegedly for creating and sharing the toolkit. She was granted bail on February 23.March 2021: Punjab Vidhan Sabha passes resolution seeking unconditional withdrawal of the three farm laws.April 2021: Farmers' protest continues even after 100 days. Some of the protesters return to Punjab ahead of the harvesting season, but others vow to continue the agitation.May 2021: Farmers observe 'black day'. Samyukt Kisan Morcha urges the government to hold talks with protesting farmers.July 2021: 'Kisan Sansad' begins at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, along with the monsoon session of Parliament. The farmers say they will keenly watch the discussions in Parliament on farm laws.September 2021: One year of the passage of farm laws. Farmers head to Karnal where a five-day standoff is reported with the district administration. On September 17, Bharat Bandh is observed by farmer unions to mark one year of the passage of farm laws.October 2021: Supreme Court talks about the inconvenience being faced by the commuters due to farmers' protest. The Delhi Police starts removing barricades from Ghazipur and Tikri borders. The farmers, however, vow to continue with their agitation.November 2021: PM Modi announces scrapping of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timeline-centre-to-repeal-farm-laws-after-a-year-101637302560378.html
19-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi says PM Modi didn't care about farmers, 'electoral defeat' prompted decision on farm laws||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “ignoring” the protests against the contentious farm laws for months only to repeal them after “seeing defeat” in the elections. In a series of tweets, the Congress general secretary said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t care either about the “martyrdom of over 600 farmers” or the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where protesting farmers were run over by the car of a Union minister’s son.She alleged that leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) insulted farmers by calling them “terrorists, traitors, goons, miscreants”, adding that the prime minister himself called the agitators ‘andolanjeevi’. Priyanka Gandhi said that it’s difficult to trust the prime minister’s intention and his “changed attitude.”“Now that you have started seeing the defeat in the elections, you suddenly started to understand the truth of this country - that this country has been made by the farmers, this country belongs to the farmers, the farmer is the true caretaker of this country and no government can rule the country by crushing the interest of the farmers,” she tweeted.600 से अधिक किसानों की शहादत350 से अधिक दिन का संघर्ष, @narendramodi जी आपके मंत्री के बेटे ने किसानों को कुचल कर मार डाला, आपको कोई परवाह नहीं थी। आपकी पार्टी के नेताओं ने किसानों का अपमान करते हुए उन्हें आतंकवादी, देशद्रोही, गुंडे, उपद्रवी कहा, आपने खुद आंदोलनजीवी बोला..1/3Priyanka Gandhi is leading the Congress' campaign in Uttar Pradesh for the upcoming Assembly elections and has ruled out a pre-poll alliance with any political party.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Central government will repeal the three contentious farm laws as it failed to convince “a section of farmers” about the “benefits” of the legislation.“To make MSP more effective and transparent, a committee will be constituted to take decisions on all such issues, keeping in view the future. The committee will have representatives from central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, agricultural economists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-says-pm-modi-didn-t-care-about-farmers-electoral-defeat-prompted-decision-on-farm-laws-101637301557012.html
19-11-2021||India||Coming generations won't forget the sacrifice made by farmers: Delhi CM||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Friday welcomed the Centre’s announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws and said that “the coming generations will never forget the sacrifice made by the farmers”. In a tweet, Kejriwal said the announcement made on Prakash Diwas (birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh) is happy news. “All three (farm) laws repealed. More than 700 farmers have been martyred. Their martyrdom will be remembered forever. The coming generations will remember how the farmers of our country put their lives on stake to save farming and farmers. My greetings to the farmers of the country,” he tweeted.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also congratulated the farmers’ movement. “Your one year long peaceful movement has forced the government to bow down. The central government had to bow down before the martyrdom of hundreds of farmers. The government should also seek apology from families whose members have passed away during this farmers’ movement,” Sisodia tweeted.AAP has been expressing its support for the farmers’ movement. Last year in November, the Delhi government denied police permission to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary detention centres in light of the farmers’ agitation. Several Delhi government functionaries and ministers visited the protest sites on Delhi’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-greetings-to-farmers-kejriwal-welcomes-centre-s-announcement-to-repeal-farm-laws-101637301787974.html
19-11-2021||India||Cleanest cities to be awarded on Nov 20 by President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind will honour the winners of Swachh Survekshan 2021 at the Swachh Amrit Mahotsav organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA)in New Delhi on November 20.The cleanest city award is in alignment with “Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of a Garbage Free India under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0,” read the press release issued by the Ministry. It added, “The Mahotsav will also pay tribute to the sanitation workers by recognising top-performing cities under the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge earlier initiated by the Ministry.”The 6th edition of Swachh Survekshan originally started with the participation of 73 cities in 2016 to 4,320 in 2021 and has now become the world’s largest urban cleanliness survey. “The award ceremony will salute the efforts of the top-performing cities under the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’, an initiative introduced last November by MoHUA to ensure safety and dignity of sewer and septic tank cleaners and eradicating the menace of hazardous cleaning from the urban sanitation lexicon,” said MoHUA.The ceremony will be attended by numerous dignitaries, including Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, MoS Kaushal Kishore, chief ministers, urban development ministers and mayors from across the country.Last year, the ministry launched SafaiMitra Suraksha Challenge, a pilot initiative, in 246 cities to encourage civic agencies to adopt mechanised cleaning of sewer and septic tanks and the safety of workers. On November 16, the Centre made the safety of sanitation workers an important component of Swachh Survekshan 2022. According to MoHUA, the 24x7 helpline number, 14420, is currently operational in 345 cities while 210 cities have functional Sanitation Response Units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cleanest-cities-to-be-awarded-on-nov-20-by-president-kovind-101637300888022.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Regressive step by PM Modi': Anil Ghanwat on decision to repeal farm laws||Supreme Court-appointed farm panel member Anil Ghanwat on Friday described as regressive the Central government’s decision to repeal the three farm laws which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year. “This is the most regressive step by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as he chose politics over farmers' betterment,” Ghanwat told PTI. “Our panel had submitted several corrections and solutions over the three farm laws, but instead of using it to solve the impasse, Modi and BJP chose to backtrack. They just want to win elections and nothing else,” he said. Addressing the nation on Friday morning on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti, the prime minister said the three laws were for the benefit of farmers but "we couldn't convince a section of farmers despite best efforts".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regressive-step-by-pm-modi-anil-ghanwat-on-decision-to-repeal-farm-laws-101637300466907.html
19-11-2021||India||Heavy rains in south coastal Andhra, Rayalaseema||Heavy to very heavy rains began lashing parts of south Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema as the depression in the Bay of Bengal crossed the coast between Chennai and Puducherry around 4am on Friday.Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management commissioner K Kanna Babu said there have been very heavy rains in parts of Chittoor, Kadapa, and Prakasam districts and Anantapur along with gales with a speed of 45-65km per hour.He said emergency rescue teams, along with those from state and national disaster management forces, were rushed to Chittoor, Kadapa, and Nellore districts. He warned the fishermen against venturing into the sea and alerted the people in the low-lying areas of all the affected districts.“Remaining parts of coastal Andhra, too, would receive light to moderate rainfall,” he said.The temple town of Tirumala-Tirupati, which was flooded after heavy rains on Thursday, also received rainfall.Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages the shrine of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala hills, on Friday announced the resumption of traffic on the down ghat road which was shut down for the last 12 hours due to landslides and overflowing streams on the hills.A spokesman for the TTD said the traffic was restored for devotees stranded in Tirumala and in Tirupati.Due to the heavy downpour on Thursday in Tirupati, the TTD stopped the entry of pilgrims. The gushing waters of Kapila Teertham uprooted three of the temple pillars. The pillars were restored immediately.Tirupati (urban) police superintendent Venkata Appala Naidu sounded a high alert and asked people not to come out of their houses in view of the inundation of several colonies, till the normalcy is restored. “The heavy rains are likely to continue for another 48 hours, The rescue teams are working round the clock to provide relief to the stranded people. They can call the emergency control room number 6309913960, in case of emergency,” he said.In the Nellore district, with an inflow of nearly four lakh cusecs (cubic feet per second), the irrigation authorities opened 11 gates of the Somasila reservoir.Nellore collector KVN Chakradhar Babu and irrigation officials were supervising the rescue operations of the people in the adjacent areas.Several streams and rivulets in the Nellore district were in the spate and submerged 13 villages.In Kadapa, Annamayya, Penna Ahobilam, and Mylavaram reservoirs are overflowing.The people in the low-lying areas are being evacuated. Thousands of acres of standing crop were inundated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-in-south-coastal-andhra-rayalaseema-101637299628348.html
19-11-2021||India||Farm laws: Spotlight now on next step as Congress, CPI(M) hail protesters||About 15 months after three farm laws were passed in Parliament, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Friday that they will eventually be scrapped following protests, the focus now shifts to the process of repealing the laws even as various political parties reacted on the latest turn of events.According to rules, the government will have to seek permission from both Houses of the Parliament to proceed with repealing the laws. The government has repealed several outdated laws as a part of PM Modi’s policy to scrap laws from the past that were seen as archaic and that have lost significance over time. Friday’s announcement marks the second time the NDA government had to backtrack on laws that would have impacted farmers. Also Read: ‘Example of responsible govt’: BJP hails PM Modi’s decision to repeal farm lawsIn 2015, following two successive ordinances over amendments to a land bill, the PM had announced that his administration wouldn’t bring in any more ordinances. The land bill had proposed higher compensation for farmers but made it easier for companies to acquire land. The Congress, in a tweet, summed up the mood, posting, “The ego is shattered, the farmers of our country have won.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “With their satyagraha, the ‘annadata’ of the country made the head of arrogance hang low. Congratulations on this victory against injustice.”Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh congratulated the protesting farmers, tweeting, “First, bulldoze laws in Parliament. Then face unprecedented protests. Thereafter, confront election realities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab… Finally, after much appeal, repeal. Kisan-ity prevails at last. I salute the tenacity of our ‘kisans’, who did not give up.”The Communist Party of India (Marxicts) extended its “warm greetings to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and lakhs of fighting ‘kisans’”. It called the government’s move a “huge victory for the united ‘kisan’ movement led by SKM”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-spotlight-now-on-next-step-as-congress-cpi-m-hail-protesters-101637299026857.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi's announcement on farm laws: BKU to decide 'further course of action'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the central government will scrap the three farm legislation that had fuelled countrywide protests by the farmers. However, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a constituent of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) - an umbrella organisation of 32 farm bodies that have been spearheading the protests since November last year - remained wary and said the Union government has not spoken to them directly as of yet."There is no official communication to the SKM or any of its constituents. We have been seeking the repeal since these laws were passed last year and the Union Government has not spoken to us now, they should have," said Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU president.The group also said that they will hold a meeting soon to work out a further course of action. "There are several issues attached to the protest such as many lives of protesting farmers were lost and they had to face cases from the government, we need answers on that too," Rajewal added.Meanwhile, in the ANI report, BKU leader Joginder Singh praised said: "Decision to repeal farm laws is a good move by PM Modi on Gurupurab."The SKM issued a statement where if welcomed the decision, but said it will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures. "Agitation not just against new farm laws, demand on statutory guarantee for remunerative prices for crops still pending," SKM said in a statement.A farm activist from Punjab's Ambala, popularly known as water cannon boy, Navdeep Singh Jalbhera also asserted that they "will not return home and the fight will continue." "MSP's fight for survival continues, the fight to show our status by bowing to an arrogant like you, the fight to show who we are is on!" he tweeted.
19-11-2021||India||Arrogance relents to satyagrah of nation's providers: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said arrogance has succumbed to the satyagrah of the nation's providers. Congratulating protesting farmers on “victory against injustice”, the former Congress president wrote in Hindi on Twitter, “Jai Hind. Jai Hind ka kisan!”He also shared a past tweet of his in which he had said the Narendra Modi government would be forced to repeal take back the farm laws. “Mark my words, the Govt will have to take back the anti-farm laws,” he had written in a tweet on January 14 along with a clipping talking about the same.देश के अन्नदाता ने सत्याग्रह से अहंकार का सर झुका दिया। अन्याय के खिलाफ़ ये जीत मुबारक हो!जय हिंद, जय हिंद का किसान!#FarmersProtest https://t.co/enrWm6f3SqHis statement came minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation, announced that all three farms laws against which farmers have been protesting for about a year will be repealed. He also urged the farmers to withdraw their stir.  Stating that whatever he did so far as PM was in the interest of the country, Modi said a new phase from today. “We will make a new committee with state and central representatives experts which will work on a new framework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrogance-relents-to-satyagrah-of-nation-s-providers-says-rahul-gandhi-101637296977127.html
19-11-2021||India||'Example of responsible govt': BJP hails PM Modi's decision to repeal farm laws||Shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the scrapping of three farm laws, reaction started pouring in. While the Opposition parties, led by the Congress, termed this as victory for farmers and defeat for "arrogant" government, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders called the decision a step towards the welfare of the farmers.Also Read | ‘Fear of elections’: Congress leaders on Centre's decision to repeal farm lawsThe three laws were passed by Parliament in September last year and triggered protests by farmers, who sat on the borders of Delhi demanding the repeal of the laws. They called the three laws as pro-corporate.Hailing the “historic” decision, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the government must have failed to properly explain the benefits of the three laws and said the Prime Minister gave a fine example of resolving the dispute in a democracy. Uttar Pradesh is among those states where elections are due next year and the decision is being seen as the BJP's bid to subside the stirrings in the farmer belt. "All the farmers should welcome this move and end their stir. They should go to their homes and start regular life," Haryana minister and BJP leader Anil Vij said on Twitter.प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी की गुरु नानक देव जी के प्रकाश उत्सव पर तीनों कृषि कानूनों को वापस लेने की घोषणा पर सभी किसान संगठनों को प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी का आभार प्रकट करना चाहिए और अपने धरने तुरंत उठाकर अपने अपने घरों को जाकर अपने नियमित कामों में लगना चाहिए ।The party's national general secretary Dushyant Gautam said the decision is dedicated to the people of the country."I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Now the farmers should resume their regular work for the betterment of the country. It is a decision that is dedicated to the people of the country," Gautam said in a vide message.Prakash Javadekar, former Union minister, said it's an example of responsible government. "On the auspicious occasion of Prakash Parv, the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi ji has withdrawn all the three agricultural laws. This is an example of a responsible government which is constantly working and continues to work in the welfare and national interest of the farmers," he tweeted.प्रकाश पर्व के शुभ अवसर पर प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी ने तीनों कृषि कानून वापस ले लिया है। ये उत्तरदायी सरकार का उदाहरण है जो किसानों के कल्याण और राष्ट्रीय हित में लगातार काम कर रही है और आगे भी करती रहेगी।@narendramodi @PMOIndia @BJP4India #farmerlawsAddressing the nation on Friday morning, PM Modi said the government has decided to repeal three controversial farm laws against which farmers have protested for more than a year."Today I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws," PM Modi said in his address."In Parliament session starting later this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal these three agricultural laws," he added.Also Read | ‘It’s a beginning’: Tikait says won’t return until laws repealed in ParliamentThe Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the farmers, had maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer, while protesters claim they would be left at the mercy of corporations because of the legislations.The ruling BJP will hope that the decision to repeal the three laws will cancel out the political headwinds it has encounters in Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, two states which are going to the polls early next year.The three laws are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/example-of-responsible-govt-bjp-hails-pm-modi-s-decision-to-repeal-farm-laws-101637297916168.html
19-11-2021||India||Three farm laws to be repealed: What were the demands of the farmers?||After almost a year-long protests against them, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced the government will repeal the three agricultural reform laws enacted last year. Modi said a section of farmers remained unconvinced about the benefits of the laws, prompting the government to take such a decision. Here is what the demands of the protesting farmers were:-- Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, camped at Delhi border points since November 26 last year, demanding repeal of the laws. They sought the guaranteed Minimum Support Price (MSP) to ensure procurement of crops at a suitable price -- The farmers were also demanding written assurance for the continuation of MSP and conventional food grain procurement system-- They have sought MSP as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission. The panel said the government should raise MSP to at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production-- The farmers’ organisations want the Mandi System to be protected-- They also demanded the withdrawal of Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 as they feel that they would not get free electricity due to it-- The farmers also demanded an end to the fines and jail sentences imposed for stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-farm-laws-to-be-repealed-what-farmers-wanted-101637297948498.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Fear of elections’: Congress leaders on Centre's decision to repeal farm laws||Congress has termed the Central government's decision to withdraw the three contentious farm laws as a victory for farmers of the country. Taking to Twitter, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the “arrogance” bowed down to the Satyagraha of farmers.देश के अन्नदाता ने सत्याग्रह से अहंकार का सर झुका दिया। अन्याय के खिलाफ़ ये जीत मुबारक हो!जय हिंद, जय हिंद का किसान!#FarmersProtest https://t.co/enrWm6f3SqReactions poured from across political parties after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre's decision in an address to the nation Friday. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal welcomed the move to roll back the three farm laws, saying “wisdom” dawned because of the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Another veteran Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP P Chidambaram said that the decision was impelled by fear of elections rather than a change of policy or heart.“What cannot be achieved by democratic protests can be achieved by the fear of impending elections! PM’s announcement on the withdrawal of the three farm laws is not inspired by a change of policy or a change of heart. It is impelled by fear of elections!” he tweeted.Earlier today, the prime minister lamented a section of farmers has remained unconvinced about the benefits of the farm laws, prompting the government to take such a decision.“To make MSP more effective and transparent, a committee will be constituted to take decisions on all such issues, keeping in view the future. The committee will have representatives from central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, agricultural economists,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-elections-congress-leaders-on-centre-s-decision-to-repeal-farm-laws-101637295593866.html
19-11-2021||India||Huge victory of farmers movement, says AAP on repeal of agri laws||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said the Narendra Modi's government's decision to to repeal three agri laws was a huge victory of the farmers' movement. Sharing a post on its official Twitter account, AAP said the Modi government withdrew the three farm laws fearing in the upcoming elections. “PM Modi should apologise to the families of all those farmers who've lost their lives in the struggle for justice!” it further wrote.Huge Victory of Farmers' Movement! 🚜Modi Govt has withdrawn the 3 black #FarmLaws fearing loss in the upcoming elections.PM Modi should apologise to the families of all those farmers who've lost their lives in the struggle for justice!In an address to the nation, Modi said all the farm laws were being repealed on the auspicious occasion of Gur Purav and urged the protesting farmers to withdraw their year-long agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-victory-of-farmers-movement-says-aap-on-repeal-of-agri-laws-101637295657232.html
19-11-2021||India||Centre issues draft norms to make bus terminals, stops more accessible||The road transport and highways ministry has issued draft guidelines, which among other things mandate reserving places for persons with disabilities within 30 metres of entrances of bus terminals to create accessible public transit modes. The guidelines seek to make the terminals and stops more accessible by introducing a uniform set of norms for all states to follow while constructing such facilities.The “accessibility guidelines for bus terminals and bus stops” were issued on Tuesday and sought comments from stakeholders until December 16. There are no set standards for states to follow while building bus terminals and stops. Once notified, these guidelines will be a reference in creating accessible public transit modes, officials said.“There are guidelines available on universal accessibility but there have been very limited attempts to develop comprehensive guidelines for road transportation to improve accessibility for persons with disabilities for services in bus terminals and bus stops. These guidelines focus significantly on extending accessibility options to wheelchair users, people with limited walking/ movement abilities, people with visual impairment or low vision, people with hearing impairment, elderly and infirm persons, pregnant ladies and children,” say the guidelines, seen by HT.The guidelines say signage should be in the vision zone of 900-1800 mm to be clearly visible to wheelchair-bound people. For white cane users or the visually impaired, the guidelines mandate the states to ensure there are no protruding objects such as directional signs, tree branches, wires, ropes, public telephone booths, benches, and ornamental fixtures.“These should be installed keeping in mind the range of a person using a white cane. A barrier or sounding object to warn visually impaired persons should be provided under stairways or escalators. Walkways, halls, corridors, passageways, aisles, or other circulation spaces should have clear headroom to minimise the risk of accidents. The radial range of the white cane is a band 1200 mm wide.”The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, mandates the government to ensure access to all modes of transport that conform with design standards, including retrofitting old modes wherever technically feasible and safe for persons with disabilities and without entailing major structural changes. Under the law, the government is supposed to take suitable measures to provide facilities for the disabled at bus stops, railway stations and airports.The guidelines say the difference in level between the driveway and footpath surface should be avoided. “Where the difference is unavoidable, such drop shall have a kerb ramp. Tactile floor guidance to be provided from the building drop-off area leading up to the entrance of the building.” They say an access route should be provided connecting all major entrances and exits of the building from the alighting and boarding point of taxi stands and car park lots for persons with disabilities. “In multi-storey buildings, the accessible entrance must have an accessible route leading to the elevators. The accessible entrance, if different from the main entrance, should be located adjacent to the main entrance and not at the rear of the building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-draft-norms-to-make-bus-terminals-stops-more-accessible-101637296267719.html
19-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to handover military hardware to armed forces, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to formally handover locally produced military hardware to armed forces in JhansiPrime Minister Narendra Modi is set to formally hand over locally produced military hardware to the service chiefs of Indian armed forces today at a ceremony in Jhansi. The ceremony will be held as a part of the three-day-long ‘Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv’, organised by the ministry of defence along with the government of Uttar Pradesh, concluding on Friday. Read more…PM Modi says three central agri laws repealed, urges farmers to withdraw stirPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said three farm laws introduced by the Centre will be repealed and urged protesting farmers to end their year-old agitation. He said the constitutional process to repeal the laws will begin soon. Read more…Why Bangladesh fans are angry over Pakistan hoisting national flag during practice sessionControversy erupts after Pakistan cricket team hoisted their national flag in Bangladesh during their practice session. The visiting team was seen practicing in Mirpur ground where they hoisted their national flag. Bangladeshi fans took it as a political message ahead of their country’s Golden Jubilee celebrations. Pakistan team management said hoisting the national flag is not new for them as they have been following the “coaching philosophy of Saqlain Mushtaq”. Watch the full video for more detailsIndia vs New Zealand, 2nd T20I: Guptill 11 runs short of breaking Kohli's massive world record; Rohit not far behindWhen taking the field on Friday night at the JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi, New Zealand opener Martin Guptill, besides aiming to star for his side to level the series, will have a personal milestone in sight. The veteran stands just 11 runs short of surpassing Virat Kohli's world record of most ever T20I runs. Read more…TKSS: Kartik Aaryan reacts after Kapil Sharma asks if dating rumours around actor's releases are 'just for controversy'Kartik Aaryan will be seen in the upcoming episode of The Kapil Sharma Show. A new promo from the show has been released in which Kapil Sharma asked Kartik about the dating life and the rumours that spring up just in time of his film's releases. Read more…Happy Guru Nanak Jayanti 2021: Best wishes, images, messages and greetings to share on GurpurabGuru Nanak Jayanti is one of the most auspicious festivals in Sikhism that is celebrated all over the globe. If you and your loved ones are celebrating Guru Nanak Jayanti at home, here are some best wishes, images, greetings, and messages that you can share on Facebook, WhatsApp, and other social media platforms. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-handover-military-hardware-to-armed-forces-101637292355066.html
19-11-2021||India||Hyderpora killings: After exhumation, bodies of two civilians buried in Srinagar||The bodies of two civilians killed in Monday’s gunfight in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area were buried in the city after they were exhumed from a graveyard in Handwara, around 70km away, and handed over to their families late on Wednesday amid protests in the Valley.Businessmen Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul were killed along with two terrorists in the gunfight in Hyderpora. Police maintained that the two men were “overground workers” of terror outfits and were killed in the crossfire. But their families said that the two were used as human shields and called the killings “cold-blooded murders”. Police buried Bhat and Gul in Handwara in the absence of their families, citing “law and order concerns”.The bodies were exhumed in presence of a magistrate and handed over to the families around midnight for burial. Officials asked families to restrict the burial rites to close relatives and sought assurances from them. Heavy police deployments were made around the houses of Dar and Gul.Watch: J&K govt orders probe into Srinagar gunfight that left 2 civilians deadInspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said there would not be any restrictions in Srinagar.The Jammu and Kashmir administration separately ordered a magisterial probe into the gunfight on Wednesday.The families of the two civilians staged a sit-in in Srinagar on Wednesday and held a candlelight vigil after the day-long protest, demanding that the bodies of the two men be handed to them. They were forcibly removed from the site around midnight.Former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Thursday also staged a sit-in demanding the return of the bodies.“We are sitting here peacefully. If we wanted, we would have blocked roads, bridges, but no. There has been no sloganeering, no law and order disturbance and no road has been blocked. We are not raising a voice against the government, we just demand that the bodies be returned,” he said.Another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti accused the Centre of being “inhuman” and said she was put under house arrest again.National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah said he will write to the president of India for a judicial inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-killings-after-exhumation-bodies-of-two-civilians-buried-in-srinagar-101637295666363.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi says will scrap all three farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the union government has decided to repeal the three farm laws that were passed in Parliament in 2020, following protests by a section of the country’s farmers.The decision comes months before five states, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh where there is opposition to the farm laws, will hold assembly elections.“Today, I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws. In the Parliament session starting later this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal these three agricultural laws,” the PM said in a televised speech.A section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana and in some parts of Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for the last one year demanding the repeal of the three farm laws despite the Centre’s continued efforts to break the logjam.The government held multiple rounds of talks with representatives of the protesting farmers and tried to underline the benefits that they offered to small famers, but the protesters remained adamant on seeking the repeal of all three laws: the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, that were passed amid a din in Parliament during the monsoon session last year.Also Read: Huge victory of farmers movement, says AAP on repeal of agri lawsIn his address to the nation, the PM Modi said it was unfortunate that despite the government’s intentions to strengthen and empower farmers particularly those who have small land holdings, many of them were not convinced about the benefits of the laws, and therefore, the government has decided to set in motion the process of repealing all three laws.The prime minister said the bills were meant to benefit the farmers, but they couldn’t be convinced “despite our best efforts”.Modi underlined how his government had prioritised welfare of farmers and drafted policies and interventions such as introducing soil health cards, crop insurance and credit cards to empower famers.“The agriculture budget has been increased five times and a ₹1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund has been set up… to empower smaller farmers… 10,000 FPOs have been started and ₹7,000 crore spent on it,” he said.Referring to the contentious laws, he said they were brought in with the intention of giving the country’s farmers more strength and better prices for their crops, apart from more options to sell their produce.“For years, there was a demand from farmers and agri-scientists and experts. Many governments had also discussed this… this time also there was a debate in Parliament and these laws were brought in,” the PM said.He stressed that while many farmers, farm organisations and unions welcomed the laws and supported it, the government, despite its best intentions, could not convince a section of the farmers who were unable to understand the benefits of the laws.“Though it’s a small section of farmers who are protesting, but even then, it is important for us. Agri-experts and scientists and progressive farmers have tried, made efforts to make them understand with an open mind… we tried to keep explaining through various means, personal as well as collective” the PM said.Modi also said that the government has taken another important decision related to the agriculture sector, which is to promote zero budget farming.He said scientifically changing the crop pattern will be undertaken keeping in mind the requirements of the country. He also said minimum support price (MSP) will be made more effective and transparent, and a committee will be constituted to take decisions on all matters related to the issue. The committee will have representation from the central government, the state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists and agricultural economists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-repeal-all-three-farm-laws-says-pm-modi-101637294466021.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Pleasing that Kartapur corridor has reopened’: PM Modi in address to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor, which connects Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to the border with India. It was reopened on Wednesday, and a 28-member jatha (group) was the first from India to visit the holy Sikh shrine.Addressing the nation on Guru Nanak's birthday, PM Modi said he is pleased at the reopening of the visa-free corridor."I extend my greetings to all on the occasion of Dev Deepawali and Prakash Parv. It is pleasing that Kartarpur Corridor has re-opened after a gap of 1.5 years," PM Modi said.Earlier taking to Twitter, PM Modi had said that Guru Nanak Dev's vision of a just, compassionate and inclusive society inspires the countrymen."On the special occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, I recall his pious thoughts and noble ideals. His vision of a just, compassionate and inclusive society inspires us. Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji's emphasis on serving others is also very motivating," tweeted PM Modi.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and some of his cabinet ministers on Thursday offered prayers at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, travelling there through the visa-free Kartarpur corridor.“I am very happy to come here. I have received immense love from Punjabis, Pakistanis and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, and I am highly indebted for this,” Channi said after reaching the shrine.He told pilgrims there that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has shown a big heart, and built the "beautiful complex with love and dedication".The over four-kilometre long Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan's Kartarpur, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleasing-that-kartapur-corridor-has-reopened-pm-modi-in-address-to-the-nation-101637294223422.html
19-11-2021||India||Two policemen attack judge in Bihar court; HC asks DGP to file status report||Two policemen allegedly attacked a judge inside a courtroom in Bihar's Madhubani district on Thursday, prompting the Patna High Court to take suo motu cognizance of the matter and ask the state's director general of police to file a status report.The two policemen entered the courtroom during the hearing of a case involving them, allegedly pointed a gun at Additional District and Sessions Judge of Jhanjharpur Avinash Kumar, and attacked him. The judge is safe but is reportedly shaken by the sudden development.Station House Officer Gopal Krishna and Sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar also attacked lawyers and court employees who tried to protect the judge, injuring them.Terming the incident as "unprecedented and shocking", a division bench of the high court comprising Justices Rajan Gupta and Mohit Kumar Shah directed the DGP to file a status report pertaining to the incident in a sealed cover on November 29 when the matter will be heard again.The DGP was also directed to be present in the court on that day.“Prima facie, it appears that this episode puts the independence of judiciary in jeopardy. We, thus, deem it fit to issue notice to the respondents the Chief Secretary,... the Director General of Police, Bihar, the Principal Secretary, Home Department, ... and the Superintendent of Police (Madhubani)”, the court said in its order.Following the direction of the chief justice of the Patna High Court, the case was listed for a special hearing in the evening at around 7 pm.The matter was brought to the notice of the high court by the in-charge district and sessions judge, Madhubani.Senior police officers are tightlipped about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-policemen-attack-judge-in-bihar-court-hc-asks-dgp-to-file-status-report-101637293929683.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi says three central agri laws repealed, urges farmers to withdraw stir||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said three farm laws introduced by the Centre will be repealed and urged protesting farmers to end their year-old agitation.He said the constitutional process to repeal the laws will begin soon.Stating that whatever he did so far as PM was in the interest of the country, Modi said a new phase from today. “We will make a new committee with state and central representatives experts which will work on a new framework.”He said the three farm laws were introduced to empower and strengthen small farmers. It was a demand by farmers, economists and agri experts. However, this pure intention in farmers’ interests and was not accepted by a group of farmers. “It was a small group but one important to us. We tried to explain in all modesty, carried out talks,” he said.“Today, while asking for forgiveness, our attempts were wanting, I want to tell you that we are repealing all three farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-three-central-agri-laws-repealed-urges-far-101637293750818.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi to attend conference of top police officers from Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the two-day conference of director generals and inspector generals of police that begins in Lucknow on Saturday.In a statement, Prime Minister’s Office said issues such as cybercrime, data governance, counter-terrorism challenges, Left-wing extremism, emerging trends in narcotics trafficking, prison reforms will be discussed at the conference being held in a hybrid format.Heads of police of states, union territories, central armed police forces, and central police organisations will attend the conference physically in Lucknow. The remaining participants will participate virtually from 37 locations at Intelligence Bureau or Special Investigation Branch headquarters.The statement said Modi makes it a point to attend all sessions of such conferences and encourages free and informal discussions to provide an opportunity to police officials to brief him on policing and internal security issues.Union home minister Amit Shah last year inaugurated the conference that was held virtually for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He directed the security agencies to have a coordinated approach to national security and to achieve the target of making India a developed and safe nation. Shah underlined the importance of the capacity building of police to deal with emergencies and disasters and highlighted policy issues on national security. He applauded the role of police in crisis and disaster management. Shah emphasised “zero-tolerance against terrorism”.Modi joined the conference virtually last year and was briefed on the country’s internal security situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-conference-of-top-police-officers-101637292907209.html
19-11-2021||India||Watch Live: PM Modi addresses the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on 9am on Friday. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet that the Prime Minister has a scheduled programmes during the day, but before that he will address the nation.The address will be broadcast live on government-run Doordarshan, All India Radio and other channels. It will also be live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Watch PM Modi's address to the nation live:Through his address to the nation, PM Modi usually informs about the crucial decisions taken by the government. His last address to the nation was held in October, before the 82nd edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’.On November 8, 2016, PM Modi had announced demonetisation of old ₹1,000 and ₹500 banknotes during his address to the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-the-nation-101637291266420.html
19-11-2021||NA||Farm laws repeal Live: Congress to observe ‘Kisan Vijay Diwas’ tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced that the Central government will repeal the three contentious farm laws as it failed to convince “a section of farmers” about the “benefits” of the legislation. Addressing the nation, PM Modi said that a committee will be constituted to take decisions on making minimum support prices more effective and transparent.Follow all the updates here:Ghar wapsi ka samay: MoS agriculture Kailash Choudhary urges farmers to return homeWith farmers deciding to continue their protest till there is a legal guarantee for MSP, Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Friday urged them to return home and not be adamant as the Centre has met their demand of repealing three farm laws."Even after the discussion, they did not try to understand these laws. I feel that we could not be successful in convincing some farmers. Therefore, the PM with a big heart took a historic decision to repeal the three farm laws," Choudhary told PTI.“Ab ghar wapasi hona chahiye (they should return to their homes now). They should focus on their farming activities,” he said.Congress to observe nationwide ‘Kisan Vijay Diwas’ on SaturdayCongress to observe 'Kisan Vijay Diwas' across the country tomorrow "in recognition of consistent and spirited fight of the farmers against the flawed decisions"; asks state units to organise Kisan Vijay Rallies/Kisan Vijay Sabhas.Repeal of farm laws to impact multiple proceedings in Supreme CourtThe Centre's decision to repeal the three farm laws could bring the curtains down on multiple proceedings in the Supreme Court, dealing not just with the constitutional validity of the laws, but on petitions filed by citizens demanding the right of way, and one by a farm union seeking permission to hold a peaceful protest in New Delhi. Read moreDelayed but a welcome step: Punjab chief minister on Centre repealing farm lawsPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has termed the Centre's decision to repeal three farm laws as much delayed but a welcome step. He also sought compensation for the state and farmers adequately for loss of life and property losses during the protest, read a statement from Punjab chief minister's office.Why PM Modi repealed the 3 contentious farm laws I Decoding the stunning U-turnSP chief Akhilesh Yadav says ‘fake apology’ won't work in upcoming pollsSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said that the Centre's decision to repeal the three farm laws is the victory of farmers and democracy. “People will not forgive them (Centre) in the upcoming polls. This fake apology won't work...People who have apologised should also resign from politics forever,” said Akhilesh Yadav."Laws have been withdrawn for votes as govt is scared of elections. What if they bring back such laws after polls. They're not thinking about farmers; insulted them at every level. WiIl BJP apologise?" he added.Amit Shah calls PM's announcement ‘statesmanlike’ movePM @narendramodi’s announcement relating to the farm laws is a welcome and statesmanlike move. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his address, the Government of India will keep serving our farmers and always support them in their endeavours.Analysis: Farm law repeal is NDA’s 2nd major rollbackThe Union government’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws that were passed in Parliament in 2020 is a throwback to the time when the government was similarly coerced by protests from its political opponents, allies and affiliates within the larger Sangh Parivar into rolling back the land acquisition laws. And in both cases, the primary opposition came from farmers. Read more…Faced oppression, rammed by a car but they stood tall: Nawab MalikMaharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik called the Central government's decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws a "huge victory for the farmers". He said that the protesting farmers were labelled as “khalistani” and “anti-nationals” but they stood firm on their stand."They faced oppression, rammed under a car but they stood tall. They have proved that the government can be brought to their knees, no matter if it is being run by a dictator. High-handedness of a government is not acceptable," he added.Here's a timeline of the passage and protest over farm lawsJune 2020: The three farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act - were first introduced as ordinances. Farmers oppose the ordinances as launch protest in Punjab.September 2020: Parliament passes the farm laws - by Lok Sabha on September 17 and Rajya Sabha (by voice vote) on September 20. President Ram Nath Kovind gives his assent on September 27. Farmers' protests grow, 'Rail Roko' held in Punjab.October 2020: Supreme Court hears petition challenging constitutional validity of the three laws and seeks Centre' response. The petition filed by Congress and other opposition parties. Government calls farmer unions for conference on October 8, but the demand is rejected. The first round of talks is held on October 14. Read more…Priyanka Gandhi says PM didn't care about farmers, poll defeat prompted decisionIn a series of tweets, the Congress general secretary said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t care either about the “martyrdom of over 600 farmers” or the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where protesting farmers were run over by the car of a Union minister’s son. Read more…Defeat of Modi govt's ‘arrogance’, tweets Rajasthan CMतीनों काले कृषि कानूनों की वापसी की घोषणा लोकतंत्र की जीत एवं मोदी सरकार के अहंकार की हार है। यह पिछले एक साल से आंदोलनरत किसानों के धैर्य की जीत है। देश कभी नहीं भूल सकता कि मोदी सरकार की अदूरदर्शिता एवं अभिमान के कारण सैकड़ों किसानों को अपनी जान गंवानी पड़ी है।Three farm laws to be repealed: What were the demands of the farmers?Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, camped at Delhi border points since November 26 last year, demanding repeal of the laws. They sought the guaranteed Minimum Support Price (MSP) to ensure procurement of crops at a suitable price. Read more…Akhilesh, Mayawati to hold press conferenceFormer Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati will hold separate press conferences at 12pm and 11am respectively.Punjab leaders Amarinder, Sidhu welcome PM Modi’s decision to repeal farm lawsFormer Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws against which farmers of Punjab and Haryana have been on protest for a year. Read more…Tikait says won’t return until laws repealed in ParliamentTerming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to withdraw the three contentious farm bills as a beginning, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait reiterated that the protesting farmers will return to their homes only after the decision is duly passed by the Parliament. Read more…SKM welcomes decision, says one demand still pendingSamyukta Kisan Morcha welcomed the government's decision to repeal three farm laws, but said it will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures.“If this happens, it will be a historic victory of the one year long farmers' struggle in India. However, nearly 700 farmers have been martyred in this struggle. The central government's obstinacy is responsible for these avoidable deaths, including the murders at Lakhimpur Kheri,” the farmers' union said in a statement.Mamata Banerjee congratulates farmers for ‘relentless’ fight against farm lawsMy heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which @BJP4India treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY! My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight.#FarmLawsRahul Gandhi calls it defeat of ‘arrogance’, tweets old video of his predictionदेश के अन्नदाता ने सत्याग्रह से अहंकार का सर झुका दिया। अन्याय के खिलाफ़ ये जीत मुबारक हो!जय हिंद, जय हिंद का किसान!#FarmersProtest https://t.co/enrWm6f3SqAfter Centre's decision, Congress says farmers have wonटूट गया अभिमान, जीत गया मेरे देश का किसान।Capt Amarinder Singh thanks PM for repealing ‘black laws’Great news! Thankful to PM @narendramodi ji for acceding to the demands of every punjabi & repealing the 3 black laws on the pious occasion of #GuruNanakJayanti. I am sure the central govt will continue to work in tandem for the development of Kisani! #NoFarmers_NoFood @AmitShahSection of farmers has remained unconvinced about the benefits of farm laws, PM lamentsThe prime minister lamented a section of farmers has remained unconvinced about the benefits of the farm laws, prompting the government to take such a decision.Govt to constitute a committee to work on a new framework for MSP“To make MSP more effective and transparent, A committee will be constituted to take decisions on all such issues, keeping in view the future. The committee will have representatives from central government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, agricultural economists,” PM Modi said.Centre repealing 3 farm laws, announces PMPM Modi announced that the government has decided to withdraw the three contentious farm laws, urging farmers to begin a new phase.'Purpose of farm laws was to empower small farmers’Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that three farm laws were brought to empower and strengthen small farmers, adding that it was a demand by farmers, economists and agri experts.PM Modi says govt ensured farmers reap benefits of crores of rupees spent on farmers’ infrastructurePM Modi said that the Central government has ensured that crores are spent on farmers’ infrastructure and farmers are benefitting from the platforms set up.Govt took multi-faceted approach to help small scale farmers"Majority of farmers are small scale farmers. And to help them, we took on a multi-faceted approach from seed technology, crop insurance schemes," PM said.PM Modi says he has focussed on farmers' welfarePrime Minister Narendra Modi said agriculture reforms and the welfare of farmers became his top priority after becoming PM in 2014.PM Modi to address the nation at 9amToday is the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Today PM will inaugurate key schemes relating to irrigation in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh. Then, he will go to Jhansi for the ‘Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv.’Before all of these programmes, he will address the nation at 9 AM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-pm-modi-address-to-the-nation-101637291755956.html
19-11-2021||India||Gurupurab today, celebrations subdued due to Covid-19 restrictions||The Sikh community across the world is celebrating Guru Purab on Friday. Also known as Guru Nanak Jayanti, the festival is one of the most sacred festivals for Sikhs as it marks the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, who established Sikhism.The festival is celebrated with great zeal around the world. In India especially, devotees take out a procession in their areas. It is followed by langar (devotional food offering). The devotees also visit Gurudwara and offer prayers.However, due to the coronavirus restrictions, the celebrations are expected to be subdued like last year. Earlier Gurupurab used to be celebrated with great zeal. There used to be arrangements for food -- stalls of golgappas, tikkis -- all free sewa (service). People used to be full of enthusiasm and energy, ANI quoted a member of Gurdwara Gurmat Parchar Sabha, under the management of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, as saying. "However, this could not be organised anymore because of Covid-19 protocols," he added.The festivities in the Sikh religion revolve around the anniversaries of the 10 Sikh Gurus -- Guru Nanak Dev, Guru Angad Dev, Guru Amar Das, Guru Ram Das, Guru Arjan Dev, Guru Hargobind, Guru Har Rai, Guru Har Krishan, Guru Tegh Bahadur, and Guru Gobind Singh.These Gurus were responsible for shaping the beliefs of the Sikh religion and their birthdays, known as Gurpurab, are occasions for celebration and prayer among the Sikhs.Every year, the date varies for Guru Purab according to the traditional lunar calendar. While Diwali falls on the 15th day of the Kartik month as per the Hindu Lunar calendar, Guru Nanak Jayanti falls fifteen days after that on the auspicious occasion of Kartik Purnima.Guru Nanak was born in 1469 at Nankana Sahib. It is believed that his birth was a mark of divinity. He firmly believed that an individual could connect to God through sincere prayers and didn't encourage traditions that included sacrifices. All his teachings and preachings are composed together to form the sacred book called Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurupurab-today-celebrations-subdued-due-to-covid-19-restrictions-101637290805087.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi to address the nation at 9am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation today at 9am before he inaugurates key irrigation schemes in Uttar Pradesh and leaves for Jhansi to hand over locally produced military hardware to Indian armed forces on the final day of ‘Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv’.“Today is the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Today PM will inaugurate key schemes relating to irrigation in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh. Then, he will go to Jhansi for the ‘Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv. Before all of these programmes, he will address the nation at 9 AM,” the prime minister's office tweeted.The PMO didn't provide any details about the topic PM Modi will be talking about.Today is the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Today PM will inaugurate key schemes relating to irrigation in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh. Then, he will go to Jhansi for the ‘Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv.’Before all of these programmes, he will address the nation at 9 AM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-at-9am-101637290546050.html
19-11-2021||India||Extreme flooding at Tirupati after torrential rains; pilgrims stranded||Extreme flooding was witnessed in Tirupati on Thursday, which left hundreds of pilgrims stranded as heavy downpour lashed the temple town of Andhra Pradesh. Multiple visuals were posted on social media showing inundated Tirumala hills, where the main temple of Lord Venkateswar is located. Darshan of the the chief deity was virtually stalled as pilgrims could not venture out because of the unprecedented flooding.Water levels in and around several areas of Tirupati, Tirumala and the rest of the Chittoor district have increased to alarming levels, leading to residents moving from their homes to seek safety.The Japali Anjaneya Swamy temple on Tirumala was inundated and idol of the God submerged. Following this, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam officials made arrangements for free food and accommodation for the pilgrims who were stranded on the holy hills.The two ghat roads leading to the Tirumala Hills were closed for traffic following the flood and landslides. The pedestrian stairway leading to the temple from Alipiri was also closed down, reported news agency PTI.Flight operations were hampered in the city as the Tirupati International Airport at Renigunta also remained inundated, forcing the authorities to stop the landing of incoming aircraft, it fuether said.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation on Thursday. He spoke to Chittoor district collector M Hari Narayanan and asked him to closely monitor the water levels, according to the statement by the chief minister's office.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall for parts of Andhra Pradesh on Friday, including Anantapur and Kadapa districts.According to the weather department, the depression in the Bay of Bengal has completely crossed the coast near the south of Chennai and is moving into the Anantapur-Bengaluru belt.Along with Andhra Pradesh, heavy to very heavy rainfall is also predicted for neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Friday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-flooding-at-tirupati-after-torrential-rains-pilgrims-stranded-101637286900312.html
19-11-2021||India||Heavy rain likely in parts of Andhra Pradesh, flood alert for Anantapur & Kadapa||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heavy rain alert for Anantapur and Kadapa districts in Andhra Pradesh on Friday morning. The weather department said that the depression in Bay of Bengal has completely crossed the coast near south of Chennai and is moving into Anantapur-Bengaluru belt."The rain is now increasing drastically over Anantapur and Kadapa districts which can trigger floods by morning," the IMD said in its alert late on Thursday.It has also forecast winds with high speed for the next 24 hours in specific areas."The Depression over southwest Bay of Bengal moved north-westwards and crossed north Tamilnadu & adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts between Puducherry & Chennai during 0300-0400 hrs IST of today, the 19th November 2021," the IMD said in its latest update on Twitter on Friday morning.The weather department has also forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and coastal Andhra Pradesh and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Rayalaseema and Karnataka on Friday.In Karnataka, the heavy rainfall forecast has been made for Bengaluru Rural, Bangalore Urban, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Kolar, Mandya, Ramnagara and Chickballapura districts.Meanwhile, rain lashed many parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet, prompting the authorities to announce holiday for schools, even as it was the case with many other districts as well.A release from the state disaster management department control room said that the southern state has received 480.3 mm of rainfall from October 1 to November 18, which was an excess of 61 per cent than the normal.Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF have been stationed in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur to meet relief and rescue needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-parts-of-andhra-pradesh-flood-alert-for-anantapur-kadapa-101637285148978.html
19-11-2021||India||'Those who drink don’t lie': Madhya Pradesh official on mandatory vaccination to buy liquor||A district excise officer in Madhya Pradesh said that verbal assurance of being fully vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be enough to purchase liquor after a directive was issued restricting the sale of alcohol to only those people who have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Clarifying on the “verbal assurance” part which was not mentioned in the directive, Khandwa district excise office RP Kirar said “those who drink don’t lie”, reported news agency ANI.“No vaccination proof is required...just verbal assurance of being fully vaccinated is enough..those who drink don’t lie..." ANI quoted the excise officer as saying.The district administration had earlier instructed all liquor stores in Khandwa to sell alcohol only to those fully vaccinated against the virus.“According to the instructions given in the meeting called by the district administration Khandwa, at present every citizen has to be vaccinated under the mega vaccination campaign being run for the prevention of coronavirus infection in the district. For this it is directed that the sale of liquor from all the 55 country and 19 foreign liquor shops operating in the district should be done only to those persons/consumers who have got both the doses of the vaccine,” the order read.Governments around the world are trying to combat vaccine hesitancy by announcing various incentives or making it mandatory to avail particular services.India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed the 115 crore milestone on Thursday evening as more than 65 lakh vaccine doses were administered till 7pm. The ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement that the tally was expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-drink-don-t-lie-madhya-pradesh-official-on-mandatory-vaccination-to-buy-liquor-101637284803670.html
19-11-2021||India||India Gandhi: Remembering country's first female PM on her 104th birthday||Friday marks the 104th birth anniversary of India's first and, to date, the only female Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who was also known as 'Iron Lady' of the country.Born on November 19, 1917, as Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi, she was the daughter of the country's first prime minister Dr Jawahar Lal Nehru. During her life, she played a central role in the functioning of Indian National Congress (INC).In 1959, India Gandhi was elected as president of the INC. She was appointed as a member of Rajya Sabha after her father died in 1964 and served as the Union minister of Information and Broadcasting in Lal Bahadur Shastri's cabinet.She succeeded Shastri as the next Prime Minister of India, outflanking other leaders in the leadership battle. Indira Gandhi served her first term in the office from 1966 to 1977, and the second was from 1981 to 1984, until her assassination at the hands of her own security guards. After Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi is longest serving prime minister of the country.According to reports, India Gandhi became such a dominating figure at the end of 1977, and made such an impression on the political canvas of the country that then Congress party president DK Barooah had coined the phrase "India is Indira and Indira is India."In 1999, Indira Gandhi was dubbed as “Woman of the Millennium” via an online BBC poll. Most recently (2020) she was named as one of the world’s 100 powerful women who defined the last century by Time magazine.(WIth agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gandhi-remembering-country-s-first-female-pm-on-her-104th-birthday-101637284960604.html
19-11-2021||NA||LIVE: Delhi reports 30 new Covid-19 cases and 67 recoveries||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.  Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:3 Rajasthan ministers express ‘desire’ to step downThree ministers of Rajasthan Cabinet -- Govind Singh Dotasra, Raghu Sharma and Harish Chaudhary -- have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing their desire to step down from their posts and work in the party organisation: Ajay Maken, Rajasthan co-incharge, Congress190 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death in AssamAssam clocks 190 new Covid-19 cases, 277 recoveries and 1 death as tally rises to 615,053. Total recoveries, deaths and active cases at 605,933, 6066 and 1707 respectively.30 new Covid-19 cases in DelhiDelhi reported 30 new COVID cases and 67 recoveries today Active cases: 325Total recoveries: 14,15,185 pic.twitter.com/ubmwflLdh5Delhi reports 30 new Covid-19 cases, 67 recoveries while daily toll states at zero. Total cases at 1,440,605 including 1,415,185 recoveries, 25,095 deaths and 325 active cases.DS Patwalia is new Advocate General of PunjabPunjab government appoints senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia as the new Advocate General of the state.Foreign minister Jaishankar meets Singapore PMThank Prime Minister @leehsienloong for receiving me today. Conveyed greetings of PM @narendramodi . Emerging from Covid, we work towards an even stronger partnership. Our shared interests and convergent views help us cooperate closely in a changing world. pic.twitter.com/a5QQCbTeQq“Emerging from Covid, we work towards an even stronger partnership. Our shared interests and convergent views help us cooperate closely in a changing world,” tweets external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Service of cooked food to resume: RailwaysRailways to resume serving cooked food in trains, reports PTI citing Railway Board.‘Technical snag’ caused flight delay at Goa airport: OfficialThe arrival and departure of some flights were delayed, while some other flights were diverted for some time due to unavailability of runway lights owing to a technical snag at Goa airport today. The runway lights were rectified and operations are back to normal now: Goa airport directorIn Jhansi, PM Modi ceremonially hands over LCH to air chiefPrime Minister Narendra Modi ceremonially hands over HAL-built Light Combat Helicopter to IAF chief, in UP's Jhansi.Puducherry rain: Bridge submerged as river Sankaraparani overflows#WATCH | A bridge submerged in floodwater in Puducherry's Villupuram due to the overflowing of the Sankaraparani river following heavy rains pic.twitter.com/XGWoDgJw0NA bridge submerged in floodwater in Puducherry's Villupuram as Sankaraparani river overflows following heavy rains.RPI-BJP to contest 2022 BMC polls in allianceRepublican Party of India (RPI) and BJP to fight next BMC election in alliance: RPIRussia records highest daily Covid-19 deathsRussia records 1254 new deaths due to Covid-19, up from 1251 and 1247 on Thursday and Wednesday. Total toll at over 261,000.PM Modi inaugurates project in UP's MahobaPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates 'Arjun Sahayak Project' in Mahoba pic.twitter.com/1U2G3AWBOTPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates 'Arjun Sahayak Project' in Mahoba, Uttar PradeshCovid-19: Austria announces fourth lockdownAustrian chancellor Alexander Schallenberg announces fourth national Covid-19 lockdown, for 22 days, from Monday.Puducherry logs 27 new Covid-19 cases and 2 deathsPuducherry records 27 new Covid-19 cases as total tally rises to 128,588. Toll reaches 1869 with two more deaths.‘Maafi nahi chalegi’: Akhilesh Yadav on Centre's decision to repeal farm laws"The public needs to be cautious and alert. After the elections, the government might bring the laws back. So for the interest of the farmers, the people should vote this government out. Farmers will throw this government out in these elections. They withdrew the laws not for farmers, but for votes," SP chief Akhilesh Yadav says in a press conference."Is baar janata inko saaf karegi, maafi nahin chalegi," he adds.Farmers at Singhu border celebrate repeal of farm lawsFarmers were seen dancing and celebrating  after Prime minister announced to repeal the farm laws at Delhi-Haryana's Singhu border.Major fire breaks out at Prime Mall in MumbaiA level 4 fire breaks out at Prime Mall in Vile Parle West. Fire fighting operations are underway. 12 fire engines are present at the spot. Details awaited.Chennai officials pump out water after heavy rains cause waterloggingTamil Nadu: Chennai Corporation officials pump out water with the help of motor pumps as various parts of the city face waterlogging following incessant rainfall. pic.twitter.com/pIlkA6veKjChennai Corporation officials pump out water with the help of motor pumps as various parts of the city face waterlogging following incessant rainfall. Chennai has been receiving torrential rainfall over the past week.Former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, BSP chief Mayawati to address presserFormer Uttar Pradesh chief ministers, BSP chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav will address the repeal of Centre's farm laws in a press conference at 11am and 12pm today, respectively.Welcome the decision but agitation not just for repeal of farm laws: SKM“Samyukt Kisan Morcha welcomes this decision and will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures," read a press statement issued by Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “SKM also reminds the Prime Minister that the agitation of farmers is not just for the repeal of the three black laws, but also for a statutory guarantee of remunerative prices for all agricultural produce and for all farmers,” the statement added.‘This is your victory,’ Mamata Banerjee congratulates protesting farmers“My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which BJP treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY! My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweets.Agitation won't be withdrawn till farm laws repealed in Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh Tikaitआंदोलन तत्काल वापस नहीं होगा, हम उस दिन का इंतजार करेंगे जब कृषि कानूनों को संसद में रद्द किया जाएगा ।सरकार MSP के साथ-साथ किसानों के दूसरे मुद्दों पर भी बातचीत करें : @RakeshTikaitBKU#FarmersProtest“The agitation will not be withdrawn immediately, we will wait for the day when agricultural laws will be repealed in Parliament. Along with the MSP, the government should also discuss other issues of farmers,” tweets Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation.India reports 11,106 new Covid cases, 459 deathsIndia reported 11,106 new cases and 459 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The active caseload stands at 1,26,620, currently at 0.37%, and the lowest since March 2020.Delhi AQI presently at 332, still in 'very poor' categoryThe Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi is presently at 332 (overall) and still in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-India, even after several emergency measures announced by the Central and state governments.US House steers toward passage of $1.75 trillion social billThe US House of Representatives pushed toward a Thursday vote on President Joe Biden's $1.75 trillion domestic investment bill, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-19-2021-101637278987737.html
19-11-2021||India||PM Modi to formally handover locally produced military hardware to armed forces in Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to formally hand over locally produced military hardware to the service chiefs of Indian armed forces today at a ceremony in Jhansi. The ceremony will be held as a part of the three-day-long ‘Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv’, organised by the ministry of defence along with the government of Uttar Pradesh, concluding on Friday. PM Modi will also dedicate several new initiatives of the defence ministry to the nation.Marking a big step towards ‘Aartmanirbhar Bharat’, PM Modi will hand over Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) designed Advanced Electronic Warfare (EW) suite for Naval ships to the Indian Navy. The Advanced EW suite will be used in different naval ships including destroyers and frigates.He will also hand over Hindustan Aeronautics Limited designed and developed twin-engine Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) to the Chief of the Air Staff. The advanced technologies and stealth features of the LCH will be able to carry out as destruction of enemy air defence, counterinsurgency, search and rescue, anti-tank, and counter surface force operations among others.The Indian Army chief will be handed over drones designed and developed by Indian startups. The Indian Army has decided to procure these UAVs from the startups after detailed testing and trials, which serves as proof of the "growing maturity of Indian drone industry ecosystem”, according to the defence ministry.“As a demonstration on thrust on ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and Indian Navy are adopting indigenously designed and developed platforms for their use. Three platforms will be formally handed over by the Prime Minister to respective Service Chiefs on November 19,” the defence ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-formally-handover-locally-produced-military-hardware-to-armed-forces-in-jhansi-101637281307679.html
19-11-2021||India||Congress revamps its disciplinary committee||The Congress party, busy tackling in-house rebels and issues related to discipline, revived its disciplinary committee on Thursday ahead of its organisational elections.Party veteran AK Antony continues to head the panel while Ambika Soni, Tariq Anwar, JP Agarwal and G Parameswar are its other members.A senior party functionary said that G Parameswar, former Karnataka PCC (pradesh Congress committee) chief and former deputy CM, has been given a central post in a balancing act since the state leadership is now tightly in control of DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah.While Ambika Soni remains one of the most trusted lieutenants of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Tariq Anwar has been brought in to give additional responsibilities to the veteran leader who rejoined the Congress from the NCP a few years ago.Former Delhi PCC chief JP Aggarwal has been included in the committee that handles all issues related to discipline and can recommend action to the Congress president. While the party has such state-level panels, this central disciplinary panel handles cases at the AICC (All India Congress Committee) level.The circular, signed by general secretary organisation KC Venugopal, mentioned that the appointments have come with immediate effect.The AICC also appointed seven national coordinators in the data analytics panel led by Praveen Chakravarthy.A second party leader added that in view of the membership drive related to the organisational polls, there is a lot of data-related work to be done as the party also goes online to invite people to join the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-revamps-its-disciplinary-committee-101637276102515.html
19-11-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Gujarat government over Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Thursday pulled up the Gujarat government for being “insensitive to the suffering” of families of the those who died from Covid-19, making them run around for the compensation of ₹50,000.The court was considering an application filed by a Gujarat-based lawyer Amit Panchal against an October 29 notification by the Gujarat Health and Family Welfare department requiring beneficiaries to move a representation before a committee that will issue documents certifying Covid-19 deaths.The bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said, “After going through the October 29 order constituting the ‘Covid-19 Death Ascertaining Committee,it appears an attempt is being made to overreach our order.” The bench was referring to its October 4 judgment.“Government should not be so insensitive to understand the suffering of persons who have already suffered a lot,” the bench added. Over 10,000 people have died of Covid-19in the state till date. Solicitor GeneralTushar Mehta, appearing for thestate government assured that cor-rective steps will be taken by the nextdate. The bench posted the matterfor next hearing on November 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-gujarat-government-over-covid19-101637275556601.html
19-11-2021||India||50% of disappearances in illegal mining zones||The Kundera and Talada ranges in Rajasthan’s Ranthambore Tiger Reserve accounted for half the 12 tigers gone missing since last year, wildlife watchers and forest department officials said on Thursday. There is no sign of the tigers till now.Although forest department officials blamed congestion at one of the country’s most crowded reserves, and territorial fights caused by it, wildlife activists said the tigers disappeared from the two zones where illegal mining and human-animal conflict were high.Officials said six of the 12 tigers went missing between January 2020 and March 2021 from the Kundera and Talada ranges, spread across 125 sq km. Conservation biologist Dharmendra Khandal said a considerable number of tigers going missing from a specific area indicates abnormal activity. “Infighting for territory cannot happen at only one place in the reserve.”He added that the number of tigers that went missing has been highest in 18 years, and that too from specific parts of the reserve.“Earlier, annually two to three tigers went missing unnoticed. Now it has more than doubled...”Khandal said that poaching cannot be ruled out and that there has been an increase in cases of electrocutions as a result of unethical crop protection methods. “Wire snaring has also been a problem. In December 2020, male tiger T-108 was rescued from a wire snare...after timely intelligence...Illegal mining has also been reported from this area.”In March, the Ranthambore administration started a search for at least four tigers missing for a year, but to no avail.One official said the two ranges are among the three major migratory routes for the big cats, indicating the tigers may have left the reserve. He said these routes lead to Karauli and Bundi in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno Palpur. The forest department has not found any traces of the missing tigers either in Karauli or Bundi.The official, who asked not to be named, said the tiger population was increasing in the reserve and over two dozen cubs were born there last year. “When the density of tigers increases, territorial fights are obviously leading to the exit of the weaker ones,” he contended.Divisional forest officer (Kuno Palpur) PK Verma said they were unable to find any trace either. “We have not found any pug marks or sign of movement of tigers in the Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary and nearby areas over the last 8-10 months,” he said.Kuno is expected to get up to six cheetahs from Namibia early next year and surveillance of wildlife has been increased in preparation for the relocation.Ranthambore Tiger Reserve director Tikam Chandra Verma said there was no territory left for tigers inside the park and, therefore, they have migrated. “We are working with the state government on dealing with the congestion issue.”An Indian Forest Service officer, who has worked in Ranthambore, said a tiger can go missing because of territorial fights or migration. “...if (they go missing) from a specific area, there could be a possible exit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-of-disappearances-in-illegal-mining-zones-101637270660210.html
19-11-2021||India||Uniform civil code is a necessity, mandatorily required today: HC||The Allahabad high court on Thursday called upon the Centre to look into implementing the mandate of Article 44 of the Constitution, which says that the “state shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India”.“The UCC is a necessity and mandatorily required today. It cannot be made ‘purely voluntary’ as was observed by Dr BR Ambedkar 75 years back, in view of the apprehension and fear expressed by the members of the minority community,” news portal livelaw quoted the court as saying.Hearing a batch of 17 petitions moved by interfaith couples, who had approached the court seeking registration of their marriages and protection from private respondents, justice Suneet Kumar said it is the need of the hour that Parliament comes up with a “single family code” to protect interfaith couples from being “hounded as criminals”.“The stage has reached that Parliament should intervene and examine, as to whether, the country requires multiplicity of marriage and registration laws or the parties to a marriage should be brought under the umbrella of single family code,” the court observed.The standing counsel, appearing for the state government, pointed out that the petitioners’ marriage could not be registered without an enquiry by the district authority as they did not get the mandatory approval from district magistrate before converting to the faith of their partner for the purpose of marriage.The petitioners’ counsel, however, asserted that citizens have the right to choose their partner and faith; and the conversion took place out of free will.“Interference by the State or by the private respondents (family members) would tantamount to encroaching upon their constitutional right to freedom, choice, life, liberty and to live life on their own terms as man and woman,” the counsel said, adding that prior approval of the district authority followed by registration of marriage is not a sine qua non (an essential condition) before conversion and marriage.The bench then observed that: “Marriage is just an association of two persons, recognized by law. There is nothing ‘special’ about marriage to subject it under different laws for various communities, thus erecting barriers in the free intermingling of the citizens. The petitioners, herein, cannot be hounded as criminals...”The court later directed the marriage registrar/officer of the petitioners’ districts to forthwith register the marriage of the petitioners, without insisting/awaiting approval of the competent district authority with regard to the conversion of faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uniform-civil-code-is-a-necessity-mandatorily-required-today-hc-101637268980638.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Could have considered if… ’: SC declines last-minute plea on CBSE, CISCE board exams||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition to provide an online option for students of class 10 and class 12 appearing for the term one board examination conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate (CISCE).Six students appearing for these examinations approached the court challenging the decision of the two boards to hold examinations in the ‘offline’ mode at a time when the pandemic was far from over.CBSE is holding the examination for 34 lakh students of classes 10 and 12. While the CBSE exam started on November 16, the exams conducted by CISCE will begin on Monday.Dismissing the petition, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “As the examination has commenced from November 16, it would be inappropriate to intervene and disturb the entire process at this belated stage.” The bench indicated that some relief could be considered if this petition was filed earlier.Senior advocate Sanjay Hedge, appearing for the petitioner students, said persons with co-morbidities who are staying at home may be affected if children are forced to give the examination physically. There was also a possibility of crowding at these examination centres that could expose them to the risk of Covid-19 infection.CBSE ruled out these apprehensions, citing steps taken by it to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta with advocate Rupesh Kumar for CBSE told the court that it will not be possible to put in place a virtual setup when examinations have already begun.The law officer listed out the precautions taken which include restricting 12 students in each classroom, increasing examination centres from 6,500 to 15,000 to reduce the commuting distance for students, and holding a 90-minute test instead of the conventional three-hour examination.The bench was satisfied with these measures and said, “We hope and trust that the authorities will take all measures to ensure that all students and duty holders are not exposed to any untoward situation.”The court was also critical of the petitioners who approached the court at the last minute. “We have to discourage this last-minute filing of petitions giving hope to students. Don’t mess up with the education system. Let them continue to do their job well,” the bench told Hegde.Hedge said an online option could be considered as the test consists of multiple-choice questions. The bench said, “The examination is being conducted for 34 lakh students. With this kind of examination, the situation will become chaotic. We could have considered it if you had approached earlier.”The decision to hold the examination in the offline mode was taken by the two boards in October. The petition was filed on November 11. The matter was taken up by the top court on November 15 when the petitioners were directed to serve their petition to the CBSE and CISCE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-have-considered-if-sc-declines-last-minute-plea-on-cbse-cisce-board-exams-101637264224951.html
19-11-2021||India||Sharad Pawar warns against ‘urban naxalisation’ in Maharashtra’s big cities||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief on Thursday said that Maharashtra’s big cities continue to face threats from Maoists as they are witnessing ‘urban naxalisation’.“Such forces are active in Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai and in parts of the Sahyadri ranges, as far as Kerala. There is a section which is trying to create public opinion and hatred against the government. We can call this urban naxalisation,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Pawar used the term ‘urban naxal’, which is commonly used by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, claiming that Maoists have hidden supporters and sympathisers in India’s major cities.The NCP supremo’s comments come days after the state police gunned down at least 26 Maoists along with their senior leader Milind Teltumbde. An encounter took place in Korchi in the Mardintola forest area of eastern Maharashtra between Maoists and the C-60 police commando team on Saturday morning.Pawar, however, said that the situation in the district is now improving but asked to exercise caution over the ‘new phenomenon’ of certain elements creating ‘hatred against the government in other parts of the state’.The former Maharashtra chief minister said that new problems will emerge if these issues are not addressed. “Special caution should be taken about this aspect immediately, otherwise new problems would emerge,” he added.The former Union minister also said that industrial projects in the Gadchiroli region may help its development. “I feel that to remove the frustration of the young generation here, they should get job opportunities. Surjagarh will give them this right and opportunity in a big way and an important and permanent industry will develop here,” Pawar said referring to the mining projects in Surjagarh in Gadchiroli which have faced protests from the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-warns-against-urban-naxalisation-in-maharashtra-s-big-cities-101637263004769.html
19-11-2021||India||TN panel begins probe into teen’s suicide after sexual assault||Coimbatore The Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection for Children’s Rights on Thursday began an investigation into the suicide of a 17-year-old student after an alleged sexual assault by her schoolteacher.Commission chairperson Saraswathi Rangaswamy, along with three members, questioned 13 witnesses. They included the girl’s parents and classmates.Talking to reporters later, Rangaswamy said a report on the probe would be submitted soon to the Tamil Nadu government.The girl died by suicide in her house on November 11 alleging sexual harassment by the teacher, who was arrested under the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and remanded in custody.The principal of the school was also arrested under the Act for not taking action on the girl’s complaint and lodged in jail.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnpanel-begins-probe-into-teen-s-suicide-after-sexual-assault-101637262904826.html
19-11-2021||India||KCR vows to spearhead nation-wide farmers’ agitation, says Modi govt anti-farmer||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre of adopting anti-farmer policies, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday declared the Telangana Rashtra Samithi would spearhead the agitation of farmers across the country.For the first time after taking over as the first chief minister of Telangana seven years ago, KCR sat on a dharna at Indira Park along with his party functionaries including MLAs and MPs, demanding that the Centre procure entire paddy produced in the state this Kharif season.“Do you purchase paddy produced in Telangana or not? We want a straight answer from the Centre. There is a limit to our patience. We shall continue our fight till the Centre spells out its policy on paddy procurement,” the chief minister said, addressing the party leaders at the dharna.In the afternoon, a delegation of TRS leaders led by agriculture minister T Niranjan Reddy, went to Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan demanding that the Centre procure the entire paddy produced in the state.Continuing the tirade against the Centre, the chief minister said these protests were just a beginning. “The war has just begun. The TRS will join the ongoing agitation of the formers of northern India and take up cudgels on their behalf. We shall not rest till we ensure security to our farmers’ future,” he said.The chief minister sought to know whether the Modi government would allow farmers of the country to lead a happy life. “The farmers of North India have been agitating against the draconian farm laws for the last one year. But the Centre is adamantly rejecting their demands,” he alleged.He also charged the Centre with harassing farmers by forcing them to install electric meters for their agriculture motors. “In Telangana, there is no question of allowing installation of meters for farm pumpsets. We are not charging water cess from farmers; instead, ours is the only state which is going round-the-clock free power supply to agriculture,” he claimed.The chief minister pointed out that India has more than 100 million acres of land which can produce food for the entire globe. Yet, it is facing hunger. It is lagging behind Pakistan and Bangladesh in hunger index, he said.Stating that the BJP had miserably failed to administer the country, KCR alleged that whenever there were elections, it was whipping up religious passions and instigating communal clashes, besides cashing in on the patriotic sentiments of the people by enacting dramas in the name of “surgical strikes.”Reacting to KCR’s dharna, BJP leader and newly-elected Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajender said the chief minister’s indifferent and arrogant attitude was the reason for the plight of farmers of Telangana.“In the assembly, KCR went on record that his government would purchase every single grain from farmers. Now, he has thrown up his hands and is trying to shift the blame on the government,” he alleged.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and civil supplies made it clear that it would not purchase parboiled rice from any state hereafter, as there were more than enough buffer stocks in the country.Though the Centre asked Telangana to supply only 24.75 lakh tonnes of parboiled rice during the last Rabi season, it wanted procurement of more quantity. On its request, the Centre agreed to purchase another 20 lakh tonnes, it said.This season, the Centre had procured 60 lakh tonnes of paddy and 40 lakh tonnes of rice. “The state government, on Wednesday, requested enhancement of rice procurement target from 40 lakh tonnes to 90 per cent of the total production of 75.43 lakh tonnes. The request is under examination,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-vows-to-spearhead-nation-wide-farmers-agitation-says-modi-govt-antifarmer-101637262783467.html
19-11-2021||India||AIADMK urges TN govt to continue Pongal cash bonanza for ration card holders||Chennai The opposition AIADMK on Thursday urged the Tamil Nadu government to continue the Pongal cash gift of ₹2,500, implemented by the party when it was in power, in the interest and well-being of the ration card holders in the state.The DMK government’s announcement on Wednesday on Pongal gift hampers for the family ration card holders, scrapping the cash gift has disappointed the poor during pandemic times, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam claimed.“People, particularly the poor, expect the state government to provide them the much needed relief this Pongal (harvest festival in mid-January),” he said. They want the government to continue the scheme as a panacea since the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of the Coronavirus caused loss of livelihood to many, the AIADMK leader contended.“They want the government to provide the sum along with the gift hamper as life is returning to normalcy following the relaxation of restrictions,” the former Chief Minister said in a statement here.He said the AIADMK had enhanced the cash bonanza to ₹2,500 this year from ₹1,000 in the previous year for the benefit of the rice card holders in the State. Accordingly, a government order was passed allocating ₹5,604 crore. “But the present announcement has reduced the scheme to a mere ₹1,088 crore initiative to dole out only the hampers while dispensing with the cash gift implemented by the then AIADMK government,” Panneerselvam said.Apart from cash, the Pongal gift bag distributed during the AIADMK regime contained one kg rice, one kg sugar, 20 grams of cashew and raisins each, five grams of cardamom and a sugarcane.On Wednesday, the state government announced the Pongal gift hampers for 20.15 million ration rice card holders at an outlay of ₹1,088 crore. It comprises 20 items including raw rice, jaggery, cashew, raisins, cardamom, moong dal and ghee for preparing the sweet pongal. Besides, it contains turmeric powder, chilli powder, coriander powder, mustard, jeera, pepper, tamarind, Bengal gram, urad dal, rava, wheat flour, salt and a cloth bag.“I urge chief minister M K Stalin to immediately intervene and take appropriate steps to provide the Pongal cash of ₹2,500 along with the gift hampers for the sake of the poor,” Panneerselvam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-urges-tn-govt-to-continue-pongal-cash-bonanza-for-ration-card-holders-101637262728146.html
19-11-2021||India||Michel threatens to go on hunger strike in letter to Boris Johnson||Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, has written a letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson about his intention to go on a hunger strike from November 25 unless the British government takes action on his case. He said in his letter, handed over to a British diplomat during a consular access meeting at Delhi’s Tihar jail on November 9, that his hunger strike will continue till the UK government announces its intention to apply the “Magnitsky” sanctions regime against those involved in the “abduction” of Princess Latifa of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in international waters off the coast of India on March 4, 2018. Michel, a British national, has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from the UAE. He and his legal team have for long contended the UAE granted his extradition in exchange for the seizure and return of the princess. The UK established the Magnitsky or global human rights sanctions regime during 2020-21 to target those responsible for human rights violations or corruption. The name is derived from Sergei Magnitsky, a Russian tax lawyer who uncovered a $230-million fraud committed by tax officials in 2007, and was jailed on charges of tax evasion in 2008 and died in prison the following year. There was no response from Indian officials to requests for a comment on the matter. Michel was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 AgustaWestland helicopters worth 556.2 million euros. At the time, he was a middleman and an external consultant for a subsidiary of AgustaWestland. Michel has denied involvement in wrongdoing and pointed to the acquittal in Italy of two senior executives of AgustaWestland as proof that there was no corruption in the deal. In March, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, called on the Indian government to immediately release Michel as his detention was arbitrary and violated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The external affairs ministry has rejected the UN expert panel’s findings and said the conclusions were based on “biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system”. In his letter to the British prime minister, which was accessed by Hindustan Times, Michel repeated his allegation that he was pressured by a senior CBI official in Dubai to sign a “false confession” naming leaders of the Congress party. “Sir, I think it is apparent that after 3 years without charge or trial there is no judicial process for political prisoners,” Michel wrote in the nine-page handwritten letter. “Prime Minister I have done all I can to work with due process for 130 days in jail in Dubai and 3 years [in] jail in India. It’s not working,” he added. “I have heard people say I am probably guilty. That is for the court to decide. All I want is a trial, I don’t even ask for a fair one.” During the November 9 meeting with Edward Bossley, the UK consul to India, Michel made it clear that he could not make a “deal because what ED/CBI wanted him to say to take a deal was simply not true”, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The UK side has not publicly commented on Michel’s case but British officials, including Tariq Ahmad, the minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, and former foreign secretary Dominic Raab have taken up the matter with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, and the Indian high commissioner in London, and external affairs minister S Jaishankar between May and July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/michel-threatens-to-go-on-hunger-strike-in-letter-to-boris-johnson-101637262664601.html
19-11-2021||India||Idukki, Mullaperiyar dams opened as Kerala braces for another wet spell||With the weather department predicting another spell of rains, shutters of Idukki and Mullaperiyar, two major dams of Kerala, were opened on Thursday to let out surplus storage of water. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said in Idukki that dams were opened as a precautionary measure after meeting all requirements. This is the first time shutters of Idukki arch dam were opened thrice a year since it was built in 1973. Similarly Tamil Nadu opened shutters of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam second time this year. Though rains subsided in other parts of the state in last couple of days, catchment areas received heavy downpour swelling dams. “Idukki dam was opened as a precaution. Now water level is manageable. We have alerted people living in downstream areas,” said the minister. Idukki district collector Sheeba George also said all precautionary measures were taken before opening both dams. The public works department of TN informed its counterpart about the decision to open Mullapeiyar after water level crossed 141 feet. It opened two shutters to release excess water -- since TN is getting heavy downpour, it is taking minimum water from Mullaperiyar for southern districts these days. Kerala dam authorities said Idukki was opened after shutters of Mullaperiyar were opened. In Idukki district alone, there are 20 big and small dams. While catchment areas of Idukki dam received 30 mm rain fall in last 24 hours in Mullaperiyar it was 22 mm. The inflow of water doubled in two dams forcing authorities to ease them immediately. Shutters of Idukki dam was opened first on October 27, second on November 14 and third on November 18. The usual rainfall in northeast monsoon in Kerala is 492 mm between October 1 and December 31, but this time between October 1 and November 15 the state received 820 mm rains against the expected fall of 392.8mm during the same period, IMD statistics show. Going by the present pattern, rainfall will be at least 200% higher than usual rate by the end of December. After a brief respite, wet condition is likely to pick up by Friday, India Meterological Department said, adding heavy rains will continue till November 21. It issued yellow alert in nine districts. The low-pressure formation in the Bay of Bengal is expected to get stronger and will make a landfall along TN-Andhra coast on Friday. This time Kerala received two heavy spells of northeast monsoon -- in October second-third week the state witnessed landslides and flash floods after torrential downpour claiming 42 lives and in November second week eight lives were lost in the second spell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/idukki-mullaperiyar-dams-opened-as-kerala-braces-for-another-wet-spell-101637262663486.html
19-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu seeks ₹2,629 crore from the Centre as relief for the damages||Days after heavy rain caused havoc in Chennai, the city received downpour due to another depression formed in Bay of Bengal on Thursday. Then newly formed Depression is likely to make a landfall near Chennai on Friday. More rains are expected on Friday morning after the landfall. Chennai and 15 other districts in Tamil Nadu are on red alert until Friday with schools and offices closed. Heavy rains lashed districts of Chennai, Villupuram, Thiruvanamalai, Salem, Kallakurichi and Chengalpattu but the damage was not as severe as it was during the last week’s rains. The adjacent union territory of Puducherry was also severely flooded having received 12.8 cm of rainfall from 8.30am up to 3.30pm on November 18. During the same time period Chennai received 2.9 cm of rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an alert stating that Depression will cross the coast between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh by early November 19. At 11.30am the Depression lay centered over southwest Bay of Bengal about 250km south-southeast of Chennai, 220km east-southeast of Puducherry and 210km east-northeast of Karaikal, the IMD said. “It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts around Chennai by early morning,” said the IMD. Chennai and its adjoining districts are likely to get scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely heavy rain in the next 24-hour, and heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur in the next 48-hour, S Balachandran, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) Chennai chief said in a statement. The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday sought aid of ₹2,629 crore from the Centre as aid for the damages caused by heavy rainfall in which 54 people lost their lives. Heavy loss to crops has also occurred in the delta districts. The rains had inundated several parts of Chennai affecting normal life. “The corporation is continuously pumping water and despite that there is one-feet water on our street,” said S Gopi, a resident and secretary of Subramanian Nagar civic welfare association in Chennai’s Kodambakkam which is in the heart of the city. Gopi lives on the first floor of his independent house and his tenants on the ground floor moved a day ago as water had entered their home. “The sewage from the manholes had begun overflowing at that time and we are still living amidst a really bad stench,” says Gopi. He said the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) commissioner Gagandeep Sigh Bedi visited their locality five times since the last rains. “Despite their efforts the water stagnated for three days last week, but civic workers were able to drain it out fully and they cleaned the entire area and we had relief for two days and now as soon as it has started raining, our locality is flooded,” Gopi said adding that a fault drain and culvert network doesn’t carry the run-off. The situation in Chennai was worse during the previous spells of heavy rains between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 when the city received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively. Chennai and Tamil Nadu received excess rainfall during this northeast monsoon season that runs from October to December. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall respectively. Based on the localities that were flooded in last week’s rain, the GCC stationed more than 700 motor pumps at vulnerable locations to drain water and advised people to stock essentials for the next two days as the city is on red alert for more rains. “We have identified these pockets, most of which are in low-lying areas and we have made alternative routes for the water to drain faster,” said Bedi. Surplus water from reservoirs was released—2,111 cubic feet of water from Chembarambakkam Lake and 7,021 cubic feet from the Poondi reservoir. Teams from State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and four teams from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been on standby in districts since last week’s rains. They have deployed 3,000 trained personnel in coastal districts for rescue operations and 2,156 people have been taken to relief camps. The Tamil Nadu government has readied a total of 5,000 relief camps across the state. In Chennai, 839 people have been accommodated in five relief camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-seeks-2-629-crore-from-the-centre-as-relief-for-the-damages-101637262603658.html
19-11-2021||India||BJP starts statewide campaign in Karnataka||Senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party commenced the state-wide ‘Janaswarajya Yatra’ on Thursday to meet the grassroots level workers and mobilize support across Karnataka for the upcoming polls. The tour is divided into four teams led by BS Yediyurappa, KS Eshwarappa, Jagadish Shettar and Nalin Kumar Kateel. ”Today, I will go to Koppala. We will start the Janaswarjya Yatra from there. There are four teams. One under our leader BS Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar, one under our party president (Kateel) and another under Eshwarappa. They will travel across the state and meet elected representatives and request all voters to help our party candidates win. One team will visit two districts per day,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday in Bengaluru. The statements come weeks before the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature. Those whose terms are expiring in January include BJP minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and Congress leader of the house, SR Patil, among others. The BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) are hopeful of winning as many seats as possible to retain control over the upper house. The BJP, which has 32 seats currently, is hoping to mobilize support to get a majority in the upper house to allow easy passage of contentious bills without having to depend on their rivals for support. The Congress has 29 members and the JD(S) has 12 members currently. Several members of the opposition, especially from the JD(S), are trying to defect to the BJP to secure a seat in the upcoming polls. “Other than a couple of districts, we have sent a list of probables up (to Delhi). We are hopeful of the list getting approved by this evening. If not by tomorrow morning it will be done,” Bommai said. The state-wide tour also comes when the BJP is trying to thwart growing accusations that its senior leaders are involved in the raging Bitcoin scandal. Bommai also faces the people after the party lost the bypolls in Hanagal, in the chief minister’s home district of Haveri, which is speculated to be a backlash from the Panchamasali sub-sect and his partymen plotting against the former. The BJP had not approved the statewide tour of Yediyurappa and instead forced him to be part of the Jana Swarjya Yatra, which people aware of the developments said, was to keep the 78-year-old “under control”. The grassroots have also expressed their reservations about the possibility that new entrants may be given a chance in the upcoming MLC polls by overlooking core-party workers, which are likely to adversely impact other elections like zilla and taluka panchayat, expected to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpstarts-statewide-campaign-in-karnataka-101637262483364.html
19-11-2021||India||Bengaluru braces as IMD warns of heavy rain||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange alert for Bengaluru city on Thursday, predicting widespread rainfall in Karnataka over the next four days. A yellow warning is also effective in some districts of coastal Karnataka and north-interior parts of the state. On Thursday, Bengaluru witnessed continuous downpour. According to the IMD, till 5.30pm, Bengaluru received 14.12 mm of rain. In Mysuru, seven people had a narrow escape after two buildings collapsed on Wednesday night. In two separate incidents, six people were rescued from a dilapidated building and an elderly man was rescued from his house which collapsed. Both incidents were attributed to the continuous rainfall reported in the state. According to the weather department, the prediction of heavy rains is due to a network of cyclonic circulations and a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. Bengaluru has received unseasonal rains in the months of October and November that has resulted in a few incidents of building collapse. The incessant rains have left much of the city in a pile of slushy mess, throwing the daily out of gear. Streets were also waterlogged, while motorists and pedestrians struggled to make their way through the downpour. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) continues to make assurances of fixing the city’s infrastructure woes even though there appears nothing on the ground that inspires confidence of over 12 million residents. In Mysuru, the first building collapse was reported in Ashoka Road. According to Mysuru police officials, a portion of the two-storeyed commercial building came down around 7.55pm. “There were five people inside the building at that time. Four people were inside a mobile phone shop and one person was near to a tea stall. One more person was consuming tea at the shop’s counter. They managed to get out just in time after they heard a creaking sound coming from the building,” said police. Syed Nawaz, who was manning the tea stall, sustained minor injuries while escaping the crash. A stone fell on his shoulder and another one hit his wrist, causing scratches. Talking about the building, police said that the old building belonged to a church nearby. “From our investigation we have learnt that the church had issued eviction notices to all the tenants to vacate the building way back in 2015, since they wanted to demolish it. Many vacated but some challenged the notice in the court,” police said. Due to the same court case, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) said they would not be removing the debris of the collapsed building and will only lift the debris that had fallen on the main road to facilitate smooth movement of traffic. In another incident, an elderly person who was trapped under the building rubble was rescued at Khille Mohalla. The incidents of buildings collapsing were also reported in Mandya and Davangere districts, but no one was injured in these incidents. Earlier on Wednesday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said he has sought a report on the damage caused to the agriculture and horticulture crops due to continuous downpour in several parts of the state. Bommai said he has issued directions to officials concerned regarding the measures to be taken once the rain stops. According to Bommai, the confusion over taking up repair work in Bengaluru has been resolved and maintenance contractors should take up the repair work. Bommai explained if contractors refuse, then the civic agency should undertake road repair work and hold back the security deposit of the maintenance contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-braces-as-imd-warns-of-heavy-rain-101637262425909.html
19-11-2021||India||Four industrial parks to be set up for women: Karnataka government||The Karnataka government on Thursday announced that it would have four industrial parks dedicated to women in Mysuru, Dharwad, Harohalli and Kalaburagi.Murugesh Nirani, Karnataka’s minister for large and medium industries, said that this initiative would encourage women entrepreneurs and that this was the first such exclusive park anywhere in the country.“Karnataka is the first state in India to set up exclusive industrial parks dedicated to women in Mysuru, Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Harohalli. This purpose will be served if women entrepreneurs take advantage of this initiative. Women should join hands with the government in driving industrial growth by taking up entrepreneurship and providing jobs,” Nirani said, according to a statement by the department on Thursday.He was speaking after inaugurating a women entrepreneurs’ event titled ‘Together We Grow’ organised by the UBUNTU Consortium of Women Entrepreneurs Associations to mark International Women Entrepreneurship Day in Bengaluru.The statements come when the state government has been trying to get more investors to set up shop beyond Bengaluru where most of the big industries look to capitalise on the business ecosystem around India’s IT capital.This initiative to get investors to set up shop in tier-II and III cities has so far met with a lukewarm response as successive governments continue to fixate on development in Bengaluru while leaving the remaining part of the state to fend for itself. This has resulted in migration from small towns to Bengaluru, further straining the very limited resources and inadequate public infrastructure to its limits.“We are proud of the fact that today India has 13.5 – 15.7 million women-owned enterprises, representing 20% of all enterprises. Accelerating (the) quantity and quality of entrepreneurship towards such benchmarks can create over 30 million women-owned enterprises, and this is not an impossible goal,” he said.The minister added that the recent amendments to the factories act 1948 allow women to work night shifts and additional incentives to women from SC/ST communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-industrial-parks-to-be-set-up-for-women-karnataka-government-101637262424803.html
19-11-2021||India||Incessant downpour washes away all the records in Karnataka||Bengaluru received 1000 % more rainfall than average in seven days from November 11 to November 17, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. The average weekly rainfall in Bengaluru during November is 10.7 mm, but in the last week, the city received 118.1 mm of rain, as per the data.It was not just Bengaluru that received unusually high rainfall in the last week. The data shows that Mysuru reported a 689% increase over the normal rainfall during the same period. Similarly, Dakshina Kannada district reported a 687% increase while Mandya received a 970% increase in rainfall.According to the IMD, 17 districts in Karnataka – Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Hassan, Kodagu, Kolar, Mandya, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Ramanagar, Tumakuru -– received large excess rainfall during this period. Districts of Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Gadag and Haveri received excess rainfall.According to the weather department, the prediction of heavy rains is due to a network of cyclonic circulations and a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.The Director-in-charge of India Meteorological Department (IMD) Bengaluru, Geeta Agnihotri, said that the presence of multiple weather systems is unusual. “Winter hasn’t started but the temperatures have dropped. We will see such weather at least till Saturday. We predict that after Saturday, the rainfall would reduce considerably,” said Agnihotri.Pointing out at the unusual amount of rains received in the last two months, Agnihotri said that from October 1 to November 17, Karnataka received 73 % excess rainfall. “Generally during this season, the average rainfall is 160 mm, but already we have crossed 278.88 mm rains in Karnataka,” she said.Even though several districts have been reporting excess rainfall, six districts have reported deficiency. From October 1 to November 17, Bagalkote (-53%), Bidar (-26), Kalburgi (-14), Raichur (-15), Vijayapura (-66) and Yadgir(-37), reported a deficiency in rainfall compared to normal rainfall.As the rainfall in the state continues to remain in excess, the concerns over crumbling infrastructure in the state, especially in Bengaluru, are a matter of concern. Over the past two weeks, the capital city is witnessing waterlogging on the roads and flooding in low-lying areas. Despite being one of India’s largest cities and globally reputed for technological prowess, the public infrastructure in Bengaluru remains one of the poorest in the country.Another concern has been the condition of several old buildings in the city. A month after a series of building collapses in the city, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) surveyed the dilapidated buildings in the city and identified about 570 buildings in various areas. Though zonal officials slapped demolition notices on property owners, they are yet to raze a single structure. With heavy rains continuing fear of more buildings collapsing in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incessant-downpour-washes-away-all-the-records-in-karnataka-101637262423659.html
19-11-2021||India||Bengaluru Tech Summit: India-US trade to surpass $145bn mark, says US consul general||The Covid-19 pandemic notwithstanding, trade between India and the USA is on track to surpass $145 billion in 2021, American consul general Judith Ravin said at the ongoing Bengaluru Tech Summit on Thursday.“The United States remains India’s biggest trading partner and largest export market with trade exploding from approximately $20 billion in 2001 to just over $145 billion in 2019 notwithstanding the pandemic taking a toll on trade,” she said according to a statement by the Karnataka government.She added that Bengaluru is one of the top beneficiaries of US foreign direct investment. The city is home to several large American giants, including Intel, Cognizant, Amazon, among scores of other companies.Karnataka and other states in India have been trying to attract investors from across the globe as it looks to infuse fresh capital to overcome the impact of the pandemic on the economy.The renewed ties began after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the USA in September.“Since that visit, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry and Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman has come to India to continue these important discussions in advancing a range of initiatives,” the consul said.Ravin added that United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai would travel to New Delhi on November 22 to meet with her counterpart Piyush Goyal, the Union minister for commerce and industry, to discuss further partnerships.“When it comes to business, there is no stronger partner to India than the United States. We believe that India’s economic strength is not just in India’s interest, but in the interest of the United States, the region, and the world,” she said.“Since my arrival amidst the pandemic just over a year ago, I have witnessed how India’s tech sector has successfully adapted to the lockdowns and Covid-19 protocols as well as led by example in accommodating the health and well-being of their workforce while facilitating a seamless work-from-home operation,” the US consul said.Other sessions in the ongoing summit discussed AI and its growing application in daily lives.“When we look at Digital India, we have transformed it from more than a campaign”, with India processing the highest digital payments in October 2021, surpassing China. The contribution of this technology projects over $10-15 billion of the global GDP, translating to 3-4% of India’s GDP,” NT Arunkumar, MD & Country Head and Head of Innovation, Telstra India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-tech-summit-india-us-trade-to-surpass-145bn-mark-says-us-consul-general-101637262363444.html
19-11-2021||India||Congress slams K’taka home minister for remark on MLA’s son||Reacting to the Karnataka home minister’s allegations against the son of a Congress legislator for his alleged involvement with Bitcoin scandal accused Sriki, state Congress chief DK Shivakumar on Thursday slammed Araga Jnanendra, saying that he lacked basic common sense.“Home minister is a mad man. First, he has to be sent to the NIMHANS for checking. He doesn’t know when he (hacker Srikrishna) was in Jail. He should have basic common sense in what he speaks,” Shivakumar said on Thursday.The statements come after Jnanendra made allegations that the hacker and prime accused Sriki had helped Mohammed Nalapad, the son of Congress legislator NA Harris, manipulate the results of the Youth Congress elections in January this year.The home minister was unavailable for a comment on the Congress’ latest statement on Thursday. The Congress continues to allege that Sriki has helped several senior BJP leaders launder money earned from corruption, bribery, transfer of officials and other ways through Bitcoin, which the hacker helped procure.Reiterating his government’s stand over the issue, the chief minister made it clear, “Our stand is firm. We will punish those who are involved in the alleged scam. There is no question of any leniency, whoever it may be. We will crackdown mercilessly.”“Our government arrested the accused in a drug abuse related case and has registered 3 cases against him. We have initiated the probe through Central Investigation agencies. Now you are questioning those who arrested him. What should we do now” Bommai said in Koppal district on Thursday. The BJP had earlier alleged that Sriki had connections with Siddaramaiah’s deceased son, Rakesh.“@BJP4Karnataka has alleged that my son Rakesh was seen with Sri Krishna’s friend Hemant Muddappa. Then how can we interpret the photo of @narendramodi with Nirav Modi during the 2018 World Economic Forum?,” Siddaramaiah said on Twitter, posting a picture of the alleged economic offender with the Indian Prime Minister.“@BJP4Karnataka is trying to hide their corruption by bringing the name of my deceased son. I urge @CMofKarnataka to order for Judicial enquiry by Supreme Court to investigate about #Bitcoin scam including our term,” he said.The man at the centre of the scandal, Srikrishna or Sriki, claimed that he began learning to code in Class 4 and was part of a group that hacked a cryptocurrency exchange five years ago.He was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of police on November 17, 2020, and during his interrogation, CCB found that he was involved in a series of online crimes. He confessed to hacking and stealing from three Bitcoin exchanges, 14 company websites, including 10 poker websites, and a government portal.A statement given by the hacker, which is part of the charge sheet against him and police claims was voluntary, gives a glimpse of the life of Srikrishna, who by his own account was a genius. These details are information provided by the hacker in his voluntary statement, which has not been corroborated by the police. Police are trying to verify the claims and HT cannot independently verify them. His lawyers have opposed the claims in the charge sheet in a local Bengaluru court.He claimed to have developed his skills and joined an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel used by a group of black hat hackers (unethical hackers). According to him, he learned hacking from the members of this channel.He has said that over the years, he hacked into gaming sites and other online platforms and stole or manipulated data and amassed huge amounts of money or as favours to bankroll his lifestyle and addiction to drugs.Shivakumar said that the father of Sriki had gone to court alleging that his son was given drugs by the police and made to hack websites.“First, let the home minister inquire about a complaint which has already come out in the media (in which) the names of various BJP leaders have come. Let him first take a complaint on that,” he added.Siddaramaiah has said that he had no evidence to suggest that any particular person but sought a judicial inquiry into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-k-taka-home-minister-for-remark-on-mla-s-son-101637262303450.html
19-11-2021||India||Sabarimala board issues clarification on ‘halal’ markings after row||The Travancore Dewasom Board (TDB) which runs the hill shrine in Sabarimala in Pathanamthitta district on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that jaggery packets it received from a Maharashtra firm had ‘halal’ stamp on them because it exported them in bulk to Arab countries also.The TDB filed this reply after a devotee moved the HC on Wednesday questioning ‘halal’ specifications on jaggery packets and said the temple body’s move was “highly unethical and violated religious rights guaranteed under the constitution.”In the reply the TDB said the present “controversy was unwarranted and uncalled for and aimed at crippling the revenue of the temple and defaming it.”The Board said the contract for supplying jaggery was given to the firm last year and it supplied 5 lakh kg so far. It also said there are three-level rigorous testing for purity and last year enough quantities of jaggery supplied by another firm was given to a cattle feed company after it failed meet quality control parameters.Also read | Kerala high court raises questions over virtual queue system at SabarimalaThe TDB also said it sent a communiqué to the supplier, SP Sugar and Agro Private Ltd, to remove the specification from temple-bound packets.The petitioner S J R Kumar, also convenor RSS-backed Sabarimala action committee, contended that jaggery was used to make the main ‘prasadam’ (offering) ‘Aravana Payasam’ of the presiding deity, Lord Ayyappa, and the halal-certified food material is “not sattvik or pure” and it is an insult to believers.“It is really painful to see that food materials prepared after the ritual and religious practices of another religion with its certification is accepted to use main prasadam of a Hindu temple,” said the petitioner. .The temple was opened for two-month annual pilgrimage season on November 16.The newly-elevated TDM president K Ananthagopan, also a senior functionary of the ruling CPI(M), said this was part of a new campaign to defame the temple and cripple its revenue. “We will approach the cyber wing to take action against those who spread canards,” he said. But Hindu Aikya Vedi has sought a detailed probe into this. “It is an insult to the deity and teeming devotees,” said its leader R V Babu.The Board also said a massive campaign was unleashed on social media in this regard and a complaint was lodged with Sabarimala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-board-issues-clarification-on-halal-markings-after-row-101637262002804.html
19-11-2021||India||Pharma policy push will help india become a leader in medical sector, says PM||The government’s policy interventions in the pharmaceutical sector envisions creating an ecosystem for innovation so that India can become a leader in discovery of drugs and medical technology, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.In his inaugural address at the Global Innovation Summit 2021, the PM said, “Our policy interventions are based on wide consultation with all stakeholders. We are sensitive towards the industry demands on regulatory framework and are actively working in this direction. The industry has got a major boost through the performance liked incentive schemes worth over 30,000 crores for pharmaceuticals and medical devices. The support of industry, academic world, and especially our talented youth is important. That is why we are encouraging collaboration.”He said, the industry needs to focus on two key areas – the requirements for raw materials and addressing the increasing global demand for traditional medicines.He added, “I also wish to highlight two areas which I want you to explore carefully. The first one relates to raw material requirements. When we were fighting Covid-19, we found that this was one issue that needs much more attention. We must think about ramping up domestic manufacturing of key ingredients for vaccines and medicines. The second area, relates to India’s traditional medicines. There is now significant and growing demand of these products in the international markets. Can we think of more ways to popularise our traditional medicines in the line with global requirement, scientific standards and best manufacturing practices?”The union health and chemical and fertiliser minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “Our research policy in health is also in its advanced stages which will provide the right platform for innovation. The pandemic taught lessons and drug security is one of them. The PMs health policy envisions not only taking consideration of India but the whole world. When any countries invest in India the drug quality is as good as manufacturing in their country.”He urged “the world” to join the journey of discover in India, make in India, and invest in India. He said, with innovation he was confident that India could achieve the ambitious target of the pharmaceutical industry growing to 130 billion USD by 2030.The policy thrust has to be in strengthening regulatory framework, incentivising investment for innovation, and creating a collaborative ecosystem of industry, academia, and startups, said experts at the summit.NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that the organisation was working on a system of research liked incentive that will incentivise risk taking for discovery and translation of drugs, vaccines, and biologics.“We have to be willing to take risks; we have been too cosy. Our previous journey met the objectives of the time, but the future is bleak if we do not turn in the right direction. We are looking at how the government partnership can aid risk-taking; the failure rate for drug or biologics development is 98% and that level should be accepted as success,” he said.He added that there was a need to create trust between industry and clinicians and transparent funding mechanisms so that there is no conflict of interest. “When you talk of a cardiologist who helped in the trial of a medicine, there is a conflict of interest. We have to develop a transparent funding mechanism and strengthen the pathways so that there are better trials,” he said.He criticised the small-scale trials for several drugs during the pandemic and said that without a proper well-designed large-scale trial the efforts were a waste. In contrast, he appreciated the large scale well designed clinical trials conducted by the vaccine manufacturers.He also added that practitioners of AYUSH should be trained in conducting equally well designed trials so that there is a greater acceptability of the products.Principal Scientific Advisor Prof. K VijayRaghavan stressed on integration of information technology in chemistry and biology that can help in speeding up search for novel and repourposed molecules. He also stressed on the need to smoothen out the regulatory framework without compromising on safety and risk mitigation through industry-academia participation.Secretary of department of pharmaceutical S Aparna said that the draft discussion paper on policy to promote innovation in the sector released in October focuses on regulatory framework having a bias towards innovations, creating transparency and timeliness in regulatory processes, and strengthening the regulatory body as well as the pricing authority to deal with new and innovative drugs and technology without creating hurdles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pharma-policy-push-will-help-india-become-a-leader-in-medical-sector-says-pm-101637261763985.html
19-11-2021||India||Hindutva preacher Godse killed Hinduism follower Gandhi: Congress||The Congress again took up the Hindutva versus Hinduism debate on Thursday, asking the country to choose between “the path of non-violence as dictated by Gandhi or the path on violence as told by Nathuram Godse”.“You know what the difference between Hinduism and Hindutva is—Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu, but what Godse was, that’s Hindutva… Now the country has to decide whether it will follow the path of non-violence as dictated by Gandhi or the path on violence as told by Nathuram Godse,” Congress spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, said, said at the party briefing on ThursdayThe statement came amid a raging controversy over a new book by former Union minister and Congress leader Salman Khurshid, Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times, in which he compares Hindutva with Boko Haram and the Islamic State.While the Congress has distanced itself from Khurshid’s comments, party leader Rahul Gandhi recently called for the need to differentiate between Hindutva and Hinduism, saying the former encourages violence and the latter preaches peace and harmony.“BJP talks about Hindutva, and we say there is a difference between Hinduism and Hindutva because if there was no difference, the name would have been the same. Hindutva does not need a Hindu or Hindu does not need Hindutva,” he said while addressing the party’s National Orientation Camp.Vallabh also questioned the contribution of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to India’s freedom struggle.Hitting back, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Tom Vadakkan said, “What Gourav has done is given a very confusing stance of the Congress party on Hinduism and Hindutva. His ignorance is on display. However, this is coming from the top of the party as well wherein Rahul Gandhi claims to be a ‘janeudhari’ but does not have knowledge of the scriptures.”On Vallabh’s remark on the RSS, he said: “Veer Savarkar and other leaders were part of the freedom struggle, but credit was given to the ones who were loyal to a particular dynasty. So, history has been contorted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-preacher-godse-killed-hinduism-follower-gandhi-congress-101637261582792.html
19-11-2021||India||KCR vows to lead nationwide farmers’ agitation, calls the Centre anti-farmer||Blaming the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre for adopting anti-farmer policies, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday declared that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi would spearhead the agitation of farmers across the country.For the first time after taking over as the first chief minister of Telangana seven years ago, KCR sat on a dharna at Indira Park along with his party functionaries including MLAs and MPs, demanding that the Centre procure the entire paddy produced in the state this Kharif season.“Will you purchase paddy produced in Telangana or not? We want a straight answer from the Centre. There is a limit to our patience. We shall continue our fight till the Centre spells out its policy on paddy procurement,” the chief minister said, addressing the party leaders at the dharna.In the afternoon, a delegation of TRS leaders led by agriculture minister T Niranjan Reddy went to Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan demanding that the Centre procure the entire paddy produced in the state.Continuing his tirade against the Centre, the chief minister said these protests were just a beginning. “The war has just begun. The TRS will join the ongoing agitation of the farmers of northern India and take up cudgels on their behalf. We shall not rest till we ensure security for our farmers’ future,” he said.The chief minister sought to know whether the Modi government would allow farmers of the country to lead a happy life. “The farmers of North India have been agitating against the draconian farm laws for the last one year. But the Centre is adamantly rejecting their demands,” he alleged.He also charged the Centre with harassing farmers by forcing them to install electric meters for their agriculture motors. “In Telangana, there is no question of allowing installation of meters for farm pump-sets. We are not charging water cess from farmers; instead, ours is the only state which is giving round-the-clock free power supply to agriculture,” he claimed.The chief minister pointed out that India has more than 100 million acres of land which can produce food for the entire world. Yet, it is facing hunger. It is lagging behind Pakistan and Bangladesh in the hunger index, he said.Stating that the BJP had miserably failed to administer the country, KCR alleged that whenever there were elections, it was whipping up religious passions and instigating communal clashes, besides cashing in on the patriotic sentiments of the people by enacting dramas in the name of “surgical strikes”.Reacting to KCR’s dharna, BJP leader and newly-elected Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajender said the chief minister’s indifferent and arrogant attitude was the reason for the plight of farmers in Telangana.“In the assembly, KCR went on record to say that his government would purchase every single grain from farmers. Now, he has thrown up his hands and is trying to shift the blame on the government,” he alleged.The Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and civil supplies made it clear that it would not purchase parboiled rice from any state hereafter, as there were more than enough buffer stocks in the country.Though the Centre asked Telangana to supply only 24.75 lakh tonnes of parboiled rice during the last Rabi season, it wanted procurement of more quantity. On its request, the Centre agreed to purchase another 20 lakh tonnes, it said.This season, the Centre had procured 60 lakh tonnes of paddy and 40 lakh tonnes of rice. “The state government, on Wednesday, requested enhancement of rice procurement target from 40 lakh tonnes to 90 per cent of the total production of 75.43 lakh tonnes. The request is under examination,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-vows-to-lead-nationwide-farmers-agitation-calls-the-centre-antifarmer-101637261463372.html
19-11-2021||India||Papers torn in streets, Parliament is for debate, Anurag Thakur warns Opposition||Shimla Ten days before the winter session of Parliament, Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur cautioned Opposition lawmakers over disruptions and said, “Papers can be torn in the streets. But Parliament is made for debate.”Even as the minister didn’t refer to any particular incident, the monsoon session seemed to be the immediate reference as the House, especially the Rajya Sabha, saw chaotic scenes and continuous disruptions.An aggressive Opposition launched vociferous protests on the last day of the session when the government brought a bill to amend the general insurance laws. After the commotion, House officials lodged an official complaint against some MPs with Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and at least nine ministers, including Thakur, demanded action against those MPs.Also read | As winter session approaches, Anurag Thakur rues disruptions in ParliamentParticipating in the presiding officers’ conference on Thursday, Thakur said that “when people are low on data and substance in their speech, they dance on the table and tear papers”.“Papers can be torn up on the streets, but Parliament is meant for debate. We have to improve the quality of the debate. We can also think, how to take cues from this conference and improve the quality of our debate,” the minister said.The winter session of Parliament will start from November 29 and the Opposition is again gearing up to protest over several issues -- the Pegasus snooping controversy, the Rafale deal, the farm laws, and the recent ordinances providing for the extension of the terms of ED and CBI chiefs.The minister suggested parliamentary committees and assemblies can consider 75 topics for special discussions to mark the 75th year of Independence. He also suggested that “legislative weeks” can be organised in various states to spread awareness among people on how policies and legislative action impact their lives. Thakur pointed out that Aadhaar, the Aadhaar-enabled direct benefit transfer system, and the Goods and Services Tax law had been of great help to people.The minister suggested an intense debate on future legislation addressing long-term requirements, including new policies or laws on the environment in the context of rising air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/papers-torn-in-streets-parliament-is-for-debate-anurag-thakur-warns-opposition-101637260625219.html
19-11-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla calls for smooth run of winter session||Shimla To avoid a repeat of the last session of Parliament that ended in a near washout, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Thursday that he will talk to “both the government and the Opposition” for a smooth run of the winter session.He emphasised on the need for lawmakers to focus on “self-discipline and self-respect” but said that “in the wake of the rising rate of indiscipline, disruptions and ruckus in the legislative houses, there is a need to talk to leaders of all political parties.”At a legislative presiding officers’ conference, Birla and other presiding officers were on the same page that disruptions and indiscipline must be controlled.The Lok Sabha speaker faces a daunting task in the upcoming winter session as Opposition parties such as the Congress, Trinamool, RJD, DMK and the Left parties are ready to take on the Narendra Modi government over multiple issues, such as the alleged use of Pegasus spyware to snoop on people, the Rafale jet deal, the new farm laws, the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and a recent ordinance extending the terms of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chiefs.Also read | Ways to strengthen legislative practices to be discussed at AIPOC: Om Birla“I will talk to all parties and the government. I want all major issues to be discussed in the House. I am hopeful that the winter session will run smoothly,” Birla said.Opposition parties have questioned the motive behind the promulgation of an ordinance just two weeks before the session and pointed out that in the current Lok Sabha, only 12% bills have been referred to House panels. But Birla maintained that “it is for the government to decide which bill would be sent to a committee for review. My responsibility is to ensure as many lawmakers as possible participate in the debate on the legislative business.” In the previous (16th) Lok Sabha, 27% of the bills were, and in the 15th, 71% were.The winter session is scheduled from November 29 to December 23.While Birla will call a customary all-party meeting ahead of the session, top Opposition leaders are expected to meet before the session to decide its floor strategy. With elections in UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand due in less than four months, Opposition parties are likely to take an aggressive stance on key issues.The conference approved a resolution that “there should be no disruption during the Presidential address and the motion of thanks on it”. It also resolved to prepare the ground for “One India, one legislative rule” and curbing disruptions. One of the main reports on anti-defection, however, eluded consensus over redefining the Speaker’s role in such cases.Birla said, “The report was submitted but we couldn’t arrive at a consensus. There will be further discussions on some parts of the report.”Birla later said that in the 2001 chapter of the conference, it was resolved to end disruptions and protests in the well of the House. “But now”, Birla said, “We might have to again hold discussions with political parties on how to maintain decorum.”After the PM pitched for the concept of “one nation, one legislative rule”, the Lok Sabha will prepare model rules for uniform application, but a cautious Birla added that this “will just be a model rule”.“We will not force any assembly to accept it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-talk-to-all-parties-ls-speaker-om-birla-calls-for-smooth-run-of-winter-session-101637260443592.html
19-11-2021||India||Sant Samiti seeks Akhilesh apology for ‘chillumjeevi’ remark||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘chillumjeevi’ remark during a rally stirred up a fresh row on Thursday, with the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti -- an umbrella body of Hindu seers-- demanding an apology for the “inappropriate comments on Sanatan Dharma”.The controversy comes a day after Yadav took a dig at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), during the SP’s ‘Vijay Rath Yatra’ from Ghazipur to Lucknow as part of its poll campaign, saying that ‘chillumjeevi ‘ (those who smoke chillum) cannot take Uttar Pradesh on the path of happiness and development. UP goes to polls early next year.“.... I see a rainbow of colours in front of me. The people who love only one colour cannot bring colour in anyone’s life. We Samajwadis take along everyone with us. But the ones who love only one colour and the chillumjeevis cannot take UP on path of happiness,” said Yadav while addressing a gathering in Ghazipur, targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party.Hitting back, Swami Jitendranand Saraswati, national general secretary of the Samiti, said:  “Akhilesh Yadav’s inappropriate statement has angered saints across the country. Several leaders, including Akhilesh, make inappropriate comments on Sanatan Dharma, Bhagwan and saints every now and then. All such leaders should desist from this. We warn all such leaders to not drag seers into petty politics, otherwise, they would have to face the anger of Sanatanis.”“According to the Sanatan tradition, chief minister Yogi Adityanath is the Peethadheeshvara (chief) of Gorakhnath Math which is revered all over the world. In India, since ancient times, ‘dharmasatta’ (rule of religion) has always been above the rule of law. By the right given to saints by the Constitution, Yogi Adityanath is the chief minister. Just because of this, no one gets the right to do dirty politics with him,” he added.“Leaders like Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi are making petty remarks against ‘Sanatan Dharma’ only because of minority appeasement,” he said.SP’s spokesperson for UP, Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi, however, said that Yadav did not name any person or community in his statement and had used the term generally. “The person who is blowing up the matter out of proportion seemed to be publicity-hungry and wanted his own publicity by connecting his name with the SP chief,” he said.Last month, too, Yadav had stirred up a controversy by equating Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Mohammad Ali Jinnah. “Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle,” Yadav had said during a rally.The statement triggered sharp reactions from top BJP leaders, with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying: “A national hero Sardar Patel can’t be compared with Jinnah for the sake of vote bank politics,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sant-samiti-seeks-akhilesh-apology-for-chillumjeevi-remark-101637260082670.html
19-11-2021||India||‘Skin-to-skin’ orders on sexual abuse set aside||The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that touching a child with sexual intent even through clothing is an offence of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, setting aside separate decisions of the Bombay high court passed in January that made skin-to-skin physical contact a necessary condition to hold someone guilty of sexual assault.Underscoring the detrimental effect of allowing such an interpretation, a bench of justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi said, “Restricting the interpretation of the words “touch” or “physical contact” to “skin-to-skin contact” would not only be a narrow and pedantic interpretation of the provision contained in Section 7 of the Pocso Act, but it would lead to an absurd interpretation of the said provision.”The court set aside the two orders of the high court – passed on January 15 and 19 – and directed the convicted persons to surrender within four weeks to undergo the remaining sentence of three years and five years awarded to them by a special Pocso court last year.Also read | SC to hear plea against appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi CP next weekSexual assault is defined in section 7 as “whoever, with sexual intent, touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault”. This carries a maximum punishment of five years. Such acts committed on children below 12 years amount to “aggravated sexual assault” that carries a higher punishment of up to seven years.Attorney general KK Venugopal was the first to file an appeal against one of the high court judgments in question. Later, the Maharashtra government, followed by the National Commission for Women (NCW) filed appeals. Even the accused were represented in the case and the court appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave to assist in the matter as amicus curiae.Through two separate but concurring views, justice Trivedi, writing for herself and justice Lalit, and justice Bhat traced the origin of the words “touch” and “physical contact” and noted that “skin-to-skin” contact was never intended to be incorporated by Parliament while enacting the Pocso Act in 2012.“The very object of enacting the Pocso Act is to protect the children from sexual abuse, and if such a narrow interpretation is accepted, it would lead to a very detrimental situation, frustrating the very object of the Act,” the bench said. It was conscious of the fact that the high court judgment would allow touching the sexual or non-sexual parts of the body of a child with gloves, condoms, sheets or with cloth, though done with sexual intent.“The purpose of the law cannot be to allow the offender to sneak out of the meshes of law,” the court said, holding that the high court committed an error. It said, “The most important ingredient for constituting the offence of sexual assault under Section 7 of the Act is the “sexual intent” and not the “skin-to-skin” contact with the child.”Justice Bhat in his separate but concurring judgment said, “The reasoning in the high court’s judgment quite insensitively trivialises -- indeed legitimises -- an entire range of unacceptable behaviour which undermines a child’s dignity and autonomy, through unwanted intrusions.”Cautioning judges while interpreting provisions of the law, justice Bhat said, “It is no part of any judge’s duty to strain the plain words of a statute, beyond recognition and to the point of its destruction, thereby denying the cry of the times that children desperately need the assurance of a law designed to protect their autonomy and dignity, as Pocso does.”In the two cases before the court, one of the accused, Satish, had touched the breasts of the victim through her clothing and had tried to remove her salwar (pants) when he was caught in the act by the victim’s mother. This incident was of December 2016. The other case was an incident of February 2018 when the accused, Libnus, held the hand of the victim – a five-year old – and unzipped his pants, exposing his penis, while trying to remove the child’s frock. Both were held guilty by the special Pocso court for offences under section 7, 8 and 10 of the Act.The high court said, “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific details as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of ‘sexual assault’. It would certainly fall within the definition of the offence under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”Section 354 of the IPC is the offence of outraging the modesty of a woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skintoskin-orders-on-sexual-abuse-set-aside-101637259962715.html
19-11-2021||India||Heinous home invasion: Months of prep, one lapse||The men have no history of crime, so there was a no match between their fingerprints and the Delhi Police’s database; they had no connection with the family they robbed; they were captured on multiple CCTV cameras near the spot but had their faces were covered (and security guard did not find this unusual in these times of the Covid-19 pandemic); they took a room on rent close to the house they were targeting; and used code names to speak to each other on the phone for well over the month.With these precautions, the five men thought they pulled off a heinous but perfect murder and robbery. But for one small mistake.On Thursday morning, Delhi Police said they solved the murders of two women inside a house in Jangpura Extension, and recovered around ₹90 lakh that five men had robbed in the early hours of Monday.The two women, originally from Darjeeling, were working in the house for the last 5-6 months. Mina Rai (35), was a domestic help, and Sujata Gurung, 40, a nursing attendant. Police said the women were murdered because they spotted the five men during the robbery.The incidentAt 9.10am on Monday, the police control room received information that two women were found dead inside a house in south Delhi’s Jangpura Extension. When a police team reached the house, they saw one of them lying dead on the ground floor with her mouth taped and limbs tied, and the second on the first floor with her face in the ground.The two bodies were first spotted by their employer, Rita Kapoor, when a local dog trainer rang the doorbell and got no response. The man then called Kapoor, after which she went to check on the two women.Also read | Delhi: CCTV footage captured suspects behind Jangpura double murderThe police team took photographs and collected fingerprints from the spot. As part of the investigation, police match fingerprints with all available prints in their database. When the crime is committed by habitual criminals who have been arrested in the past, the prints match, and the cases are solved easily. In this case, however, the sleuths had no such luck.The five men were seen by at least 10 CCTV cameras around the colony, but they were masked, and could not be identified. The colony security guard had told police that saw five men -- their faces masked -- carrying large backpacks, but did not find anything suspicious as this is now normal practice because of Covid guidelines.Monday was also a day when three other women were found murdered across the city, and a parliamentarian, Raju Bista (Lok Sabha MP from Darjeeling) wrote to Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana about the need to solve this case quickly because thousands of migrant women like Mina and Sujata, who come from the hills to the country’s national capital to earn a living, were worried by the murders.The only mistakeAround the same time as the murders, investigators also found CCTV footage of two men on a black Hero Splendor motorcycle near the colony at around the same time as the murders. No resident could identify the two people, or the bike.An investigating officer, who asked not to be named, said: “It was impossible for us to identify the riders of this bike because it was dark. But we figured that the bikers were connected to our case. The CCTV cameras at the gate showed only the three masked suspects leaving the colony on foot. One of the police teams was given the task of identifying these bikers by checking old CCTV camera footage. Our team spotted the same bike outside the crime spot several times on Friday and Saturday. They had been conducting a recce during the day time. This was their mistake. The number plate was clearly visible during the day.”Esha Pandey, deputy commissioner of police(south east) said police had identified the registration number UP 25 DF 6754 and traced the motorcycle to its owner, Sachit Saxena, who works in the marketing department of a private insurance firm.“We arrested Saxena on the basis of technical evidence. Saxena then led us to his accomplices, Prashant Basista, Sachit Saxena, Aniket Jha, Ramesh and Dhananjay Gulia.”Police said Saxena and Basista were planning the robbery for almost a year.“ A woman, who worked at the Jangpura house until two years ago, had told her nephew (Saxena) about large sums of cash that the family kept at home. Saxena worked in the same insurance company as Basista. The two were trying to find three other men for several months to execute this robbery. About two months ago, Basista found three men who agreed to part of the crime,” an investigating officer said.Investigating officers, said the five men hoped they would find about ₹10-20 lakhs inside the house. The two main conspirators Saxena and Basista, had planned to quit their jobs as marketing agents and start a business with the money they would make from the robbery.While police said they recovered ₹90 lakh (including forex) that the five men had robbed, Kapoor’s husband, Iftar Mulk Chisti said the figure quoted by the police is exaggerated. He said he is still checking what items are missing. “Police has asked me to provide details of the missing items. I am in touch with them,” he said.In records of the colony’s directory, Chisti is listed as an architect. DCP Pandey said Iftar and his wife are elderly citizens who were unable to figure out what was stolen from the house. “This is why the robbery was not reported on the day of the incident,” she said.Month of planningSometime in the first week of October, the five men took two rooms on rent in Amar Colony, less than 5km from the house. Police said this was the place where the five men detailed every part of the plan. The five took photographs of the Jangpura house when they could; discussed how many people were present inside at different times of the day, among other details.DCP Pandey in her press statement said that the five men used only voice over internet protocol (VOIP) to speak to each other. This was their way of ensuring that even if one person was arrested, police could not trace the others.“They even had number code names – 1,2,3,4 and 5. They held meetings at the room in Amar Colony to be mentally prepared to murder the family, or other people in the house, if there was resistance. Saxena and Basista would regularly check visit the K block on their Black Splendour,” a second investigating officer said.Police said the five men also researched different ways to rob or murder by watching crime shows on the internet. About a week ago, they agreed to use chloroform to immobilise the victims. They bought the chloroform, duct tape, ropes, masks, hoodies, and cutters from different shops across the city to avoid suspicion. Inside the rented room that served as their hideout, they wore the hoodies and the mask, and then took photographs on their cell phones to check if they could be recognised on camera.“We are now probing the place from where they bought the chloroform. This will be a part of case evidence,” the second investigating officer said.Executing the planAt around 10pm on Sunday, hours before the murder, the five came to K block, Jangpur Extension. Saxena and Basista came on their motorcycle, parked it about 1km away from the house, while the other three took an auto rickshaw. The five men then took different routes to meet at the neighbourhood park where they hid behind the bushes. None of them carried their phones.DCP Pandey said the five men waited for over three hours before making the move at around 1.30am.A third officer, who questioned the five men, said, “They easily scaled the front wall of the house. They were sure that everyone inside was asleep. They had luck on their side. A door at the back of the house was open. There is an elevator in the building, which does not stop on the first and the second floor. They had information that the money was on the first or second floor.”Police said this was the part of the plan that the five had not rehearsed. Unsure of how the elevator worked, or on which floor it would take them, the five were confused and started talking among themselves. Police said the elevator does not stop on the first and the second floor and goes directly to the third floor. Also, during the commotion, they unknowingly woke up domestic help Mina. The five told police on Thursday evening that Mina had tried to raise an alarm so they overpowered her, tied her limbs with a plastic rope, taped her mouth, and used chloroform. Police said she was smothered to death. The five men then proceeded to the first floor, where they found Sujata had woken up after hearing the noises below. They pushed her on the floor, used the chloroform, and smothered her with a pillow.Investigating officers said that the family’s three pet dogs – on the second floor – did not hear what was happening on the ground and the first floors.“Luck was on their side here too. They could not go to the second floor, where they believed the money was hidden. The elevator directly took them to the third floor where the family’s eldest – a woman in her 80s was sleeping. They searched the elderly woman’s almirah and found about ₹90 lakh in cash. Fortunately for her, the elderly woman did not wake up. Even if she had, she could not have raised an alarm as she is suffering from paralysis,” the third officer said.On the second floor, the elderly woman’s son Iftar Mulk and his wife, Rita were sleeping. Their daughter was in Gujarat on the day of the murder.Police officials said that they learnt about the large sum of stolen money only after the arrest of the five men, and are likely to probe why there was so much cash in the house.Realising that they had unknowingly entered the right floor, and got what they wanted, the five men put the money in their bags, took the elevator down, and left the house. They took the hard disk of the CCTV camera inside the house to destroy evidence.Aniket Jha, Ramesh and Dhananjay Gulia walked their way of out of the colony. Saxena and Sasista walked a distance, and then rode the black motorcycle back to their hideout.It was during this final bike ride that a CCTV captured the two suspects, which was what led to their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jangpura-extension-murders-heinous-home-invasion-months-of-prep-one-lapse-101637259902713.html
19-11-2021||India||BJP-TMC clash in Tripura leaves 19 injured including 2 policemen, four held||Nineteen people, including two police personnel, were injured after a clash broke out between the workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Trinamool Congress, in Tripura’s Khowai district, nearly 40 kilometres from Agartala, police said on Thursday. Four people have been arrested in connection with the incident and sent to judicial custody till November 30, an official said.Later, the police imposed prohibitory orders at three wards of Teliamura Municipal Councils from Thursday till November 24 , a day before the state civic polls going to be conducted. Votes would be counted on November 28.Of the 19 injured persons, nine including five BJP and four AITMC activists were referred to Agartala for better treatment. According to police, three separate cases were filed at the police station with two filed by the Trinamool Congress supporters and another one is suo motto. Police said that the clash started between the two political parties at Kalitilla on Wednesday night following a procession of TMC led by one local leader Anirban Sarkar. Two police personnel sustained injuries while intervening them. The group of TMC leaders led by Anirban was known to have attacked the BJP activists with sharp weapons and they also set fire on the motorbikes owned by some of the BJP activists. The police, later dispersed off the mob by firing gas shells. “ It has become necessary to increase surveillance upon persons with unverified character and antecedents for ensuring peaceful conduct of election of the Local Bodies. There are also some inputs available about involvement of such elements in creating concocted stories to misguide the people to create law & order situation. At present the situation is under control and sharp watch is being maintained, “ a press statement issued by police reads. AITMC leader Sushmita Dev said, “ Our activists were attacked by the BJP cadres and police booked our people due to political influence of the ruling BJP government. Even campaign permissions of our star campaigners from Bengal are repeatedly cancelled. “BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “ They attacked and injured our party workers and now they are acting as victims. The listed criminals of Bengal who were behind the post poll violence there, have now landed here to create unrest. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjptmc-clash-in-tripura-leaves-19-injured-including-2-policemen-four-held-101637259783405.html
19-11-2021||India||India, China agree to hold fresh military-level talks on LAC row||India and China emerged from the latest round of diplomatic talks on the border standoff in the Ladakh sector on Thursday with little to show but an agreement on holding the next discussions between senior military commanders at an early date.The virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held against a backdrop of growing evidence of China building infrastructure and villages in disputed sections of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and a lack of forward movement on disengagement at friction points such as Hot Springs and Depsang.The external affairs ministry said in a statement after the WMCC meeting: “It was agreed that both sides should hold the next (14th) round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols.”A readout from China’s foreign ministry said the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue through diplomatic and military channels, and “actively prepare for the 14th round of military commander-level talks, and make efforts to resolve the remaining issues” in the western sector.Both sides described the discussions at the WMCC meeting as “candid and in-depth”.The last round of talks between the senior military commanders, which was held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10, failed to make any substantive progress as Beijing contended that New Delhi had made “unreasonable and unrealistic demands”.The Chinese readout also said the two sides will “continue to work hard to further ease the border situation and strive to shift from emergency response to normalised control as soon as possible”. The shift from “emergency response” to “normalised control” was a repeat of what Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar during a meeting in Dushanbe in September.The Indian statement said the two sides recalled the agreement between Jaishankar and Wang during their meeting in Dushanbe that military and diplomatic officials should continue discussions to resolve remaining issues along the LAC.They also reviewed developments since the meeting of the military commanders on October 10, and “agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues” in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols to restore peace and tranquillity, the Indian statement said.The two sides also agreed that they would continue to “ensure a stable ground situation” and avoid any untoward incident, the Indian statement added.The Chinese readout said the two sides agreed to consolidate the existing disengagement results, strictly abide by agreements and consensus, and avoid recurrences in the current situation.The Indian side at the WMCC meeting was led by additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry, while the Chinese delegation was headed by Hong Liang, director of the boundary and oceanic department of the foreign ministry.India and China withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, but there has been no further movement on disengagement and de-escalation since then. The two sides have been locked in the military standoff for more than 18 months, sending bilateral ties plummeting to their worst in decades.The Indian side has insisted relations can be normalised only when disengagement is completed at other friction points such as Hot Springs and Depsang. On the other hand, China has pushed for delinking the standoff from the overall bilateral relationship and greater contacts in areas such as trade and investment.Sameer Patil fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the outcome of the WMCC meeting showed both sides were sticking to their respective stated positions and this is yielding no solution.“In light of recent revelations about China’s activities in other sections of the border, this would mean that China won’t budge from its position. Clearly, there is no incentive for both sides to compromise. This stalemate will continue for some time to come,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-hold-fresh-military-level-talks-on-lac-row-101637259665563.html
19-11-2021||India||Modi urges bankers to be ‘partners in growth’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged bankers to shun their age-old “approver-applicant” attitude, make customers their partners in progress, proactively reach out to small entrepreneurs, and help in the country’s inclusive economic development.Addressing a conference on “Creating Synergies for Seamless Credit Flow and Economic Growth”, organised by the Union finance ministry in the Capital, the PM said the Indian banking sector was robust due to several reforms undertaken in the last six-seven years, but bankers need to become proactive, and approach people who need funds instead of waiting for customers to visit them.“You must shun the feeling that you are an approver and the person in front of you is an applicant, and banks must adopt the partnership model,” Modi said.Recalling an experience from his school days, when banks were not nationalised, he said that private bankers would visit his school a couple of times every year to explain the importance of opening a bank account to children. Why should branches of public sector banks not approach at least 10 local micro, small and medium enterprises in their vicinity offering financial help and advice, Modi asked.“This is the time when banks should act as wealth creators and job creators, which will help in enhancing the country’s balance sheet,” he said.He also gave the example of the production-linked initiative (PLI) scheme where the government gives incentives to Indian manufacturers for scaling up their production capacity to compete with global firms.“Banks can play a big role in making projects viable through their support and expertise,” said Modi. The government has launched a ₹1.97 lakh crore PLI scheme for 13 sectors, including pharmaceuticals, telecom, speciality steel, white goods and solar modules.Listing some of the key financial reforms taken by the government, Modi underscored that government schools have helped provide immediate relief to millions of poor people though instant transfer of money in their Jan Dhan accounts. According tothe finance ministry, over 438 million beneficiaries have banked through Jan Dhan accounts, started in 2014, and these accounts have a combined balance of ₹1.48 lakh crore.“The initiative paid dividends during the pandemic as it ensured that no poor person is left hungry,” he said.The Covid-19 pandemic led to a 68-day hard nationwide lockdown starting in March 2020. During this period, the government released free food grains and financial assistance to about 315 million beneficiaries, according to official data. The financial assistance went directly to the Jan Dhan accounts of the beneficiaries.Modi stressed that financial inclusion has direct impact on society as it unlocks the productive potential of citizens, and said states where more Jan Dhan accounts are opened have found that crime rates have reduced. “Whether it is a public sector or private sector bank, the more we invest in citizens the more jobs we will create,” he said.Other steps taken have created a strong capital base, he said, adding that now banks have sufficient liquidity, and non-performing assets (NPAs) in public sector banks are at the lowest in the last five years.The government reforms not only unearthed hidden NPAs but also recovered about ₹5 lakh crore from wilful defaulters, and stressed assets worth another ₹2 lakh crore will be resolved through recently created National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), Modi said.The company, also called a “bad bank”, will aggregate and consolidate stressed assets for their subsequent resolution. The Union government in September 2021 gave a guarantee of ₹30,600 crore to back security receipts issued by NARCL.Modi said the government has strengthened banks by recapitalising them and transparently resolving their NPA issues that included transformative legislation -- the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). “Today, Indian banks have become so strong that they are capable of energising the economy of the country, to give it a big push. They can play a big role in making India self-reliant,” he said.After a transparent Asset Quality Review (AQR), undertaken in 2015, gross NPAs of public sector banks (PSBs) soared from ₹2,16,739 crore on March 31, 2014, to ₹8,95,601 crore on March 31, 2018, according to government data. But the “4 R” approach – recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms – from 2016, brought this down to ₹6,16,616 crore on March 31, 2021.Modi underscored the importance of using data to enhance business and improve services. He gave the example of Goods and Services Tax (GST) data that capture financial history of an entrepreneur, which banks should leverage to proactively reach out to scrupulous businessmen who may need funds to further expand their businesses.Modi said the government’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” [Self-reliant India] initiative has opened “doors of new opportunities” giving amazing growth opportunities to corporate and start-ups. “Friends, there is no other better time to fund and invest in India’s aspiration -- and our banking sector must understand – this is the time to invest in ideas... this is the time to support start-ups,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-urges-bankers-to-be-partners-in-growth-101637259603931.html
19-11-2021||India||SC rejects plea by Deshmukh seeking probe report in money laundering case||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking a direction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to produce its inquiry reports relating to the corruption case filed against him. “Should we entertain this petition just because this person has been a minister? There has to be something extraordinary warranting an interference by this court in an ongoing investigation,” the bench, led by justice Kaul, told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Deshmukh.Sibal argued that Deshmukh’s only remedy was before the apex court since CBI in April informed the bench that the preliminary investigation has disclosed commission of serious offences against Deshmukh in the corruption case. The senior counsel referred to recent media reports that claimed a clean chit to Deskhmukh in this case. The bench, however, asked Sibal if media reports alone could be relied upon by the court to entertain a petition. It dismissed Deshmukh’s petition, asking him to approach a court of competent jurisdiction.During the hearing, Sibal also complained that the court, while refusing to entertain Deshmukh’s petition against CBI’s preliminary investigation in April, cited former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations but the senior police officer was now absconding.“It is unfortunate that people occupying important positions show no confidence in the system,” retorted the bench.Deshmukh has been in jail since November 2 after he was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), almost six months after the agency first registered a case against him for obtaining illegal gratification from bar owners in Mumbai when the minister was in office.In his petition before the Supreme Court, Deshmukh also asked for constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) for a “fair and independent” probe into corruption and bribery charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-by-deshmukh-seeking-probe-report-in-money-laundering-case-101637259603335.html
19-11-2021||India||BJP names top leaders to take charge of poll-bound UP; mulls 4 rath yatras||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) think-tank on Thursday named party chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh as in-charges of the six organisational units that the party has divided Uttar Pradesh into for better management for the upcoming assembly polls.This was decided at a meeting in Delhi where the party leadership also reportedly mulled over taking out four rath yatras across the poll-bound state. These rath yatras by the party’s top leaders could culminate with a massive rally in Lucknow to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-- a plan similar to the model BJP followed ahead of the 2017 UP assembly polls. The yatras could be named Vijay Sankalp Yatras, party leaders said.Rajnath Singh has been named in-charge of Awadh and Kashi region that includes the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah has been named in-charge for Braj-Paschim region. Nadda will oversee the Gorakhpur-Kanpur region.Also read | No pre-poll alliance, will contest on all 403 seats in UP election, says Priyanka Gandhi“The party’s top leaders will interact with booth presidents and booth level workers,” party leaders said.Nadda is expected in Uttar Pradesh for a couple of days from November 22 to fine tune the party’s strategy.The BJP chief will also address a booth presidents’ conference in Gorakhpur on November 22 and in Kanpur on November 23 while Rajnath will address booth presidents’ conferences in Jaunpur and in Sitapur on November 25. Shah will address similar conferences in Braj and Paschim (western UP) though the dates of his interaction have not been announced so far. BJP has also named an election panel for the state headed by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan.“There is also a plan to get our top leaders to contest UP polls. The possibility of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and other leaders, who are currently MLCs, contesting is high,” BJP leaders said. The BJP has already completed verification of committees up to the booth level. The party has also announced a manifesto committee under veteran minister Suresh Khanna.“The manifesto committee will collect feedback from across the state before finalising the manifesto,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said after the meeting in Delhi that he attended with state general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-polls-bjp-names-top-leaders-to-take-charge-of-up-regions-mulls-rath-yatras-101637259303500.html
19-11-2021||India||Centre asks UTs, states to resume mid-day meals||The Centre has asked all the states and union territories (UTs) to resume the provision of cooked hot meals to eligible children attending schools under the government’s flagship Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman (PM POSHAN) scheme while strictly adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.When the schools were closed in March 2020, following the implementation of a nationwide lockdown, the erstwhile mid-day meal scheme was disrupted. The Centre had advised all the states and UTs to provide food security allowance to all eligible students to meet their nutritional requirements. Over the last one and half years, states have either transferred allowance or distributed dry ration among eligible students.In a letter sent to all the states and UTs on Wednesday, the ministry of education’s department of school education and literacy said, “With the improvement of (covid-19) situation, many states and UTs are progressively reopening schools. It is advised to resume provision of hot cooked meals to eligible students attending schools by adhering to the prevalent covid appropriate protocols and social distancing norms as prescribed by the competent authority.”The states and UTs have been asked to take immediate appropriate action and send a plan to the ministry by November 22. “Timely action at your end will go a long way in providing much-needed nutrition through hot cooked meals to the children,” the letter added.Under the recently rechristened PM-POSHAN scheme, 118 million students enrolled in classes 1-8 across 1.1 million schools will be benefitted. The scheme now also covers pre-primary students. While students enrolled in primary classes (1-5) are entitled to 100 food gram grains per working day under the scheme, those in upper primary classes (6-8) get 150-gram food grains to ensure a minimum of 700 calories. The new scheme now also has a provision for supplementary nutrition for children in aspirational districts and those with a high prevalence of anaemia. According to the SoPs shared by the ministry with the states, the cook-cum help workers will be wearing masks during cleaning, washing, cutting, cooking and serving of meals. They would not be allowed to wear nail polish, watches, rings, jewellery and bangles during cooking and serving the food to avoid the possibility of “danger of contamination of the product.”“The kitchen cum store/place of cooking must be deep cleaned and sanitized before 24 hours of actual cooking after reopening of schools…Cleaning accessories such as clothes, mops and brushes carry a very high risk of cross-contamination. They must therefore be thoroughly washed, cleaned and dried after use,” the SoPs stated.The SoPs further stated that serving and dining areas should also be well sanitized before and after food consumption and students should either be served mid-day meals in a staggered manner or their classes. “The school children should also wear face cloth/ masks while the food is being served and at all times in the dining area except while eating/drinking...Hand wash with soap for a minimum of 40 seconds before and after eating MDM should be vigorously promoted,” it added.Besides, states have been asked to ensure schools have a continuous drinking water supply and proper waste disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-uts-states-to-resume-mid-day-meals-101637258163300.html
19-11-2021||India||Supreme Court asks IIT to assist Dalit teen who cracked test||Observing that a meritorious Dalit boy can be a leader of the nation in future, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) management to make its best endeavour to accommodate a 17-year-old candidate who lost a seat at IIT-Bombay for failing to make online fee payment in time because of a technical glitch. “It is an unfortunate case...He is a Dalit boy. He has aspirations and he is meritorious. For all you know, he could be a leader of the nation 10 years or 20 years down the line,” a bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told the counsel appearing for IIT-Bombay and the IIT’s seat allocation authority.The bench, which included justice AS Bopanna, took note that the candidate, Prince Jaibir Singh, who secured the 864th rank in the scheduled caste category and was being allotted a seat at the prestigious IIT- Bombay for a BTech course in civil engineering, would not forego the opportunity had it not been for some difficulties in arranging the acceptance fees.Singh, who is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, submitted that although he completed all other formalities on the Joint Seat Allocation Authority ( JoSAA) portal on October 29, he could not make the payment of the seat acceptance fees as he was falling short of money. After his sister transferred the money into his account on October 30, he made several attempts to make the payment online but failed to do so till 12 noon on October 31, which was the deadline, due to technical errors. Referring to the sequence of events from the petition, the bench remarked: “Who would want to forsake an IIT-Bombay seat? Ultimately, these are problems of resources. We can show him the door on five different grounds in law, like what the high court has done, but let us look at this as a humane problem...beyond legal intricacies,” the bench said, asking IIT’s advocate Sonal Jain to act as an officer of the court to look out for a seat for Singh and come back on Monday. The court told Jain that it is mindful of the apprehension of the IIT management that there could be a deluge of similar requests and petitions if they agree to Singh’s admission. “Don’t worry. we will protect you. We will say that we are exercising our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution (authority to issue orders to do complete justice) and that this order cannot be used as a precedent in any other case,” added the bench.As Jain pointed out that all the seats in IIT-Bombay, including those under the reserved quotas, had been filled up, the bench responded: “This is a case where we have to look beyond the law. If it is his destiny, we cannot do anything but let us all try our best. You be the officer of the court and do something.”Representing Singh, advocate Amol Chitale submitted that Singh is willing to accept a seat in any of the seven zonal IITs, in any stream, and is not pressing for a seat only at IIT-Bombay. Taking note of this, the bench asked Jain to find out if Singh could be accommodated in any of the seven IITs across the country. “Tell us where seats are available and if he can get a place somewhere. He is meritorious, after all,” it said.Singh initially moved the Bombay high court, contending that he secured an all-India rank of 25,894 and scheduled caste rank of 864 in the JEE Advanced and was allotted the seat. He said after failing to clear the seat acceptance fees by the deadline, he went to the authorities concerned on November 1, and requested them to allow him to make the payment. But IIT officials expressed their inability to help him. While Singh urged the court to direct authorities to accept the fees and process his admission, the high court on November 12 declined to give him any relief. The high court held that Singh “has entailed the consequence of rejection” because he failed to register his grievances before the deadline. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-iit-to-assist-dalit-teen-who-cracked-test-101637257803475.html
19-11-2021||India||Pockets of rising infections emerge even as Covid-19 wave ebbs across India||In the week ended November 17, India reported 10,978 new cases of Covid-19 every day on average. This is the lowest that the seven-day average (a number that denotes a region’s Covid curve) has dropped to since the week ended June 14, 2020 – a time when the first wave of the pandemic was just kicking off in the country.Currently, at the national level, Covid-19 cases continue to decrease, a trend that has largely sustained since the peak of the second wave on May 9, when the daily cases averaged 391,819. However, the rate of decline (of the 7-day average of daily cases) has come down this month; it was 1.3% up to November 17 compared to 1.9% in October. This is because some states and districts have started to exhibit a slight bump in daily cases after the festive season that started last month. While this increase in infections remains small as of now, it reinforces the need for continuing with pandemic-appropriate behaviour and completing adult vaccinations, particularly where local figures are not as satisfactory as at the national level.Cases have increased significantly in West Bengal and Assam in the past monthDussehra was celebrated in the country on October 15. The seven-day average of daily cases has increased in 11 of 29 states (including Delhi) in the month-long period between October 15 and November 15. However, this is less a reason for alarm than caution. Of these 11 states, only two – Assam and West Bengal – were reporting more than 100 cases a day on October 15. The 7-day average of daily cases has increased by 10.8% in Assam (from 208 on October 15 to 231 on November 15) and by 26.2% in West Bengal (from 666 on October 15 to 841 on November 15). In the same interval, the remaining nine states have registered a growth higher than West Bengal’s growth of 26.2%, but the 7-day average was still below 50 in all of them on November 15.Cases have also increased in a few districts of states with declining cases As is to be expected, in most of India’s districts, cases have declined. Of the 707 districts (Delhi’s districts merged as one) for which data is compiled by How India Lives, the seven-day average of daily cases has decreased between October 15 and November 15 in 222 districts. In another 379 districts, of which 317 reported no cases in the week ending October 15, the average has not changed.Only 106 districts have registered an increase in the 7-day average of daily cases in the past month. Even among these, only 26 reported an average of 10 or more cases a day in the week ending October 15. Of these 26 districts, 10 are in West Bengal alone and two in Assam, states where cases have increased from a base of relatively higher caseload. 12 of the 26 districts are, however, located in states where cases have decreased in the past month, suggesting the bump may be localised (for now at least). Of these 12 districts, six are in Maharashtra, three in Telangana, and one each in Tamil Nadu, Odisha, and Mizoram.How much have cases increased in districts?Among districts that have registered an increase in the 7-day average of daily cases in past one month, five had 100 or more cases a day in the week ending October 15. From October 15 to November 15, Kolkata (44%) and Mumbai (37%) have registered the biggest increase among them.Also read | Covid-19: 50% of MP's eligible population fully vaccinated, says health ministerIn other districts, the percentage increase might be higher but that is the result of their low caseload earlier. For example, Kamrup Metropolitan (the district where Guwahati is located) has registered a 292% increase in the past month. But in absolute numbers, the increase is from 25 cases to 98 cases a day. Aurangabad in Maharashtra (22 cases to 38 cases a day) and Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir (35 cases to 56 cases a day) are other districts with a big percentage growth among districts that saw 20-100 cases a day. Although this growth is modest in absolute numbers and can be easily contained, it does emphasise the need for continuing with pandemic-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks in public places and avoiding crowded spaces. In 2/3rd districts, less than half of all adults are fully vaccinatedIsolated districts reporting an increase in cases also emphasises the need for enhancing vaccine coverage. Although over 80% of adults in India have now received at least one dose of the vaccine, 44% of the country’s districts (274 of 628 districts of 2011 census with Delhi and Mumbai districts merged into one) were below this threshold on November 17. In 18 districts (eight of them in Nagaland, seven in Arunachal, Manipur and Meghalaya, and one each in Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Tamil Nadu), the first dose coverage is under 50%.Just one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine also offers less protection from the infection than complete vaccination. At the national level, the share of fully vaccinated adults went past the share of partially vaccinated for the first time on November 16. As of November 17, this was yet to happen in 316 of the 628 districts. While over 40% of adults in the country have been fully vaccinated, at the district level, this threshold has not been reached in almost half (305 of 628 districts) of the districts in the country.
19-11-2021||India||Godse preached Hindutva, says Congress amid row over Salman Khurshid's book||Amid the ongoing row over Hindutva and Hinduism centring the recently launched book of senior Congress leaders Salman Khurshid, the Congress on Thursday said Nathuram Godse who killed Mahatma Gandhi was the preacher of Hindutva that spreads violence. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the difference between Hinduism and Hindutva is the same as that between Mahatma Gandhi and Nathuram Godse, as the former preached Hindu religion and spread harmony and non-violence, PTI reported.The recent book of Salman Khurshid on the Supreme Court's Ayodhya verdict has stirred controversy as the writer has been accused of equating Hindustva with ISID and Boko Haram. "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years," a chapter of the book titled 'The Saffron Sky' reads. While senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad disagreed with the writer, many Congress leaders sought to clarify the difference between Hindutva and Hinduism. Congress leader Manish Tewari recently tweeted that religion is a private identity which shoud not be used in politics. "... I believe in Nehruvian ideal that religion is a private space activity. Everyone has the right to practice, profess and propagate their religion in their private lives. In public domain, there should be a strict separation of the Church and State. I am a Hindu, I worship my God but that is not my politics," Tewari tweeted.Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh explained that Hindutva is what Mahatma Gandhi preached. "In the last 200 years, who is the greatest practising Hindu in our country -- Mahatma Gandhi Ji. What Mahatma Gandhi Ji preached and gave is called as Hindu Dharma and what Nathuram Godse practised is called Hindutva. It is as simple as this," he said."Godse did not understand what the Rig Veda says and he only understood exclusiveness, while Gandhi's Hindu religion understood inclusiveness. Godse's Hindu religion is Hindutva and that does not understand those who talk of respect for all religions and Vaudhaiva Kutumbakam and that is why he shot and killed him," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godse-preached-hindutva-says-congress-amid-row-over-salman-khurshid-s-book-101637252699482.html
19-11-2021||India||Bodies of 2 civilians killed in Hyderpora encounter exhumed amid stir||The Jammu and Kashmir administration late on Thursday exhumed the bodies of the two civilians killed in Monday’s gunfight in Srinagar and was set to hand them over to their families amid protests in the Valley, the Srinagar mayor said.Businessmen Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul were killed along with two terrorists in the encounter in the Hyderpora area of Srinagar. Police maintained that the two men were “overground workers” of terror outfits and were killed in the crossfire but their families said that the two were used as human shields and called the killings “cold-blood murders”. Police buried Bhat and Gul in Handwara, around 70km from Hyderpora, without their families being present, citing “law and order concerns”. Earlier in the day, the J&K administration also ordered a magisterial probe into the encounter.The families of the two civilians staged a sit-in at the Press Enclave in Srinagar on Wednesday and held a candle-light vigil after the day-long protest, demanding that the bodies of the two men be handed to them. They were forcibly removed from the site by police around midnight and a few of them were detained briefly.Also read | Omar Abdullah stages protest against Hyderpora killings, calls off after families inform of assurance to return bodies“Have been informed that the bodies of Altaf Ahmed and Mudasir Gul have been exhumed at Handwara for last rites and burial by families. This is the first step towards ensuring justice is done in this case,” Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu tweeted.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a relative of Gul said: “We met the officials regarding the return of body and they sought some assurances from us, which we readily gave. We believe the bodies will reach us.”National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Thursday staged a sit-in demanding the return of bodies of the two men.“We are sitting here peacefully. If we wanted, we would have blocked roads, bridges, but no. There has been no sloganeering, no law and order disturbance and no road has been blocked. We are not raising a voice against the government, we just demand that the bodies be returned,” he said.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti accused the Centre of being “inhuman” and said she was put under house arrest again.“Again under house arrest and PDP’s Najmu Saqib and Suhail Bukhari too have been arrested. The pattern of using innocent civilians as human shields and then denying their families the right to a decent burial shows that GOI has plumbed new depths of inhumanity,” she said in a tweet.Earlier in the day, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s office said an additional district magistrate will probe the Hyderpora encounter while promising suitable action as soon as a report is submitted. It added the administration is committed to protecting the lives of civilians and will ensure there is no injustice.“A magisterial inquiry by an officer of ADM rank has been ordered in Hyderpora encounter.Govt will take suitable action as soon as the report is submitted in a time-bound manner. JK admin reiterates commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians &it will ensure there is no injustice,” Sinha’s office tweeted.Welcoming the administration’s move, Bhat’s brother Abdul Majeed said the family also wanted that the killers of his sibling be brought to justice.“I am thankful to the L-G for ordering an inquiry. I am thankful that my oppressed voice was heard by someone. I only have one request to the L-G, I want the body of my brother returned to us and the killers of my innocent brother brought to justice,” Majeed said.A relative of Gul , who did not wish to be named, said that they appreciate the LG administration’s decision, but want the case to reach its logical conclusion.“The call of inquiry is a momentary relief and we appreciate it but we will wait for its outcome. We are simply asking for justice because we know our son was innocent. We also seek the body of our son back and we hope that the demand will also be granted,” he said.J&K DGP Dilbag Singh said the “police is open to correction if anything has gone wrong”. “We will look into the demands of the families. We are open to corrections if anything has gone wrong. A police probe will also find out what went wrong.We will find out what happened in the Hyderpora encounter. We are for the safety of people and will not shy away from a probe,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency CNS.BJP spokesperson for J&K unit, Altaf Thakur, welcomed the order, saying: “We welcome the magisterial inquiry into the incident. If families had any doubt those doubts should be cleared and an inquiry is welcome in that direction. Civilian killings won’t be tolerated at any cost. If any wrong has happened, the culprits should be brought to book. Since the inquiry has been ordered and the incident has become doubtful, the administration should hand over the bodies of the civilians to their families when they are innocent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-administration-orders-magisterial-probe-into-hyderpora-killings-101637226360965.html
19-11-2021||India||Fully vaccinated against Covid? Singapore scraps quarantine upon arrival from India||India is among five states added by the Singapore government to its list of countries from where, travellers fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be required to quarantine upon arrival in the city-state. While quarantine-free travel from India and Indonesia to Singapore will begin from November 29, that from Saudi Arabia, UAE and Qatar will commence from December 6, Singapore’s health ministry announced in a statement.“Following discussions between PMs @NarendraModi and @LeeHsienLoong, Singapore will be launching a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) for fully-vac travellers from India with valid entry approvals-starting 29 Nov-pending resumption of commercial passenger flights,” the Singapore in India handle, the common Twitter account for the country’s diplomatic missions in India, which are based in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, said. Following discussions between PMs @NarendraModi and @LeeHsienLoong, 🇸🇬 will be launching a Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) for fully-vac travellers frm 🇮🇳 w valid entry approvals - starting 29 Nov - pending resumption of commercial passenger ✈️. More on VTL @ https://t.co/ssCP8A7Gos https://t.co/om3Oe9egqLThe two Prime Ministers held a bilateral meet on October 30, on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Rome, Italy.Photos: PM Modi meets Singapore counterpart, French President Emmanuel Macron on sidelines of G20 summitSingapore currently has the VTL with 13 countries, including the United States, Canada and Italy. On November 29, the number will rise to 18, with the addition of India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Finland and Sweden. Then, on December 6, when Saudi Arabia, UAE and Qatar join the list, this number will rise further to 21. At present, not more than 6000 people are allowed to enter the city-state, each day, under the programme; this will increase to 10,000 when the latest countries are added. As of November 14, more than 24,000 fully vaccinated visitors have arrived in Singapore under the arrangement.On October 26, Indians once again became eligible to fly to Singapore though they had to quarantine upon arrival. Also, since all scheduled international commercial passenger flights to and from India remain suspended, only repatriation services are available between the two countries. The ban has been in place since March last year, when the first national Covid-19 lockdown was announced.Also Read | Indians can finally travel to Singapore again from today. Check details hereThere will be two daily flights each to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai once the ban on international flights is removed.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-november-29-no-need-to-quarantine-when-arriving-in-singapore-from-india-101636979718596.html
