20-11-2021||India||Three Odisha poachers electrocuted by livewire placed for hunting wild boars||Three poachers who had laid livewire traps for hunting wild boars were electrocuted by the same wires on Saturday in two separate incidents in Odisha.In Boudh district, the bodies of Baisyanand Dehury of Kurkuj village and Kaira Bagh of Rambhikata village under Tikarpada gram panchayat were found in a forest near Kurkuj village under the Baghiapada forest range. The duo had connected a 11 KV transmission line with the wire trap. On receiving information, forest officials along with a police team reached the spot and initiated an inquiry into the incident.In Koraput district, a man named Jagannath Guntha who had placed a livewire for hunting was accidentally electrocuted on Saturday. Guntha and three others of Khadaput village under Padwa police station had laid the livewires for hunting wild boars.Police detained three people who had allegedly set up the trap along with Guntha. A day earlier, the forest department in Boudh had arrested 3 such poachers from the area while they were laying livewire traps.In a separate case, 8 poachers of Keonjhar district were arrested in Telkoi forest range while hunting wild boars. Meat of wild boar, hand grenades, live electric wires, wooden sticks, and a tractor were recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-odisha-poachers-electrocuted-by-livewire-placed-for-hunting-wild-boars-101637432787300.html
20-11-2021||India||Mamata plans 3-day Delhi visit ahead of Parliament's Winter Session||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit on a three-day visit between November 22 and 25, days before the Winter Session of the Parliament commences on November 29.This will be Trinamool Congress supremo's second visit to the national capital since her party came to power in West Bengal with a thumping majority for the third consecutive term in May this year.Earlier in June, Mamata Banerjee visited Delhi during the Monsoon Session, during which she met Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.  At that time, Mamata had said in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the opposition will be stronger than the BJP and will create history. “When general elections come, it will be Modi versus [the] country,” the chief minister added.Her upcoming visit is seen by political experts as a booster shot to opposition unity against Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.Earlier on Saturday there were strong indications that BJP parliamentarian Varun gandhi would jump ship and join Trinamool. The young leader is likely to meet Mamata Banerjee during her visit to the national capital, LiveMint reported.The BJP had recently dropped Varun Gandhi and his mother Maneka Gandhi from the party's national working committee.ALSO READ | 'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queriesMamata’s visit to Delhi is expected to provide fillip to regional opposition powers right before the parties rush into election mode for the upcoming assembly polls in five states, including in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura.The Trinamool Congress supremo's visit is expected to consist of meetings with opposition leaders to talk strategy to take on the BJP in the Parliament, which will discuss the repeal of the three controversial farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-plans-3-day-delhi-visit-ahead-of-parliament-s-winter-session-101637427407029.html
20-11-2021||India||HT This Day: Nov 21, 1977 – AP cyclone toll nearing 1, 000-mark||A-P cyclone toll nearing 1, 000-markHyderabad- The death toll in yesterday’s (November 19) cyclonic storm and sweeping of the coast by a giant tidal wave in Andhra Pradesh is steadily mounting towards the thousand mark, according to information received in the Chief Minister's office here.Official reports received up to 11 p.m. said the toll had risen to 879.Guntur district accounted for 628 followed by Krishna district 223, Prakasam district 23, East and West Godavari two each and Nellore one.The State Government headquarters has reports saying that at least 200 people were killed in Machilipatnam when the tidal wave hit the coastal town yesterday (November 19) and that more bodies might be discovered as the debris were cleared.The tidal wave washed away a number of villages in Machilipatnam.Deaths in Vijayawada are reported to be only six or so. But electricity, water and communications links there were still cut off for nearly 36 hours after the cyclonic storm hit the town.However, the radio link between Hyderabad and Vijayawada had been restored.Mr. J. Vengala Rao, Chief Minister, now back in the State capital from Delhi, would take off early tomorrow on an aerial survey of the devastated areas.A report from Vijayawada said that never in the living memory were Vijayawada said surrounding areas lashed as they had been yesterday by the cyclone.The sky is still overcast and winds are glowing.Express trainss continue to run on the diverted routes via Kazipet, Secunderabad, Wadi and Prenigunta. Janata Express, Link Express, Hyderabad Express, Cooromandal Express all etarting from Madras today were cancelled. Godavari Express starting from Waltair was also cancelled.The collectors in the affected areas have started relief operations.There was total failure of communications on almost all the sections of Vijayawada division of the South Central Railway.Cyclone allowance of Ra 200 each had been sanctioned to staff rendered homeless at Vijayawada and senior officers have been stationed at Vijayawada and other stations to direct movement.The chief engineer, the chief commercial superintendent, the chief electrical engineer and chief safety superintendent have rushed to Vilayawada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-nov-21-1977-ap-cyclone-toll-nearing-1-000mark-101637429343245.html
20-11-2021||India||Uphaar case: Convict, who sought relief to attend family event, to be released for 2 days||A Delhi court on Saturday suspended for two days the seven-year jail term awarded to a convict in connection with the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire tragedy, in which 59 people lost their lives, while more than 100 sustained injuries. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil granted relief to the convict, Dinesh Chand Sharma, on ‘humanitarian’ grounds, so that Sharma can attend the engagement ceremony of his niece.Also Read | Uphaar case: Ansals undermined rule of law, Delhi police tell court“Without adverting to the merits of the case, on humanitarian grounds, the sentence of conviction of convict Dinesh Chand Sharma is suspended for two days, i.e. November 21 and 22, and he is allowed to attend the engagement ceremony,” the bench ordered, also directing him to submit a bail bond in the sum of ₹50,000, as well as one surety of like amount, Livelaw reported.In his application, Sharma had submitted that there was no elderly male member in the family to make arrangements for the already scheduled ceremony, requesting that he be released for a period of seven days to attend the ceremony. The woman’s grandfather was no more and her father passed away last month, the application claimed.In order to verify the convict’s claims, the court had called for a status report from the Investigating Officer (IO), who filed a report stating that the claims were indeed true. The prosecution, too, submitted that it did not have any objection if the permission was granted to attend the ceremony for a limited period of only one day. On October 8, a magisterial court convicted Sharma, real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal, and two of their employees, in a case related to tampering with the crucial evidence in the fire tragedy case. On November 8, they were sentenced to seven years in jail, with the Ansals being fined ₹2.25 crore each, while a penalty of ₹3 lakh each was slapped on the other three.Also Read | Uphaar fire tragedy: 7-year jail term for Ansal brothers for tampering evidenceThe fire had broken out in Uphaar on June 13, 1997, during the screening of the Hindi film ‘Border’(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uphaar-case-convict-who-sought-relief-to-attend-family-event-to-be-released-for-2-days-101637428736611.html
20-11-2021||India||‘After farm laws, CAA should be rolled back’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repealing of the three Central farm laws, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind national president Maulana Arshad Madani on Saturday said that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act should also be repealed otherwise the Muslim community will have to bear its brunt. While interacting with media here, Madani said, “It’s believed that Laws (Farm Laws) were repealed as polls are close. We think that (CAA-NRC) is concerned with nationality and Muslims will have to bear its brunt. Power of public strongest, so this (CAA) should also be repealed.” He congratulated the farmers who continued their protest, and said, “Similarly, we want the government to roll back the Act that is going to hurt Muslims. They too are citizens of India just like others. If they’re affected, the government should feel it in a similar manner.”Farmers have been protesting the Centre’s three farm laws since they were passed in 2020.Similarly, protests had erupted in parts of the country against the CAA. The CAA allows persecuted minorities belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi, and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan to avail of Indian citizenship.According to the provisions of the act, people belonging to these communities who arrived in India till December 31, 2014, due to religious persecution in these three countries will not be treated as illegal migrants but will be provided with Indian citizenship.If a person belongs to the aforementioned faiths, from these three countries, does not have proof of birth of parents, they can apply for Indian citizenship after six years of residence in India.President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the legislation on December 12, 2019.The Opposition parties and several groups have protested against the implementation of CAA. CAA’s detractors believe that the law coupled with the National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise is intended to target the minorities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-farm-laws-caa-should-be-rolled-back-101637428886842.html
20-11-2021||India||All Rajasthan ministers resign, pave way for Cabinet reshuffle||A day ahead of a reshuffle of the Rajasthan cabinet, chief minister Ashok Gehlot took the resignations of all his ministers on Saturday. Gehlot convened a meeting of his council of ministers at his residence and the members were asked to tender their resignations to facilitate cabinet rejig. After the meeting, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariywas said, “All the ministers have tendered their resignation as directed by the party.” He added that all the ministers will be going to the state party office on Sunday and then move as per directions from the CM.The clamour for a Cabinet reshuffle had been growing for the past several months, with the Sachin Pilot camp seeking to accommodate supporters of the state’s former deputy chief minister. On Friday, three ministers -- Govind Singh Dotasara, Raghu Sharma and Harish Choudhary -- wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, offering to quit their posts and work for the party. Their resignations were on expected lines as they were holding dual positions – health minister Raghu Sharma is AICC incharge of Gujarat; revenue minister Choudhary is AICC incharge of Punjab; and education minister, Dotasara, is the state party chief. AICC general secretary incharge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken, who arrived in Jaipur on Friday, was also present at the chief minister’s residence. Apart from the Congress MLAs, independents who support the government and MLAs who defected from the BSP to the Congress also have expectations from the reshuffle. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers including the chief minister. There can be a maximum of 30 members in the council of ministers in the state where the number of MLAs is 200. A minister on condition of anonymity said, “There were nine vacancies, and three submitted resignations yesterday, taking the tally to 12,” he said. Political analyst Manish Godha said asking for resignations from all the ministers means a major reshuffle of departments, promotion from state to cabinet rank, and also the possibility of being dropped from the cabinet. “This reshuffle is different from what Gehlot has done in his previous tenure as this time he has to discuss the changes with the high command. Even today his statement in a meeting saying that only Maken and the high command know what is going to happen in the rejig – this indicates that he does not have a free hand,” Godha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-rajasthan-ministers-resign-pave-way-for-cabinet-reshuffle-101637428830946.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: Telangana announces ₹3 lakh ex-gratia to families of deceased farmers||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three contentious central agricultural laws are being repealed, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Saturday announced ex-gratia of ₹3 lakh to the families of protesters who died during the course of the agitation, which began on November 26 last year on the borders of Delhi.Also Read | KCR vows to spearhead nation-wide farmers’ agitation, says Modi govt anti-farmer“We will provide ₹3 lakh ex-gratia, on behalf of the Telangana government, to the bereaved families of farmers who lost their life in the farmers’ agitation. We urge the Centre to provide compensation of ₹25 lakh to each bereaved family,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister, also known as KCR, as saying.Rao also urged that the centre should withdraw cases filed against the farmers. We urge Central Government to withdraw the cases filed against the farmers (during farmers' agitation): Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao pic.twitter.com/w9DoF7O8bIReacting to the announcement, Telangana minister KT Rama Rao tweeted, “Proud of Hon’ble @TelanganaCMO #KCR Garu for announcing ₹3 lakh ex-gratia to all the 750 plus farmers who lost lives fighting the #FarmLaws in NCR. He also demanded Govt of India to announce ₹25 lakh to each farmer family and also withdraw all cases unconditionally.”
20-11-2021||India||Online ganja sale racket: MP police lodge case against officials of e-com portal||Police in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind on Saturday said that it made Amazon India’s executive directors 'accused' under the NDPS Act in a case related to consignment of marijuana being allegedly delivered via e-commerce platform Amazon.“A case under section 38 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against executive directors of Amazon India which operates as ASSL in the country,” Bhind's superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Singh was quoted as saying by news agencies. The FIR, however, did not name any individual official by their name, news agency PTI reported.Earlier on Saturday, the Bhind Police busted an online 'marijuana sale racket' and arrested two people with 20kg of ganja from them. The police said that the accused were operating the racket through the e-commerce firm and also alleged that the firm received two-thirds of the profit generated by the sale of marijuana. It arrested two more individuals later.Earlier this week Amazon India said that it is investigating the issue and said that it does not allow listing and sale of products illegal for sale in India. “Amazon has a high bar on compliance and contractually our sellers are required to comply with all applicable laws for selling their products on amazon.in. We do not allow the listing and sale of products, which are prohibited under law to be sold in India,” an Amazon India spokesperson said.The police said that one among those arrested operated under a fake name with PAN and GST number etc and alleged that the e-commerce platform got 66.66% profit. They also said that the arrested formed a company named ‘Babu Tex’ and got it registered on Amazon as a seller. The allegedly supplied ganja from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh through the company under the guise of selling stevia, a plant-based sweetener.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-ganja-sale-racket-mp-police-lodge-case-against-officials-of-e-com-portal-101637422841415.html
20-11-2021||India||Ahead of Rajasthan Cabinet rejig, Gehlot collects resignations of ministers||A day ahead of the scheduled cabinet reshuffle, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has collected the resignation letters of all his ministers on Saturday. Gehlot convened a meeting of the Council of Ministers at his residence and there the members were asked to tender their resignations to facilitate the cabinet reshuffle. There is already a vacancy for 12 ministers in the cabinet, while a couple of ministers may be dropped in the rejig planned for Sunday afternoon. After the meeting, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariywas said, “All the ministers have tendered their resignations as directed by the party.” He added that all the ministers would be going to the state party office on Sunday and then would move according to directions from Ashok Gehlot. The clamour for a Cabinet reshuffle had been growing for the last several months with senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s camp demanding that supporters of the state’s former deputy chief minister be included in the government. On Friday, three ministers -- Govind Singh Dotasara, Raghu Sharma and Harish Choudhary -- wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, offering to quit their posts and work for the party. Their resignation was on expected lines as they were holding dual positions – Health Minister Raghu Sharma is AICC in-charge of Gujarat; Revenue Minister Choudhary is AICC in-charge Punjab and Education Minister Dotasara is the Rajasthan Congress chief. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken, who arrived in Jaipur on Friday, was also present at the chief minister’s residence. Apart from the Congress MLAs, independents who support the government and MLAs who defected from the BSP to Congress also have expectations from the reshuffle. At present, there are 21 members in the Council of Ministers including the chief minister. There can be a maximum of 30 members in the Council of Ministers in the state where the number of MLAs is 200. A minister on condition of anonymity said, “There were nine vacancies, and three submitted their resignation yesterday, taking the tally to 12 but it is expected that two to three more ministers can be dropped. In addition to this, there are also possibilities of the appointment of a few parliamentary secretaries,” he said. Political analyst Manish Godha said the Rajasthan CM asking for resignations from all the ministers meant a major reshuffle of departments, promotion from state to the cabinet, and also being dropped from the cabinet. “This reshuffle is different from what Gehlot has done in his previous tenure as this time he has to discuss the changes with the high command. Even today his statement claiming that only Maken and the high command knows what is going to happen in the rejig, indicates that he does not have a free hand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-gehlot-collects-resignations-of-ministers-101637423246214.html
20-11-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath orders blankets, night shelter for poor as UP braves biting cold||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced a relief fund to the tune of ₹20 crore to ensure adequate arrangements for the poor, destitute, and homeless in the cold wave and inclement weather conditions sweeping the state for the past few days, reported the UNI news agency.Taking to his official handle on the microblogging website Koo, the chief minister addressed the citizens of Uttar Pradesh and said that with winter approaching, instructions have been issued to local administrations to distribute blankets among the needy across the state and make proper arrangements for bonfires at public places.“Winter is gradually upping its intensity,” posted Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister of UP, from his handle on Koo. “Instructions have already been issued to the local administration to distribute blankets to the needy across the state and make proper arrangements for bonfires at public places. No shortage of funds will be allowed for this work. Take care of yourself and your loved ones!”According to the UNI report, the amount of ₹20 crore has been allocated by the Yogi Adityanath government for lighting bonfires and distributing free blankets to the poor and the needy. Moreover, night shelters are also being established across the state, the government informed, adding that relief measures against cold weather are being rolled out in all the districts in pursuance of the instructions of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-orders-blankets-night-shelter-for-poor-as-up-braves-biting-cold-101637418014677.html
20-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: All Rajasthan ministers resign ahead of cabinet reshuffle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All Rajasthan ministers resign ahead of cabinet reshuffleRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday collected the resignation applications of all ministers in his council, ahead of a pending cabinet reshuffle. Read moreDelhi pollution: DDMA allows more people to use public transport systemThe DDMA said on Saturday that more passengers will be allowed to use Delhi’s public transport system in a bid to minimise the use of private vehicles. Read more‘My last ODI was in Ranchi, and..': MS Dhoni reveals where he wants to play his final T20Mahendra Singh Dhoni has seemingly confirmed that he will return in Chennai Super Kings colours in 2022. Read moreKangana Ranaut says Indira Gandhi crushed 'Khalistanis' like 'mosquitoes', police complaint filed for 'Jihadist' commentKangana Ranaut has shared another bunch of tweets about Indira Gandhi. The Youth Congress has also filed a police complaint against her for her comments. Read moreSchool reopening: How parents should mentally prepare childrenIt is important to counsel them beforehand about the changed norms as they may not be able to share tiffin and play freely with their classmates as before. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-all-rajasthan-ministers-resign-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-and-all-the-latest-news-101637418359652.html
20-11-2021||India||Bengal starts door-to-door survey to identify those who missed second vaccine dose||The West Bengal government has started a house-to-house survey to identify people who haven’t taken their second Covid-19 vaccine dose in time. There are around 1.8 million such people in the state, officials said. “We have started a house-to-house survey with the help of ASHA worker to identify people who have not taken their second dose. They will be encouraged to take their second dose as it is overdue,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, director of health services in West Bengal. Till date at least 1.8 million people in West Bengal haven’t taken their second dose on time. The maximum number of such cases has been reported from Alipurduar district in north Bengal where around 218,000 cases are overdue followed by 140,000 cases in Hooghly district. In Kolkata around 108,400 people have not taken their second doses. The gap between the first and second dose of the vaccine is 12 weeks in the case of Covishield and four weeks in the case of Covaxin. Almost 90% of doses administered so far in the country are of the first. Two doses of a vaccine are required for adequate protection against severe infection and hospitalisation, especially those caused by mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. “Among the people who haven’t taken their second dose a large portion comprise migrant labourers and central force personnel. Several central force personnel who had come to the state during assembly elections took their first dose here. Later they went back. Similarly migrant labourers who had returned to West Bengal took the first dose here and went back to the states where they work,” said Chakraborty. In October, the Union health ministry had written to several states, including West Bengal, which emerged laggards in administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, asking them to address the issue on priority. “We have stepped up the drive to administer the second dose. On November 16, while the number of first doses given was 241,568, the number of second doses given was 290,145. In October the number of overdue cases was more than 3.2 million. It has come down now,” said the official. At vaccination centres a separate queue is being maintained for those who are coming for their second dose to make it more hassle-free. Every day West Bengal is registering more than 800 new cases. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up after the festive season. “Covid-19 safety protocols were rampantly flouted during the festive season. Many were not wearing masks, leaving aside social distancing and sanitizing,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-starts-door-to-door-survey-to-identify-those-who-missed-second-vaccine-dose-101637421206305.html
20-11-2021||India||CBI files chargesheet against Anand Giri, 2 others in Narendra Giri death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed its chargesheet in the case of mysterious death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad head Acharya Narendra Giri against his disciple Anand Giri and two others, officials said.Narendra Giri, former president of India's largest organisation of saints, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Baghambari Math in Allahabad on September 20.In its chargesheet, the CBI has charged Anant Giri, priest of Allahabad's Bade Hanuman Temple Addhya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari with criminal conspiracy and abetment to suicide, news agency PTI said.A purported suicide note was recovered from the site of the incident, in which the name of the seer's disciples, Anand Giri, and two others were mentioned. All three are in judicial custody. The Centre had given the case to the CBI within days of the incident on the recommendation of the Uttar Pradesh government.The state government had recommend a CBI probe into the matter on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The Uttar Pradesh Police had earlier constituted an 18-member SIT which had arrested Anand Giri from Haridwar in Uttarakhand.Anand Giri has been lodged in Naini Central Jail in Prayagraj since September 22.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-anand-giri-2-others-in-narendra-giri-death-case-101637410090896.html
20-11-2021||India||Centre writes to Ladakh, Puducherry as Covid-19 cases see spurt||Owing to a rise in weekly cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), its testing and positivity rate, the Union health and family welfare ministry has written to the administration of the Union territories (UTs) of Ladakh and Puducherry, urging them to adopt pre-emptive action to tackle the situation.In a letter to the principal secretary (health) of Ladakh this week, additional secretary of Union health ministry Arti Ahuja said the Union territory has witnessed a 362% rise in weekly cases — from only 34 cases in the week ending on October 27 to as many as 157 in the one concluding on November 17.“Leh district has exhibited a significant increase of more than 362% in weekly new cases from 35 in the week ending on October 27 to 139 in the week ending on November 17. This is especially concerning given the geographical expanse of the district,” Ahuja wrote in the letter, according to news agency PTI.Also Read | Jammu and Kashmir sees two-fold rise in Covid deaths in NovemberThe government official also noted that the “basic public health strategy” of testing, tracking, treatment, covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination is “not followed rigorously.”“The current trends of decrease in RT-PCR testing, increase in new cases and case positivity if left unchecked may lead to a situation where there is severe strain on the health infrastructure and health workforce,” Ahuja’s letter added.Also Read | Night curfew in Jammu amid rising Covid-19 positivity rateAs far as Puducherry is concerned, the senior government official stated in the letter that the Union territory has recorded a 41.7% rise in weekly cases and the positivity rate has been prominent in multiple districts of the region.Karaikal, Yanam, Mahe and Pondicherry have specifically shown a sharp rise in weekly fresh infections. “All four districts Karaikal (27.45%), Mahe (1.59%), Pondicherry (32.57%) and Yanam (0.59%) have less RT-PCR contribution than the government mandate of 70%,” the PTI report added, quoting Ahuja’s letter.What steps have been suggested to the Puducherry and Ladakh administrations?1. Strict compliance with the basic health strategy, which includes “routine submission of RT-PCR positive samples” from foreign travelers and also from the community for genomic analysis at the designated INSACOG network labs.2. Collection of positive samples from suspected vaccine breakthrough infections, super-spreader events and clusters of cases, which have high mortality and/or morbidity rate, and sending them to labs.3. Maintaining sufficient level of Covid-19 testing for “timely detection of cases” across all districts, especially because the festive event is ongoing along with marriages.4. Prioritising second dose of Covid-19 vaccination and also strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour5. Daily review of Covid-19 cases and fatalities and promptly communicating “necessary corrective measures” to the concerned teams across the UT.6. Consistency in updating information pertaining to Covid-19 should be maintained by all districts of both Ladakh and Puducherry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-writes-to-ladakh-puducherry-as-covid-19-cases-see-spurt-101637419560924.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm unions say won’t end agitation until all demands met||Farm unions on Saturday said they would continue their agitation across states until all their “rightful demands”, including a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, were met by the Modi government. The farmers’ resolution comes a day after the Modi government said it would repeal the three farm laws cultivators say will jeopardise their livelihoods. A statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, said cultivators would gather in Lucknow in thousands for a mahapanchayat on November 22 to demand a legal guarantee on MSP. An MSP is a floor rate for farm produce meant to help avoid distress sale. The SKM also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for skipping any comment on the MSP issue, while announcing his decision on Friday to roll back the farm laws in a nationally televised speech. “While the Prime Minister of India announced his Government’s decision to repeal 3 black farm laws, he chose to remain silent on the pending demands of farmers,” a joint statement of key farm unions said. The SKM also demanded sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son had been arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. The farm unions said, besides a law on MSPs, they want all cases filed against farmers to be withdrawn unconditionally. Farmers will join in large numbers at all protest sites on the first anniversary of the farmers’ agitation on November 26, the SKM said. The farmers’ demonstrations at toll plazas and near Parliament for the entire duration of the winter session beginning November 29 will be held as planned, the farm unions said. On November 28, farm unions are also slated to hold a massive rally at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan under the banner of Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, where over 100 farm and labour organisations will participate. In his speech to the nation on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government would repeal all three agricultural laws enacted last year that had set off tough protests and street battles by tens of thousands of farmers. The laws the government said would be annulled were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on a written agreement. Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws comes ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. “The Modi Government has refused to acknowledge the high human cost that was imposed on the protestors due to its adamant and egoistic behaviour,” the SKM said in its fresh resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-say-won-t-end-agitation-until-all-demands-met-101637419766066.html
20-11-2021||India||Merely being in love doesn’t count as consent for sex, rules Kerala high court||While hearing a petition of a rape convict, the Kerala high court said that merely being in love with someone cannot be presumed as the victim’s consent for sexual intercourse, according to news agency PTI.In his order, Justice R Narayana Pisharadi said helplessness in the face of compulsion cannot be seen as one’s consent. He added that there is a massive difference between consent and submission, and every consent involves a submission but the converse does not follow.“Exercise of intelligence based on the knowledge of the significance and the moral effect of the act is required for consent,” PTI reported, citing the court order.The hearing was on an appeal by one Syam Sivan, 26, who was convicted and subsequently sentenced by a trial court under multiple sections of the IPC, including section 376 that deals with rape. According to the PTI report, the court in its order noted that in 2013, Syam took a girl – with whom he was in a relationship with — to Mysuru in Karnataka and had sexual intercourse with her without consent. It also noted that the convict sold all her gold ornaments, took her to Goa and then raped her again, saying he would commit suicide in front of her house if she didn’t go with him.The court further stated that even if on certain occasions, the victim didn’t resist Syam, it cannot be considered as her consent for the sexual intercourse but only a “passive submission…under unavoidable circumstances” since she had “no other option.”In its judgement, the Kerala high court, however, set aside the trial court’s conviction under the POCSO act handed out to the convict as the victim’s age could not be ascertained. However, the order of Justice Pisharadi said the accused’s act clearly comprises offences punishable under Section 366 and 376 of the IPC (Abduction and rape).This judgement by the Kerala high court comes two days after the Supreme Court on Thursday set aside the Bombay high court’s controversial order, which stated skin-to-skin contact was necessary to punish individuals accused of sexually assaulting minors. The high court acquitted a man of sexual assault charges for no ‘skin-to-skin’ contact in the case of groping a 12-year-old child.The apex court, however, said the most significant element to punish an accused under the POCSO Act is “sexual intent” and not “skin-to-skin” contact. It also ordered the accused to surrender within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/merely-being-in-love-doesn-t-count-as-consent-for-sex-rules-kerala-high-court-101637419057439.html
20-11-2021||India||All Rajasthan ministers resign ahead of cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday collected the resignation applications of all ministers in his council, ahead of a pending cabinet reshuffle. Citing Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who held the charge of the transport minister, the PTI news agency reported that all the ministers resigned during the meeting, with Gehlot accepting their resignation letters.“We have been asked to go to the PCC office at 2pm on Sunday where further instructions will be given by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, AICC (All India Congress Committee) general secretary Ajay Maken and PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) chief Govind Singh Dotasra,” the agency quoted Khachariyawas as saying.Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra, who on Friday resigned as education minister along with two other ministers, had moved a proposal at the beginning of the meeting following which all ministers resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-rajasthan-ministers-resign-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-101637418345551.html
20-11-2021||India||Rebel Cong MLA says Priyanka Gandhi ‘politicised’ issues in Uttar Pradesh||Rebel Congress MLA Aditi Singh said as far as the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and other issues were concerned, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the grand old party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge, has always “politicised” it. Highlighting that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched an investigation into the incident and the Supreme Court has taken cognisance of it, Singh pointed a question at Priyanka Gandhi: “If she doesn't trust these institutions, who does she trust?”As far as other issues are concerned, Singh said, a similar incident was demonstrated with the fiasco over the farm bills. “Priyanka Gandhi had a problem when the bills were brought, she had a problem even after the laws (the farm laws) have been repealed. What does she want? She should say it clearly,” asked Aditi Singh.Aditi Singh said that this sort of thing happens when people only want to politicise a certain matter. “She has now run out of issues to politicise,” the rebel Congress MLA reasoned.Notably, the incidents she is referring to include the violence that erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra's native place. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist, two BJP workers were also killed in the violence that ensued.Priyanka Gandhi took personal stock of the situation and said that she had met the family members of the deceased farmers and that they are in tremendous pain. A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the farm laws, Priyanka also urged the premier not to share the stage with Ajay Mishra, Union minister, keeping in mind farmers' interest.She also sought the removal of Mishra from his post over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which his son is accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-cong-mla-says-priyanka-gandhi-politicised-issues-in-uttar-pradesh-101637415142382.html
20-11-2021||India||‘Send your children to the border, then call Pak PM big brother’: Gambhir's dig at Sidhu||Cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir on Saturday criticised Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over his comments where he called Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan his ‘big brother’.“Send your son or daughter to the border and then call a terrorist state’s head your big brother,” Gambhir said in a tweet using the hashtags ‘spineless’ and ‘disgusting’.Earlier in the day, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday during his visit to the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan called the Pakistan prime minister his ‘elder brother’. “Imran Khan is my elder brother. I am greatly honoured. He gave us a lot of love,” Sidhu was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“I am thankful to Imran Khan for taking the first step and on the other side India responded with two steps. I already said that those favouring the corridor would have blessings and those opposing it had no value,” Sidhu said, further adding that both nations should resume trade ties. “ I request Modi sahab and Khan sahab to open the doors. Trade has a $275,000 crore potential,” Sidhu further added.Sidhu’s comments brought widespread condemnation from leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with some leaders asking if Congress leaders see Khan in the same light. The party spokesperson Sambit Patra said Congress considers Islamic State and Boko Haram ideologies to be akin to those of Hindutva but finds ‘bhai jaan’ in Khan. Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema called Sidhu's comment a ‘publicity stunt’ and said that it should be ignored.Sidhu’s remarks also angered his own party’s parliamentarian Manish Tewari as well. “Imran Khan may be anybody's elder brother but for India he is that cat's paw of Pakistan’s deep state ISI-military combine that drones arms and narcotics into Punjab and sends terrorists on a daily basis across LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. Have we forgotten the martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon?” Tiwari said in a tweet.Punjab minister Pargat Singh came to Sidhu’s rescue and questioned why the Punjab Congress chief is called a ‘traitor’ desh drohi whenever he visits Pakistan. “When PM Modi goes to Pakistan) he is a 'Desh Premi', when Sidhu visits he is 'Desh Drohi'. Can't I call you a brother? We follow Guru Nanak Dev's philosophy,” Pargat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/send-your-children-to-the-border-then-call-pak-pm-big-brother-gambhir-s-dig-at-sidhu-101637415890076.html
20-11-2021||India||MHA ranks J&K's Basantgarh as ninth-best police station in country||Basantgarh in Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur is the ninth-best police station in the country, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have informed, citing the annual rankings of the top 10 police stations in India by the Union ministry of home affairs. “MHA releases ranking of top 10 Police Stations of the country. Police Station #Basantgarh of #Udhampur district of our Union Territory, one among top 10 for the year 2021. Great achievement for the J&K Police,” the police department said in a tweet. The DGP J&K Sh Dilbag Singh has congratulated ADGP Jammu Sh Mukesh Singh, DIG UR Range Sh Suliaman Choudhary and SSP Udhampur Ms Sargun Shukla.“The DGP J&K Sh Dilbag Singh has congratulated ADGP Jammu Sh Mukesh Singh, DIG UR Range Sh Sulaiman Chaudhary and SSP Udhampur Ms Sargun Shukla,” it further said.According to the Union home ministry’s list, the Sadar Bazar police station in Delhi’s north district is the best in the country, followed by Gangapur in Odisha’s Ganjam. Bhattu Kalan in Haryana’s Fatehabad, Valpoi in north Goa and Manvi in Karnataka’s Raichur are at third, fourth and fifth respectively. Kadmat Island police station in the Union territory of Lakshadweep is sixth, with Shirala in Maharashtra’s Sangli in seventh and Thottiyam in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli at eighth. At 10, Rampur Chauram in Bihar’s Arwal rounds off the list.The list was prepared on the basis of a performance review of police stations, carried out by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-ranks-j-k-s-basantgarh-as-ninth-best-police-station-in-country-101637412195452.html
20-11-2021||India||'Expect Winter Session to function smoothly': Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Saturday that he expects Parliament to function smoothly during the upcoming Winter Session, set to begin from November 29, after the previous sitting of the House was washed away amid repeated disruptions by opposition parties over several issues including the farm laws. “The discussion will take place on all issues and the good work done by representatives in their constituencies will also be discussed,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier this week, Birla raised the issue of disruptions during parliamentary proceedings ahead of the Winter Session and said that a national-level discussion should be held with political parties to inculcate self-discipline among legislators.“We have to stop the increasing tendency of indiscipline, disruption and uproar in the legislatures. For this, we will hold discussions with the leaders of all political parties so that the proceedings of the House are carried out smoothly,” Birla said on Thursday while addressing the All India Presiding Officers' Conference, where a resolution was also passed under his chairmanship stating there should be no disruption during the presidential address and the motion of thanks.“We have to establish good traditions and conventions inside the legislatures, which will give dignity to our Houses and increase their prestige,” he further added. He also called for strengthening parliamentary committees to ensure ‘accountability of the executive’ and use their suggestions to make government policies more effective.Earlier, similar concerns were echoed by Union minister Anurag Thakur who said that discussions should be held in Parliament following decorum. “Papers can be torn up on the streets, but Parliament is meant for debate. We have to improve the quality of the debate,” Thakur said.The Winter Session, which will be the seventh session of the seventeenth Lok Sabha, will commence on November 29 and may conclude on December 23, according to a House notification. During the Monsoon Session, the opposition protests brought in several adjourned sessions as parties questioned the government over the alleged use of the Pegasus spyware on its leaders and others in the country and also the repeal of farm laws, a demand which the government has now accepted.The opposition, however, may still raise these issues along with issues related to Ladakh faceoff with China, the Rafale fighter jet deal and the ordinances providing for the extension of the terms of Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation chiefs.A report by HT showed that the Monsoon Session saw the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha function for 22% and 28% of their allocated time — lowest since the 2016 Winter Session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-expect-winter-session-to-function-smoothly-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-101637413425311.html
20-11-2021||India||Now, service providers can check a customer's Covid vaccination status on CoWIN. Here's how||CoWIN, the Centre’s online portal which allows a beneficiary to register and book slots for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), now has a feature which allows anyone to check a person’s vaccination status with the latter’s consent. “Now download the fully/partially vaccinated badge from CoWIN (cowin.gov.in) and share it with your friends on all your social platforms! Encourage your family and friends to follow you and #FightCovid,” Dr Ram Sewak Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority, said in a tweet. Now download the fully / partially vaccinated badge from CoWIN (https://t.co/Bt1DbmK6XH) & share it with your friends on all your social platforms! Encourage your family and friends to follow you and #FightCovid.My Vaccination Status - https://t.co/qpDd44vh5I#PublicHealth pic.twitter.com/q0uOk7ykKCTo avail this feature, one needs to go to cowin.gov.in, and then click on ‘Share Vaccination Status’ on the top bar or on the ‘Share Your Status’ button. Next, they will have to enter their registered mobile number and full name to get a one-time password (OTP). Then, the 6-digit OTP should be entered within 180 seconds, and, finally, the vaccination status will be displayed on the screen in the form of a ‘shield,’ with ‘Fully Vaccinated’ or ‘Partially Vaccinated’ written on it.Also Read | Want to know your clients' Covid vaccination status? CoWIN gives an optionThe status can be shared with friends and followers as well. The ‘shield’ will also appear when an individual logs into his account on the CoWIN platform.By following the same steps, service providers, too, can verify a person’s vaccination status, though they will need the customer’s mobile number and full name to do so. This feature is especially beneficial for people who may not have their vaccination certificates in digital or paper forms, and, therefore, can request service providers to verify their status by following these steps, if such a record is indeed required.CoWIN began services on January 16 this year, when the nationwide inoculation drive commenced. It is available in the following languages: English, Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam, Bengali, Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Punjabi, Assamese, Gujarati and Odia. The platform is owned and operated by the Union health ministry.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-service-providers-can-check-a-customer-s-covid-vaccination-status-here-s-how-101637409969183.html
20-11-2021||India||Rajnath warns Pakistan, says India will give ‘fitting reply’ if provoked||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday warned Pakistan and other adversaries, saying that ‘new India’ will give befitting reply to efforts made by them to destabilise peace in the nation.“Pakistan makes all efforts to destabilise peace in India but we have sent a clear message to them that we will hit back. This is a new and powerful India,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agencies. He was addressing the Shaheed Samman Yatra in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh.The defence minister announced that the Centre increased the ex-gratia amount provided in case of the battle casualties to ₹8 lakh. “Earlier, the ex-gratia amount for the battle casualty was ₹2 lakh which has been increased by four times,” Singh said.Rajnath said that India wants good ties with its neighbours and has never attacked any country. “India never occupied a foreign territory. Having good ties with neighbours has been India's culture but some people don't understand this,” Singh further added.Singh said that Pakistan has been warned that India will not deter from crossing over into its territory and do surgical and airstrikes if threat arises from its soil. “We have given a clear message to our neighbour on the western border that if it crosses its limits, we will just not retaliate on the borders but can even cross over into its territory and do surgical and airstrikes,” Rajnath Singh was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Singh without naming China said that there is another neighbour ‘who does not seem to understand things’.Singh also launched the second leg of the ‘Shaheed Samman Yatra’ and also announced that soil from homes of 1,734 martyrs' families in Uttarakhand will be brought in urns to be used in the construction of the Sainya Dham which will be built in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-warns-pakistan-says-india-will-give-fitting-reply-if-provoked-101637409344363.html
20-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Hostile air poses winter pollution threat in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Weather conditions to turn hostile, to intensify winter air pollution in BengalAfter Delhi, air pollution menace is now slowly engulfing West Bengal too. According to a recent report by IQAir, a Switzerland-based climate group, Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai are among the top ten most polluted cities of the world. Delhi topped the list with air quality index (AQI) at 556, Kolkata and Mumbai recorded an AQI of 177 and 169, respectively, at fourth and sixth position. Read MoreBJP slams Navjot Singh Sidhu's over his Imran Khan comment. He repliesCongress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday responded to the criticism levelled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over his comments on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib. Read MoreFarmers yet to withdraw daily tractor march to Parliament during winter sessionFarmer leaders on Saturday said that they were yet to withdraw the proposed daily tractor march to Parliament during the Winter Ssession. They said that a call on the future course of the agitation will be taken during a meeting on Sunday. Read More‘Already thinking about next T20 WC’: Zaheer impressed with India's 'proactive move' in RanchiThe second leg of the latest edition of the Indian Premier League played in UAE saw the rise of all-rounder Venkatesh Iyer. The 26-year-old Kolkata Knight Riders player amassed 370 runs from 10 outings and with the ball he scalped three wickets. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan on replacing Abhishek Bachchan in Bunty Aur Babli 2: 'As long as there is no bad blood'...Saif Ali Khan stepped into Abhishek Bachchan's shoes recently for Bunty Aur Babli 2. The film has raked in negative reviews from critics but fans had already dubbed it a disappointment when they learnt Abhishek would not be a part of it. Read MoreNasa wants you to guess nicknames of nebulae. Are you up for the challenge?Nasa often shares different posts on various social media platforms that are not only educating but entertaining. From talking about faraway galaxies to sharing information about our neighbouring planets, their posts are of varied types. Every now and then, they also share quizzes that keep people engaged too. Case in point, their latest video where they challenged netizens to guess the nicknames of various nebulae. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-hostile-air-poses-winter-pollution-threat-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101637408133411.html
20-11-2021||India||BJP slams Navjot Singh Sidhu over his Imran Khan comment. He replies||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday responded to the criticism levelled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over his comments on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib.The BJP hit out at the president of Congress’ Punjab unit after Navjot Singh Sidhu reportedly called Imran Khan his "elder brother" and alleged the grand old party sees terror groups like IS and Boko Haram in Hindutva but finds a "bhai jaan" in the Pakistan PM. It was a reference to Congress leader Salman Khurshid's statement in his latest book.A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of the Pakistan PM has gone viral on social media in which the Congress leader is heard saying that Khan was like a "bada bhai" to him and that he loved him a lot."Let the BJP say whatever they want..." Sidhu later said.
20-11-2021||India||Farmers yet to withdraw daily tractor march to Parliament during winter session||Farmer leaders on Saturday said that they were yet to withdraw the proposed daily tractor march to Parliament during the Winter Ssession. They said that a call on the future course of the agitation will be taken during a meeting on Sunday.“Our call of tractor march to Parliament still stands. A final decision on the future course of the agitation and MSP issues will be taken in a meeting of the SKM at Singhu Border on Sunday,” Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) core committee member Darshan Pal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The SKM, an umbrella body of farmers' groups, earlier announced that 500 farmers will participate in peaceful tractor marches to the Parliament on every day of the winter session starting from November 29. The farmers remain undecided on the tractor march even after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the farm laws owing to the protests by farmers’ bodies at Delhi’s borders.The SKM welcomed the stance taken by the government but said that it will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures.However, the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that the tractor march has not been withdrawn. “The SKM will decide on the call for a tractor trolly march to Parliament. So far, there is no call to withdraw it. A decision on this is likely to be taken on Sunday after the SKM's core committee meeting,” Ugrahan said. Farmer leader Sudesh Goyat was sceptical about the repeal of the three laws despite the announcement made by the Prime Minister.“Farmers cannot trust the Centre on farm laws as earlier too they had announced to give one rank one pension (OROP) but it is yet to be done. So, we have decided not to leave the site till these laws are formally repealed in Parliament. Mobilisation of farmers on Delhi borders on November 26 to mark the first anniversary of the agitation will continue,” farmer leader Sudesh Goyat told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-yet-to-withdraw-daily-tractor-march-to-parliament-during-winter-session-101637404038850.html
20-11-2021||India||Hyderpora: Official fears protests if third victim's body not returned to kin||Ramban District Development Council chairperson Shamshad Shan on Saturday warned of protests if the authorities do not decide on handing over the body of Amir Magray, the third person killed in the Hyderpora encounter and whose kin claim he was innocent, to his family members.Shan, however, welcomed Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha's order for a magisterial probe into the encounter which took place in Srinagar on Monday evening.After the bodies of two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter were returned to their families, the chorus for handing over the mortal remains of Amir Magray grew louder.Cutting across political spectrum, leaders from the mainstream as well as the separatist camp demanded that Magray's body be also returned to his family in the Ramban area of Jammu for last rites."We are not disappointed as we have full faith in the Lt Governor. We are awaiting his decision and I am hopeful that he will make one by this (Saturday) evening and return Magray's body so his final rites could be performed. But in case he does not take a decision, the situation will compel us to go for protests," Shan told reporters in Ramban.According to the police, Magray was a militant and was killed along with his Pakistani associate and two others. However, Magray's father Abdul Latief refuted the police's claim and appealed to the L-G to ensure justice for the family.On Friday Latief met the deputy commissioner of Ramban seeking the return of his son's body.Additional District Magistrate of Ramban Harbans Lal Sharma on November 17 ordered imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Magray's Famrote village, along with Sangaldan and Seripura, until further orders.Bodies of Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, two civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter, were handed over to their kin on Thursday night after they were exhumed following protests by family members that they were innocent and not linked to militancy as claimed by the police.Police had initially buried them in the Handwara area of north Kashmir's Kupwara district."We are thankful to the Lt Governor for ordering a (magisterial) probe into the encounter and returning the bodies of two other civilians to their families. Let the government do its job to unveil the truth but let it also return Magray's body. The law is equal for all civilians," Shan said."We have already petitioned the deputy commissioner of Ramban. This (Magray's) family is nationalist, fought militancy and was awarded by the government for bravery besides giving a security cover. It is difficult to think their own son will be declared a terrorist," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderpora-official-fears-protests-if-third-victim-s-body-not-returned-to-kin-101637403499189.html
20-11-2021||India||Indore earns title of cleanest city in India for fifth time in row||Indore has been adjudged as the cleanest city in India consecutively for the fifth time in the Swacchta Survekshan cleanliness survey. Urban development minister Bhupendra Singh Singh received the award in New Delhi on Saturday. Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) gave credit to sanitation workers as cleanliness was the biggest challenge during Covid-19.“During the Corona period, the sanitation workers kept the city clean working on sanitization, disposing of medical waste, setting up Covid care centres, covid testing and vaccination centre. The corporation employees properly disposed of medical waste. When the whole city sleeps, the corporation employees clean the city,” said Partibha Pal, commissioner municipal corporation, Indore. Pal also said that the IMC was looking at the pollution by taking care of dust as far as possible. “The roads and streets are being cleaned with machines by sprinkling water to settle the dust to control the air pollution. On every occasion whether it is Diwali or any other public function, sanitation workers made records of cleaning the city within hours,” she added.The major reason behind winning the award is the revival of 21.3 km Kans and 12.4 km Saraswati rivers by processing the sewage waste of 137.28 km. After 41 years, people saw clean rivers, said the commissioner. The 56-Dukan, a famous street for food, has been awarded to serve the cleanest street for food in India.“Now we are focusing on recycling and generating electricity with garbage. As of now, we are earning ₹20 crore from the disposal of garbage, composite fertilizers and CNG. Our focus is to increase the income to ₹100 crore from waste disposal,” said Pal Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated the public representatives and Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) for winning the title for the fifth time. Madhya Prades received 35 awards in different categories. Capital city Bhopal secured the seventh rank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-earns-title-of-cleanest-city-in-india-for-fifth-time-in-row-101637403087401.html
20-11-2021||India||INS Visakhapatnam, India's first stealth guided-missile destroyer, to be commissioned tomorrow||The Indian Navy will commission INS Visakhapatnam, one of the four stealth guided-missile destroyer ships under Project 15B, on Sunday at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.According to the Indian Navy, defence minister Rajnath Singh will be the chief guest at the commissioning ceremony of INS Visakhapatnam, built by the Mazagon Dock Limited (MDL)."We are ready for INS Visakhapatnam's commissioning. Our indigenous content is the highest today. After commissioning, we will continue with a few more trials and will be one with the fleet," Captain Birendra Singh Bains, the commanding officer (designate) of INS Visakhapatnam, told news agency ANI.The Indian Navy said in a statement that the commissioning of Visakhapatnam will “enhance our capacity and firepower to address the threats both in the above water and underwater domains.”"Visakhapatnam class ships, built with indigenous steel, are follow-on of the Kolkata class destroyers commissioned in the last decade. Designed by Directorate of Naval Design and built by M/s Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd, Mumbai. The four ships are named after major cities of the country, viz. Visakhapatnam, Mormugao, Imphal and Surat," the statement added.Also read | INS Vela, India’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, delivered to Indian NavyAmongst the largest destroyers built in India, INS Visakhapatnam has an overall length of 164 metre and displacement of over 7,500 tonne.Visakhapatnam—capable of undertaking multifarious tasks and missions spanning the full spectrum of maritime warfare—is equipped with an array of weapons and sensors, which include supersonic surface-to-surface Brahmos missile and Barak-8 long-range surface to air missiles.It also has medium and short-range guns, anti-submarine rockets, and advanced electronic warfare and communication suits.The destroyer is fitted with indigenously developed anti-submarine weapons and sensors, prominently the Hull mounted Sonar Humsa NG, heavyweight torpedo tube launchers and rocket launchers.Visakhapatnam ship can accommodate a crew of 312, has an endurance of 4,000 nautical miles and can carry out a typical 42 days mission with extended mission time in out of area operation.Also read | India’s stealth warship launched in RussiaThe ship is equipped with two helicopters on board to further extend its reach.The ship is propelled by a powerful combined gas and gas (COGAG) propulsion plant, consisting of four reversible gas turbines, which enables it to achieve a speed of over 30 knots or approximately 55 km/hr.The keel of Visakhapatnam was laid in October 2013 and was launched in 2015. The second ship Mormugao was launched in September 2016 and is currently in sea trials. It is expected to be commissioned next year.The third ship Imphal was launched on April 20, 2019, and is at an advanced stage of outfitting. The fourth ship is under block erection and will be launched within the current financial year.Four days later, the fourth submarine of Project-75 Vela is also scheduled to be commissioned by the Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-to-get-first-stealth-guided-destroyer-all-about-ins-visakhapatnam-101637401943324.html
20-11-2021||India||Assam to be a ‘laboratory’ for mother tongue-based education in India: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday said that there are plans to make the state of Assam a “laboratory” for a unique “caste, tribe, and language-based education system”.Speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the North-East Education Conclave 2021 in Guwahati, the Union minister said that all the northeastern states together inculcate as many as 180 languages – which makes Assam, a key state in the region ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), prime ground for implementing new educational measures.“The northeastern states have 180 regional languages and we want Assam to become a laboratory for a caste, tribe, language-based education system,” the minister was quoted as saying. “The government of India will prioritise every resource needed for this.”The diversity of languages cannot be witnessed better than in our NE region with about 180 languages being spoken by tribes residing here. The NEP has amplified the potential of language in education. Assam is going to be a laboratory for mother tongue-based education in India. pic.twitter.com/2QetCNkMz2Speaking of the North-East Education Conclave 2021, Pradhan said it is being held under the leadership of the Himanta Biswa Sarma-led Assam government and that multiple officials of the central and state governments alike are to conduct the two-day deliberation.The minister further added a word for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, highlighting the national education policy (NEP) implemented by the central government. “Prime Minister Modi has made the NEP a big instrument in the 21st-century transformative society,” Pradhan said, moments after inaugurating the programme in the presence of Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the state's education minister Ranoj Pegu, multiple ministers of the northeastern states, and other senior officials of the Assam education department.The Union minister said students are the greatest stakeholders in the national education policy, which was passed last year. “The NEP is focused on developing the desired learning competencies right from pre-primary, equipping students with 21st-century knowledge and skills, and preparing our youth to become global citizens.”Talking of Assam as a case in point, the Union education minister said that this might be the only state in India to spend as much as six per cent of its gross domestic product (GDP) on education. Moreover, considering the fact that bio-mass-based renewable energy has recently been of value in the northeastern region, the minister said that knowledge of such alternative sources of energy will be an integral part of the students' educational curriculum to expectedly pave the way for broader economic transformation.Assam chief minister Sarma thanked the Union education minister and Prime Minister Modi for their efforts to finalise a roadmap for the implementation of the NEP in the region. The chief minister said that the central policy will provide students with an opportunity to strive for “knowledge beyond their mark sheet”.The two-conclave in Guwahati has been organised by the education department of Assam and the Sankardav Education & Research Foundation to discuss the implementation of the NEP. Multiple officials of the education department, other state and central government officials, and multiple academicians were present at the inauguration ceremony, informed the Assam chief minister's office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-be-a-laboratory-for-mother-tongue-based-education-in-india-dharmendra-pradhan-101637399696469.html
20-11-2021||India||'You embodied explorer in all of us': Anand Mahindra's tribute to globetrotting Kerala tea seller KR Vijayan||Industrialist Anand Mahindra on Saturday took to Twitter to remember Kerala-based tea seller KR Vijayan, who passed away on Friday at the age of 71, and was famous for visiting 26 countries. Mahindra remarked that he was ‘honoured’ to have been associated with one of the 26 journeys that Vijayan and his wife Mohana went on.Also Read | Globetrotting tea-seller from Kerala who visited 26 countries dies“Godspeed, Vijayan. This is your next and most ambitious journey. You became the embodiment of the explorer in all of us. I was honoured to have been part of one of your earthly journeys. Om Shanti,” the Mahindra Group chairman tweeted. The businessman was referring to the couple’s 2019 visit to Australia, which he sponsored, after coming to know about them on social media. Godspeed, Vijayan. This is your next and most ambitious journey. You became the embodiment of the explorer in all of us. I was honoured to have been part of one of your earthly journeys. Om Shanti 🙏🏽 https://t.co/XoF2l93waxVijayan’s demise came nearly a month after he and his wife visited Russia, travelling outside India for the first time in two years, due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. They left for Russia on October 21 and returned home on October 28. They first travelled outside the country in 2007, to Israel, eventually earning the sobriquet of ‘travelling couple.’Also Read | After 2-yr break, globe-trotting Kerala tea vendor couple packs for next adventureVijayan and Mohana ran a tea shop for 40 years in Kochi’s Kadavanthara, and funded their trips from the meagre income from the shop. They were lauded by several celebrities including Mahindra, actors Amitabh Bachchan and Anupam Kher, and writer-politician Shashi Tharoor.Vijayan, who family members say passed away due to a heart attack, is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-embodied-explorer-in-all-of-us-anand-mahindra-s-tribute-to-globetrotting-kerala-tea-seller-kr-vijayan-101637400415808.html
20-11-2021||India||5 killed in house collapse in Andhra’s Anantapur district||Five persons, including two children, were killed when an under-construction building collapsed on the adjacent building in Kadiri town of Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district in the early hours of Saturday, revenue officials said.Kadiri Revenue Divisional Officer, K Venkat Reddy, said the incident happened at around 3.30 am at Chairman Street due to heavy rains that lashed the town in the last 24 hours. There were, in all, 15 persons trapped in the debris of the two buildings.“Immediately after the collapse of the building, three persons managed to come out on their own. We immediately took up rescue operations with the help of police, municipal and fire department personnel and managed to bring out nine others and shifted to hospital,” he said.Of the recovered persons Saidunnisa (3), Faridunnisa (2) and Fathima Bee (65) were declared brought dead while six others – S Habeeba, S Kharimullah, Gowtham, Uday, Gopi Naik and Raju - are alive and undergoing treatment in the area hospital, Kadiri.“There were still three others under the debris and we are trying our best to recover them from. We are using earthmovers to clear off the debris and rescue the victims. An NDRF team from Kadapa and an SDRF team from Kurnool would be involved in the rescue operations,” Reddy said.However, a police official said on condition of anonymity that two others also succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment. The details are awaited.Additional Superintendent of Police Ramakrishna Prasad and other senior officials are supervising rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-in-house-collapse-in-andhra-s-anantapur-district-101637399364784.html
20-11-2021||India||1.29 bn Covid-19 vaccines given to states so far, 216 mn still unused: Centre||The Centre has provided a total of 1.29 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses through a free-of-cost channel and through direct state procurement category to states and union territories. Of these, more than 216.5 million jabs remain unutilized and are still available with the states and union territories, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The health ministry said that the Union government was committed to amplifying India's vaccine coverage and expanding its scope to the far ends of the country.“In the new phase of the universalization of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union Government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75% of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to States and UTs,” the ministry said in a statment.The coronavirus vaccination drive has been ramped up with the help of increased availability of vaccines, its advance visibility to the states and UTs for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry noted.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost, it underlined.Notably, a total of 51,59,931 vaccine doses have been administered in the last 24 hours, taking the country's vaccination coverage above 115.79 crore, as per the ministry's reports till 7am on Saturday.India logged 10,302 new coronavirus cases today to reach 3,44,99,925 in total, while the number of active cases declined to 1,24,868 during the same period. The active cases remained below one per cent of the caseload. Meanwhile, the death toll climbed to 4,65,349 with 267 more fatalities.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/129-bn-covid-19-vaccines-given-to-states-so-far-216-mn-still-unused-centre-101637394413181.html
20-11-2021||India||Following Centre’s directions, IITs start quota-based faculty in senior positions||Following directions from the Centre, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), for the first time, started advertising quota-based posts for recruitment in senior positions i.e associate professors and professors. The IITs, having autonomy in the recruitment process, were earlier reserving posts while recruiting faculty at the entry-level of assistant professors.According to the previous norms, there was no SC/ST/OBC quota for recruiting at senior positions at the IITs for courses other than humanities and management. At the entry-level also, in case the IITs were unable to find suitable candidates for the reserved posts, they had the authority to de-reserve the post after a year. This has hit the diversity among teachers at the IITs.As per the data shared by the ministry of education in the Parliament in 2018, of the 6,043 faculty members working at the IITs, only 149 were from Scheduled Caste (SC) and 21 from Schedule Tribe (ST). A Parliamentary panel had criticised the poor representation of reserved quota candidates in centrally funded technical institutes last year.In November last year, the ministry had asked the IITs to extend the reservation to senior positions, and the institute had also been prohibited from “de-reserving” the reserved post after a year. As per the central law, government institutes are required to implement a reservation of 27% in teaching staff for OBC candidates, 15% for SC and 7.5% for ST candidates. In August this year, the ministry of education instructed all centrally-funded higher education institutes, such as the IITs, the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to fill all the vacancies including reserved ones in “mission mode”.Between September and November, several IITs, including IIT-Bombay, IIT-Delhi, IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Madras, and IIT-BHU, have advertised faculty posts at all the levels inviting applications to fill posts reserved for SC, ST, OBC, EWS, and disabled candidates. “(The) Institute specifically encourages applicants from SC/ST/OBC category as well as persons with disability to apply for these positions,” stated an advertisement published by IIT-D on its website calling applications for faculty positions at the professor and associate professor levels. Similarly, IIT-Kanpur in its advertisement inviting applications for various faculty positions said, “Reservation is applicable as per government of India norms. The institute also encourages applications from qualified women candidates...The reserved category candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.”A senior official at the IIT-D, who wished not to be named, said, “The IITs were already hiring suitable SC/ST/OBC candidates at the higher positions but now that the government has asked IITs to extend the reservation to all faculty posts, the institutes are trying their best to find suitable candidates and fill the positions. The major change this time is the revocation of the de-reservation system. What will happen if we are not able to find meritorious candidates on reserved posts? So far, we were able to de-reserve these positions and now it is not possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-centre-s-directions-iits-start-quota-based-faculty-in-senior-positions-101637397865225.html
20-11-2021||India||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Here are top 10 cleanest cities in annual govt survey||Indore has been awarded as India’s cleanest city in the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’, followed by Surat and Vijaywada. President Ram Nath Kovind conferred honour to the cities on Saturday at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) organised the ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’ event to felicitate the cities."Indore is India’s cleanest city for the 5th year in a row. Heartiest congratulations to the people, political leadership, Municipal Corporation, Swachhagrahis & Safaimitras for their exemplary commitment towards keeping the city on top," Hardeep Singh Puri, Union minister for housing and urban affairs, wrote on Twitter.Chhattisgarh was another major winner in the annual cleanliness survey as it was adjudged the cleanest state in the country. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was present at the event to receive the award. He dedicated the award to people associated with the sanitation system, government representatives, administration, and people of Chhattisgarh for “making it possible”.Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore is India's cleanest city for 5th time in a row; Surat and Vijaywada bags 2nd, 3rd spotHere’s the list of the top 10 cleanest cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2021:With the participation of 4,320 cities, the MOHUA said that the 6th edition of Swachh Survekshan has become the world’s largest urban cleanliness survey.“The success of this year’s survey can be gauged through the unprecedented number of citizen feedback received this year - over 5 crores, a marked increase from last year’s 1.87 crores. The 2021 edition was conducted in record time of 28 days despite several on-ground challenges owing to the COVID pandemic,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-awarded-cleanest-city-in-annual-survey-varanasi-tops-ganga-town-category-top-10-list-101637390051543.html
20-11-2021||India||‘The issue is far from over though farmers feel safer now’: Satyapal Malik||From Raj Bhawan of Meghalaya, Governor Satyapal Malik, who hails from West UP, had been vociferously opposing the contentious farm laws, repeatedly warning the Union government of their repercussions. In an interview to Hindustan Times’ Sunita Aron, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi withdrew the laws amid chaos and celebrations, the Governor said the government will have to relent on the farmer’s demand on Minimum Support Price (MSP). Here are the excerpts from the interview. Q: While holding a constitutional position, you have been opposing the government on farms laws? Do you think it’s proper? A: People actually don’t understand constitutional rights and obligations. In no way a constitutional position compels you to seal your lips. Even ex-president Dr Rajendra Prasad, despite holding a constitutional position, opposed Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s Hindu code bill. There are many such instances when Presidents have refused to be a rubber stamp. Thus, there is no restriction even on governors to air their views concerning public welfare. In any way, I was ready to relinquish my post, if so required, to raise a burning issue that harshly impacted the farming community. Q: Are we living in an era of reforms? Then why so much opposition to agriculture reforms when there is also a view that the farm laws would have helped the farmers in the long run? A: No, I come from the same community and fully understand the issues involved. Yeh kisan ki zammen ko hathiyane ka mudda tha ( It was an issue of forcibly capturing the land of farmers). Now, after the withdrawal of farm laws, the farmers will feel safe. Q: Does it seem your voice reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi? A: Yes, I am very thankful to the Prime Minister for taking a decision in the farmer’s interest at an appropriate time. I am equally grateful to farmers, who despite the hardships, kept their year-long agitation peaceful. Q: Finally, the issues are settled, though some farmers are reiterating their demand for legal sanctity to Minimum Support PriceA: The crux of the issue remains unresolved. Legal sanctity to MSP was their main demand and I don’t think farmers would relent or call off their agitation till it is done. Q: MSP was given some time in the late 1960s. Don’t you think some reforms are required over a period of time? A: Despite MSP, farmers still have to do large scale distress selling of their crop. Once MSP is legalized, at least price protection will be guaranteed. Q: You have been in touch with people in power as well as farmers. Will you again initiate dialogue on MSP? A: No, not immediately. Akalmand ko ishara hi kahi hota hai (hints are enough for intelligent people.) The government will have to eventually concede their demand on MSP also. Q: Did the government have the option to give MSP sanctity instead of back rolling the bills? A: Yes, the government had the option and it also knew nothing short of that would be acceptable to farmers. The farmers will not end their strike till they get MSP. Q: Why did the Prime Minister take one year to withdraw the bills? A: As Gujarat chief minister, Narendra Modi always favoured MSP but after his shift from Gujarat to New Delhi, his views changed. Q: What changed his views? A: I don’t want to define the reasons. Q: Do you think BJP would now harvest votes in the impending elections in UP? A: Yes, to some extent in West UP, as it would temper down the farmer’s anger and animosity against the BJP. In the rest of UP, there are other issues that the party will confront like Hathras, Lakhimpur Khiri violence, et al. Q: Are you planning to return to active politics? A: No, I plan to write books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-issue-is-far-from-over-though-farmers-feel-safer-now-satyapal-malik-101637395524710.html
20-11-2021||India||Varun Gandhi demands compensation for farmers, action against Teni||Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Pilibhit, Varun Gandhi, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider “appropriately strict action” against the Union minister who is connected to the violence that erupted in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 that left eight dead.Gandhi has also urged the PM to consider paying compensation of ₹1 crore to the families of the farmers who died during the year-long protest against the farm laws and sought a statutory guarantee of minimum support price for the farmers.Though Gandhi has not named anyone, his letter refers to the minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son, Ashish Teni has been named as a prime accused in the case and is in custody.In his letter to the Prime Minister, Gandhi has blamed “provocative” statements made by several senior party colleagues for instigating the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that left five farmers dead.“It is the result of such statements and the adversarial environment created around the movement that on October 3, five of our farmer brothers were crushed to death by vehicles in Lakhimpur Kheri. This heartbreaking incident is a blemish on our democracy. It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the union minister who has been connected to this incident so that there is a fair enquiry,” he wrote.He went on to say, “…Democracy runs on constitutionality, discourse and empathy. The famerss expect you to solve their problems in a sensitive and timely manner.”Earlier, the BJP MP shared a video of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where a car is seen running over protestors and demanded action.The BJP MP, who has in the past urged the government to take a lenient view of the agitation, has also sought to drop all “politically motivated false FIRs” that were filed against the farmers who were part of the anti farm law agitation for over a year.“I believe if this decision has been taken earlier, all these innocent lives would not have been lost. It is my humble request to you that while expressing condolences to the families of the farmer brothers and sisters who were martyred in the movement, a compensation of ₹one crore each be announced for them,” he said in the letter.On Friday, Prime Minister Modi announced that the government will set in motion the process of repealing the three farm laws that saw protracted protests by some farmer groups in Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP.Gandhi has also backed the farmers’ demand of making MSP legally binding. “There are more than 85% small and marginal farmers in our country for the empowerment of these farmers we have to ensure that they get remunerative prices for their crops. This movement will not end without the resolution of this demand and there will be widespread anger amongst them, which will continue to emerge in one form or the other,” he said seeking a statutory guarantee of MSP for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-demands-compensation-for-farmers-action-against-teni-101637394384956.html
20-11-2021||India||Watch: IAF Mi-17 helicopter rescues 10 people from overflowing Chitravati river||An Indian Air Force (IAF) Mi-17 helicopter rescued 10 people stranded in the rising waters of the Chitravati river in the Ananthapur district of Andhra Pradesh on Friday. Heavy downpours in some parts of Andhra Pradesh triggered flash floods, prompting rescue operations from the Indian Air Force, SDRF and Fire Services personnel.After the IAF received a distress request from the state government, the Mi-17 chopper took off from Air Force Station in Yelahanka, Bengaluru, reported news agency ANI. The helicopter reached the rescue site at a short notice after negotiating inclement weather conditions. In a video shared by the media coordination centre of the IAF, the helicopter can be seen carrying out winching operation to rescue people stranded on the top of a JCB machine.“Today, @IAF_MCC Mi-17 heptr evacuated ten people stuck in the rising waters of Chitravati river in Ananthapur district, Andhra Pradesh, in difficult weather conditions,” the official Twitter handle of IAF said.IAF evacuates 10 people stranded in overflowing Chitravahti river | WatchAfter rescuing all the ten stranded people from the overflowing river, the helicopter was recovered at Puttaparthi due to difficult weather conditions.Earlier this week, a heavy downpour causing flash floods wreaked havoc in three Rayalaseema districts and one south coastal district in Andhra Pradesh. Adjoining Telangana is expected to witness light to moderate rainfall at isolated places over the weekend due to a low-pressure area built up over the southeast and adjoining Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-iaf-mi-17-helicopter-rescues-10-people-from-overflowing-chitravati-river-101637392283863.html
20-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi's air quality stays in ‘very poor’ category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' category, may improve tomorrowDelhi's air quality continues to remain in the “very poor” category for the seventh consecutive day on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR), as the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) rose to 355 from 332 on Friday. Read more.‘Did you notice...?’: Chidambaram's ‘only under BJP’ criticism over farm lawsSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram targeted the central government for the sudden announcement of the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. Read more.Priyanka Gandhi asks PM Modi to not share dais with Union minister Ajay MishraCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in Lucknow, urging him not to share stage with Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni', whose son has been arrested in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Read more.Andhra rains: IAF evacuates 10 people stranded in overflowing Chitravahti riverAn IAF Mi-17 helicopter evacuated 10 people stranded in Chitravathi river of Andhra Pradesh. Watch.'Definitely up there with him': Uthappa believes 'incredible' Team India bowler can pair up with Bumrah in death oversRobin Uthappa heaped praise on the Indian bowler after the second T20I against New Zealand, saying that he possesses incredible skills and knows how to execute them in pressure situations. Read more.Keep winter dehydration at bay with these easy tipsWith the advent of winter season, our water intake may come down without us even realising as we may not feel thirsty as frequently as in summer months. Read more.Dhamaka: The latest bad Bollywood remake of a South Korean hitIt’s incredible but not surprising that Ram Madhvani managed to turn writer-director Kim Byung-woo’s superb 2013 South Korean thriller The Terror Live into a mediocre film. Read more.Woman makes dress out of recycled KFC packages, company appreciates creativityCombine sustainable fashion with a knack for creativity and love for food - what you get is a stunning outfit that is now going viral online. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-s-air-quality-stays-in-very-poor-category-101637391159012.html
20-11-2021||India||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore is India's cleanest city for 5th time in a row; Surat and Vijaywada bags 2nd, 3rd spot||Indore has once again bagged the award for being India’s cleanest city as President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday announced the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’ awards. This is the fifth time in a row the city in Madhya Pradesh has won the award in the sixth edition of the event.Surat in Gujarat, which grabbed the second spot in the cleanest cities’ list last year, has retained its position this year as well. Meanwhile, Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh has bagged the third position in the list. In 2020, Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra was adjudged as the third cleanest city in India.Chhattisgarh has been awarded cleanest state in the annual cleanliness survey while Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh has won the cleanest Ganga town in the Swachh Survekshan 2021’ awards.
20-11-2021||India||‘Did you notice...?’: Chidambaram's ‘only under BJP’ criticism over farm laws||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram targeted the central government for the sudden announcement of the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. Referring to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders’ remarks hailing the move, Chidambaram alleged that the announcement was made without holding a Cabinet meeting.“Did you notice that the PM made the announcement without holding a Cabinet meeting? It is only under the BJP that laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval,” the former Union minister wrote on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a surprise announcement on Friday morning, said that the central government has decided to repeal the farm laws that had triggered months-long farmers’ protests. The prime minister lamented that the government was unable to convince a “section of farmers” about the benefits of the legislation.While Opposition parties hailed the decision as a victory for farmers, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh lauded PM Modi for his “statesmanship” and “sensitivity” towards the welfare of farmers. BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda welcomed the decision saying the prime minister has shown that he has “immense care for our farmers”.“Where were these worthy leaders and their wise advice in the last 15 months?” tweeted Chidambaram.Farm laws repealed: Congress to hold victory rallies across country todayThe hasty passage of the agricultural Bills had drawn criticism from the Opposition MPs who wanted the Bills to be sent to a Parliamentary Committee for scrutiny. After failing to end the deadlock by holding multiple rounds of talks with the farmers, the government finally relented and decide to repeal the laws.Soon after the announcement, Chidambaram said that the decision was impelled by fear of elections rather than a change of policy or heart.“What cannot be achieved by democratic protests can be achieved by the fear of impending elections! PM’s announcement on the withdrawal of the three farm laws is not inspired by a change of policy or a change of heart. It is impelled by fear of elections!” he tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-you-notice-chidambaram-s-only-under-bjp-criticism-over-farm-laws-101637383647315.html
20-11-2021||India||India logs 10,302 new Covid infections, 267 more deaths in 24 hours||India's COVID-19 infection tally rose by 10,302 in a day to reach 3,44,99,925 while the number of active cases declined to 1,24,868 during the same period, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday.The death toll climbed to 4,65,349 with 267 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.Active cases decreased by 1,752 in 24 hours and now comprise 0.36 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. Also, the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.29 per cent, the highest since March last year, the Health Ministry said.The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 43 days in a row and less than 50,000 for 146 consecutive days.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.96 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 47 days. The weekly positivity rate was 0.93 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 57 days.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,39,09,708 while the case fatality rate was 1.35 per cent.So far, over 115.79 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country under the nationwide COVID-19 inoculation drive.India's COVID-19 case tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-10-302-new-covid-infections-267-more-deaths-in-24-hours-101637382554626.html
20-11-2021||India||Badrinath temple set to close for winter break today||Twenty quintals of marigold, lotus and other flowers were brought to decorate Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand amid grand preparations for its closure ahead of the winter break. The portals of the popular Himalayan temple will shut at 6:45pm on Saturday.A large number of devotees arrived at Badrinath Dham to witness the annual closing ceremony, which was announced on the occasion of Vijaydashami.Harish Gaur, spokesperson Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board had earlier informed that the auspicious time for closing the portals of Char Dham shrines was arrived at through astrological calculations by local temple bodies and priests.The doors of Kedarnath and Yamunotri were closed on November 6, on the occasion of Bhai Dooj as per tradition, while the Tungnath shrine closed for winter break on October 30. Gaur said that the Kedar Shri Madmaheshwar Temple will subsequently close on November 22 and Shri Madmaheshwar Fair will be held on November 25.More than 1.14 lakh pilgrims have visited Char Dham shrines that began on September 18 this year after the Nainital high court lifted the ban on the pilgrimage. The daily limit of pilgrims at the shrines was restricted to 1,000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-temple-set-to-close-for-winter-break-today-101637376870886.html
20-11-2021||India||'If your intentions are clear': Priyanka Gandhi asks PM Modi to not share dais with Union minister Ajay Mishra||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in Lucknow, urging him not to share stage with Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni', whose son has been arrested in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. The Prime Minister is in Uttar Pradesh capital for the DGP conference.“If your intentions are clear don’t share dais with union minister of state for home. Dismiss him,” Gandhi said in her letter to PM Modi...@narendramodi जी अगर देश के किसानों के प्रति आपकी नीयत सचमुच साफ है तो आज अपने केंद्रीय गृह राज्यमंत्री के साथ मंच पर विराजमान मत होईये, उनको बर्खास्त कीजिये।प्रधानमंत्री जी को मेरा पत्र। pic.twitter.com/5XNAmAjmvNAshish Mishra is among the 13 accused in the violence that claimed eight lives on October 3 under the Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. He was arrested on October 9 and is in jail. All the 13 accused are in judicial custody.A district court on Monday rejected Ashish Mishra's bail petition, saying the investigation is still on in the incident of mowing down of farmers by a vehicle and so the court did not find any genuine reason to release the key accused on bail.Last week, a forensic report confirmed that firing was done from the licensed weapons of Ashish Mishra, his friend Ankit Das and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale but there was no clarity as to when and where the firing was done.An official said that the report was not sufficient to say that the firing was done by the same weapons at the violence site as no one suffered a bullet injury in the incident.The Prime Minister, meanwhile, reached Lucknow after visiting Mahoba and Jhansi on Friday, where he handed over the indigenously developed light combat helicopter (LCH), drones and electronic warfare suite to the three services as part of the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv at a ceremony.After arriving at the Chaudhary Charan Singh airport, Modi went to the Raj Bhavan and paid floral tributes to the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi, according to a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-asks-pm-modi-to-not-share-dais-with-union-minister-ajay-mishra-101637382677434.html
20-11-2021||India||India to deploy two S-400 systems by early 2022, changes game with China||With the induction of at least two regiments of S-400 air defence systems on north and east borders of India beginning 2022, the Modi government will finally balance the tactical disadvantage faced by the military after PLA’s surprise May 2020 transgressions on 1,597-km Ladakh Line of Control (LAC).According to diplomats based in Moscow, the advance elements of S-400 systems have already started arriving in India with deep penetration radars of the two systems (in sequence) in place next month. The two S-400 systems will be operational by early 2022 to match the Chinese deployment of the same Russian system across the Ladakh and Arunachal LAC. Two Indian military teams, trained in Russia, are ready to operate the S-400 system, which has a reach of nearly 400 km into enemy territory.That India has been able to get two S-400 complexes in a short time is due to very close relationship between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is for this reason that President Vladimir Putin is making second exception this year to step out of his country to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 6. While President Putin has received guests at Black Sea resort of Sochi, the only time he stepped out of Russia was to meet US President Joe Biden on June 16 at Geneva. He has only held virtual summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping in June this year and will not travel to Beijing despite the two countries having an annual summit format on lines with India. Despite raging Covid conditions, Russia allowed Indian S-400 teams to train and opened manufacturing facilities shut down during spread of coronavirus pandemic in the past two years.When the PLA caught the Indian Army by surprise on north banks of Pangong Tso, Galwan and Gogra-Hot Springs on May 2020, it was quite evident that the Chinese had plans to unilaterally change the LAC by imposing an already rejected 1959 line on Ladakh. The Indian military was pushed on the back foot with the PLA retaining with troops and weapon systems who had come for annual exercises across the Ladakh LAC in 2020 spring.With men of 16 Bihar under Col Santosh Babu showing raw courage against marauding PLA troops at Galwan on June 15, the Modi government moved to correct the disadvantage that the army found itself on Ladakh LAC. First was the induction of T-90 tanks using Chinook helicopters on Ladakh LAC all the way up to Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) sector along with deployment of troops. Second step was the induction of omni-role nuclear capable Rafale fighters into the theatre with long-range air-to-air missiles to give air superiority and land attack cruise missiles. Third step, the most important one, was the brilliantly planned military operation that led to Indian Army occupying heights on south banks of Pangong Tso on August 29-31. With PLA’s Moldo garrison being threatened by Indian Army, the Chinese got the message and the two sides sagaciously decided to dis-engage from both banks of the saltwater lake. However, there was still a tactical mismatch with the Chinese threatening the Indian Air Force with deployed S-400 systems at Ngari Gar Gunsa and Nyingchi air bases in occupied Aksai Chin and across Arunachal Pradesh.With the induction of S-400 systems on Indian soil, the Modi government has a reply to Chinese missiles and air force in case of a worst case scenario. As one system will be deployed in north, it will take care of two fronts in Ladakh as the deep penetration radars of S-400 will be able to pick up any fighter or missile targeting India.While the Chinese and the Indian sides only reiterating their respective positions during the last round of WMCC this month, the Indian S-400 capability will make Beijing realise the futility of keeping forward deployments on the Ladakh and Arunachal LAC. Ensuring peaceful and tranquil LAC is the only way out for both the Asian giants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-deploy-two-s-400-systems-by-early-2022-changes-game-with-china-101637382419359.html
20-11-2021||India||'Don't have to convert anyone but teach how to live': RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said that there is no need to convert anyone, and exhorted moving forward together with coordination in order to make India a Vishwa guru. Bhagwat was speaking at an event in Chhattisgarh."We don't have to convert anyone but teach how to live. We were born in the land of Bharat to give such a lesson to the whole world. Our sect makes good human beings without changing anyone's worship system," the RSS chief said."Anyone trying to disturb the tune will be fixed by the rhythm of the country. We need is to move forward together with coordination in order to make India a Vishwa guru," he added.Bhagwat said that they believe that the entire world is a family.The RSS chief is in Chhattisgarh to attend a series of programmes by the members of the organisation.RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) had on Friday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to repeal the three farm laws, saying it "seems to be right" to avoid "unwarranted controversies and conflicts".The BKS, however, lashed out at the farmer leaders, saying their "arrogant attitude" to continue with their protest was not beneficial for small farmers.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions, spearheading the agitation against the three agriculture laws, has welcomed the prime minister's decision but said they will wait for the announcement to take effect through due parliamentary procedures.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the ongoing anti-farm laws protest will be withdrawn only after the three contentious legislations are repealed in Parliament and legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-to-convert-anyone-but-teach-how-to-live-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101637376224615.html
20-11-2021||India||‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’: President Kovind to award 342 cleanest cities shortly||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday will honour as many as 342 cities that have been conferred some star rating for being clean and garbage-free in ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’. The event to felicitate the cities, ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’ is being organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) and would take place at Vigyan Bhawan in the national capital, the ministry said.Further, the event will also pay tribute to sanitation workers by recognising top performing cities under the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’, an initiative earlier launched by the ministry to promote mechanised cleaning of sewers and septic tanks and preventing ‘hazardous cleaning’ in which a person enters them.“From surveying 73 major cities in 2016, 4,320 cities have participated in 2021, the 6th edition of Swachh Survekshan which has become the world’s largest urban cleanliness survey,” the ministry said. “The success of this year’s survey can be gauged through the unprecedented number of citizen feedback received this year - over 5 crores, a marked increase from last year’s 1.87 crores. The 2021 edition was conducted in record time of 28 days despite several on-ground challenges owing to the COVID pandemic,” it added.Highlighting the improvements in the performance of several states and Union territories, the ministry said that six states and six UTs have shown an overall improvement, ranging between 5% and 25%, in their overall ground level improvement.The ministry also said that source segregation of garbage has been started at over 1,100 additional cities. Also, close to 1,800 urban local bodies have started extending welfare benefits to sanitation workers. Meanwhile, with 1,500 more cities that have notified the ban on use, sale and storage of non-biodegradable plastic bags, so far 3,000 city administrations have implemented it, the ministry said. “All North East states have shown significant improvement in their citizens’ feedback – yet another testimony to how the Missions is reaching out to every citizen, including in far flung areas,” it added.The cities are usually rated using a star system and this year, 342 cities, an increase from 56 in 2018, would be given certificates under some star rating. This includes nine five-star cities, 166 three-star cities, 167 one-star cities.Hardeep Singh Puri, Union minister of housing and urban affairs, minister of state Kaushal Kishore, chief ministers and urban development ministers, 1,200 guests comprising diplomats, state and city administrators and senior officials, sector partners and brand ambassadors, NGOs and CSOs are scheduled to attend the event.In 2020, Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh, Rajkot and Surat in Gujarat, Mysore in Karnataka, Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra were given five-star ratings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-president-kovind-to-award-342-cleanest-cities-today-101637371544428.html
20-11-2021||India||Rainfall likely over parts of Coastal, South and North Interior Karnataka: IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in all districts of coastal Karnataka on Saturday, a day after an orange alert was issued for the region. According to the Met department, rainfall is likely over parts of coastal Karnataka, South Interior Karnataka and North Interior Karnataka.A yellow alert has been issued for the Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Koppal districts of the North Interior Karnataka sub-division. Heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over these districts, as per the IMD release.In the South Interior Karnataka sub-division, the weather forecasting agency has issued a yellow alert for Bellary, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga, Chikkamgaluru, Davanagere, Hassan, Kodagu, Ramanagara and Shivamogga districts for Saturday. The alert will remain active on Sunday for Bellary, Chitradurga, Chikkamgaluru, Davanagere, Hassan and Shivamogga districts.The Met department has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over these districts.Sabaraimala pilgrimage suspended for a day due to rain, red alert for Pamba damTelangana is expected to witness light to moderate rainfall at isolated places over the weekend due to a low-pressure area built up over the southeast and adjoining Bay of Bengal. K Nagarathna of IMD Hyderabad told news agency ANI that heavy rain is likely to occur on Saturday at a few places including Nalgonda and Yadadri Bhongir.Earlier this week, a heavy downpour causing flash floods wreaked havoc in three Rayalaseema districts and one south coastal district in Andhra Pradesh. The incessant rainfall left at least eight dead and many went missing in Kadapa district as the Indian Air Force, SDRF and Fire Services personnel rushed to rescue them.In Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district, nine people including four children died when a house collapsed Friday morning due to the heavy rains caused by a depression that crossed the coast of north Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh between 3am and 4am on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-likely-over-parts-of-coastal-south-and-north-interior-karnataka-imd-101637368839269.html
20-11-2021||India||Sabarimala pilgrimage suspended for a day due to rain, red alert for Pamba dam||Pilgrimage to the famous Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala hill in Pathanamthitta district has been suspended for a day on Saturday due to heavy rain in the district and the rising water levels in major rivers, including Pamba. The order was issued by Pathanamthitta district administration on Friday.Pamba, considered a holy river, is swollen and the Pamba dam (where red alert status has been issued) will be opened later in the day, said the district administration.The situation in other parts of state is stable.The Pathanamthitta administration said that red alert status has also been issued for Kakki-Anathode reservoir. "In order to ensure safety of pilgrims, it is hereby declared that the pilgrimage to Pamba and Sabarimala tomorrow (20-11-2021) is prohibited," the order issued by District Collector Divya S Iyer said on Friday.She said the pilgrims who have booked a slot via the virtual queue system will be given an opportunity for "darshan" in the nearest possible slot once the weather conditions turn conducive.Braving inclement weather conditions and the Covid-19 situation, hundreds of devotees have been trekking the hills to offer prayers at the Ayyappa temple since it opened on November 16 for the two-month-long annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season.Like the previous year, the devotees are being allowed through a virtual queue system this time also as part of efforts to regulate the flow of pilgrims in view of the pandemic and heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-pilgrimage-suspended-for-a-day-due-to-rain-red-alert-for-pamba-dam-101637370204460.html
20-11-2021||NA||Breaking News: Death toll in Andhra Pradesh floods rises to 24||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle: List of new ministers to take oath announcedThe list of new ministers set to take oath as part of Ashok Gehlot's government in Rajasthan in the cabinet reshuffle has been announced. Andhra Pradesh floods: Death toll rises to 24The death toll due to #AndhraPradeshFloods rises to 24: Andhra Pradesh Government pic.twitter.com/DOQXvmpXsoDeath toll in Andhra Pradesh floods has risen to 24, says state government.Rajasthan CM arrives to meet governor#WATCH | Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot arrives at Governor House in Jaipur, to meet Governor Kalraj Mishra. pic.twitter.com/4XZIJRZXTTRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot arrives to meet governor Kalraj Mishra.Telangana to witness moderate rains: IMDThe low-pressure area has become less marked and lies over south interior Karnataka as an upper air cyclonic circulation. During the next 24 hours, Telangana to witness light to moderate rains: K Nagarathna, IMD HyderabadKCR urges Centre to revoke cases against farmersWe urge the central government to withdraw the cases filed against the farmers during farmers' agitation: K Chandrashekar Rao, Telangana CMAll ministers in Rajasthan Council of Ministers tender resignations#UPDATE | All ministers in the Rajasthan Council of Ministers tender their resignations. A PCC meeting has been scheduled for tomorrow. https://t.co/U8E7j1u5VbAccording to a latest ANI update, all ministers in the Rajasthan Council of Ministers have tendered their resignations. “A PCC meeting has been scheduled for tomorrow,” ANI added.Delhi metro, DTC buses permitted to carry standing passengers to tackle pollutionDelhi allows metros, DTC buses to carry standing passengers in a bid to boost carrying capacity in public transport in a bid to tackle pollutionGrenade packed in box found on Bathinda-Amritsar highwayA grenade packed in a box has been found on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway, ANI reported quoting SSP Firozpur, Harmandeep Singh Hans. “We've called the bomb disposal squad for disposing it off. We've cordoned off the area. Anti sabotage team are searching the area,” he was quoted as saying.Death toll in Andhra Pradesh floods rises to 20The death toll in Andhra Pradesh floods rises to 20, while more than 30 people are still missing, ANI reported citing state government officials.Indian Navy drops relief material in flood-hit areas of Andhra#WATCH | Indian Navy drops relief material in various flood-affected areas of Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district (Source: Eastern Naval Command) pic.twitter.com/xZDMRa3acXIndian Navy on Saturday dropped relief material in several flood-hit regions in Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district, ANI reported.Hema Malini receives Indian Film Personality of the Year awardRenowned actress and MP Hema Malini receives the Indian Film Personality of the Year 2021 Award, at the 52nd International Film Festival of India. (Pic source: PIB India) pic.twitter.com/SvELdYKoxlActor and MP Hema Malini on Saturday received the Indian Film Personality of the Year Award at the 52nd International Film Festival of India. The event is being held in Goa.‘Deeply saddened…’: Congress tweets on Andhra floodingWe are deeply saddened by devastation caused by flooding in Andhra Pradesh. Our thoughts & prayers are with the families of those who have lost loved ones & all those suffering at this time. We urge all Congress workers in the state to offer any help possible.Indian National Congress on Saturday tweeted that it is “deeply saddened by devastation caused by flooding in Andhra Pradesh.”Earlier in the day, Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit regions in Kadapa and Chittoor districts, according to ANI.‘Disgusting, spineless’: BJP's Gautam Gambhir reacts to Sidhu's ‘elder brother’ remarkFormer Indian cricketer and BJP MP from east Delhi took to Twitter on Saturday to call Navjot Singh Sidhu “disgusting” and “spineless” for his “elder brother” remark on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. “Send ur son or daughter to the border & then call a terrorist state head ur big brother! #Disgusting #Spineless,” Gambhir tweeted.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi between Nov 22 and 25Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will visit Delhi between November 22 and 25, ANI reported.Priyanka Gandhi politicised Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Cong rebel MLA Aditi SinghCongress rebel MLA Aditi Singh said party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi always “politicised” Lakhimpur Kheri incident and other issues. “If she doesn't trust the institutions, I can't understand whom does she trust?” she was quoted as saying by ANI.‘Know your vaccination’ status enabled on CoWINA new feature called “Know Your Vaccination Status” has been enabled on the CoWIN app. Citing the Indian government, ANI reported that the feature will help in verifying or retrieving a citizen's “vaccination status/details” as oer the authorised rights of the “verifying entity” by CoWIN or Union health ministry. Read more here.OTT platforms to be part of International Film Festival for first timeThe 52nd International Film Festival of India has commenced in Goa from today onwards. This year will mark the debut of OTT platforms in the programme.‘Expecting the House to function smoothly’: LS Speaker Om Birla ahead of winter session of ParliamentAhead of the Parliament's winter session from November 29 onwards, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday told ANI that he is “expecting the House to function smoothly.” “The discussion will take place on all issues and the good work done by representatives in their constituencies will also be discussed,” he was quoted as saying by the news agency.‘That cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military': Manish Tewari reacts to Sidhu calling Imran Khan ‘elder brother’Congress leader Manish Tewari on Saturday asked if we have forgotten the martyrdom of “our soldiers in Poonch so soon.” “[Pakistan PM] Imran Khan may be anybody’s elder brother but for India he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms and narcotics into Punjab and sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K,” he tweeted.His reaction comes after Navjot Singh Sidhu calling Khan his “elder brother.”Reopening of Kartarpur Sahib corridor possible with efforts of PM Modi, Pak PM: Navjot SidhuWith the efforts of PM Narendra Modi and Pakistan PM Imran Khan, this has been made possible, says Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on the reopening of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor.Assam only state to spend 6% GDP on education: Union minister Dharmendra PradhanNortheastern states have 180 regional languages and we want Assam to become a laboratory for a Caste, Tribe, Language-Based Education System. Govt of India will prioritize every resource needed for this, says Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on National Education Policy.Assam govt might be the only state to spend 6% of GDP on education. Bio-mass based renewable energy has been of value in the north-east; it'll be inculcated into students' educational curriculum and play a role in its economic transformation, the Union minister adds.Pakistan makes all efforts to destablise peace in India: Rajnath Singh in UttarakhandDuring his visit to Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said that Pakistan “makes all efforts to destabilise peace in India” but “we have sent a clear message to them that we will hit back.” “This is a new and powerful India,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Earthquake of 4.1 magnitude strikes Assam's GuwahatiAn earthquake of magnitude 4.1 occurred today around 1pm in Guwahati, Assam, according to the National Centre for Seismology.1 terrorist killed in encounter in Ashmuji area of J&K's Kulgam, operation underwayAt least one militant has been killed in an ongoing encounter in Ashmuji village of Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam. The J&K police and Army launched a joint operation earlier today and two militants were believed to be trapped.SKM to hold meeting on MSP law, farmers' deaths tomorrow“We will discuss over MSP, cases registered against farmers and compensation for deceased farmers kin (by the Centre). Samyukt Kisan Morcha meeting will be held tomorrow,” Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni tells news agency ANI.BJP MP Varun Gandhi demands action against culprits in Lakhimpur incident; says MSP ‘in interest of nation’BJP MP Varun Gandhi writes to PM Modi "demanding a law on MSP; says "other issues must also be decided upon immediately, so our farmers can return home after ending their agitation." pic.twitter.com/F6RrQjP9udLakhimpur Kheri incident blemish on democracy, strict action must be taken against Union minister connected with it, Varun Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He also urged the government to accept farmers' demand of statutory guarantee of MSP in the interest of nation. “…demanding a law on MSP… other issues must also be decided upon immediately, so our farmers can return home after ending their agitation,” he said.Chhattisgarh adjudged India's cleanest state in annual surveyChhattisgarh has been adjudged as India's cleanest state, according to the Union government's annual survey.Varanasi bags top spot in cleanest Ganga town category in Union govt's annual surveyVaranasi has bagged the top spot in cleanest Ganga town category, according to the Union government's annual survey.Indore secures India's cleanest city title for 5th time in a rowIndore adjudged India's cleanest city for the fifth time in a row by Union government.President Kovind award Surat, Vijaywada for being 2nd, 3rd cleanest city in IndiaPresident Ram Nath Kovind confers Surat (Gujarat) and Vijaywada (Andhra Pradesh) for being the country's second and third cleanest cities, respectively.3 children, woman killed after building collapses due to heavy rains in Andhra PradeshThree children and an aged woman died in the Kadiri town of Anantapur district after an old 3-story building collapsed due to heavy rains late at night. Rescue operation underway. Over 4 people still trapped inside the building rubble, Circle Inspector Satyababu told news agency ANI.‘If your intentions are clear…’: Priyanka Gandhi writes to PM Modi seeking dismissal of MoS homeCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urges Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to share dais with union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni at the DGP conference in Lucknow.“If your intentions are clear don’t share dais with union minister of state for home. Dismiss him,” she said in her letter to the Prime Minister.India logs 10,302 new Covid infections, 267 more deaths in 24 hoursIndia's COVID-19 infection tally rose by 10,302 in a day to reach 3,44,99,925 while the number of active cases declined to 1,24,868 during the same period, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Read moreExplosion rips off railway track in Jharkhand's Dhanbad divisionAn explosion rips off part of railway track between Garwa Road and Barkana section of Jharkhand's Dhanbad division derailing diesel locomotive. Railways said it was a bomb blast, reports PTI.Chidambaram slams Centre over announcement of repeal of farm laws“Home Minister hailed the PM’s announcement as showing ‘remarkable statesmanship’. BJP President said that PM has ‘immense care for farmers’. Defence Minister said that PM had taken the decision considering the ‘welfare of the farmers’…Where were these worthy leaders and their wise advice in the last 15 months? Did you notice that the PM made the announcement without holding a Cabinet meeting? It is only under the BJP that laws are made and unmade without prior Cabinet approval,” the senior Congress leader P Chidambaram tweeted.Sabrimala, Pamba shut today due to heavy rainfallIn the wake of the continuous rainfall in Pathanamthitta and rising water levels in Pamba river pilgrimage to Pamba and Sabarimala is hereby prohibited for today ( 20th November) to ensure the safety of pilgrims, said district collector Divya S Iyer.The pilgrims who have booked virtual queues will be given the opportunity for darshan in the nearest possible slot once the weather conditions turn conducive. We request the pilgrims to cooperate by not undertaking the journey during this time, she said.Pilgrimage to Sabarimala suspended today due to heavy rainsFollowing heavy rains in Kerala, the pilgrimage to Sabarimala hill temple in Pathnamthitta district was suspended on Saturday. The district administration said that the river Pambha is swollen and dam would be opened later in the day. Devotees who had booked for pilgrimage today would be given another slot, the Travancore Dewasom Board said.Delhi's overall AQI at 355, in ‘very poor’ category says SAFAR-IndiaDelhi's overall Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 355 and in the 'very poor' category, reports ANI citing SAFAR-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-20-2021-101637369222071.html
20-11-2021||India||50 million people expected to observe gadget-free hour on World Children's Day: ParentCircle||Over 50 million people are expected to disconnect from their electronic gadgets for an hour to spend the time exclusively with their children today on World’s Children’s Day, according to the organisers of the #GadgetFreeHour campaign. Parent Circle, a parenting magazine, said in a statement that people of all ages have started spending more time on their mobile phones and other electronic gadgets since the start of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), adding that more screen time has become a necessity for families rather than a choice.As part of the campaign, a huge number of participants are "expected to disconnect from their electronic gadgets for one-hour on November 20 - World's Children Day - to spend the time exclusively with their children," said Parent Circle.The magazine has claimed that the initiative, first started in 2019, was a huge success last year as "more than a million parents and over 41,635 schools participating in the event.” It said that the campaign is gaining momentum with over 10 million impressions already on social media.“This year, #GadgetFreeHour is happening on November 20, 2021, with the number of participants set to exceed 50 million," it added.On the occasion of World’s Children Day which is observed to promote “international togetherness, awareness among children worldwide, and improving children's welfare”, the parenting magazine has invited everyone to celebrate the parent-child bond by participating in the #GadgetFreeHour drive between 7.30pm and 8.30pm.Iconic monuments and key parliament buildings including the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Qutub Minar were illuminated with blue lights on the eve of World Children's Day. The blue lighting was a part of Unicef’s #GoBlue campaign to highlight child rights and the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on children's lives.This year’s theme for World Children’s Day is ‘A better future for every child’.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-million-people-expected-to-observe-gadget-free-hour-on-world-children-s-day-parentcircle-101637365387205.html
20-11-2021||India||Families perform last rites of civilians killed in J&K gunfight||he bodies of two civilians killed in Monday’s gunfight in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area were buried in the city late on Thursday night after they were exhumed from a graveyard in Handwara, around 70km away, and handed over to their families amid protests in the Valley, the families of the two men and officials said on Friday.The bodies were exhumed in presence of a magistrate and handed over to families around 9 pm on Thursday and burial took place around midnight, the officials said. “Bodies were handed over to families after exhumation and burial took place smoothly,” Inspector General, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said.“My uncle #MuhammadAltafBhat taken for his funeral..thank you IGP Kmr, @Sandeep_IPS_JKP you kept your promise #JusticeforAltafBhat,”tweeted Saima Bhat, niece of Altaf Bhat.“We buried him at native graveyard in presence of relatives and family members. For us it is a big tragedy, which can’t be healed,” said cousin of Mudasir. Businessmen Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul were killed along with two terrorists in the gunfight in Hyderpora. Police maintained that the two men were “overground workers” of terror outfits and were killed in the crossfire. But their families said that the two were used as human shields. Police buried Bhat and Gul in Handwara in the absence of their families on Tuesday, citing “law and order concerns”. Officials asked families to restrict the burial to close relatives and sought assurances from them.Meanwhile, normal life was affected in the Valley on Friday due to a strike called by the Hurriyat Conference to express solidarity with the families of the civilians killed, officials said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-perform-last-rites-of-civilians-killed-in-j-k-gunfight-101637356436291.html
20-11-2021||India||Pratham wins Indira Gandhi Peace Prize for edu initiatives||Pratham, a pioneering civil society organisation that is dedicated to improving the quality of education for underprivileged children in India and across the globe, has been awarded the Indira Gandhi Peace Prize 2021.“The 2021 Prize is awarded to Pratham for its pioneering work over more than a quarter century in seeking to ensure that every child has access to quality education, for its innovative use of digital technology to deliver education, for its programs to provide skills to young adults, for its regular evaluation of the quality of education, and for its timely response in enabling children to learn during the Covid-19 – related school closures,” a statement issued by Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust said.“Pratham seeks to prevent children from dropping out of school, with special programs, especially for girls and women aimed at giving them a second chance to complete their education,” the statement added.Set up in 1995 by Mrs Farida Lambay and Dr Madhav Chavan in Mumbai, Pratham began its work in slum areas by setting up community-based pre-schools and by offering remedial education to students who lagged behind in their classes. Its outreach in India has now expanded to an average of one million children directly and to five million through government partnerships annually.Thanking the international jury and their supporters for the recognition, foundation tweeted: “The Pratham team would like to thank the jury and all our supporters across the globe for recognizing our work! #team #education #development.”The foundation’s Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), with the latest one being released on Wednesday, serves as a model to assess education outcomes and learning deficiencies across 14 countries in three continents. ASER 2021 is based on a survey conducted by the education foundation in 25 states and Union territories. This year, the survey, which covered a total of 76,706 households and 75,234 children between the age group of five to 16 years, said that between 2018 and 2021, government schools saw an increase in the proportion of enrolled students for all ages and grades.The Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development was instituted in the memory of the former prime minister by a trust in her name in 1986. It consists of a monetary award of ₹25 lakh along with a citation. The jury is chaired by former Chief Justice of India, Justice T.S. Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratham-wins-indira-gandhi-peace-prize-for-edu-initiatives-101637354988840.html
20-11-2021||India||Madras HC grants bail to DMK MP in murder case||The Madras high court on Friday granted bail to DMK member of parliament T R V S Ramesh, who was arrested last month in connection with the death of a 60 year-old employee in his cashew factory in September.Ramesh, representing Cuddalore in the Lok Sabha, had surrendered before a local court in the murder case probed by the CB-CID last month.Justice M Nirmal Kumar granted the relief while passing orders on a bail application from Ramesh.Originally, a case was registered by Kadampuliyur police against Ramesh. Later it was transferred to the CB-CID as he was arrayed as the prime accused. The charge of murder of an employee in his factory, Govindarasu (60), was also incorporated. Following this, he surrendered before a judicial magistrate in Panruti on October 11 and was remanded to judicial custody. He was also subjected to custodial interrogation by police.Ramesh submitted that the substantial portion of investigation was already completed and all the named and unnamed accused of the case were arrested. He had voluntarily surrendered before the court of law and later subjected himself to custodial interrogation. The prime apprehension of the complainant that the post-mortem would not be conducted and documented fairly upon which the entire case hinges upon, was taken care of by the judicial orders passed by the high court. The post-mortem was conducted in the presence of a team of doctors of JIPMER in Puducherry and the representatives of the complainant and properly documented. All preliminary investigation steps have already been duly carried out and under those circumstances, there was no legal or logical necessity for keeping him in judicial custody, he submitted. The employee had committed suicide and his political opponents were attempting to project it as a case of homicide, he contended. As an MP, he has to discharge the democratic functions attached to his office, Ramesh said and claimed he was suffering from acute hypertension and diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-grants-bail-to-dmk-mp-in-murder-case-101637349201780.html
20-11-2021||India||Four children among 9 die in Tamil Nadu as house collapses in downpour||Nine people, including four children, died when a house in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district collapsed on Friday morning due to the heavy rains since Thursday caused by a depression that crossed the coast of north Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh in the wee hours between 3am and 4am, officials said. District collector P Kumaravel Pandian said that the house was very old and that it was located along the banks of a river near Pernampet. “Four people resided in this house and as the rains got heavier people from adjacent houses moved to the first floor of this house on Thursday night for shelter,” the collector said. This locality was severely flooded. “The house was already in a dangerous condition because it is old and due to rains, it weakened further and around 7.15 this morning the house collapsed,” the collector said. Among the four children who were crushed to death, three of them are girls. Several others have also been injured in the collapse and are receiving treatment at Gudiyatham Government Hospital and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai.Chief minister M K Stalin in a statement announced a financial assistance of ₹5 lakh each to the bereaved families and ₹50,000 each for those undergoing treatment. Besides this tragic accident, no other major damage and loss to life was reported in other parts of the state.“The red alert issued to all the districts is being withdrawn,” S Balachandran, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai said at a press conference. The IMD had issued a red alert to 16 districts including Chennai until November 18.In a bulletin, the RMC said that at 11.30 am on Friday, “The Depression over north Tamil Nadu moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a well marked low pressure area over north interior Tamil Nadu and adjoining Karnataka and Rayalaseema.” On Friday the amount of rainfall received in different parts of the state was Chennai- 5cm, Chengalpattu- 6 cm, Villupuram- 22 cm, Tiruvannamalai- 15 cm and the adjacent union territory of Puducherry was also lashed with 19cm. On Friday, the union government released a list of the seven-member team, led by Rajiv Shukla, Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor National Intelligence Grid, Union Ministry of Home Affairs who will be in Tamil Nadu to assess the damage due to the rains.The situation was worse during the previous heavy rains overnight between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 when Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively and normal life was thrown out of gear. Kanyakumari district was severely flooded after it received 83.96 cm rainfall from October 1 to November 15 while 38.99 cm is the average it receives. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall during this north east monsoon season. Due to the damage caused by these rains in which 54 people lost their lives and there has been heavy crop loss in the delta districts, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday sought ₹2629 crore as central aid from union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-children-among-9-die-in-tamil-nadu-as-house-collapses-in-downpour-101637349131833.html
20-11-2021||India||‘It is a responsive govt:’ Karnataka CM Bommai on repeal of three farm laws||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government’s decision to repeal the three controversial farm laws is the “response of a responsive government at the Centre to the demand of the farmers.” “The laws were part of the intent of the Union government to bring reforms in (the) agriculture sector and agri-marketing in accordance with WTO agreement signed during the UPA government. It was the UPA government that prepared the draft of the farm laws. The draft was revised by incorporating suggestions from state governments,” Bommai said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday, announced a rollback of the three farm laws at the heart of yearlong protests by farmers. Since November last year, farmers have been protesting along Delhi borders against the three farm laws since they were passed by the central government in 2020. The BJP government in Karnataka implemented the laws in the state, which was met with stiff resistance.“The laws had provisions for farmers to sell their produce directly to buyers. However, farmers largely in Punjab and Haryana were agitating for the continuation of (the) regulated market system,” Bommai said.Reacting to the prime minister’s decision, the Samyukta Horata-Karnataka (SHK), an umbrella organisation of multiple farmer groups in the state, demanded the Bommai-led government, too, must repeal other contentious laws, including amendments to the APMC Act, land and labour reforms and implement minimum support price (MSP).“The Samyukta Horata-Karnataka will continue its protests until the centre ensures MSP, withdraw the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and state government’s land reforms act, APMC Act, anti-cow slaughter amendment, labour reforms, stopping privitisation of public enterprises, control on price rise of essential commodities, compensation for crop damages due to incessant rains, (against) the reduction of milk prices and other demands are met,” the SHK said in a statement on Friday.The opposition in Karnataka also reacted to Modi announcement. “Now that @BJP4India has finally realised their mistake & withdrawn anti-farmer laws. It is time to give justice to the farmers who (were) martyred during the struggle. I urge @PMOIndia to announce ₹25 lakh to the deceased farmers. Farmers have finally got their independence!!” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.“This is the outcome of democracy!! No matter how strong a dictator is, he will have to finally bow down to people in democracy. Freedom for Farmers!!” he added in another post.“Given the delay in the repeal which led to the loss of precious lives, the government must acknowledge that 700+ farmers who died in this long struggle were martyrs. It must also ensure compensation and government jobs for their family members,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president, said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-a-responsive-govt-karnataka-cm-bommai-on-repeal-of-three-farm-laws-101637348951621.html
20-11-2021||India||Fintech task force to be set up: Karanataka minister Narayan at tech summit||Karnataka’s minister for Information Technology and Biotechnology Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Friday announced the constitution of a fintech task force to attract investments in the financial sector.“The government plans to set up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) and a back office in Mangaluru for the purpose,” Narayan said on the last day of the three-day Bengaluru Tech Summit on Friday.He stated that over 50,000 people participated in the event and the state attracted investments to the tune of ₹5000 crore.The minister also said that the government would initiate a ‘Start-up Silicon Valley Bridge’ to facilitate skilled employees of the state to work for startups located in USA’s silicon valley, which are facing human resource shortage.Bengaluru is among the world’s biggest ecosystems for startups and has attracted huge venture capital funds raising prospects for employment and growth of a city that is already known as India’s technology capital.The city has seen the rise and growth of 11,000 startups and attracting venture capital funds to the tune of $28 billion in recent times, Meena Nagaraj CN, Director, Dept. of Electronics, IT, BT and MD, KITS, said on Thursday.The state government has been trying to get industries, investors and businesses to look beyond Bengaluru but with relatively low success so far.Narayan said that a million people had changed jobs in the last six months and another 400,000 candidates were getting ready for employment. He said for the first time, the government of Karnataka conducted pre-events in the cities of Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Mysuru in the run-up to the BTS 2021 to promote the concept of industries going beyond Bengaluru. “Tech Summit was held in these clusters with strong participation notwithstanding the pandemic,” he said.The Bengaluru Tech Summit for 2022 is expected to be held between November16-18 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fintech-task-force-to-be-set-up-karanataka-minister-narayan-at-tech-summit-101637348894282.html
20-11-2021||India||Anti-conversion bill: Bengaluru Archbishop opposes proposed law||Archbishop of Bengaluru Reverend Peter Machado on Friday urged the Basavaraj Bommai-led government not to bring in the proposed anti-conversion bill as it was “undesirable and discriminatory”. “The entire Christian community in Karnataka opposes the proposal of (the) Anti-Conversion Bill in one voice and question(s) the need for such an exercise when sufficient laws and court directives are in place to monitor any aberration of the existing laws,” Machado said. The statements come even as Bommai and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continue to insist on introducing the law that restricts and penalises forcible conversions. Kota Shrinivas Poojari, the minister for Social Welfare, Backward Classes Welfare Department, Dinakar Keshav Shetty, the chairman of the committee and Goolihatti Shekar could not be reached for comment. The issue of forcible conversions revived momentum after BJP legislator Goolihatti Shekar made an appeal to stop the practice to which his mother, he claimed, had also fallen “victim”. He had claimed that people from marginalised communities and even muslims were converted or they were slapped with false charges. He said that around 15,000-20,000 people in his constituency were possibly converted. Shekar had presided over an event in which at least five families “were brought back” into the Hindu fold, including his mother--a practice that is commonly referred to as “Ghar Wapsi”. The Archbishop also asked the government to let go of any attempt to survey churches and missionaries. “The Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department of Government of Karnataka have issued an order to conduct a survey of both official and non-official Christian Missionaries and the institutions and establishments functioning in the state. When all the relevant data is already available (through the census) with the government, why do we need yet another futile exercise?” Machado said on Friday in a statement. He said that such an exercise would be detrimental to the peace and harmony of the state. “Why only Christian community is targeted and marked for this arbitrary, fallacious and illogical move? what is the motive that is driving them to do so?” he wrote. The legislative committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare has ordered a survey of authorised and unauthorised churches and their personnel, HT had reported on October 15. The developments come at a time when there has been hate crimes reported from across the state and country with fundamentalist groups mobilising support for such causes to “safeguard” their respective religions. Several other states in the country have introduced laws to prevent forced conversions. There have been allegations, especially against large christian missionaries, who lure weak, oppressed and other people to convert with the promise of monetary and other rewards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticonversion-bill-bengaluru-archbishop-opposes-proposed-law-101637348893216.html
20-11-2021||India||Poor drainage system and planning to be blamed for flooding in Bengaluru: Experts||Outdated stormwater drains and lack of proper planning are some of the main reasons cited by experts why Bengaluru continues to witness flooding every year after a heavy spell of rain. On Friday as well, several areas were flooded after 80.4 mm rain lashed the city on Thursday night. In October as well, flooding had left a trail of destruction, misery, and suffering for people living in low-lying regions of the city and other places where drains and lakes have overflowed into the homes and basements, residents claim.Experts said that the short term planning can no longer help Bengaluru and complete rehaul in preparedness is needed to tackle changing weather patterns.Urban planner V Ravichandar said unless a change in stormwater drainage is brought about, the situation in the city is going to be difficult. “Our growth is unplanned and rampant. We have occupied several low-lying areas in the city and these areas don’t have a stormwater drain. A relook at the drainage system is much needed now,” he said.Ashwin Mahesh, an urban planning expert, said that a fundamental change is needed in the idea of transporting rainwater through stormwater drains. According to him, the design of the city stormwater drains is wrong. “Water moves faster in a cylindrical space than rectangular space. It is scientifically proven. Except for the TenderSure roads in Bengaluru, we have rectangular drainages. Apart from transporting we should use socking pits to absorb water locally,” he said.With similar rainfall expected for two more days, officials said that the city could witness more flooding. “The rains are predicted to continue for two more days due to the weather system in the Bay of Bengal. After Saturday, the rains are expected to reduce,” said Geeta Agnihotri, director-in-charge of IMD Bengaluru.BBMP control room officials said that so far no tree fall incidents have been reported in the city. On Friday, at least 17 roads in Bengaluru witnessed water logging said the control room officials. According to them, teams have been deployed across all BBMP zones to clear waterlogging and remove fallen trees.According to Indian Meteorological Department, 80.4 mm rain is much above the average rainfall for November 18, which is 2.3 mm. Bengaluru received 1,000 % more rainfall than average in seven days from November 11 to November 17, according to IMD data. The average weekly rainfall in Bengaluru during November is 10.7 mm, but in the last week, the city received 118.1 mm of rain, as per the data.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday chaired a meeting with district administration to review the situation in the state due to incessant rainfall since the last week and also took up relief measures. In a bid to address the issue of flooding, Bommai has proposed that the government will initiate a rehabilitation programme for those living in flood-affected areas in the city.The chief minister has also ordered a survey to identify vulnerable areas and alternate land for those who will be rehabilitated, however, officials in BBMP think it is not practical. “We have to remove people from some of the prime areas of Bengaluru. Yes, these are low-lying areas with a serious problem, but removing all residents and giving compensation is not practical,” said a senior BBMP official who didn’t want to be named.Sharada Iyer, a business consultant and resident of Koramangala, one of the low lying areas in the city said they have not heard from the officials about any rehabilitation plans. “How can the government talk about removing us. This is not a well thought out plan. The government needs to focus on improving the infrastructure, especially the stormwater drains,” she said.On September 15, 2021, the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) had pulled up the agencies for inefficiency in identifying and managing stormwater drains (SWDs) in the city. A performance audit report tabled in the legislative assembly on Wednesday mentioned lack of financial discipline, shoddy mapping of SWDs and tertiary drains, lack of documents related to various works taken up, and failure to clear lake and SWD encroachments.“There were discrepancies between the figures exhibited in the budget estimates and actual expenditure recorded in the cash book. This indicated the lack of reconciliation mechanism and correct reporting of expenditure, and exposes the financial indiscipline reigning in BBMP,” the report said.It also added that out of the 1,988 encroachments identified by BBMP, 1,225 were declared to be removed. However, evictions were incomplete and did not improve the condition of drains.Bengaluru’s stormwater drain network is over 850km. While it’s supposed to channel storm water during the rains and remain empty rest of the year, the reality is different, with the drains filled with sewage and garbage, said Naresh Narasimhan, architect, and urban activist. “I’m also beginning to think there is an intellectual vacuum in the government. There are urban experts, but they are not in governance,” he said.BBMP in response said that under K-100, storm water drains are in the process of getting a facelift as part of the ₹160-crore ‘Citizens Water Way Project’. The project, with a deadline of 10 months, has been envisaged to establish the major drain as a waterway and ecological corridor, and was taken up on the lines of the ‘Sabarmati River Waterfront’ project in Gujarat, said a statement from BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-drainage-system-and-planning-to-be-blamed-for-flooding-in-bengaluru-experts-101637348833009.html
20-11-2021||India||Political parties look to change narrative in poll-bound Uttarakhand||The decision of the central government to repeal the three controversial farm laws could provided some reprieve to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttarakhand, where it would be battling with opposition Congress to retain power in next February-March assembly elections, according to political experts and local farm leaders.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday, announced a rollback of the three farm laws at the heart of yearlong protests by farmers. Since November last year, farmers have been protesting along Delhi borders against the three farm laws since they were passed by the central government in 2020.The imposition of three farm laws was a major issue in Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar districts, which has sizeable Sikh and Punjabi farmer population, and the ruling BJP had been trying to counter the Congress campaign in the districts.With the BJP getting a cushion against the Congress onslaught, political analysts said that “the decision won’t immediately turn the election tide in favour of ruling BJP, but much will also depend on how the Congress exploit the changed scenario in the state.” They also say that the farmers agitation issue impacts all the nine constituencies of US Nagar district and at least seven of the 11 constituencies of Haridwar district.Political analyst SMA Kazmi, who has been monitoring the state politics for over two decades, said with the PM Narendra Modi’s announcement, the “opposition Congress lost a potent issue for the elections.”“Friday’s development is very significant considering the upcoming elections in the state. The repealing of the three controversial farm laws had definitely caused a dent in the Congress campaign as it has now lost a potent issue which it was raising and had planned to play up in the upcoming elections,” said Kazmi.He said that the party will now have to rethink its strategy on how to exploit the changed scenario now.“The Congress still has chance to exploit it by going among the farmers and speak about the deaths of their fellow farmers during the agitation against the farm laws. It should raise questions against the BJP... of course lot will depend on how the party is able to exploit the development in its favour because there’s a lot of factionalism inside the party,” said Kazmi.Kazmi, however, said there may not be “major and immediate” benefit for the BJP.“If the BJP thinks that it will benefit them in the upcoming polls then they are wrong especially in the US Nagar district which hosts a significant number of Sikhs. It is because the Sikhs won’t forget their demonisation by the BJP leaders who called the farmers Khalistanis, terrorists and other derogatory terms. They will also will also question the BJP on the death of farmers during the agitation,” said Kazmi.Another political commentator Jai Singh Rawat said the BJP may not gain much.“It won’t happen that easily because the BJP is now in backfoot. It will be difficult for their leader now to take credit for the repealing of the laws which they were earlier terming beneficial for the farmers. They will definitely have to chalk out a fresh strategy on how to exploit the issue in their favour,” said Rawat.The farmer leaders welcomed the announcement and said that they won’t end the agitation.Tejinder Virk, national president of Terai Kisan Union, said, “We welcome the move of Centre to repeal it...It is a result of the ultimate sacrifice made by about 700 farmers during the agitation. However, our agitation won’t end with this as we are still waiting for a solution on other issues including MSP and power supply. We will also wait to end the agitation till the farm laws are repealed in the Parliament. Also, our further move will depend on the meeting of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday,” said Virk.Congress termed the Centre’s move as a “win of Indianness”. “This is has happened due to the struggle of lakhs of farmers and the sacrifices made by about 700 farmers during the agitation. We don’t believe that the government has done it due to the elections. It has done that due to the resilient fight of our farmers,’ said Ganesh Godiyal, Congress state president.BJP state in charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam said, “He (PM Narendra Modi) had taken decision for the betterment of farmers... but the farmers couldn’t be convinced about the same. So, Modi ji took back the decision and we want to thank him for this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-political-parties-look-to-change-narrative-in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-101637348531544.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm laws repeal move could have come earlier, say Lakhimpur victims’ families||Families of two of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3 said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws could have been taken earlier.Four farmers were mowed down by a vehicle during a protest in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh last month. Two of them— 19-year-old Gurvindar of Mohraniya village and 42-year-old Diljeet Singh of Banjaran Tada village — were residents of Bahraich.Gurvindar’s uncle said the farmers had been protesting for the withdrawal of the three farm laws for nearly a year. “This work could have been done earlier.”“Though PM made the announcement, he neither expressed concern over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident nor sought the resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni,” Gurvindar’s uncle added.Union minister Mishra’s son Ashish is one of the accused in the case. He was arrested on October 9 and is currently in jail.The Bahraich-based families also said they wanted the decision to be communicated in writing.Diljeet’s brother Jagjeet Singh said if the government had taken the action earlier, “our family would still have been together”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-move-could-have-come-earlier-say-lakhimpur-victims-families-101637348299674.html
20-11-2021||India||What lies ahead for the BJP after change of course on farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Friday of repealing the three contentious farm laws is seen as an intervention that will blunt the Opposition’s attacks against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming assembly polls in five states, and prevent a coalition of opposition parties from taking shape. In at least two of these five poll-bound states, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, the farm agitation is a burning issue.Party leaders who spoke on condition of anonymity said that while the announcement is unlikely to change the political fortunes of the BJP in Punjab, where the party lacks a strong cadre and leadership, it will help alter the narrative in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand where the agitation has given Opposition ammunition.“The outcome of the recent bypolls in Himachal Pradesh, where the farm agitation is barely visible, has sounded an alarm. The violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri (in UP)… the ground reports from Uttarakhand -- all indicated that the farm agitation could act as glue for anti-government sentiments,” said a BJP leader in Delhi.On record, most BJP leaders deny that the laws would have had a negative fallout in Uttar Pradesh, where it is hoping to return to power with a majority.Vijay Pal Tomar, BJP MP from UP and a former president of the BJP Kisan Morcha, said the decision was based on the “mahual” (atmosphere) that was shaping around the protest sites. He said the government took an overall view of what would be “best in national interest”.But some party leaders conceded that the BJP hopes the repeal will help it recover lost ground in western UP, where its performance on a sizeable number of seats, between 100 and 120, hinges on the farm vote.“There are many issues such as Covid, economy, and the overall dip in employment avenues that the government’s performance is being measured on. Putting an end to the reason for the agitation will help improve public perception,” said the first BJP leader.An MP from western UP was even more candid. “It has been difficult for us to participate in public events; people’s anger was palpable. Hopefully that will change.”In Punjab, where the BJP will be contesting alone for the first time since its break-up with the Shiromani Akali Dal, (SAD) the party is hoping that the decision will pan out favourably for it and its possible new ally, the front floated by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.SAD’s Naresh Gujral, said it may be too soon to comment on the impact that the announcement could have on political formations in Punjab and whether the BJP stands to benefit. “In a democracy, everybody is free to do what they like. Both (BJP and Singh) are on a weak wicket. So, let’s see how it pans out. Today’s announcement is not an aspirin that you take and the headache goes away immediately. Over 1,000 farmers have lost their lives. It’s been a struggle that has gone on for over a year, so I don’t see making this one announcement will change the entire political scenario.”Another reason cited for the repeal is the security issue flagged by some agencies as well as Singh during his meetings with the PM, home minister, and the National Security Adviser in the Capital in September.According to a BJP leader in Punjab, the party and its ideological mentor the RSS were worried about the influence of secessionists and Khalistan sympathisers on the agitation.“A lot of young people were being influenced by the Khalistani supporters. The agitation became a ground for manipulating anti-India sentiment. Given Punjab’s history with terrorism and its strategic location (proximity to Pakistan), it was imperative to address these concerns,” this person added.The RSS was particularly peeved by the agitation taking the shape of a Sikh versus Hindu conflict. A senior functionary of the RSS said the cadre was instructed to reach out to religious heads and the village elders to drive home the necessity of amity between the Sikhs and the Hindus.Change of tackWhile senior party leaders were quick to point out that the unexpected decision was in line with the party’s stratagem of shaping policy that benefits the masses; the discomfiture of some over the change of tack was visible.After the government made no headway with the farmers following multiple rounds of talks, some in the BJP raised questions about the genesis of the protest; linked it to a larger conspiracy against the government; and raised an alarm over the influx of “anti-national elements” in the agitation.However, after the PM’s outreach to the farmers on Friday, some leaders said the change in stance will be hard to explain during campaigning.“Earlier the line was clear that the laws would benefit 80% of the farmers. The PM himself referred to the protestors as Andolanjeevis,” said a second RSS leader. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh was guarded in its response to the decision, while it welcomed the setting up of a committee to deal with the issue of minimum support price, it was not enthused by the government repealing the laws, which it said would not favour farmers in the long run.Another BJP leader, however, said the rollback will not impact the PM’s image or the party’s as the BJP will leverage the decision as manifestation of its pro-people stance. “The Opposition labelled the PM as arrogant, even today the Congress used that term for him; but his apology to a section of farmers on national TV shows that he has his ear to the ground and people’s best interest in mind. There is no dent in his image.”Some BJP leaders are also concerned that Friday’s announcement could throw open the floodgates for similar demands by groups seeking the roll-back of other laws. “The labour code are already facing opposition, there is a chance that the winter session will see the opposition parties amp up their protests over proposed laws,” said the first leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-lies-ahead-for-the-bjp-after-change-of-course-on-farm-laws-101637347872616.html
20-11-2021||India||Opposition to corner government on MSP, fuel in winter session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Friday to repeal the three farm laws 14 months after their passage by Parliament was seen by many as a step to cut further political damage but a showdown between government and Opposition legislators is imminent in 10 days’ time when the motion for repeal is moved in the winter session.Opposition parties that entered the fray last year to cash in on the political momentum built by roadside sit-in and “rail roko” protests organised by farmer unions in north India appear to be in no mood to cede the moral high ground to the government when the House sits from November 29 to December 23. The floor strategy will be centred around, retrospectively, highlighting that the problem was of the Centre’s own making and, prospectively, cornering the government on issues of legally guaranteed minimum support prices and heavy tax burden on fuel products, said leaders of the Opposition who did not wish to be named.At least three Opposition MPs maintained that “many uncomfortable questions will be raised” when the acts are brought for withdrawal. According to the rules, the government will have to seek the permission of both Houses of Parliament to repeal the laws.The Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien pointed out that there is “still work to be done in Parliament” and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury demanded that “Parliament whilst repealing the three farm laws must enact MSP as a legal right. Over 750 farmers martyred yet PM expresses no remorse”.Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi indicated that the fight against the BJP over farmers’ welfare will continue. In her statement, Sonia Gandhi said, “The BJP government has continuously attacked the farming community in the last seven years…whether it is the refusal to pay the farmer the cost +50% profit as promised by the Prime Minister, or the huge increase in the cost of diesel and agricultural products, or the attack of three black anti-farming laws.”Rahul, in his letter to the farmers, said, “The struggle is not over yet. Getting remunerative MSP for agricultural produce, ending the controversial Electricity Amendment Act, reducing tax burden on everything used for farming, reducing the unexpected hike in diesel prices and the debt burden are serious issues.”This is the second time that the NDA government has had to backtrack on reforms that affected the farmers. In 2015, after two successive ordinances to make land laws more industry-friendly, PM Modi announced on August 31, 2015 that the law would be allowed to lapse.While the Congress party announced it would celebrate November 20 as “Kisan Vijay Diwas” (farmers’ victory day), the party’s legal expert Abhishek Singhvi questioned, “Why the government didn’t bring an ordinance on Friday to nullify the laws. Are farmers less important than the two agency chiefs?” referring to the recent ordinances providing for extending the terms of the Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation chiefs.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which BJP treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY!” and the party’s Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien said, “Glad the true heroes, the farmers, have still NOT called off their protest. TV monologue will not do. Still work to be done in #Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-corner-government-on-msp-fuel-in-winter-session-101637347571452.html
20-11-2021||India||9 including 4 children die after house collapses in Tamil Nadu's Vellore amid heavy rain||Nine people died including four children when a house in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district collapsed this morning due to the heavy rains since Thursday caused by a depression that crossed the coast of north Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh in the wee hours between 3am and 4am on November 19, officials said.District collector P Kumaravel Pandian said that the house was very old and that it was located along the banks of a river near Pernampet. “Four people resided in this house and as the rains got heavier people from adjacent houses moved to the first floor of this house on Thursday night for shelter,” the collector said. This locality was severely flooded.“The house was already in a dangerous condition because it is old and due to rains, it weakened further and around 7.15 this morning the house collapsed,” the collector said. Among the four children who were crushed to death, three of them are girls. Several others have also been injured in the collapse and are receiving treatment at Gudiyatham Government Hospital and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai.Chief Minister M K Stalin in a statement announced a financial assistance of ₹five lakh each to the bereaved families and ₹50,000 each for those undergoing treatment.Besides this tragic accident, no other major damage and loss to life was reported in other parts of the state.“The red alert issued to all the districts is being withdrawn,” S Balachandran, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai said at a press conference. The IMD had issued a red alert to 16 districts including Chennai until November 18.In a bulletin, the RMC said that at 11.30 am on Friday, “The Depression over north Tamil Nadu moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a well marked low pressure area over north interior Tamil Nadu and adjoining Karnataka and Rayalaseema.” On Friday the amount of rainfall received in different parts of the state was Chennai- 5cm, Chengalpattu- 6 cm, Villupuram- 22 cm, Tiruvannamalai- 15 cm and the adjacent union territory of Puducherry was also lashed with 19cm.On Friday, the union government released a list of the seven-member team, led by Rajiv Shukla, Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor National Intelligence Grid, Union Ministry of Home Affairs who will be in Tamil Nadu to assess the damage due to the rains.The situation was worse during the previous heavy rains overnight between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 when Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively and normal life was thrown out of gear. Kanyakumari district was severely flooded after it received 83.96 cm rainfall from October 1 to November 15 while 38.99 cm is the average it receives. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall during this north east monsoon season. Due to the damage caused by these rains in which 54 people lost their lives and there has been heavy crop loss in the delta districts, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday sought ₹2629 crore as central aid from union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-including-4-children-die-after-house-collapses-in-tamil-nadu-s-vellore-amid-heavy-rain-101637346592133.html
20-11-2021||India||After wife’s murder, man dies by suicide in Madhya Pradesh||The husband of a woman, who was allegedly raped and killed by her father over their inter-caste marriage, died by suicide on Friday, police said. The man, who used to work at a tent house in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, died at his residence in Sehore, district additional superintendent of police Sameer Yadav said. “The deceased’s cousin brother informed police that he was upset after his wife’s murder. He was blaming himself for her death but nobody thought that he would have taken this extreme step,” Yadav said.His father-in-law and was arrested earlier this week for allegedly raping and killing his 25-year-old daughter. The deceased’s brother-in-law was also arrested for assisting his father in the crime, police said.The incident took place on October 5 but the matter came to light only on Sunday when police recovered the body of the woman from a forest near Ratibad area after a forest guard alerted them. The body of the woman’s eight-month-old son, who allegedly died of pneumonia, was also recovered from the spot, police added.The woman’s husband came to know about the murder after police informed him on November 15. “We got married one-and-a-half-years ago after eloping. Her father had filed a fake complaint that his daughter was missing, at Bilkisganj police in Sehore then but we informed police that we were married. Her father then threatened to kill his daughter if she ever returned to his house,” the deceased had told police earlier. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-wife-s-murder-man-dies-by-suicide-in-madhya-pradesh-101637347211726.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: 5 ways in which Centre’s move will impact poll dynamics in Punjab||The repeal of three contentious farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Gurpurab (the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev) is imbued with huge symbolism for Punjab which was the epicentre of dogged farm protests for more than a year. The surprise announcement -- a week before one of the most persistent protests against agriculture reforms in the nation’s recent history was to enter its second year with a renewed intensity -- is sure to impact the political dynamics in the poll-bound border state where the assembly election is slated for early next year. Here is how: REPRIEVE FOR BJP The end of the agitation, sustained by the groundswell of sentiment and support in the countryside, comes as a major breather for the party which was facing farmers’ ire on the ground. The farm laws not only led to rupture of its 24-year-old alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal which walked out of the National Democratic Alliance government last year, but also made it the prime target of the agitators’ wrath in rural Punjab. Now, the BJP is expected to leverage Modi’s well-timed gesture, which came two days after the Centre reopening the Kartarpur corridor to Pakistan for Sikh pilgrims, to regain the ground it lost in the Sikh constituency. The shrill politics over the agitation’s human toll of an estimated 700 deaths will cast a shadow on the party’s outreach in the first election that it will be contesting in Punjab without its pre-poll ally Shiromani Akali Dal since 1996. Still, the repeal of the laws may well open up new opportunities for it. CONGRESS UPS THE CREDIT WARThe ruling Congress in Punjab which has consistently opposed the farm laws and passed assembly resolutions rejecting the central legislation twice has been quick to credit the ‘anndata’ ( farmers) for “forcing” the Modi government to relent. Taking the political high ground on the Centre’s climbdown sits well with the party’s electoral objectives: to live down anti-incumbency and garner a slice in the rural vote pie. Not surprisingly, the Channi government, having already announced a string of concessions to farmers and other sections of voters, will now make the roll-back a key plank of its poll pitch in the assembly sweepstakes. Of course, the Aam Aadmi Party and Akalis will be competing with the Congress to milk the issue for all its worth. NEW POLITICAL EQUATIONS ON THE CARDS The repeal of the laws has opened possibilities of new political alignments and alliances in Punjab. It is a major relief for the Shiromani Akali Dal which was smarting under the double whammy of the break-up of its alliance with the BJP and a backlash from its core constituency among the peasantry for having initially supported the Modi government’s ordinances on farm reforms before the Parliament stamped them as the laws. Desperate to be in the reckoning, the Akalis forged an alliance with the BSP leaving 20 of 117 assembly seats to the junior partner. But, the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister negated SAD’s caste card . The Akalis can now hope to recover some of the political ground they lost in their traditional bastion of Sikh peasantry. But, the key question in Punjab now is : will the SAD and the BJP warm up to each other and again forge an alliance that once welded the Sikh and Hindu constituencies in an electorally formidable way ? Not before the polls, say Punjab observers. Their reasons: one, the bitter overhang of agitation vis-à-vis BJP will not dissipate in the run-up to elections, two; Akali-bete noire Amarinder Singh has already cozied up to the BJP , and third; SAD has already moved on, firmed up its alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party and even announced seats. All this, however, doesn’t foreclose post-election options in case of a hung assembly. CLEARS THE WAY FOR CAPT-BJP TANGO The repeal of farm laws opens up the window for a poll tie-up between breakaway Congress leader and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who has floated a new party Punjab Lok Congress and hinted at seat sharing with the BJP in case there is a resolution of the farm issues. Though his party is yet to take off, the former two-time CM is counting on his political heft to woo disgruntled Congress leaders and make a common cause with the BJP to dent the party he was pushed out of unceremoniously. “I look forward to working closely with the BJP-led Centre for development of Kisan” Amarinder said in his post-repeal reaction, revealing his gambit. X- FACTOR OF FARM BODIESThe 32-bodies comprising the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, most of them rooted in Punjab, will be in a triumphant mode over the repeal of farm laws. But, will they take the electoral plunge to cash in on their victory? So far, they have ruled out contesting the polls. But, some of the SKM constituents, particularly the Rajewal faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, are known to harbour political ambitions. All political parties will try and co-opt the farm unions who, buoyed by the success of their tenacious agitation, will be an X-factor at the Punjab hustings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repealed-5-ways-in-which-centre-s-move-will-impact-poll-dynamics-in-punjab-101637347095474.html
20-11-2021||India||2021 GSLV mission failed due to loss of pressure in fuel tank: Isro||The GSLV-F10 launch in August failed due to a small loss in pressure in the cryogenic upper stage of the launch vehicle, according to officials from the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). The space agency is yet to publicly release a summary or the failure analysis report of the mission.“The reason for the GSLV F-10 failure was a 50 millibar reduction in the LH-2 tank pressure,” said Dr V Narayanan, director of Isro’s Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, during his quality day celebration address at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapurams.The launch of the earth observation satellite EOS-03 aboard the Geostationary Launch Vehicle (GSLV F-10) failed on August 13 after the third stage of the rocket did not ignite due to a “technical anomaly,” the space agency said at the time. Usually, a review of what went wrong is undertaken by a committee after any launch failure.The GSLV is a three-stage rocket, with the first stage using solid fuel, the second stage using liquid fuel, and the third stage using cryogenic fuel – gases stored in liquid form at extremely low temperature – that enhances the carrying capacity of the rocket.In any cryogenic engine – like the one in GSLV that uses liquid oxygen and hydrogen as a fuel – the pressure inside the fuel tank needs to be maintained for a smooth flow of the fuel to the engine, preventing the tank from collapsing. Helium is added to the cryogenic engine as the fuel is used up to maintain pressure. The launch of Chandrayaan-2 in July 2019 was aborted last minute because there was a helium leak in the cryogenic stage that was detected during the pre-flight checks.This was the first major failure of the GSLV vehicle since 2010, when two consecutive malfunctions took place, earning the rocket the epithet “naughty boy”. For Isro, this was the only launch failure since the 2017 PSLV launch when a heat shield that protects the satellite within did not separate.The mission was delayed twice – once in March 2020 when the space agency said that there were technical glitches, and then again in March this year when the second wave of the pandemic hit. The GSLV F10 was only the second mission of 2021, and since the failure, the space agency hasn’t undertaken any launches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-gslv-mission-failed-due-to-loss-of-pressure-in-fuel-tank-isro-101637346913901.html
20-11-2021||India||Wankhede runs a bar, violating rules: NCP’s Malik||Continuing with his attack on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Friday said that the officer violated central civil services (conduct) rules 1964 by conducting business despite being in service. Malik said Wankhede holds a hotel liquor license since 1997-98 and is running a bar in Navi Mumbai. It was issued when his father Dnyandev Wankhede was in the state excise department. “Sameer’s father was in the state excise department and he obtained a licence to run a permit room and bar in the name of Sameer. His age at that time was 17 years and 10 months. No licence is issued to a person who has not completed 18 years of age...still his father managed to get the licence in 1997-98. The licence is renewed every time in the name of Wankhede,” Malik told reporters here. “The information was concealed while joining the central government services and afterwards because according to the central civil services (conduct) rules 1964, no central government officer can conduct a business while being in services,” Malik said. Only in 2017, Wankhede declared that he owns the inherited property along with his father, which is a hotel but is on lease, Malik added. However, Wankhede refuted Malik’s allegation and said he had furnished details of his properties to his department and nothing was concealed. “We have nothing to conceal. I have furnished all the details right from the properties I own and income clearly with my department since the day I joined the civil services.”The NCP leader said he will file a complaint with the department of personnel and training (DoPT), state excise department and with all the concerned departments saying that Sameer Wankhede has no right to stay in the central government services. A person from the Wankhede family said his father is looking after the business and not Wankhede. “The hotel was bought by Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano in 1995 and she included him as joint owner of the property. He was a minor then. She looked after the business till 2015 and after her death, his father was made joint owner,” said a family member, requesting anonymity.The state minister has been making a slew of allegations against the IRS officer, ranging from forging documents to “lying” about his religion to framing people in ‘bogus’ drugs cases. In the past, Wankhede has denied all allegations made by Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wankhede-runs-a-bar-violating-rules-ncp-s-malik-101637346912814.html
20-11-2021||India||China ties passing through bad patch, says Jaishankar||India-China relations are currently passing through a “particularly bad patch” and India’s interests are better served with a closer relationship with the US and Europe, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In a reference to the standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Jaishankar said the downturn in ties was due to China’s actions that had violated bilateral pacts, and that he had conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during recent meetings where New Delhi stands on the relationship with Beijing. “We are going through a particularly bad patch in our relationship because they have taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which they still don’t have a credible explanation and that appears to indicate some rethink about where they want to take our relationship, but that’s for them to answer,” he said at a panel discussion on the theme “Greater power competition: The emerging world order” at the Bloomberg New Economic Forum in Singapore. “I don’t think the Chinese have any doubt on where we stand on our relationship and what’s not gone right with it. I’ve been meeting my counterpart Wang Yi a number of times. As you would’ve experienced, I speak fairly clear, reasonably understandably [and] there is no lack of clarity. So if they want to hear it, I am sure they would have heard it,” Jaishankar said in his reply to a question on whether China was aware of how it had mishandled relations with India. Jaishankar has said in the past that China had offered no credible explanation for the massing of troops on the LAC and the standoff that began in May last year. India has blamed China’s unilateral efforts to change the status quo on the disputed border for the face-off, which resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash in Galwan Valley in June last year. Though the two sides pulled back frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra after several rounds of talks, there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August. India has also linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. In response to another question at the discussion, which was also joined by former US secretary of state Hillary Clinton and former UK prime minister Tony Blair, Jaishankar said India’s interests are better served “with a much closer relationship with the US, with a much stronger relationship with Europe and the UK, with a...re-energising of our relationship with Asean, especially Singapore”. “I think there’s no question the US has been strategically contracting for some time. Don’t confuse it with the decline of the US, I think that’s ridiculous. But relatively and absolutely, American power or American influence is not what it used to be,” he said. The US is now a “much more flexible partner, much more open to ideas, suggestions, and working arrangements than in the past”, and this reflects a changed world, he pointed out. At the same time, China has been expanding, though the nature of its growing influence is very different from that of the US. “We don’t have a situation where China necessarily replaces the US,” he said. The world is more multipolar now and a lot of countries, including India, have “come much more into play” as part of a rebalancing of power, Jaishankar said. The overall landscape has become “more volatile”, and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad is a good example of countries coming together on a set of concerns or issues, he added. Jaishankar acknowledged that some of the positioning by India is “about China”, and the steps being taken by the country are “partly a hedging strategy” and “partly autonomous partnerships” that are issue-based. The Covid-19 pandemic had accelerated this trend because it had raised questions about the old style of globalisation and highlighted the need for more reliable and resilient supply chains, he said. In this context, he pointed to the Quad initiative to produce and distribute US-developed Covid-19 vaccine made in India with Japan’s financial assistance and Australia’s logistics support. This initiative reflects decentralised globalisation, more resilient supply chains, more trust and transparency, and more flexible combinations producing solutions for a particular challenge, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ties-passing-through-bad-patch-says-jaishankar-101637346911427.html
20-11-2021||India||Celebration, caution at epicentre of ‘rail roko’ protests in Punjab||When the Gurpurab procession began in Devi Dasspura village on Friday morning, a black flag put up prominently at the front of the cavalcade marked the villagers’ protest against the three farm laws. Less than two hours after the Prime Minister announced the withdrawal of the three laws, the black flag had made way for a white flag.The villagers were, however, in no hurry to alter their medium- and long-term plans against the farm laws.A tractor with half-a-dozen villagers will still leave for the Singhu border next Wednesday, their roster to send a tractor from the village to the protest site every month remains intact.The villagers remain cautious though. “The farm laws were passed in Parliament. The withdrawal will also happen in Parliament, not just on TV,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer, while attending the festival celebrations at the local gurdwara.Located some 20km from the Golden Temple in Amritsar district, Devi Dasspura village is one of the very first spots to witness protests against the farm laws -- two months before farmers landed at the Delhi borders. It’s proximity to the railway lines made it a popular venue as hundreds of farmers joined a “rail roko” protest on three different occasions.What began as a shirtless protest on the tracks on September 26 last year soon took the shape of a full-fledged protest in which tents were set up on the railway lines and langars were being cooked for hundreds everyday. They hampered the movement of trains on this route for 169 days before packing up. “We began the protest after our memorandums to government officials were ignored. That drew the media’s attention to the farm bill issues,” said Manpreet Singh, the village chief.The village is situated two kilometres from the Grand Trunk Road. A narrow, winding and broken tar road leading to the village is flanked on both sides by ploughed farms, some of which have potatoes, mustard and cauliflower growing on them. Villages said that more than half of the 4,000 residents here are directly or indirectly dependent on farming.On Friday, the railway tracks bore no reminders of the protest, but the excitement due to the fresh development was palpable. The festival only gave the villagers a readymade reason to gather. The news dominated discussions in small and large groups gathered in and around the gurdwara.“It is like we have received a surprise gift,” said Kulwant Kaur, a homemaker belonging to a family of farmers actively involved in the “rail roko” protests.Even as the PM was making the announcement in the morning, the news was spreading like wildfire in the village and beyond.Gursevak Singh, a farmer who usually doesn’t watch news channels, happened to be in front of the TV when the PM appeared on the screen. “He was talking about farmers and Gurpurab. Suddenly my sixth sense was telling me that the laws were going to be repealed,” said Gursevak.Moments later, Gursevak was running to look for his wife. “She needed to know. She was sometimes apprehensive that all our efforts would amount to nothing,” said Gursevak.Harpal Singh, chief of the local gurdwara, knew that a dance by two villagers was to celebrate something more than the annual festival. “They were banging their chests against each other. They appeared mad,” he said.For most villagers, WhatsApp groups of protesters were the primary source of the news. Suddenly, the Gurpurab wishes gave way to congratulatory messages, details of the announcement and images and videos of the PM on TV. Many villagers were overwhelmed by the phone calls, many even from their relatives abroad.“Soon, there were no Gurpurab greetings unaccompanied by congratulatory messages for this victory,” said Kashmir Singh, member of the village panchayat.In no time, villagers were gathered in small groups. Some decided immediately to replace the black flag. Others discussed long-term plans.Among the first ideas was to enhance the prasad menu, but it was quite late for that. They wished the news had come in a day earlier. “But it is well that we don’t over celebrate. The victory has come at a heavy cost. We don’t want to insult the hundreds of farmers who died fighting for this victory. That would be selfish,” said Gursevak.Heavy fireworks, however, were hurriedly scheduled for the evening.When the protests began on the railway lines in September, villagers remember that they had to worry about food only on day one. “By the second day, several groups had taken over the food arrangements. There were protesters from four districts gathering here,” said Baljeet Kaur, another local woman.When the farmers eventually packed up from here, a few left for the Delhi borders while many occupied the toll plazas on GT Road near the village.The attendance, however, was dipping by the day.From as many as 30 villagers at once to just half-a-dozen at Singhu, the head count at the toll plazas sometimes dipped to as few as two.The toll plazas, however, were vibrant on Friday. All dressed in new, bright clothes and feasting on jalebis, the farmers discussed the news which also included lots of rumours. “The PM also called the farm laws ‘kaala kanoon’ (black laws) on TV today,” a farmer told the gathering. No one fact checked him.Be it at the village or at the toll plazas, future plans abound. Some villagers plan to attend a victory parade from Singhu to Punjab while those at the toll plaza speak about using the opportunity to correct other ills plaguing the farming sector. One villager planned to frame his photo at Singhu border protest site as “proof” of his being a part of “history”.“My children can be proud that I was part of a different kind of freedom struggle,” said Gursevak.While the villagers were united in their celebrations, they remained a divided lot when it came to their attitude towards the government. While a few were joyous and spoke about “forgiving” the government, others were unwilling to forget. “This is not a gift given happily. We sacrificed a lot to snatch this gift,” said Harvinder Singh, a local farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repealed-celebration-caution-at-epicentre-of-rail-roko-protests-in-punjab-101637346857228.html
20-11-2021||India||Government panel approves mining on non-forest land without lease clearance||The Union environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) has decided to approve mining in non-forest land even before forest clearance is granted to allow the activity in contiguous forest land in blocks where mining involves both types of lands, people familiar with the matter said.According to minutes of a FAC meeting dated October 28, which was uploaded on the ministry’s Parivesh website earlier this month and seen by HT, the committee approved commencing of mining in non-forest land but also imposed certain conditions.The panel ruled that plans for mining in non-forest areas of a coal block will not involve any forest area; no component of mining activity in the non-forest land shall have any dependency in the forest area of the same block; such permission in the non-forest area shall not create any obligation or fait accompli with regard to clearances for the forest land involved; and if mining is intended in the forest area of the coal block, no reference of mining already taken up in non-forest area shall be made in such proposals.In case of any violation over forest area, the matter shall be dealt with as per provisions in the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, the panel added.“The minutes are self-explanatory, so I do not want to comment on them,” a FAC member said, seeking anonymity.Experts believe that permitting mining in non-forest land before prior clearance to contiguous forest land could set a wrong precedent.“Mineral extraction and greater privatisation of mining operations, including that of coal, has been at the front and centre of the government’s economic priorities. These policy decisions are neither assessed for their ecological or social justice outcomes, nor are they evaluated for they may exacerbate global climate justice concerns. The changes to environment regulation mirrors this outlook. The present decision needs to be understood as another legal subsidy offered to the mining sector. The mitigation measures and conditions offered legitimise the overturning of precaution which were built in forest diversion procedures. The FAC’s final advice falls short of its own caution. Eventually, this decision, despite all the caveats, will allow for fragmentation of habitats and put undue pressure on regulators to approve forest diversion to protect the investments already carried out,” Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research, said.HT in July had reported that the environment ministry is considering requests by the coal ministry to allow mining in non-forest areas where clearance has not been granted for the entire lease area, which includes forest land. To avoid “fait accompli” situations where mining begins before requisite permissions are granted, the FAC had directed the environment ministry’s regional office to prepare a briefing paper on the inter-dependency of forest and non-forest land where mining involves both land types.The ministry, in its guidelines, says that work on non-forest land should not be started till the final forest clearance (Stage-II approval) of the Centre is granted. In light of the FAC decision, these guidelines are likely to be changed.Environment ministry’s secretary, RP Gupta, however did not agree with FAC’s caution on preventing a ‘fait accompli’ situation. “I don’t agree with the recommendation of FAC. Even though lease area may include forest area, we are under no obligation to grant forest clearance. There can be no fait-accompli. If a project proponent undertakes mining operations in non-forest areas, it is none of our business to stop it and certainly casts no obligation on us to grant forest clearance. If some expenditure of the project proponent becomes infructuous, so be it,” he said.Following the secretary’s observations, the FAC had directed the regional office of Bhopal to prepare a comprehensive briefing paper on an all-India basis on the matter.The regional office recommended that in case of violations, the mining company should forgo a bank guarantee which may be prescribed, for such cases; relevant State Forest Act/Indian Forest Act whatever is relevant for such violation may be made applicable; and a penal compensation provision for violation of guidelines may be prescribed. The office had also recommended that the mining company give an undertaking that it will not claim a fait accompli plea in case of rejection of forest area for diversion.These views were taken into consideration by the FAC before deciding on the matter.At the Glasgow climate change conference earlier this month, India had objected to a draft text of the COP26 decision on phasing out coal and fossil fuel subsidies, suggesting that dependence on coal and fossil fuel subsidies be gradually reduced in line with national circumstances and recognising the need for support towards a just transition.“We are dependent on coal, we probably have to enhance it and we are giving subsidies to poor people to help them have a basic subsistence level. To compare that with general utilisation, 20 times of the kind of energy (used) in some developed countries, is unfair,” a senior government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-panel-approves-mining-on-non-forest-land-without-lease-clearance-101637346853929.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: UP elections key driver behind Centre rethink?||Two politically significant decisions by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) clearly show that west UP continues to remain crucial for translating into reality the party’s slogan, “Ek baar phir, 300 paar.” (One more time; over 300 ). The party hopes to return to power with almost as many seats as it won in 2017 (312 in the 403 seat assembly). First, the party decided that the Braj-Paschim region would be handled by Union home minister Amit Shah. Second, on Friday, the Prime Minister announced the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws.  Shah scripted the BJP’s spectacular victories in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Vidhan Sabha polls in Uttar Pradesh. The Braj-Paschim zone, as defined by the BJP, has six divisions, each comprising three districts. The party won 115 out of 135 assembly seats in 2017 and 24 of 27 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In all , the BJP won 312 out of 403 seats in 2017 and, along with its allies, 62 of the 80 seats in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.However, a few months before the 2022 assembly polls, the party’s fortunes appeared bleak in an area engulfed by the farm agitation. BJP leaders were facing the wrath of people in villages—many even put up signs stopping their entry.The party’s prospects looked brighter in the other regions such as Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Awadh and Kashi where the party’s national president JP Nadda and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh are scheduled to conduct booth presidents’ conclaves shortly.It was clear that the BJP could not offset losses in the western part of the state elsewhere. As a senior BJP leader from the area remarked: “If we lose the west, we lose the state. The road to UP and to Delhi goes via west (UP) only.”Many in the party pointed to critical and angry statements from senior Jat leader and Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik, who has consistently and vocally opposed the farm laws.“As a senior Jat leader from the area, Malik knew the sentiments of his clan. He would have never violated discipline that binds him while holding a constitutional position otherwise,” said another party leader who asked not to be named.The farmer’s movement gave life to opposition parties in the region, especially the Rashtriya Lok Dal, whose president Jayant Chaudhary lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It also served to remove communal fault lines that emerged in the area after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots.This was worrisome for the BJP, which launched its 2014 campaign from the western part of the state. In the wake of the riots, Narendra Modi, then the prime ministerial candidate promised development, and Yogi Adityanath, then a member of Parliament, promised to protect the people of the area, raising issues such as love jihad. Since then, the region remained the BJP’s stronghold till the farm laws were introduced.Agriculture is the lifeblood of people in the 21 western districts of the state. Prominent politicians in the region came from the farming community and agrarian issues dominated electoral politics till the launch of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Till then, people preferred to be identified as kisan (farmer), and less by their religion or caste—farming being the main occupation of 90% of the populace. Former Prime Minister the late Charan Singh helped in building Majgar, an alliance of Muslim, Ahir, Jat, Gujjar and Rajput voters. Singh died in May 1987. Almost the same time, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad launched a sustained public movement for the liberation of Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya.The 1990s saw the rise of the Bhartiya Kisan Union under Mahendra Singh Tikait amid cries of Jai Sri Ram and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) under the leadership of Kanshi Ram and Mayawati. Farmers supported Tikait on farming related issues but made their own political choices. Majgar, too, collapsed, with the BSP penetrating the strongholds of the Dalits.However, the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 dealt the final blow to farmer unity, dividing them on caste and religious lines with the BJP being the major gainer.It was in this context that the farm laws, and their opposition by farmers in the region, united under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, became significant.Former MLA Anil Chaudhary (now in the Congress) who had been attending all mahapanchayats called by the farmers said: “In the initial days of the movement, only Jats and a few Gujjar office bearers of BKU were seen on the Ghazipur border. Muslims were few. Later, all castes and communities joined hands under one banner.” However, there were some like Jamshed Zaidi, a political analyst who remain sceptical about this unity. “Will a Jat vote for a Muslim?” he asked.Now, the withdrawal of the farm laws has punctured the Opposition’s plan to reap a harvest in the 2022 assembly elections, although much is still riding on Shah’s ability to assuage the hurt sentiments of the farmers who spent chilly nights under the sky.Shah will soon embark on a rath yatra. He is known for his meticulous poll planning and organisational skills, but this time, his challenge lies elsewhere: Shah will have to wipe tears and gain confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repealed-up-elections-key-driver-behind-centre-rethink-101637346851421.html
20-11-2021||India||39 feared dead in TN, Andhra rain disaster||At least 30 people were feared to have died when they got washed away in floodwaters from Cheyyeru river as the earthen bund of Annamayya reservoir in Rajampet of Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district was breached after heavy rain and nine people, including four children, died in north Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district in two separate incidents on Friday. The heavy rainfall in north Tamil Nadu districts and south Andhra districts and parts of Rayalaseema since Thursday night was due to a depression that crossed the coast of north Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh between 3am and 4am on November 19, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. Vellore collector P Kumaravel Pandian said a house destroyed by the flood was very old and located along the banks of a river near Pernampet. “Four people resided in this house and as the rain got heavier people from adjacent houses moved to the first floor of this house on Thursday night for shelter,” the collector said. This locality was severely flooded. “The house was already in a dangerous condition because it is old and due to rain, it weakened further and around 7.15 this morning the house collapsed,” the collector said. Among the four children who were crushed to death, three were girls. Several others have also been injured in the collapse and are receiving treatment at Gudiyatham Government Hospital and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai.Flooding in some localities of Bengaluru city was also reported due to continuous rainfall since November 11. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in a statement said no adverse incident was reported and a few persons from low-lying areas were shifted to shelters as a precautionary measure. However, no flooding was reported in Chennai, which has reported massive water-logging on at least two occasions in the past month.In Andhra Pradesh, Kadapa district authorities confirmed that three bodies – that of a conductor and two passengers of a state-run Road Transport Corporation bus that was stranded in floodwaters from Cheyyeru – were recovered. Unconfirmed reports said 12 bodies were recovered till evening.Apart from the three bodies from the RTC bus, seven dead bodies were recovered at a temple in Gundluru village, and two others in Mandapalli village. “Search operations are on for others who are believed to have been washed away in the floods,” a local revenue official of Rajampet, who did not wish to be named, said.Three RTC buses got stranded in Mandapalli, Akepadu and Nandaluru areas. While many of the passengers were rescued by authorities, three of them, including the bus conductor, were washed away in the floods at Nandaluru.According to state disaster management commissioner K Kanna Babu, the depression in the Bay of Bengal crossed the coast between Chennai and Puducherry around 4am on Friday, and there was heavy to very heavy rain in many parts of Chittoor, Kadapa, and Prakasam districts and Anantapur, along with gales with speeds of 45-65 km per hour.A bulletin from AP State Development Planning Society (APSDPS) showed Peddamandyam in Chittoor district received the highest rainfall of 207mm in the last 36 hours, followed by 187.25mm in Rayachoti in Kadapa, 178.25mm in Nallacheruvu in Anantapur, 172.5mm in Pulivendula of Kadapa and 171mm in Kalakada in Chittoor.In many other areas of Rayalaseema and south Andhra, rainfall ranged from 110mm to 170mm during this period, the APSDPS bulletin said.The temple town of Tirumala-Tirupati, which was completely flooded due to heavy rain on Thursday, is slowly limping back to normal though the area is still receiving rain. Tirupati has received 103mm since 8am on Thursday, the bulletin said.Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the popular Hindu shrine of Lord Venkateshwara on the Tirumala hills, announced in the morning resumption of traffic on one of the two ghat roads that were shut down for the last 24 hours due to landslides and overflowing streams on the hills.But by evening, it again announced closure of the ghat road in order to repair the damaged road. TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy said due to unprecedented rain, boulders and hill rocks had fallen at different points on both ghats. “As a safety measure we have closed both ghats on Thursday evening. The restoration work is going on,” he said. Due to the heavy downpour witnessed on Thursday in Tirupati, the Kapilatheertham torrent was in full flow, forcing the TTD authorities to stall the entry of pilgrims. The gushing waters of Kapila Teertham uprooted three of the temple pillars, Reddy said. He said the exact damage to the temple will be known once rainwater recedes. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the flood situation in the state with senior officials and district collectors through video conference, said he will conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas on Saturday.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up the chief minister and enquired about the flood situation in the state. Modi assured him of all help, an official statement from the chief minister’s office said.A railway track between Rajavaram and Pundluru was washed away at Rajampet, resulting in stranding of the Chennai Express and a couple of other passenger trains. Train services were restored later in the evening. A bridge on Papaghni river at Kamalapuram in Kadapa district caved in, forcing authorities to stop traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-feared-dead-in-tn-andhra-rain-disaster-101637346672568.html
20-11-2021||India||2 men gang-rape mentally disabled girl, held: UP Police||A 14-year-old girl mentally challenged girl was allegedly raped by a quack and his accomplice here in the Allahaganj area, police said on Friday.The incident took place on Tuesday when the girl was going to market, Superintendent of Police S Anand said, adding when the girl was passing by the quack’s clinic, he and his accomplice dragged her into the clinic and gang-raped her.The accused Ram Babu and Akshay Kumar were arrested on Wednesday after registration of an FIR against them, the SP said.The girl, who was admitted to a medical college here, was rushed to a Lucknow for better treatment as her condition was serious.Chief Medical Superintendent U P Sinha of Shahjahanpur Medical College said due to the rape the girl had sustained severe internal injuries.According to the victim’s mother, the condition of her daughter is fine now but she wanted strict action against rapists.The police are bearing expenses for the treatment of the girl, the SP said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-men-gang-rape-mentally-disabled-girl-held-uppolice-101637346671994.html
20-11-2021||India||PM Modi hands over indigenous LCHs, drones to armed forces in Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi ceremonially handed over the indigenously developed light combat helicopter (LCH), drones and electronic warfare suite to the three services as part of the Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv at a ceremony in Jhansi on Friday.He said the defence event was the beginning of a new chapter in the history of the defence sector in India. Laying emphasis on gaining self-reliance in defence, the PM said, “India’s identity was that of an importer of arms. Today, the country’s mantra is ‘Make in India, Make for the World’. The country is working to make our armed forces ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant).We are adding the talent of private sector with our defence sector and new start-ups are being given a chance to show their ‘kamaal’ (good work) in this sector.”“The mantra is Make in India—Make for the World,” he said, adding the Ministry of Defence has released a list of 200 military equipment that would be bought from Indian companies to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat.At the ceremony, Modi formally gave light combat helicopter (LCH) designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari, drones and UAVs built by Indian start-ups to Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, and the DRDO-designed and Bharat Electronics Limited-manufactured advanced electronic warfare suite for naval ships to Navy chief Admiral Karambir SinghHe also laid the foundation stone of a ₹ 400 crore plant of Bharat Dynamics Limted, the first unit of the Jhansi node of UP Defence Industrial Corridor that would come up on 183 acres.This initiative would give Jhansi a new recognition, boost MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) in the Bundelkhand region and create job opportunities for the youth, he said.The prime minister said the Bundelkhand region, once known for its valour and courage, would be playing the role of “sarathi’ in the UP Defence Industrial Corridor and would be one of the major centres of India’s defence strength.Referring to the opening of 100 new Sainik schools across the country that he launched from Jhansi, the PM said,“These 100 Sainik Schools will work to put the future of the country in the hands of powerful people.” “Admission of girl students has started in 33 Sainik schools. They will produce daughters like Rani Laxmi Bai to take the responsibility of defence, security and development of the country,” he said.He interacted with 33 newly joined girl students from Sainik Schools, representing all the 33 Sainik Schools in the country.In all, the PM laid the foundation for projects worth ₹3,414 crore in Jhansi. It included an ultra mega solar park worth ₹3000 crore in Garautha, which would produce 600 megawatt of electricity on completion.Modi also launched the National Cadet Corps (NCC) Alumni Association in Jhansi.Besides, the prime minister reached Jhansi Fort and launched the National Programme of Simulation Training for NCC cadets with the aim to scale up simulation training facilities for all three wings of NCC. Earlier, he unveiled stone signage on Maharani Laxmi Bai and inaugurated Atal Ekta Park in Jhansi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hands-over-indigenous-lchs-drones-to-armed-forces-in-jhansi-101637346616665.html
20-11-2021||India||Shah calls for better coordination among forces||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday stressed on better coordination between the state police forces and central agencies and underlined the need for focused action on security-related issues such as Maoist violence and cyber crime.Inaugurating the three-day 56th conference of DGPs (Director General of Police) and IGPs (Inspector General of Police) at the Police Headquarters in Lucknow, Shah appreciated the role played by security forces during the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also participate in the conference on Saturday.Shah also awarded trophies to three top police stations of the country. The top spot was grabbed by Sadar Bazar police station of New Delhi, followed by Gangapur police station in Odisha and Bhattu Kalan police station in Haryana, stated a press released shared by the UP Police.The home minister also gave away medals for meritorious service to the officers of Intelligence Bureau. In his address, Shah stressed on better coordination between the state police and other central agencies and urged the delegates for timely implementation of suggestions discussed during the conference. He underlined the need to focus on security-related issues, including coastal security, left wing extremism, narcotics trafficking, cyber crime and border area management.Besides, deliberations were held on a wide range of internal security issues, including prison reforms, challenges posed by radicalisation and police training. In the run-up to the conference, various core groups comprising DGPs of different states were formed for holding discussions on key aspects of internal security.This year, for the first time, over 200 officers of different seniorities from various states/UTs were also requested to submit papers on contemporary security issues being deliberated in the conference.The conference is being organised in hybrid mode. DGPs of all states/UTs and DGs of CAPFs will attend the conference for the next two days at UP police headquarters in Lucknow. In addition, about 350 other officers will attend the same through virtual platform from IB offices in various states and UTs.Shah hailed the hybrid format of conference, as directed by the Prime Minister, and observed that this will help in better dissemination and percolation of suggestions at the cutting edge level. He emphasised on reforms at police station and beat level for effective policing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-calls-for-better-coordination-among-forces-101637346557138.html
20-11-2021||India||PM Modi unveils water project in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, targets Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday dedicated the ₹2,655-crore Arjun Sahayak project to the people of Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand, saying it would end the water woes of farmers in the parched region while accusing the previous state government and other “family-owned” parties of looting the region, its people and resources. “This project will benefit lakhs of farmers. They will get the water they have been waiting for generations in Bundelkhand,” Modi said, while addressing the farmers, hours after making the announcement to repeal the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. Arjun Sahayak is a flagship project of the Uttar Pradesh government, aimed at providing water for drinking and irrigation in Mahoba district. “I discussed this crucial project with the then government several times in 2014. They did not show any interest. It was the lifeline of this region,” he said, adding that the work on the project began under the Yogi Adityanath government in 2017 and was completed in record time. Accusing the previous state government of corruption, Modi said, “Those who kept cutting ribbons in the name of Bundelkhand’s ponds and water bodies for farmers did not allow a single penny to reach them.” “I want to ask those parties, which ruled UP and Delhi, how this naturally gifted region became synonymous with struggles for water to an extent the people did not want to marry off their daughters in this region?” he asked. “They worked for their families, there was corruption and commission, and you (farmers) remained desperate for a single drop of water,” the PM said, alleging that the previous governments handed the region over to the mafia. “Now when the bulldozer is being used against mafia, some people are raising hue and cry. But whatever they may try to do, the development UP and Bundelkhand will not stop,” Modi said. Uttar Pradesh will go to assembly polls early next year. Stating that many water-related projects were underway in the state, Modi said the Yogi Adityanath-led state government found the solution for the Ken-Betwa link in consultation with the stakeholders. The linking would help lakhs of farmers in the days to come, he added. Modi said the challenges were similar to those in Gujarat’s Sardar Sarovar dam project, which has helped in water reaching even the arid areas of Kutch. “I am from Gujarat and I understand your issues. We will replicate the success of Gujarat in Bundelkhand,” Modi said. The PM said his government has taken a number of steps for the welfare of farmers, including providing neem-coated urea, high-yield seeds with low use of water and made record purchase of crops and increased minimum support price. Calling top BJP leaders and government “kainchi-jeevi (those who live for cutting ribbons)”, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav yet again attack BJP governments at the state and the centre over “taking credit for SP government’s projects” and this time it’s over inauguration of Arjun Sahayak irrigation project. Akhilesh in a tweet in Hindi said: “The project that had reached 99% completion in SP government’s time, the BJP government took five years to complete it. But they ran in to take credit for it...”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-unveils-water-project-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-targets-opposition-101637346553683.html
20-11-2021||India||Rajasthan: Three ministers offer to quit posts before cabinet rejig||Days ahead of a Cabinet reshuffle, three Rajasthan ministers on Friday wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, offering to quit their posts and work for the party.A senior leader familiar with the developments said that the cabinet rejig is likely to take place on Sunday or Monday. Addressing reporters here, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said revenue minister Harish Chaudhary, medical and health minister Dr Raghu Sharma and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra offered to step down from their ministerial posts.“I want to remind that two-three months back, on July 30, I had met all the MLAs here and thereafter had told that some ministers want to work with the party and leave their ministerial post. I am happy to inform that three ministers today wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi and offered their resignation from the post,” Maken said. These three ministers have expressed their desire to work with the party, he added.The resignation of the three ministers came on expected lines as they were holding dual positions. Besides ministerial posts, Choudhary is incharge of poll-bound Punjab while Sharma is overseeing party affairs in Gujarat. Dotasara is the Rajasthan state party chief. “The Congress party respects them. We are glad that there are such promising people who want to work for the party,” Maken, who arrived in Jaipur on Friday evening, said With the three resignations, the number of vacancies in the 30-member council of ministers rose to 12. Prior to this, nine vacancies were pending since July 2020 when deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and two lawmakers loyal to him resigned during a rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. At present, there are 21 ministers in the Rajasthan council of ministers, including the chief minister. Meanwhile, Maken was received by Gehlot, Dotasara, and transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas as he arrived at Jaipur airport, in the evening. The chief minister, who was on a tour to Udaipur, also returned to the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-three-ministers-offer-to-quit-posts-before-cabinet-rejig-101637346372572.html
20-11-2021||India||Farm laws to go after year of protest||New Delhi In a surprise speech to the nation on Friday morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government would repeal three agricultural laws enacted last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states, and on Delhi’s borders.Opposition parties were quick to label the decision a victory for the farmers and a defeat for the government; the protesting farm groups said they plan to hold out for more, including a codification of the price at which the government buys agricultural produce; and analysts pointed to the continuing need to reform agriculture which, in its present form, remains mostly uncompetitive and unremunerative.The decision to scrap the laws comes ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.In a nationally televised address to farmers on the birth anniversary of Sikhism’s revered founder, Guru Nanak, the Prime Minister said: “Today, while apologising to the people of the country, I want to say with a pure heart, that maybe there was some shortcoming in our efforts that we could not explain to some of our farmer brothers a truth that was as clear as a flame. Today on Guru Nanak’s birthday, it is not time to blame anyone... Today I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws.”A sizeable section of the protesting farmers is from Sikh-majority Punjab.“In the Parliament session starting later this month, we will complete the constitutional process to repeal these three agricultural laws,” Modi added, urging protesting farmers to return home to their families.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, said it welcomed the move but that the battle was only half won, referring to the farmers’ yet-unmet demand for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce. MSPs are state-assured floor rates meant to help avoid distress sale.Reacting to the Prime Minister’s announcement, Rakesh Tikait, a key leader behind the protests and a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said: “We are not immediately withdrawing the protests. We will wait and watch to see what actually happens. Also, we want a law on MSP.”Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding yearlong sit-ins at four sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and also at Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).The farm bodies managed to keep the protests largely apolitical, despite support from many opposition parties. On Friday, these parties congratulated the farmers for their victory.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said the “Country’s ‘annadatas’ (food providers) have made arrogance bow its head through satyagraha”. “Congratulations on this victory against injustice! ‘Jai Hind, Jai Hind ka Kisan’,” Gandhi said.Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee congratulated the farmers for their relentless fight, saying they were not fazed by the “cruelty” of the BJP. “My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which @BJP4India treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY! My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight. #FarmLaws,” Banerjee tweeted.The Prime Minister said the laws, enacted in September 2020, would have brought long-term benefits and opened up more markets for farmers to sell their produce, but rued that his government could not convince a section of farmers.“Our intent [in passing the laws] was pure,” he added, “but we could not convince some farmers. We tried our best to explain these laws to the farmers. The government was ready to rework these laws.”Farmers were deeply sceptical of the laws they said will leave them at the mercy of big corporations, which could force down prices. They also feared the changes would dismantle a system of state-backed regulated markets which offered assured farm prices.The government saw the laws as helping enlarge the market for farm produce, and also increase the role of the private sector in agriculture.Farm leaders such as Tikait, once supporters of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), began to increasingly target the Modi government’s entire economic agenda, labelling recent moves to divest state-run companies as a “sell-off”.Soon after the announcement on Friday, the SKM said it was preparing to summon its decision-making team. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm leader from Haryana, said preparations to mark a year of the protests on November 26 would continue.Leaders such as Chaduni and Tikait bolstered the farm protests by bringing it out of Punjab and expanding its sphere of influence.The agitation against the three laws to liberalise agricultural trade widened into a full-scale campaign against the BJP by influential farm unions in food-bowl states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.“We have several mahapanchyats (farmers’ rallies) in UP and Haryana. As of now, we will go ahead with them,” Chaduni said.The government held 11 rounds of negotiations, the last on January 22, which failed to resolve the crisis. On January 12, the Supreme Court put a moratorium on the laws, following which the government said it would freeze the law for one-and-half years.“It is a victory for democracy but a partial victory. We had two demands, one [was to] repeal the three laws. Second, give us a legal guarantee of minimum support price, something the prime minister had himself demanded when he was chief minister of Gujarat,” said Yogendra Yadav, one of the main organisers of the protests. “That has not been considered yet. That struggle will go on.”The government in the past has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed system of regulated markets which give farmers assured prices, but would boost investments in the farm economy. Nearly half the population in Asia’s third largest economy depends on a farm-derived income.The laws aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement.The three laws are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Anil Jaysing Ghanwat, the leader of Shetkari Sangathana, a Maharashtra-based farm organisation, criticised the decision of the government to roll back the farm laws. Ghanwat was one of the members of a Supreme Court-appointment committee to scrutinise the laws.“The move to repeal the laws is unfortunate for farmers and the country because the laws would have given some market freedom to farmers,” Ghanwat said.To calm farmers, Modi on Friday said that the welfare of the farming community would continue to drive his government. “I announce the formation of a committee to promote zero-budgeting-based agriculture, to change crop pattern as per the changing needs of the country and to make MSP more effective and transparent.” The committee will be represented by officials from the Union government, state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists and economists, he said.On October 2, the protests entered an aggravated phase in UP when a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, ploughed through protesters, killing four farmers and four others. The minister’s son has been arrested.“Farmers had sustained their agitation and this created a certain narrative and awareness across the country that injustice was being done. Since it was an autonomous movement, no political party could take credit for it. This created a space for the government to announce withdrawing the laws,” said KK Kailash, who teaches politics at the University of Hyderabad.In his address to the nation, the PM Modi also said it was unfortunate that despite the government’s intentions to strengthen and empower farmers particularly those who have small land holdings, many of them were not convinced about the benefits of the laws.Modi underlined how his government had prioritised welfare of farmers and drafted policies and interventions such as introducing soil health cards, crop insurance and credit cards to empower famers.“The agriculture budget has been increased five times and a ₹1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund has been set up… to empower smaller farmers… 10,000 FPOs have been started and ₹7,000 crore spent on it,” he said.Referring to the contentious laws, he said they were brought in with the intention of giving the country’s farmers more strength and better prices for their crops, apart from more options to sell their produce.“For years, farmers of the country, agricultural experts of the country and farmers’ organizations of the country were continuously making this demand. Earlier also many governments had brainstormed on this. This time also there was discussion in Parliament, brainstorming took place and these laws were brought up. In every nook and corner of the country, many farmers’ organizations welcomed and supported it,” the PM said.“Though it’s a small section of farmers who are protesting, but even then, it is important for us. Agri experts and scientists and progressive farmers have tried, made efforts to make them understand with an open mind the importance of agricultural laws...we tried to keep explaining through various means, personal as well as collective” the PM said.(Smriti Kak Ramachandran contributed to this report)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-to-go-after-year-of-protest-101637340490232.html
20-11-2021||India||'Everyone knows Chandrababu is in frustration': Jagan on Naidu's breakdown||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy reacted to Chandrababu Naidu'd emotional outburst on Friday and said everyone in the state knows Chandrababu Naidu's condition that he is in frustration, PTI reported. People of the state, including that of his own constituency Kuppam, have openly rejected him, the chief minister said after former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu broke down in the Assembly and said he will only enter the Assembly as a chief minister."I have been bearing the insults for the sake of people, but remained calm. Today, they have targeted even my wife. I always lived with honour and for honour. I can take it no more," Chandrababu said as he cried on camera when he was addressing the press meet.Naidu said his wife never entered into politics, not even when Naidu was in power. “Except encouraging me in every step of my life, she never interfered in politics, whether I was in or out of power. Yet they tried to humiliate her,” Naidu said.“I faced several struggles, ups and downs in my life. I witnessed several heated debates in the assembly both when he was in power or in the opposition. But this kind of running down the opposition is unprecedented," Naidu said sobbing.“What is more unfortunate is that the Speaker remained a mute spectator when the ruling party members were hurling abuses, even dragging my wife’s name. He did not even give me an opportunity to speak and make a statement on my decision to stay away from the assembly for the rest of the term. I had to fight for my right,” Naidu said.Calling it a drama, Jagan said, "Yes, Chandrababu Naidu’s condition, and that he is in frustration, is known not only to me, but also to everyone in the state. People of the state have openly rejected him. Even in his own Kuppam constituency, he, unimaginably, faced people’s rejection,”"Chandrababu only seeks to derive political mileage out of everything. It is very unfortunate. His drama was visible to all eyes, though I was not inside the House at the time,” Jagan who later came to the House said.Jagan said his party MLAs did not speak anything about Naidu's family members. "It was Chandrababu himself who spoke about my family members (slain uncle, mother and sister) and there was no reference to his family from our side. The House records clearly prove that," Jagan added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-knows-chandrababu-is-in-frustration-jagan-on-naidu-s-breakdown-101637337125189.html
20-11-2021||India||PM Modi hands over Light Combat Helicopters to IAF chief||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday handed over the indigenously built light combat helicopters (LCH), developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, to the Indian Air Force chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari. He also handed over indigenously developed drones and UAVs during the ‘Rashtra Raksha Samarpan Parv’ in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi to the Chief of Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane.The initiative is a part of boosting the nation’s self-reliance in the defence sector. During the event, the Prime Minister handed over the Advanced Electronic Warfare suite for naval ships to the Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh. The Advanced Electronic Warfare suite was developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL).“For a long time, we were a nation that was a weapons and defence equipment buyer. Today the mantra is ‘Make in India, Make for the world.’ India is now working to make its armed forces self-reliant,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.These projects will make the nation’s defence sector self-reliant will boost employment opportunities for the youth, he said.The Light Combat Helicopters which incorporate advanced technologies and stealth features for effective combat roles are expected to boost India’s ability to remain self-reliant. Earlier, defence secretary Ajay Kumar said the LCH is the only attack helicopter that can land and take off at an altitude of 5,000 m with a considerable load of weapons and fuel.PM Modi laid the foundation stone of a ₹400-crore project to develop the propulsion system of the anti-tank guided missiles by the Bharat Dynamics Limited which is the first project in the Jhansi node of defence industrial corridor created in Uttar Pradesh. He also launched two projects related to the National War Memorial in New Delhi among which was a kiosk that allows visitors to pay floral homage to martyrs through a click of a button.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hands-over-light-combat-helicopters-to-iaf-chief-101637332112648.html
20-11-2021||India||Naidu breaks down, walks out of Andhra assembly over abusive comments||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu broke down on Friday as he walked out of the state assembly vowing not to re-enter the House for the rest of its term over the abusive comments ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) members allegedly made about his wife.“I will not attend this assembly hereafter. I will return to the House only after becoming the chief minister,” said Naidu, 71. He fought back tears before walking out of the assembly with folded hands during a debate on the women empowerment on the second day of the assembly’s ongoing winter session.Naidu was unable speak for a few minutes as he covered his face after breaking down while addressing a press conference at his Telegu Desam Party (TDP)’s state headquarters. He said his wife had never been in politics. “Except encouraging me in every step of my life, she never interfered in politics, whether I was in or out of power. Yet they tried to humiliate her,” Naidu said. He added he never felt so much tormented in his 40-year political career. “I faced several struggles, ups and downs in my life. I witnessed several heated debates in the assembly both when he was in power or in the opposition. But this kind of running down the opposition is unprecedented.”Naidu likened the assembly to Kaurava Sabha of epic Mahabharata, where Kauravas humiliated Pandavas by trying to disrobe Draupadi. “What is more unfortunate is that the Speaker remained a mute spectator when the ruling party members were hurling abuses, even dragging my wife’s name. He did not even give me an opportunity to speak and make a statement on my decision to stay away from the assembly for the rest of the term. I had to fight for my right,” he said. He said he has been concerned about safeguarding his dignity and prestige. “I have been facing humiliations for the last two and a half years. When my dignity is compromised, there is no point in attending the assembly. I will take my fight into the people and seek their support. I will return to the assembly only after obtaining the mandate of the people as the chief minister.”Earlier in the day, TDP legislators tried to disrupt YSRCP member Ambati Rambabu’s speech when he was attacking the opposition party. TDP members stormed the podium in protest and demanded an apology from him when Rambabu allegedly made some nasty comments while referring to Naidu’s wife. Other YSRCP members, including ministers Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and Kodali Nani, also rushed to the podium and clashed with the TDP members. Naidu took exception to the YSRCP members behaviour and left the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-breaks-down-walks-out-of-andhra-assembly-over-abusive-comments-101637318170796.html
20-11-2021||India||Four key takeaways from the BJP’s U-turn on farm laws||Faced with a resilient farmers’ agitation for more than a year, the Narendra Modi government has decided to repeal the three contentious farm laws, making it perhaps the biggest political retreat by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since it assumed power in 2014.What are the key takeaways from the latest turn of events surrounding the farmers’ protest? Here are four things that stand out:BJP won’t risk political capital for policy credentialsIt is clear that the farm laws have been repealed with an eye on coming assembly elections, especially the ones in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. While this is clearly the biggest political retreat by the BJP since 2014, it is not the first one. The government had done a U-turn on the issue of amending the Land Acquisition Act when protests erupted across the country during the first term of the Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2015.The underlying message is clear. The BJP as a party will never risk its political capital to establish its policy credentials. Modi, in his address to the nation on Friday, reiterated the claim that the farm laws were beneficial for farmers and the failure was only on account of making just a small section of farmers see these gains.Also Read: Repeal of farm laws to impact multiple proceedings in Supreme CourtThe retreat will get the BJP a lot of brickbats within the pro-reform lobby, both in India and abroad. Agriculture and labour are the two key sectors where the Modi government was expected to unleash reforms – the ideological consensus within the establishment has existed for a long time – and it stepped on the pedal on these fronts during the Covid-19 pandemic from a position of strength.The latest move is a signal that reforms, even though the BJP claims steadfast commitment to the project, are not worth risking the political fortunes of the party. This is not different from the approach the BJP - perhaps in consultation with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) - adopted vis-a-vis the core Hindtuva agenda during the Vajpayee years.The BJP needed support from parties which were critical of its Hindutva agenda in the 1990s and it never jeopardised its shot at capturing political power by insisting on those issues back then. Even the BJP’s earlier avatar, the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, was pragmatic. It worked with even the Communists to weaken the Congress in the late 1960s and the period before and after the Emergency.Through this move, the BJP has underlined its political pragmatism. To be sure, it remains to be seen whether the BJP is able to minimise its political losses on account of the protests.Right’s political pragmatism is in sharp contrast to the lack of it in the LeftThe biggest example to prove this point is the conduct of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) in the aftermath of the Singur and Nandigram protests in West Bengal. There were enough signals that the party was losing ground much before the 34-year-old Left Front government was dislodged in 2011. Yet, the CPI (M) leadership in the state refused to let go of its stubbornness on the issue and has continued to defend land acquisition even after it lost power.While one might argue that Communist parties hardly matter in Indian politics outside Kerala, the atrophying of the Left has been a huge boost for the rightward shift in Indian polity.Invoking class hurts the BJP, culture and liberalism do notThe biggest success of the farmers’ movement was in establishing a narrative that the farm laws were not just anti-farmer but also pro big-business. The protest against amendments to the land acquisition law in the first term of the Modi government also did the same thing, best captured in Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s barb of “suit-boot ki sarkar” against the government.That the BJP has finally backtracked on both issues shows that it fears being portrayed as pro big-business. This is hardly the case when it comes to attacks that target the BJP over its Hindutva politics. The fate of the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, best captured in the Shaheen Bagh protests in Delhi or the lack of any political challenge to the BJP after the annulment of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir is proof of this fact.While movements such as these can claim a moral high ground, they have hardly inflicted any political damage on the BJP. This offers a useful realpolitik lesson for the Opposition. It is better to challenge the BJP by invoking class issues in at least the medium term.The limits of Mandal/Bahujan politics in today’s IndiaThe advent of Mandal-based parties and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) coincided with the weakening of class-based movements, especially in north India. No one can deny the fact that the rise in Other Backward Class (OBC) and Dalit assertion broke upper-caste hegemony and associated oppressive structures in these regions.While Mandal was an effective weapon against “mandir” (the BJP) in the early 1990s and 2000s, its political efficacy against the BJP has increasingly come under question in recent years. The biggest proof of this came in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Uttar Pradesh, when the BJP trounced even an alliance of the Samajwadi Party and the BSP.The farmers’ protest was unique because it was perhaps the first time in many decades that dominant castes such as Jat Sikhs and Jats led a movement against an all-powerful regime.The fact that they managed to sustain the struggle and also achieve victory is a good occasion to ask whether an exclusionary Mandal/Bahujan politics has run its course in challenging today’s BJP. This question becomes even more pertinent when seen in the context of the BJP having an advantage among non-dominant subaltern ranks in most states.Of course, the fortunes of any non-Mandal political strategy against the BJP cannot seek a restoration of the upper-caste hegemony that existed in the 1950s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-key-takeaways-from-the-bjp-s-u-turn-on-farm-laws-101637315647896.html
20-11-2021||India||‘Golden day in India’s history, victory for democracy’: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the protests by farmers against the three farm laws for over a year is a lesson on how to struggle while calling the Centre’s decision to repeal the legislation as historic as India’s Independence Day. He added the move has immortalised the sacrifices of over 700 farmers, who died during the agitation against the laws.“Today is a golden day in India’s history. It is like Independence Day and Republic Day. Today the central government had to bow down before the farmers’ movement and to repeal all three black farm laws. This is not just a win for the farmers; it is the victory of democracy. The farmers have made every government realise that in a democracy, they have to listen to the people. Governments have to bow down to the people. Arrogance would not work,” said Kejriwal hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government will repeal the laws.“Today’s day is a lesson for our country’s children and the youth that no matter how difficult and long a struggle is, if we fight peacefully and with the right intentions, there will be success.” Kejriwal said the farmers’ struggle united the nation as everyone, including labourers, women, traders, youth and shopkeepers, participated in it. “From Punjab to Uttar Pradesh and from Bengal to Kerala, the entire nation stood up for our farmers. Even people outside the country supported the movement. People rose above caste and religion to join the fight and in the end the Centre had to bow down before them.”Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has supported the farmer protests, which began in Punjab, where the party emerged as a significant force in 2017 elections. He visited the farmer protest site at the Singhu border on December 7 last year to review the arrangements made there. On December 8, when the protesting farmers called for a Bharat Bandh, Kejriwal said he wanted to visit Singhu but was put under “house arrest”. On December 27, he visited Singhu again to participate in a cultural event organised by the Delhi government. After that in February this year, he addressed a farmer gathering in Meerut. Kejriwal criticised the Centre after a convoy of cars, including one belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra, ran over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The violence that the mowing down of the farmers triggered left eight people dead.Kejriwal on Friday criticised the Centre for the delay in repealing the farm laws and added it tried every means to end the farmers’ protest. “The Centre, its agencies and the entire system tried hard to end their protests. They called our farmers terrorists, (separatist) Khalistanis and anti-nationals. They tried everything to break their grit. This was a freedom struggle for the farmers. Even water cannons dried out, batons failed... Still the Centre could not break their confidence and spirit.”Kejriwal referred to the death of over 700 farmers during the agitation and added this could have been avoided. “Their lives could have been saved if these laws were repealed earlier. Our farmer brothers and sisters would not have had to brave the biting cold and the sweltering heat, had this happened earlier. So many families were destroyed. There would hardly be a movement this long and massive in world history.”Kejriwal’s deputy, Manish Sisodia, also congratulated the farmers. “Your one year long peaceful movement has forced the government to bow down. The central government had to bow down before the martyrdom of hundreds of farmers. The government should also seek apology from families whose members have passed away during this farmers’ movement,” Sisodia tweeted.AAP leader Sanjay Singh called the move to repeal the farm laws a win of farmers over the Centre’s wrongdoings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/golden-day-in-india-s-history-victory-for-democracy-kejriwal-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637315289190.html
20-11-2021||India||‘Repeal of farm laws a win for opposition’: Jayant Chaudhary||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to repeal the farm laws, many linked the move to attempts to reduce the impact of the farmer agitation against the legislation on assembly elections in states such as Uttar Pradesh. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD)’s Jayant Chaudhary, an opposition leader from Western Uttar Pradesh where the farmers play a key role in electoral outcomes, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the impact of the move. Edited excerpts:How do you respond to the decision?It is a good development for the farming community. They have shown a lot of courage by asking some hard questions to the government throughout the last year in a very disciplined and sustained agitation. So, it does send a message to the farmers that in a democracy they are entitled to agitate. They are well within their rights to demand. This is a moment of reflection for all of those who kept claiming that the laws are in favour of the agricultural sector and farmers because today after a year, the government has retraced its steps under widespread agitation.Many say it is not about Punjab, but Western Uttar Pradesh that forced the government’s hand...I think it was a very pervasive issue. The emotional connect is there with every family, every household in Uttar Pradesh, not just western Uttar Pradesh. At a larger level, throughout the country, people were watching the outcome of this. So, I think yes, it is feedback which has reached the highest level of the government and has caused this delayed reaction. There is no doubt.What do you think the impact is going to be?Uttar Pradesh elections are very important for the nation’s politics. They will send a message for what is to come in 2024 (national polls) and of course we are talking about India’s largest state. ...our nation’s trajectory is decided by the voters of Uttar Pradesh. The message has reached people that somewhere Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s thinking was wrong. They do not have an affinity with the farmers. The minister from Uttar Pradesh (Ajay Mishra whose son is an accused in the violence that was triggered after a car ran over protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri ) is still a member of the Cabinet. The farmer distress, sugar cane dues or price rise, electricity or diesel costs or the unavailability of fertilisers, the issue of MSP (minimum support prices remain). Paddy has been procured at less than half of what the MSP is. So, these issues do remain. So, in a sense, they are trying to do some damage control but it is not going to give them a victory. I think the momentum is with the opposition and the people who have been very aggressive. RLD has its own role in taking the message of the farmers to other parts. I think today’s decision is going to help us.Do you think this will help the BJP regain the lost ground?It will actually help us. This is a hard-fought win and I think today all those who were associated with the agitation feel vindicated. It is going to aid us, not them. It is a win for the opposition. All those who opposed these laws, all those who stood on the streets for one year, all those who expressed solidarity with the farmers, it is their victory.Will it help the opposition electorally and will they come together to reap the benefits?We were working on creating a viable alternative to the BJP and a strong opposition platform. We will go forward in that direction. BJP’s propaganda will now try and spin it. They will say that when the laws were there, it was supposed to help the BJP to win over the farmers because it was such a massive reform. Now, when the laws are not there, they are saying it is a win for BJP. They have had to submit to popular opinion. Within the opposition, Samajwadi Party has a credible base across the state. We are in conversation with them.How will you pivot your messaging right now?These laws were not going to solve any problems for the farmers. They in fact created problems. Over the last one year, people have had to suffer because of these laws. Now that they have been taken back, it is not going to bring some great gift either. In a sense, we have lost one year. One year of failed reforms, of failed policies, the distress has not been alleviated. Those are the issues we will take to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-a-win-for-opposition-jayant-chaudhary-101637313249152.html
20-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws to impact multiple proceedings in Supreme Court||The decision by the union government to repeal the three farm laws could bring the curtains down on multiple proceedings in the Supreme Court, dealing not just with the constitutional validity of the laws, but on petitions filed by citizens demanding the right of way, and one by a farm union seeking permission to hold a peaceful protest in New Delhi.There is one set of cases pending before the Supreme Court where the three laws are under challenge. Another set of petitions supports the three laws. In the third set of cases, multiple individuals have approached the top court seeking to resolve traffic hassles and over citizens’ right to movement that has been affected due to the farmers’ protest.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave who represented the farm unions in the top court said, “Once the laws are repealed, the Supreme Court will pass orders declaring the petitions to be infructuous.”He expressed happiness over the decision taken by the government, saying, “It is because the farmers stood so strongly against the laws, the government was forced to bend backwards. The determination shown by our farmers will strengthen our democracy.”Also Read: Chaduni and Tikait: Firebrands of farm agitationThe decision to repeal the farm laws has not gone down well among certain sections of the farming community. Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana, also a member of an SC-appointed committee examining the farm laws, called the move “unfortunate”, saying it is not in favour of either farmers or the country.“The old laws had exploited the farmers by imposing a lot of restrictions on them by pulling down prices of agricultural produce using weapons such as export ban and stock limit. Agitating farmers were misled by their leaders that the minimum support price will go and their land will be taken away by companies. The government did not do its job properly to convince the farmers about the reality,” Ghanwat said.He said the government’s rollback decision was “political” and aimed at winning state elections in the coming months.In September 2020, after Parliament passed the three farm laws – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act - farmers began their stir demanding a rollback of all three legislations that were seen as anti-farmer.Around the same time, farmer organisations started consulting lawyers, seeking to find ways to challenge the three laws.Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress vice-president Rakesh Vaishnav and five other farm leaders were among the first few to approach the Supreme Court around September-end last year to question the laws.Political parties trooped in to support the farmers as MP Manoj Jha from Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress MP TN Prathapan and DMK MP Tiruchi Siva filed separate petitions over the laws. The petitions were taken up in October 2020 on which notices were issued.Later, several farm unions such as Bhartiya Kisan Party, Madhya Pradesh farmer leader DP Dhakad, National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Sangam state president P Ayyakannu and lawyer ML Sharma also joined in.A significant turn in the proceedings happened on January 12 when the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the laws and formed a committee of experts to consider the grievances of the protesting farmers and recommend amendments to the laws.This committee comprising Pramod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist and director for South Asia at International Food Policy Research Institute, Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and ex-chairman at Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Ghanwat submitted its report in a sealed cover in March. The Supreme Court is yet to consider the report as the matter has since not come up for hearing.In March this year, a Noida-based resident approached the Supreme Court citing that the farmers’ protest made commuting between New Delhi and NCR townships a nightmare.The Supreme Court took up the issue with the Centre and the governments of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to work out a plan to resolve the issue. The SC said that farmers had the right to protest but they can’t be blocking roads.In October, another bench of the top court took a diametrically opposite view when it said that farmers cannot be allowed to protest when they have decided to approach the court.The Supreme Court was dealing with a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat demanding permission to hold “satyagraha” in the Capital to urge the Centre to roll back the three farm laws.Incidentally, the farmers’ body was also a party to other proceedings challenging the farm laws. The Supreme Court sought assistance of the attorney general on whether the farmers were justified in continuing to protest having also approached a constitutional court for redress of their grievances.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who represents farmer unions in proceedings before the Supreme Court, said in a tweet, “The prime minister’s announcement to repeal the three farm laws is a tribute to the resolute determination and struggle of our farmers who sat on the borders of Delhi for one year suffering enormous hardship. The government caved in only after realising its electoral impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-to-impact-multiple-proceedings-in-supreme-court-101637313067827.html
20-11-2021||India||Chaduni and Tikait: Firebrands of farm agitation||The protests that led Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce his government will scrap three farm laws would not have been possible without the groundswell of support whipped up by two of the agitation’s unlikely leaders, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait. Chaduni took the agitation outside the confines of Punjab to his home state Haryana, which paved the way for farmers to reach Delhi’s borders. Tikait planted the movement firmly in the political bellwether state of Uttar Pradesh.A firebrand, Chaduni organised one of the first meetings on September 10, 2020, in Haryana’s Pipli village to protest the three laws. The next milestone came when the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a coalition of over 200 farmer unions, called for a march toward Delhi on November 26-27.The laws aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, allowed food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and laid down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement.Farmers maintained these changes will leave them at the mercy of big corporations, who would be in a position to dictate low prices.In Punjab, the movement was led by leaders such as B.S. Rajewal and Satvir Singh, but Chaduni was the one who built a movement in Haryana, said Kakkaji, a farm leader.Gurnam Singh ChaduniChaduni was among a handful of leaders who was part of the decision to forge a larger alliance at a meeting at Delhi’s Gurdwara Rakab Ganj. The meeting was attended by farm union leaders, including VM Singh, a former convenor of the AIKSCC, 78-year-old Balbir Singh Rajewal, a veteran farmer leader from Punjab, and Chaduni, who was the face of the farmers’ agitation in Haryana.“It was Chaduni who went from village to village, day and night, and explained the need to make the agitation bigger and bigger. This was after it was clear that thousands of farmers would move to Delhi,” said Sandeep Topra, an aide to Chaduni.Chaduni contested the 2019 Assembly election from Ladwa constituency in Haryana’s Kurukshetra region, campaigning on a mix of farmers’ issues and matters of local development, but lost. His wife, Balwinder Kaur, also fought and lost the 2014 Lok Sabha polls as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate.Chaduni’s native village, Charuni Jattan, lies in the Shahbad area of Kurukshetra district. His derives his surname from his native village, a customary practice. Chaduni is an iconoclast. In the middle of the march to Delhi on November 25, 2020, farm unions decided unanimously to sit peacefully on the Punjab-Haryana border due to resistance from the government and a crackdown by Haryana police. Chaduni gave a war cry, defied the sit-in plan, and instead pulled apart barricades in Ambala to reach Delhi with thousands of followers.“These laws will break the backbone of farmers. They will lead to distress sale of farm produce and make us bow to big corporations,” Chaduni told HT at the time.After thousands of farmers reached the borders of Delhi on November 27 last year, the Union government asked the protestors to move to Burari, a designated site on Delhi’s outskirts before talks on the demands could begin.Chaduni opposed it, likening Burari to an open jail. He is described as a fearless farm leader adept at winning street battles on farmers’ issues. “It is a victory of all farmers and it took the ultimate sacrifices of more than 600 farmers who lost their lives in this agitation,” Chaduni said.Rakesh TikaitWhen, after months of peaceful protests, hundreds of farmers marched to the Red Fort and clashed with police in the Capital on January 26 in a tractor rally that went completely out of hand, farm unions feared the violent episode could spell the end of their movement. Instead, Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, an influential farmers’ organisation, entrenched the protests firmly in his home turf, the politically crucial sugarcane belt of western Uttar Pradesh. Tikait began holding a series of “kisan mahapanchayats” or rural conclaves, which are respected village institutions of the landed Jat community where social decisions taken by elders are binding.Over 100,000 farmers have camped in five makeshift camps at key border points of Delhi. A turning point came on the night of January 28 this year, when news began to spread that authorities in Uttar Pradesh would descend on Ghazipur , a protest camp on Delhi’s border, to vacate it. The site was under the supervision of Tikait, an influential Jat farm leader from western Uttar Pradesh. Tikait cried before TV cameras, saying he would rather die than give in, which steeled the resolve of the Jats, a community that had benefited from the Green Revolution of the 1970s.The Tikaits belong to the Baliyan khap, a dominant clan among the Jats, most of whom are sugarcane growers. They voted overwhelmingly for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in past elections. This sugarcane belt was the ground zero of the deadly Hindu Jat-Muslim clashes in 2013, which helped the BJP politically. That religious divide is now seen to be cementing. A mahapanchayat in Bhainswal organised on February 5 saw heavy participation of Muslims.Tikait has built a campaign against the entire gamut of the Modi government’s economic reforms, calling them as anti-people and pro-corporations.“We will not rest till a law on MSP (minimum support prices) is passed by the government,” Tikait said. Tikait was instrumental in organising Jats as well as other communities through mahapanchayats (rural conclaves), which was his main strategy, said Ashutosh, the president of Kisan Mazdoor Jagran Manch, a farm outfit in UP’s Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaduni-and-tikait-firebrands-of-farm-agitation-101637310188524.html
20-11-2021||India||Unions cheer, but still want a law for MSP||Farm unions on Friday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to roll back three agricultural laws they had been opposing for a year, but the government has to now contend with a tougher demand – a law guaranteeing minimum support prices or MSP to cultivators for their produce.“It is the victory of millions of farmers who did not give up. It is a victory for democracy but a partial victory. We had two demands, one (was to) repeal the three laws. Second, give us a legal guarantee of minimum support price, something the prime minister had himself demanded when he was chief minister of Gujarat. That has not been considered yet. That struggle will go on,” said Yogendra Yadav, a key leader of the farmers’ movement.Rakesh Tikait, a prominent farm leader from Uttar Pradesh who was in Maharashtra’s Palghar for an event when Modi made the announcement, said it wasn’t time yet to end their yearlong protest.“We are not withdrawing the protests. We will wait and watch to see what happens. Also, we want a law on MSP (minimum support prices),” he said.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions protesting the laws, is preparing to go ahead with planned mahapanchayats in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The reforms Modi said his government would rescind aimed to allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside regulated markets, called mandis, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.Farmers feared the new economic agenda could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSP, but farmers have demanded a law that prohibits purchase of major farm produce below state-set minimum prices.MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, are set such that they offer 50% returns over cost but mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities.Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for much of their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s policy to keep food prices low.This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices.An MSP is an important policy tool that helped achieve food self-sufficiency because it gave farmers assured prices. It is an important price signal, but does not have statutory backing.While the government announces MSP for 23 major crops, setting them at 1.5 times the cost of cultivation to account for inflation, analysts say a blanket law mandating that no trader can buy any farm commodity below this threshold price could be tough to implement.“The demand for a law on MSP will elicit a bigger response from farmers now because it will be a direct step towards higher income. It involves huge central expenditure and this will be a bigger problem for the Modi government,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor at Lucknow University.The most immediate impact of such a law will be higher food inflation.Every percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation, according to Nomura economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics such as demand and global prices, creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce.The government already procures staggering quantities of surplus rice and wheat, which have become unmanageable. The government on average holds at least 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year.If MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate.According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about ₹37 a kg. For wheat, it is around ₹27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six to eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs FCI to buy them.But the MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states. The 70th round of National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs.While MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops, such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. Also, MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices. They often ignore the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy.This also means surplus stocks can’t be exported without a subsidy, which invites World Trade Organisation’s objections. WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms.“Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions, such as ‘whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-scrap-agri-laws-but-farm-protests-to-continue-101637304667046.html
20-11-2021||India||‘It’s a beginning’: Tikait says won’t return until laws repealed in Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement saying the government will withdraw the three farm laws enacted last year is just a beginning and the protesting farmers will return to their homes only after Parliament approves the roll back, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said on Friday.Tikait, who emerged as a key face of the agitation the legislation, said multiple issues including the legislation for Minimum Support Price (MSP) remain pending. He added Modi did not speak about this and reiterated they will return from the protest sites only when all their demands are met. Tikait said farmers would not take announcements seriously until Parliament approves the repeal.He added a meeting of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of farmers spearheading the protests, will be convened on Friday to discuss and review the development. “Further course of action will be decided accordingly,” said Tikait. He added over 600 farmers have sacrificed their lives to strengthen and carry forward the movement against the laws. “...we need to honour their sacrifice while taking any decision,” he told HT over the phone.In a tweet in Hindi, Tikait said, “The agitation will not be taken back. We will wait for the day when the farm laws will be scrapped in the Parliament. Along with the MSP, the government should also discuss other issues of farmers.”Thousands of farmers have been campaigning at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise agricultural trade. They maintained the laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations, who will dictate prices and wean them off state support. The government argued the laws will alter an existing state-backed market system and free up farm trade, boost investments in the farm economy and raise incomes.The protests broadened into a larger movement against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-a-beginning-tikait-says-farmers-won-t-return-until-decision-is-passed-by-parliament-101637296927926.html
