21-11-2021||India||Cabinet set to approve draft legislation to repeal contentious farm laws||The Union cabinet is likely to approve a proposal to repeal three contentious farm laws this week following which Parliament will take up repealing bills to give effect to their revocation, officials aware of the development have said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced that his government would revoke the laws that had drawn out tens of thousands of farmers in protests after a year of being passed. “There will be corresponding repealing bills, which after being approved by the Cabinet will be tabled in Parliament during the winter session as announced by the PM,” one of the officials said. Parliament will convene for its winter session on November 29. Under Article 245, Parliament is vested with powers to both pass and annul laws. If Parliament is in recess, the government can repeal or enact laws by bringing in an ordinance, which needs to be ratified by Parliament later. The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping legislation is largely the same, experts said. A fresh repealing bill needs to be approved by Parliament in case of junking an existing law. “Three separate repealing laws will be needed if the existing laws were separately legislated,” said GC Malhotra, former Secretary General of Lok Sabha. The three farm laws that will be repealed are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The laws the government said would be annulled were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement. Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws comes ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-set-to-approve-draft-legislation-to-repeal-contentious-farm-laws-101637519199734.html
21-11-2021||India||'Nothing wrong in chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ but....': RSS chief Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday asserted that there was nothing wrong in chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ but urged people raising the slogan to also try becoming like Lord Ram. "Nowadays, we raise the slogan of Jai Shri Ram enthusiastically. There is nothing wrong in it but we should also follow the path shown by Lord Ram," news agency ANI quoted the RSS chief as saying while addressing a gathering at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi."Following Lord Ram's ideals gives people the courage to walk forward. Such people exist and are like us in appearance. They are not supernatural. They do not expect any form of cash or kind. They just do their work silently," Bhagwat said.#WATCH | Nowadays, we raise the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram' enthusiastically. There is nothing bad in it but we should also follow the path shown by Lord Ram: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at an event in Delhi pic.twitter.com/rCrttILjJfCiting an excerpt from Ramayana, Bhagwat said, "Just like Lord Ram's brother Bharat loved him, many common men, in today's times, find it difficult to love their brothers in such a way. Such people should learn from Lord Ram's life."The RSS chief also remarked that India did not progress as much as it could have done in these 75 years as the nation did not take the right path. "The people of India have considered this land as their motherland since ancient times. If we continue to do the same and work together as brothers and sisters, there is no chance that India won't progress," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-wrong-in-chanting-jai-shri-ram-but-rss-chief-bhagwat-101637518845786.html
21-11-2021||India||Farmers to go ahead with planned protest activities||The protesting farmer unions on Sunday announced that their agitation will continue as planned, as they dug in heels for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs), days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government would repeal three agricultural laws enacted last year that set off widespread protests.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, at the Singhu border on Sunday. Among the planned protests is a Kisan Mahapanchayat scheduled to take place in Lucknow on Monday, and a march to Parliament on November 29 to coincide with the commencement of the Winter Session.The SKM has also written an open letter to the PM seeking immediate resumption of talks with the government over six of their pending demands.The Union cabinet is likely to approve a proposal to repeal the contentious laws this week, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.In a televised address on Friday, PM Modi “while apologising to the people of the country”, said that the government “could not explain to some of our farmer brothers a truth that was as clear as a flame” about the farm laws. “Today I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws,” he said.While the farmers, who have been protesting across the country and at the three borders of the national capital since last year, welcomed the PM’s announcement, they said the protests will continue until the government brings a law on MSPs.MSPs are state-assured floor rates meant to help avoid distress sale.Briefing reporters, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that the future course of action was discussed at the SKM meeting. “We discussed repeal of farm laws. After this, some decisions were taken. SKM’s pre-decided programs will continue as it is - Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on November 22 gatherings at all borders on November 26 and a march to Parliament on November 29,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters after the meeting.Rakesh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the key organisations leading the agitation, did not attend the meeting as he is currently in Lucknow. Tikait, however, gave a “Lucknow Chalo” (March to Lucknow) call for a Mahapanchayat in the Uttar Pradesh capital.“Chalo Lucknow Chalo Lucknow (March to Lucknow) for MSP Adhikaar Kisan Mahapanchayat. The agriculture reforms being talked about are fake and cosmetic. The farm reforms are not going to stop the plight of the farmers. The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP,” Tikait said in a tweet in Hindi.Farmers and supporters of the agitation from different districts of western UP are expected to participate in the Kisan Mahapanchayat at the Eco Garden in Lucknow on Monday.Leaders of the agitation have said that the protesting farmers have been emboldened after the government’s decision to repeal the laws after their year-long agitation.“The farmers’ confidence is running high. They are expected to attend the mahapanchayat in big numbers,” BKU (Asli) general secretary Surendra Singh said.Several hundred farmers have already arrived in Lucknow for the gathering, farm leaders said.“Guarantee for MSP was a genuine demand for farmers and the agitation would continue until government accepts the demand,” BKU’s Moradabad division president Digamber Singh said.At the meeting, the SKM also decided to write to the PM, seeking the cancellation of the cases filed against the farmers and compensation for the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.While thanking Modi for his decision, the SKM’s letter, said, “After 11 rounds of talks, you chose the path of unilateral declaration rather than a bilateral solution.”“MSP based on the comprehensive cost of production should be made a legal entitlement of all farmers for all agricultural produce so that every farmer of the country can be guaranteed the MSP announced by the government for their entire crop. Withdraw the draft ‘Electricity Amendments Bill, 2020/2021’,” the letter read.The SKM’s demands included the sacking and arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by a car in the Lakhimpur Kheri district, the native place of the Union minister on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three people were also killed. Over a dozen people, including the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in the case.While Rajewal welcomed the PM’s announcement, he said, “A lot of things still remain.”Rajewal said that another meeting of the SKM will be held on November 27 to discuss the future course of action.“We urge all the farmers to gather at all protest sites to mark the completion of one-year of the agitation on November 26. We will also take part in a farmers’ rally in Lucknow on Monday. The tractor march to Parliament will take place as per schedule from November 29. As many as 500 farmers from Tikri and Ghazipur borders will reach the parliament every day,” Rajewal said.The decision to scrap the laws has come ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.An official familiar with the development said that a bill to give effect to the revocation will be tabled in the winter session.“There will be corresponding repealing bills, which after being approved by the Cabinet will be tabled in Parliament during the winter session as announced by the PM,” one of the officials said.Parliament will convene for its winter session on November 29.The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping a legislation is largely the same, experts said.“Three separate repealing laws will be needed if the existing laws were separately legislated,” said GC Malhotra, former Secretary General of Lok Sabha.The three farm laws that will be repealed are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-go-ahead-with-planned-protest-activities-101637518479769.html
21-11-2021||India||Submarine info leak: Ex-naval officers get bail; court says CBI chargesheet incomplete||The CBI had to cut a sorry face after a special court granted bail to retired Navy officers Randeep Singh and SJ Singh and others in a case of alleged leak of confidential information on submarine projects for pecuniary gains, terming the agency's chargesheets as "incomplete" as the documents do not mention anything about a probe under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), officials said.The court has also granted bail to TP Sastry, executive director of Allen Reinforced Plastics Limited, a Hyderabad-based company, they said.Special Judge Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj granted default bail to the retired officers -- Commodore Randeep Singh and Commander SJ Singh -- who were arrested on September 2, and Sastry, who was arrested on September 8, on a personal bond of ₹one lakh each and other conditions.An accused becomes eligible for default bail if the investigating agency does not file the chargesheet within a stipulated period of 60 days or 90 days, depending on the charges pressed.The judge said although the agency had filed its chargesheets within 60 days on November 2, the documents are "incomplete" as those do not mention anything about the probe under the OSA, making the accused eligible for bail."The chargesheet filed before the court is incomplete in as much as there is no mention regarding the investigation being carried out under the Official Secrets Act, though the same was being carried out in this case itself. The chargesheet thus, is incomplete for the purposes of section 167(2) of CrPC (default bail)," she said.The agency had made a mention of the pending OSA investigation for the first time while replying to the bail applications of the accused, which were dismissed on November 10 as there was "no clarity regarding the status of the case under the Official Secrets Act, the computation of time period for offences discovered later in the investigation etc.", the judge had noted."It was stated in the reply of the CBI that the investigation was being conducted under the Official Secrets Act, the Ministry of Defence has been requested to file a formal complaint as per law and the supplementary chargesheet would follow," the judge noted.The defence lawyers cited a Delhi High Court judgment stating that since there is no minimum stipulated punishment under the OSA, chargesheets have to be filed within 60 days to deny default bail to the accused.The judge pointed out that the CBI had taken over the probe in respect of section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and other sections were added as the investigation progressed."At no point did the CBI inform the court that an investigation under the Official Secrets Act has also been taken up," she said.The judge noted that the investigation officer informed, when inquired, that the Navy in response to a reference from the CBI had told the agency that the documents recovered were confidential in nature.The response of the Navy was received on October 14 and October 19, she pointed out.The judge said the agency filed two chargesheets on November 2 but there was no mention of the OSA investigation being carried out by the agency.It was only in response to the bail applications of the accused that the CBI said in order to initiate a probe under sections 3 and 5 of the OSA, a complaint from the defence ministry was required for which the agency had sent a proposal to the ministry, she said.Citing Supreme Court and high court judgments, the judge said it was "incumbent upon the CBI" to have filed its chargesheets within 60 days, mentioning that the investigation on its part was complete and that the reference has been made to the ministry concerned for filing a complaint under the relevant sections.The court said even if it is considered for the sake of arguments that the CBI had forwarded the application for a formal complaint and the ball was in the court of the ministry -- though the argument of the prosecutor is that the investigation is also going on -- the part of the CBI was not over in as much as it was expected to file a report alongside the said complaint with all the evidence collected by it.The CBI had carried out raids on retired naval officers Commodore Randeep Singh and Commander Satwinder Jeet Singh on September 2 after getting information that the latter was going to share crucial details related to a meeting in the Navy on procurement. Both were arrested on the same day.The agency is probing allegations into the leak of confidential information pertaining to procurement and maintenance of naval equipment for pecuniary benefits and bribery in a deal for a mine-laying saddle from Allen Reinforced Plastics Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/submarine-info-leak-ex-naval-officers-get-bail-court-says-cbi-chargesheet-incomplete-101637516632514.html
21-11-2021||India||Andhra floods: Death toll crosses 30; several villages destroyed||Heavy destruction due to flooding in Andhra Pradesh over the past week saw trains and vehicles stranded, people displaced and killed and destruction of property. The death toll due to the recent floods in the state reached 31 on Sunday. Rivers Pennar and Cheyyeru which were inundated swept away several villages and flooded roadways.The Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 was closed after roads were flooded in Padugupadu in SPS Nellore district due to flooding in the Penna river.More than 17 trains were cancelled on the Chennai-Vijayawada grand trunk route as the flood overflowed on the railway track at Padugupadu. Some trains were also diverted.Andhra Pradesh disaster management body said the deluge was caused as more than two lakh cusecs of water from the flood flowed out of the Somasila reservoir in SPS Nellore district, news agency PTI reported. Vehicles were stranded on either side of the NH-16 between Nellore and Vijayawada due to the flooding.Villagers angered over Annamayya projectTogurupeta, Mandapalli, Pulapathur and Gundlur villages were caught in a deluge as Annamayya project on Cheyyeru river overflowed as two lakh cusecs of water was released. At least 18 people died in the floods and many others were missing as the medium irrigation project breached due to the release of water.“It was nothing but gross mismanagement on the part of the administration. Didn’t they know about the flood when there was such heavy rain? Why were we not even alerted about the coming danger before it destroyed us,” angry villagers from Mandapalli and Togurupeta were quoted as saying by news agency PTI.12 people died in Pulapathur village due to the flood in Cheyyeru while nine people died in Mandapalli and five in Gundlur. In Mandapalli, two families were wiped out as the Cheyyeru river flooded, news agency AP reported.“The river course changed but the dam breach was what caused the real destruction. We still moved some 600 people to safety,” Kadapa district collector Vijaya Rama Raju was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-floods-death-toll-crosses-30-several-villages-destroyed-101637513210066.html
21-11-2021||India||Delhi Sikh body writes to Prez Kovind seeking withdrawal of Kangana's Padma Shri||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Sunday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him that the Padma Shri conferred on actor Kangana Ranaut be withdrawn as she was "spreading communal hatred, targeting a religious community, and insulting farmers and freedom fighters".The Sikh body filed a police complaint against her on Saturday for allegedly making seditious and derogatory remarks on social media.In his letter to the President, DSGMC and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa said Ranaut has been "deliberately provoking Sikhs" making references to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots."She does not deserve this honour. She does not represent the spirit of India which is based on harmony and goodness for all. Considering the social sentiments, Padma Shri should be withdrawn from her immediately for insulting farmers, Sikhs, and freedom fighters," he said.Sirsa said a DSGMC delegation will go to Mumbai on Monday to meet Maharashtra's Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil and lodge a complaint against Ranaut at the Khar police station.He said he will meet the deputy commissioner of police to ensure the registration of an FIR against her."This time it will be ensured that Kangana Ranaut does not get bail and she goes to jail for spitting venom against Sikhs time and again. She is playing the card of Hindutva for cheap publicity," Sirsa alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sikh-body-writes-to-prez-kovind-seeking-withdrawal-of-kangana-s-padma-shri-101637512748202.html
21-11-2021||India||After Rajasthan cabinet rejig, 6 MLAs appointed as advisors to Gehlot||Hours after the Rajasthan cabinet went through a major reshuffle with as many as 15 ministers being sworn into office, six Congress MLAs were appointed as advisors to chief minister Ashok Gehlot. According to the ANI news agency, which reported on the update, these six MLAs are – Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar.After Cabinet reshuffle, Rajasthan Govt appoints six MLAs -- Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar -- as advisors to CM Ashok Gehlot15 ministers were sworn into the Rajasthan council on Sunday, with 11 of them being cabinet ministers and four ministers of state. The cabinet expansion included 12 new faces, fulfilling a key demand of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot whose rebellion last year shook the state’s Congress government.The 11 cabinet-rank and four ministers of state (MoS) sworn in by Governor Kalraj Mishra included five considered to be in the Pilot camp. Among them were Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, back now as cabinet-rank ministers after being sacked during the revolt.The list included three MoS, all Dalits, from the old team who were elevated to the cabinet rank. The Congress also made room for an MLA who had switched over from the Bahujan Samaj Party.All 20 members of the earlier ministry had submitted their resignations just ahead of the long-awaited reshuffle. But only three, including state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra, have been dropped with the party deciding to follow the one man, one post formula.The expansion, two years ahead of the next assembly polls, also gives Dalits and women a stronger presence in the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-6-mlas-appointed-as-advisors-to-gehlot-101637508597520.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Corpse’ found breathing inside morgue freezer night after being declared dead||In a real-life incident that can otherwise happen only in reel life, a 45-year-old man, declared 'dead' following a road accident, was found alive despite spending a night in the freezer of a hospital morgue, news agency AFP reported on Sunday. Srikesh Kumar was admitted to a clinic in a critical condition after he met with an accident in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad.The man was later transported to a medical facility where he was declared 'dead' by a doctor attending him.His body was then taken to a government hospital for a post mortem. "The emergency medical officer examined him. He did not find any signs of life and hence declared him dead," AFP quoted Rajendra Kumar, the hospital's medical superintendent, as saying.The body was later placed in the morgue freezer for about six hours, till his family arrived.To everyone's surprise, when a police team and his family came over to initiate the paperwork for the autopsy, the man was found alive. "This is nothing short of a miracle," the official added.According to the report, the man is in a coma and is undergoing treatment. An investigation has also been launched to determine how the doctors mistakenly declared him dead.In a similar incident which took place in 2018, a 24-year-old “brain-dead” man taken for autopsy in a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh was found to be alive, according to a PTI report. Himanshu Bharadwaj suffered head injuries after his motorcycle skidded off the road in Chhindwara, following which he was referred to Nagpur for treatment.According to the report, the doctors at the Nagpur hospital declared Bharadwaj brain dead and sent him back to Chhindwara. The man later regained consciousness and all his vitals were found to be stable, an official told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corpse-found-breathing-inside-morgue-freezer-night-after-being-declared-dead-101637510895681.html
21-11-2021||India||Young couple found dead in Bengal town two weeks after marriage||A 21-year-old man and his 19-year-old wife were found hanging inside their home in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Sunday, two weeks after they had tied the knot, police said. Though preliminary investigations suggested that the couple may have died by suicide, the woman’s parents told the police that they suspected foul play. The deceased lived with the groom’s parents. The marriage was arranged by the two families. The bride’s family lives in Islampur in North Dinajpur district. Her father alleged that she was not being allowed by the groom’s parents to visit her home for a few days and enroll for the higher secondary examination to be held next year. The groom’s father denied the charge. Manish Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner, Siliguri metropolitan police, said, “We have started an investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-couple-found-dead-in-bengal-town-two-weeks-after-marriage-101637508519045.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC MPs seek meeting with Amit Shah over alleged ‘police brutality’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. A delegation of more than 15 Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians on Sunday sought a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over allegations of police brutality being faced by TMC workers at the hands of Tripura police, party officials familiar with developments told news agency ANI. Read moreYamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) CEO Arun Veer Singh on Sunday said that the bid for the development of ₹10,000 crore film city along the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh will open on November 23. Read moreFor long has he been touted to take the role of former Indian wicketkeeper-batsman MS Dhoni, given his similar ability of being aggressive with the bat. Read moreRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa have released their wedding video and it has a potpourri of emotions. The video begins with Rajkummar standing at the mandap, watching Patralekhaa walking up to him. Read moreRandeep Hooda often takes to Instagram to share various kinds of posts. Besides the shares that give a peek inside his real and reel lives, he also talks about preservation of the wildlife and creates awareness around it. Read moreIf your relationship with sugar is going strong to the extent that even the thought of not indulging in sugary treats for a day gives you anxiety, you need to find ways to break away from this toxic bond. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tmc-mps-seek-meeting-with-amit-shah-over-alleged-police-brutality-in-tripura-and-all-the-latest-news-101637507467432.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Train services soon between Siliguri and Dhaka’: Shringla||Train services between north Bengal’s Siliguri, the second-largest city in the eastern state, and Bangladesh capital Dhaka will start soon, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, India’s foreign secretary, said on Sunday. Shringla, who was in Darjeeling to attend a charity event, announced this while interacting with the media. “The Centre is trying to operationalise the railway services between the two cities and the announcement on the same would be made soon,” he said. “The plan is to start the service at the earliest and it will take advantage of the opening of Haldibari-Chilahati train services. It is important for linking Bangladesh to north Bengal. It will provide a lot of opportunities in the transportation of goods. The services will start with freight trains and, over a period of time, passenger train services will start between Siliguri and Dhaka,” Shringla added. Freight train services between Haldibari in the Alipurduar railway division and Chilahati in Bangladesh resumed on August 1, after a gap of 56 years. “The two countries have passenger train services between Kolkata and Dhaka and between Kolkata and Khulna. Passenger trains between Dhaka and Siliguri will bring in tourists and people coming for medical reasons. This is good for the region” Shringla said. Five railway services between West Bengal and Bangladesh are currently operational. These are - Petrapole (India) - Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede - Darshan, Singhabad - Rohanpur, Radhikapur- Birol and Haldibari-Chilahati. The foreign secretary also reiterated that India has a clearly-laid policy in regard to China. “The Tibetan autonomous region is a part of that country and there is no change in our policy,” the foreign secretary said in Darjeeling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-services-soon-between-siliguri-and-dhaka-shringla-101637507680058.html
21-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs allege ‘police brutality’, seek meet with Amit Shah||A delegation of more than 15 Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians on Sunday sought a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over allegations of police brutality being faced by TMC workers at the hands of Tripura police, party officials familiar with developments told news agency ANI.  The party is also planning to hold dharnas in New Delhi to voice its concerns, the people cited above further added.  The move by the TMC workers comes hours after its youth wing leader Saayoni Ghosh was detained for allegedly attempting to "mow down" people and disturbing a political programme where Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb was present.  Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien in a tweet said that the police are not taking action against the BJP workers who allegedly attacked the TMC workers. He also requested the Supreme Court to take note.  TMC leaders in Tripura have accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Tripura of obstructing them from campaigning freely ahead of the civic polls in the state. Several clashes were reported in the past few weeks, with the latest clash reported on Saturday where it was alleged that BJP workers confronted former Union minister Babul Supriyo as he was assessing poll preparations with TMC candidates in Agartala.  The TMC claimed that the Tripura police was not adhering to the directive given by the Supreme Court earlier this month where it instructed the police in the state to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner.  The TMC, which is trying to increase its national footprint, is seeking to make major gains in the northeastern state with the help of the upcoming civic polls on November 25. It also has set its sight in Goa, where it seeks to defeat the BJP. The party has also expanded its base to other northeastern states like Mizoram and Assam aiming to wrest it from the BJP buoyed by its recent victory in the October 30 bypolls as well as the West Bengal polls earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-tmc-mps-allege-police-brutality-seek-meet-with-amit-shah-101637506361606.html
21-11-2021||India||With his iktara to motivate farmers, 75-year-old protester returns to Singhu border||He plays iktara at the Singhu border, where he has been camping at regular intervals since the start of the protest against the three agri laws. With his songs of victory, Jagar Singh, 75, is back at the site, motivating the protesters to continue their struggle.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a rollback of the three agri laws at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year.On his fourth visit to the Singhu border, the epicentre of farmers' protest, Singh, a resident of Patiala district in Punjab, seems happy and in a celebratory mood."We have won half the battle but there is still some time for us to return home triumphant. We want the government to bring in legislation to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP)," he said.He said he has stayed at the Singhu border for a week each on his three earlier visits. A day after the Centre's announcement of the three contentious laws, Singh reached the site on Saturday to sing songs of victory and to motivate the protesters to continue their struggle.“Playing the iktara is my hobby and from the past few years, I have gradually started singing as well. This is the fourth time I have come to the Singhu border since the protest started. I have family responsibilities back home,” he said.Singh said he has also performed at the main stage at the Singhu border protest site.Malkit Singh (58), a resident of Ropar, said ‘nagar kirtan’ was organised at the border on Sunday morning.“Today, nagar kirtan was organised two days after the Gurupurab. It was started from the main stage, we did ‘sewa’ in the kirtan and sweets were distributed during the procession. We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil our other demands also so that we would go back to our respective homes,” he said.The protesters are refusing to move from the site till their demands are met.Chad Singh (70), a resident of Patiala, said the protesters have achieved one demand, however, "there are others which have to be accepted by the government".“Repealing of the three farm laws is one step. There are other demands of MSP guarantee etc. The government should also compensate the family members of the protesters who died here and give jobs to their kin. The farmers have spent a lot of money in the protest and the government should also waive loans of all farmers,” Chad said.Chad said he has celebrated Lohri and Diwali at the Singhu border.“I went back to my home in Patiala twice and later came here. For the first time, I celebrated Lohri and Diwali away from my home. My family has supported me a lot. They said I should be at the protest site and win the battle,” Chad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-his-iktara-to-motivate-farmers-75-year-old-protester-returns-to-singhu-border-101637506564956.html
21-11-2021||India||Chirag Paswan-led LJP (Ram Vilas) mulling new alliance before Bihar MLC polls||Following a dismal performance in the recently held by-polls for two assembly seats and an equally poor performance in the 2020 assembly election, Chirag Paswan-led LJP (Ram Vilas) is mulling forming a new political equation for the elections for the MLC seats in Bihar. Members of the party’s state parliamentary board, which met under the chairmanship of Hulas Pandey on Saturday, were unanimous that the party should contest the Council polls but it should not contest it alone. “A proposal to this regard passed by the state parliamentary board will be sent to the party’s national president. The meeting wanted an alliance and we are leaving it to our national president to explore the option. Whether it will be with the NDA or some other party, it is up to our president to decide,” said Ashraf Ansari, LJP (Ram Vilas) spokesperson. The meeting was also attended by party’s state president, Raju Tiwary. People familiar with the development said that most probably, the party would go for a tie-up with the RJD and Chirag Paswan would make some announcement in this regard on November 28 on the occasion of the party’s foundation day. Unconfirmed reports said that RJD has even offered 5-6 seats to Chirag’s party for MLC elections which are to be held on 24 seats for the Bihar Legislative Council. “We are having talks for an alliance but can’t say with which party as it is initial days yet,” said LJP (Ram Vilas) state president Raju Tiwary. LJP at present has no representation in either house of Bihar. It’s lone MLA switched over to the JD(U) and following a division in the party, LJP (Ram Vilas) has only one MP in the Lok Sabha in the form of Chirag Paswan whereas the other LJP, the LJP (National), led by Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras has five MPs. Just before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, former Union Minister the late Ram Vilas Paswan had included his party LJP in the BJP-led alliance. In the 2020 Legislative Assembly election, Chirag’s party had fielded its candidate against the candidates of JD-U. Chirag’s party did not get any seat in this election, but did a lot of damage to Nitish Kumar’s party. Senior party leaders said that Chirag’s party, which entered the Bihar bypolls with a new name and symbol, could not damage the JD (U)’s prospect though it pushed the Congress to a distant fourth position. At both the places, Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur, where JD-U won and RJD secured the second spot, Chirag Paswan’s party came in third. In the Kusheshwarsthan seat, Paswan’s party candidate Anju Devi got 5,623 votes, while in Tarapur, LJP (Ram Vilas) candidate Kumar Chandan got 5,350 votes. Chirag, however, expressed his satisfaction on bagging the third position in the by-election and said that this is just the beginning. “The state parliamentary party reviewed the causes of the party’s poor performance and decided to contest the MLC elections on 24 seats with a new alliance. The new alliance will fight more openly against Nitish Kumar, if the opposition parties of JD-U get together, then its impact will be seen in the coming days. This will further strengthen the ongoing political battle of the opposition parties against Nitish Kumar,” said party spokesperson, Krishna Singh Kallu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-led-ljp-ram-vilas-mulling-new-alliance-before-bihar-mlc-polls-101637506899067.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Some irresponsible nations…’: Rajnath Singh’s subtle dig at China at INS Visakhapatnam commissioning||During the Indian Navy's commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam, defence minister Rajnath Singh took an indirect dig at China, and mentioned “some irresponsible nations” while talking about the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).Explaining that the UNCLOS 1982 stands for a country’s exclusive economic zone, good order at sea and territorial waters, Singh said that the “arbitrary interpretations” of the international law cause hurdles for creating a “rule-based maritime order.”“There are some nations — I would like to say irresponsible nations — (who) for the sake of their narrow partisan interests, and hegemonic tendencies keep on giving new and inappropriate interpretations to these international laws,” Singh said during the event earlier in the day.
21-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: TMC’s Saayoni Ghosh detained for disturbing CM Biplab Deb’s public meeting||Trinamool leader Saayoni Ghosh was detained by Tripura police on Sunday for allegedly disturbing a political programme involving chief minister Biplab Deb. Tensions between both the parties have spilled over from Bengal to the northeastern state as it gears up for the civic polls.Saayoni’s arrest comes a day ahead of TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s roadshow on Monday in state capital Agartala. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker filed a complaint that the youth unit secretary of TMC's West Bengal unit allegedly "disturbed" a street corner meeting of chief minister Biplab Deb on Saturday night.“TMC youth congress chief Saayoni Ghosh arrested by Agartala police for allegedly trying to mow down BJP workers at a public meeting. She has been arrested based on preliminary evidence. We've registered a case under sections 307, 153 of IPC,” BJ Reddy, additional superintendent of police (urban) West Tripura, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. TMC leaders, however, claimed that the BJP workers roughed them up outside the East Agartala Women’s police station.Saturday also saw clashes between the BJP and the TMC supporters in Agartala when former Union minister Babul Supriyo was campaigning for candidates which led to injuries. West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim and party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh were also present at the spot where the clashes took place. Supriyo alleged that he faced a ‘violent mob of BJP supporters’ in Tripura while he was assisting the TMC candidates during poll preparations in Agartala.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court directed the Tripura police to make sure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner.The TMC in a bid to enter the state’s politics are conducting several events in a bid to increase its footprint and secure some wins in the civic body polls which are scheduled to be held on November 25.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-tmc-s-saayoni-ghosh-detained-for-disturbing-cm-biplab-deb-s-public-meeting-101637503279019.html
21-11-2021||India||'Condemn PM's silence': Congress rakes up alleged Chinese intrusion in Arunachal Pradesh||The Congress on Sunday raked up the issue of alleged Chinese intrusion in Arunachal Pradesh once again and questioned the Union government's handling of the border tensions. The party also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “silence” on the matter, demanding him to address the issue and inform the nation about the steps being taken in this regard."We condemn the prime minister's silence. It is culpable. It is a negative eloquence which we can do without. It is inexcusable," news agency PTI quoted Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi as telling reporters.Singhvi also shared satellite images to show that China has built another village six-to-seven kilometres inside Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh with over 60 structures, PTI further reported. The Congress leader also claimed that the Chinese president had visited a few kilometres north of this spot a few days ago.The Congress then went on to accuse the BJP of giving lessons on national security to the entire country while digressing from addressing the serious issue that affected India's integrity and sovereignty. "We don't understand this definition is national security, where you berate, browbeat, intimidate the whole country on national security issues and keep silent on these kinds of things," Singhvi said."It is a sad case of deliberate distortion, digression and diversion on an issue affecting India's integrity and sovereignty," he alleged, hitting out at the Narendra-Modi led government at the Centre.Also read | India to deploy two S-400 systems by early 2022, changes game with ChinaEarlier, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala raised questions over what is happening on the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector of Arunachal Pradesh.Recently, the ministry of external affairs said India has neither accepted the illegal occupation of Indian territory by China nor China's unjustified claims. The statement was the first official response to the Pentagon report confirming that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh."China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims," ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Also read | ‘Illegal occupation’: India’s first response to China village in disputed region"The government is committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along border areas for improvement of livelihood, including in Arunachal Pradesh. The government keeps a constant watch on developments having bearing on India's security and takes all measures to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity," Bagchi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condemn-pm-s-silence-congress-rakes-up-alleged-chinese-intrusion-in-arunachal-pradesh-101637502039629.html
21-11-2021||India||'Good schools, hospital for Uttarakhand, too, if voted': Kejriwal bats for AAP's CM face||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that if his party comes to power in Uttarakhand following the assembly elections in the state next year, it would build “good hospitals and schools.”“AAP is the only party that says it has built good hospitals and schools. If voted to power, we’ll do such things here (Uttarakhand) also,” he was quoted as saying by ANI during a roadshow in Haridwar. Urging the people of the state to make AAP candidate Ajay Kothiyal the chief minister of Uttarakhand, Kejriwal said that the retired Army colonel had “redeveloped Kedarnath” and stressed that "now together, we have to redevelop Uttarakhand.”The AAP posted a photo of the roadshow from its official Twitter account with the caption “Uttarakhand ready for change.”
21-11-2021||India||Inside the Rajasthan cabinet rejig: 5 Pilot ‘loyalists’, 6 from Gehlot camp||Rajasthan council of ministers was expanded on Sunday when as many as 15 Congress MLAs took their oaths, with 11 of them assuming the post of cabinet ministers while four were sworn in as ministers of state. The ministers were administered the oath of office by Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, in the presence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The full list of Rajasthan ministers, who took their oaths on Sunday, had earlier in the day been provided by Dotasra – who shared a list of the 15 Congress MLAs. The list was later shared by the ANI news agency on its official handle on Twitter.A total of 15 Rajasthan leaders, including 11 cabinet ministers, to take oath as part of the state cabinet reshuffle pic.twitter.com/1crm8RzfjeMLAs appointed as cabinet ministersThe 11 Rajasthan Congress MLAs who were sworn in as cabinet ministers on Sunday are:1. Hemaram Choudhary2. Mahendrajit Singh Malviya3. Ramlal Jat4. Mahesh Joshi5. Vishvendra Singh6. Ramesh Meena7. Mamta Bhupesh Bhairwa8. Bhajanlal Jatav9. Tikaram Juli10. Govind Ram Meghwal11. Shakuntala RawatMLAs sworn in as ministers of stateThe four Rajasthan Congress MLAs who were sworn in as ministers of state on Sunday are:1. Murari Lal Meena2. Zahida Khan3. Rajendra Singh Gudha4. Brijendra OlaOnly three women in Rajasthan cabinetWith the induction of the new cabinet, only three women are now part of the Rajasthan council of ministers, although it is technically an upgrade from the erstwhile number of one. Minister of state Mamata Bhupesh was promoted to a cabinet minister in the recent reshuffle. Shakuntala Rawat, a new face, has been inducted into the cabinet, while Zahida Khan was also sworn in as a minister of state.Notably, out of the total 200 MLAs in Rajasthan, the Congress has 108, including 15 women.5 Pilot ‘loyalists’, 6 from Gehlot campMLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola – who are now part of the cabinet of chief minister Ashok Gehlot after the reshuffle – are seen as Congress leader Sachin Pilot's “loyalists”. Meanwhile, six of the new ministers are seen as belonging to the Gehlot camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inside-the-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-5-pilot-loyalists-6-from-gehlot-camp-101637497043448.html
21-11-2021||India||4 crore senior citizens forced to travel on full fare since March 2020: RTI||Almost four crore senior citizens have been forced to pay full fare for their travel since the railways suspended their concessions due to the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020, a RTI has revealed.In a reply to a query filed by Madhya Pradesh-based Chandra Shekhar Gaur, the railways has stated that between March 22, 2020 and September 2021, 37,850,668 senior citizens have undertaken journeys on trains.During this period, train services remained suspended for several months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The concessions, which were suspended from March 2020, have remained suspended to this day.In the case of senior citizens, while women are eligible for 50 per cent concession, men can avail 40 per cent in all classes. The minimum age limit for a woman is 58 and a man is 60.Over the last two decades, railway concessions have been a much-discussed topic with multiple committees recommending their withdrawal. As a result of this in July 2016, the railways made elderly concession optional while booking tickets.In July 2017, the railways enabled the elderly to even give up their partial or full concession through the "give it up" scheme."The thing is that the concession given to us was significant and is a huge help for those that cannot afford it. Senior citizens in many homes are treated as an extra, with no income of their own. These concessions helped them to get around."Those who can have given up their concessions also. With regular train services running, at least the senior citizen concessions should be restored. Most elderly cannot afford to pay full fares," said Tapas Bhattacharya, a retired private sector employee, who is travelling to Kolkata with his wife, also a senior citizen, next week said.In a letter last month, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan appealed to the Union railway minister to restore passenger concessions for their railway journeys stating that it was necessary for the elderly in a country where 20 per cent live below the poverty line."My parents haven't seen their grandchildren for more than two years. This year also they didn't come as they cannot afford the tickets without concessions. It is also too much for me to pay. They used to come every year to Delhi and spent six months here," said Subhash Singh, a security guard working in a highrise in Noida, whose parents are both senior citizens and stay in Bihar.In fact, according to a CAG report of 2019, the response to the 'give it up' scheme from the senior citizen passengers was not very encouraging. The report said that out of total 4.41 crore senior citizen passengers, 7.53 lakh (1.7 per cent) passengers opted to give up 50 per cent concession and 10.9 lakh (2.47 per cent) passengers gave up 100 per cent concession.The railways, over the past ten days, have restored some of its services that it suspended in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. This includes the removal of the "special" tag from trains which brought down the prices of tickets and restarted the service of serving hot cooked meals.However, the decision on restoring concessions and providing bedrolls is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-crore-senior-citizens-forced-to-travel-on-full-fare-since-march-2020-rti-101637500866031.html
21-11-2021||India||Central team to assess rain damages in Puducherry||An inter ministerial central team would assess the damages the recent torrential rain caused in farm and other sectors in Puducherry during its visit in the Union territory (UT) on Monday. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and chief minister N Rangasamy had appealed to the Centre to depute a central team to the UT when it visits neighbouring Tamil Nadu since Sunday. After visiting the rain ravaged areas in Tamil Nadu, the team would arrive at Puducherry and visit the rain hit areas here between 4.15pm and 6.30pm, and would also hold meetings with Lieutenant Governor and CM, official sources said. The CM had said he had pleaded with the Centre to earmark interim relief to the Union Territory to tackle the situation arising out of heavy downpour for almost 10 days under the influence of northeast monsoon. The release of water from certain dams in neighbouring Villupuram district had caused heavy inflow of water into the rivers here and large tracts of farm lands were inundated.There were reports of collapse of huts and houses. One person drowned in Malattar river in Madukarai recently. The territorial administration had also procured the services of the National Disaster Rescue Force to assist the people to move to safer places. A detailed report on rain havoc had been prepared by the government, which would be handed to the Central team, sources said. Puducherry and Karaikal bore the brunt of the havoc caused by torrential rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-to-assess-rain-damages-in-puducherry-101637500310869.html
21-11-2021||India||Mandaviya to hold meet to discuss low vaccination rates in these states||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the low Covid-19 first dose coverage in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry. The Covid-19 first dose vaccine coverage is less than 70% in these states and Union Territories, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. He will also review the progress and planning of Covid-19 vaccination in these regions and discuss means to increase coverage.At least 56.7% of the eligible population in Meghalaya have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. In Manipur, the number is currently 54.2% while 49% and 65.7% of Nagaland and Puducherry's population, respectively, have been vaccinated with the first dose, officials said quoting government data on Sunday.The government also launched the month-long ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign for the unvaccinated and for those who are overdue on their second vaccine. The campaign includes health officials going door-to-door identifying beneficiaries who are required to take the Covid-19 shots.Officials say that more than 12 crore people are overdue for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine following the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two vaccines.“Mandaviya will hold a meeting to review the progress and planning of Covid-19 vaccination in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry on Monday where the first dose coverage is less than 70%. The aim is to encourage vaccination there,” people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. Officials say that 43% of India’s population are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 while 82% of the eligible population have received the first dose of the vaccine.India has administered 116.50 crore vaccine doses across 12,041,157 sessions. The nation is aiming to fully inoculate the entire population within the end of this year and have launched mega-vaccination campaigns in a bid to achieve this objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-hold-meet-to-discuss-low-vaccination-rates-in-these-states-101637497849341.html
21-11-2021||India||Indian Army hoists 76ft tall national flag at 15,000 feet in Ladakh||The Indian Army on Sunday hoisted a 76ft tall flag in Ladakh overlooking the Hanle Valley at an altitude of 15,000 feet. The Fire and Fury Corps of the Indian Army hoisted the flag and shared a video of the event on Twitter. The flag was constructed by the Indian Army and the Flag Foundation of India.#AzadiKaAmritMahotsav A 76 ft tall #NationalFlag at 15000ft constructed by #IA and Flag foundation Of India, hoisted overlooking the #Hanle Valley by #TheUltimateForce. #IA @adgpi @NorthernComd_IA @lg_ladakh @jtnladakh @R_K_Mathur @jtnladakh @LAHDC_LEH @LAHDC_K @FerozKhan_Kgl pic.twitter.com/9lhRpB6jXt“A 76 ft tall national flag at 15000 ft constructed by #IA and Flag Foundation of India, hoisted overlooking the Hanle Valley by #TheUltimateForce,” the Fire and Fury Corps said on Twitter. The Indian Army said that the hoisting of the flag was part of the Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the government’s initiative to commemorate 75 years of Independence of India.In the video, two groups of soldiers are seen saluting the flag while the national anthem plays in the background.The Indian Army hosted several events over the past few months in the region to commemorate 75 years of Independence of India. Earlier this month, the Indian Army’s Chinar Corps conducted a light and sound show to re-enact the historic 'Battle of Shalateng' to commemorate the sacrifices made by Kashmiris and the Indian soldiers in the Battle of Shalateng on November 7, 1947.It also reenacted the scenes of the first Indo-Pak war in Kashmir and the historical Budgam landing on October 27 to celebrate 75 years of induction of the Indian Army to save Jammu & Kashmir from Pakistan invasion in 1947 at an airfield in Kashmir’s Rangreth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-hoists-76ft-tall-national-flag-at-15-000-feet-in-ladakh-101637497171597.html
21-11-2021||India||SKM to organise farmers’ Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will convene MSP Adhikar Mahapanchayat at ecogarden of Lucknow on Monday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader and SKM member Rakesh Tikait has given a call of Lucknow Chalo (march to Lucknow) on November 22 and invited farmers, labourers and youths to join the Mahapanchayat in a big number.He tweeted on Sunday that the reforms in the agriculture sector that are being talked about by the government are fake. These reforms will bring adversities for farmers, he said. He added that a guarantee to procure crops at the MSP would be the biggest reform for agriculture and farmers.Farmers and movement supporters from different districts of western UP are expected to join the Mahapanchayat on Monday.General secretary of BKU (Asli) Surendra Singh said that farmers confidence is running high after the withdrawal of 3 contentious farm bills, therefore, they are expected to attend the Mahapanchayat in a big number to exhibit their strength.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Choudhary also advised farmers in his ‘Parivartan Sandesh Rally’ in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday to keep up pressure on the government and reiterated that “party was always with the decisions taken by the farmers”.Meanwhile, farmers leaders are reaching out to people in villages to ensure their good turnout in the Mahapanchayat. These leaders are conducting meetings with farmers and explaining why battle needs to be taken further for a guarantee of MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-to-organise-farmers-mahapanchayat-in-lucknow-on-monday-101637497418770.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, 15 ministers sworn in and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, new ministers take oathIn a major reshuffle of the Rajasthan cabinet, as many as 15 ministers – including 11 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state (MoS) – on Sunday took the oaths for their newfound duties at the legislative assembly in Jaipur. The ANI news agency posted visuals from the swearing-in ceremony – where Congress MLAs, including Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishvendra Singh, and Hemaram Choudhary – could be seen being sworn in as cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan government by the state's governor, Kalraj Mishra. Read MoreUnion Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm lawsThe Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws. Read MoreFarm laws to be repealed, but what's next for farmers? Key points from SKM meetThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a meeting on Sunday at the Singhu border of the national capital, Delhi, where it discussed the future course of action on farmers' protests. The meeting comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement last week declaring that his government will withdraw the controversial agriculture laws that prompted year-long protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to the administration. Read MoreArmy, navy and IAF get 6 months to respond to theatre command final proposalThe department of military affairs (DMA) has given the Indian Army, Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force service headquarters six months till mid-2022 to respond to its final military theatre commands proposal before commencing the raising of much required rationalised structures for countering adversaries. Read More'You won't hear such statements from Dravid': Gambhir criticises Ravi Shastri; reveals major difference between the twoRavi Shastri left his role as the head coach of Team India earlier this month, following the end of the side's T20 World Cup campaign in the Super 12 stage. Shastri's reign as head coach saw India achieve no.1 ranking in Tests and multiple overseas Test series victories in Australia, as well as wins in England and South Africa. Read MoreMouni Roy's sizzling ethnic look in red lehenga at IFFI 2021 sets Goa on fireThe 52nd International Film Festival of India kickstart in Goa with Salman Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Mouni Roy and other Bollywood celebrities performing at the opening ceremony. Setting fans hearts aflutter with her power-packed performance in Goa, Mouni's smoking hot look in a red lehenga choli left us hooked. Read More2022 Maruti Suzuki Brezza images leak online, show multiple updatesMaruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza is one of the most successful modern cars from the brand. The car has received a facelift since its introduction in the Indian market. Now, the automaker is working on an all-new Maruti Suzuki Brezza, pictures that have been leaked online. Read MoreCowboy Bebop: Why Netflix’s live-action adaptation of cult anime series is a super-flopIs Netflix aware of how badly they have botched up their Cowboy Bebop live-action adaptation? Fans of the classic anime are already hating it. New viewers will either think it an average Netflix sci-fi series such as Altered Carbon or The OA, or at best, a mild curiosity, like Dirk Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency. What is comical is that Netflix is streaming all 26 episodes of the anime as well, so anybody can watch and compare. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gehlot-expands-rajasthan-cabinet-15-ministers-sworn-in-101637493258013.html
21-11-2021||India||40 hurt after being attacked by jackal; villagers kill animal||Nearly 40 people, including women and children were injured, eight of them seriously when a mad jackal attacked them in five villages of two panchayats in Katihar district on Sunday morning. The villagers later killed the animal.“We were working on our farm when the animal attacked and bit us,” Md Afsar Alam, a resident of Jamira village said adding, “The attack was sudden and we were left helpless.” He was discharged from the Barsoi Referral Hospital after treatment.Md Rijwan of Pichhwa village who is still undergoing treatment at Barsoi hospital said, “We were on our way to our paddy field when a jackal attacked us.”Station house officer of Barsoi Arbind Kumar said those seriously injured were rushed to Katihar District Hospital while those who had sustained minor injuries were admitted at Barsoi Referral Hospital. He said the animal was killed by the villagers. He added that five villages of two panchayats Maheshpur and Beltar were worst affected.Five villages where the jackal has created panic include Pichhwa, Baswara, Jamira, Maheshpur and Beltar.At Shahkol village under Dagarua block, the animals attacked thrice during the last one week. The villagers have been spending sleepless nights and are alert even during daytime.Reports of such attacks by animals have come from the villages on the West Bengal border. “,After the forests were cleared the wild animals roam in the area in search of food and they attack people out of frustration,” Purnia-based environmentalist Sumit Anand said and expressed deep concern over the killings of wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-hurt-after-being-attacked-by-jackal-villagers-kill-animal-101637494117583.html
21-11-2021||India||Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, new ministers take oath||In a major reshuffle of the Rajasthan cabinet, as many as 15 ministers – including 11 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state (MoS) – on Sunday took oath for their newfound duties at the legislative assembly in Jaipur. News agency ANI posted visuals from the swearing-in ceremony – where Congress MLAs, including Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishvendra Singh, and Hemaram Choudhary – could be seen being sworn in as cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan government by governor Kalraj Mishra.Ramesh Meena, Mamta Bhupesh Bairwa, Bhajan Lal Jatav, and Teekaram Juli take oath as Cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan Govt, at a function in Jaipur pic.twitter.com/vvMsVEOtDGJaipur: Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as a Cabinet minister in the Rajasthan Government pic.twitter.com/JmxZ2BUkNZThe 11 new cabinet ministers include three who have already been elevated from the rank of a minister of state to the cabinet. Three other ministers – Govind Singh Dotasra, Harish Chaudhary, and Raghu Sharma – have been dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet while the rest of the ministers have been retained. This information had earlier in the day been provided by Dotasra, who shared a list of the 15 MLAs administered oath of office on Sunday.The four ministers of state are Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola.In addition to them, 12 new ministers are being inducted in the Rajasthan cabinet. MLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola – who are now part of the cabinet of chief minister Ashok Gehlot after the reshuffle – are seen as Congress leader Sachin Pilot's “loyalists”. Meanwhile, six of the new ministers are seen as belonging to the Gehlot camp.With the addition of these new members, the total number of ministers in the state council will now reach 30, which is incidentally the maximum number of cabinet ministers, including the chief minister, that the state is allowed to have.All the Rajasthan Congress MLAs who swore in as ministers assembled earlier in the day with other leaders at the party office in Jaipur. Govind Singh Dotasra felicitated them at the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC) office, while chief minister Ashok Gehlot and AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, addressed them on the responsibilities ahead.All the ministers in Congress-ruled Rajasthan had resigned during a meeting at chief minister Ashok Gehlot's residence in Jaipur on Saturday evening, ahead of the Cabinet reshuffle. Gehlot later met governor Kalraj Mishra at the Raj Bhawan to discuss the future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-expands-rajasthan-cabinet-new-ministers-take-oath-101637491338984.html
21-11-2021||India||Slow pace of development in Janjatiya Diwas icon Birsa Munda’s village||The Narendra Modi government’s announcement to observe Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary on November 15 as the national ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ has brought the tribal icon back into political limelight but development of his ancestral village of Ulihatu near Jharkhand’s capital of Ranchi has largely remained symbolic.With plenty of landmarks such as airport, stadiums and academic institutions named after the symbol of tribal identity, Birsa Munda is perhaps the most revered figure in Jharkhand’s politics, which is amply reinforced by the fact that the state’s formation day falls on Birsa Jayanti. Every year on that day, top politicians and bureaucrats make a beeline to Ulihatu, around 70 kilometres south of Ranchi, deep inside the hilly and forested terrain under Arki block in Khunti district, known in recent years (2017-18) for its Pathalgadi movement. The ride to Ulihatu from Khunti district headquarters is an easy one, thanks to the 12.5 km double-lane black top road, off the Khunti-Tamar state highway, constructed before Union home minister Amit Shah’s 2017 visit, when he was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national president. It was past noon when this correspondent entered the Birsa Complex on November 19, a few days after Birsa Jayanti, to find a few workers painting the iron grills of the huge round platform there. Birsa Complex is the state’s showcase tourism project, spread over seven acres of land, housing a boarding school, a hospital and a guest house. The complex has been in the works since 2008 when the school became operational first, but the many years in between have not only failed to mark any significant addition to its proposed grandeur but, to the contrary, left pronounced signs of wear and tear on the structure instead. One of the buildings for the school is now home to a company of the Shahastra Seema Bal (SSB), stationed permanently here as part of the state’s anti-Maoist operations. The school, which aims to teach students from class I to 10th, started in 2008, yet it has only three permanent teachers against the sanctioned strength of 18, said principal Kartik Singh Munda, posted here since 2017. “Till the first lockdown we were given 13 extra temporary teachers who were paid on hourly basis. We have reopened this month and a few students from class 6 and above have returned. Classes remained almost suspended as online teaching was not possible,” he said.The school principal also complained about erratic water supply to the hostel which has 320 students. The workers said they were completing the renovation, including whitewashing and painting work at the complex, which was disrupted by a rainy spell and couldn’t be completed before Birsa Jayanti. “Our Baba (Birsa Munda) has become the face of the state. Every year, top politicians and senior officials come here. But this is the real situation on the ground. Why couldn’t this work start 10 days before the Jyanati,” asked Gangi Munda, granddaughter-in-law of Birsa Munda, pointing at workers taking the measurements of the external boundary and the whitewashing of the back walls of the small hut at the memorial complex. The memorial, with a marble floor, has a small two-room hut. The outside wall of the hut has two marble plaques. One lists the family lineage of Birsa Munda while the second one has names of two former ministers who had laid the foundation stone of the memorial in 2003-04.As per the family tree, Birsa had two siblings, Konta and Kanu Munda. While Birsa was unmarried when he died, the history of Konta Munda is unavailable. Kanu Munda’s grandson Sukhram Munda who lives just next to the memorial is the last recognised living member of Birsa’s family. As a mark of honour, Sukhram and his family have received economic assistance by the state government over the past two decades. In 2007, two sons of Sukhram Munda, Jungle Singh Munda and Kanu Munda were inducted as peons in Khunti district administration, bringing prosperity to the family. Also Read: Rail track blown in Jharkhand’s Latehar, Maoists-link suspectedWhile Jungle Singh Munda and Kanu Munda live in government quarters in Khunti, their parents Sukhram Munda and his wife Lakhmani Devi live in their house next to the memorial. While their house still has an asbestos roof, the floor is tiled and their inner courtyard covered by paver blocks. The tiles and paver blocks were laid in 2017 ahead of Amit Shah’s visit, along with piped water connection that draws water from a solar-power tank. The renewed focus on Birsa Munda this year at the national stage brought a symbolic windfall for Sukhram Munda in an era of growing identity politics. The morning after Birsa Jayanti, Sukhram Munda along with his two sons, was flown to New Delhi by the office of Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda who represents Khunti in Lok Sabha. During his three-day trip, Sukhram was given the honour of inaugurating the Aadi Mahtosav at Dilli Haat, a tour of the Rashtrapati Bhawan besides a health check up at the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Most other residents of Ulihatu still live in kachha houses with most of them still dependent on rain-fed agriculture. While a majority of them speak Mundari, they are reluctant to interact with an ‘outsider’. Shyam Singh Munda, a young man in his early 20s, said he was “tired speaking to even the press as it hardly made any difference”. “I have been seeing this since childhood. Nothing happens. People come once in a year but things remain unchanged,” said Shyam in broken Hindi. On November 15, almost the entire district machinery was at the village with the Sarkar Aapke dwar programme. The 42-day outreach programme for service delivery at panchayat level was inaugurated by the chief minister at an event in Ulihatu itself. Deputy commissioner-cum-district magistrate of Khunti, Shashi Ranjan, said the delay in providing Pucca houses to the villagers was due to villagers demands. “Pucca houses in this village are being provided under Shaheed Gram Vikas Yojna and not under the PM Awas Yojna. The villagers had been demanding bigger houses. Now all formalities have been completed. Few from the village were even given certificates for their entitlements. All houses will be completed soon,” said Ranjan. As per the 2011 census, Ulihatu has 196 families with a population of 1,126. On the Birsa complex, Ranjan said they are all set to make the hospital functional within a fortnight, even as he refused to provide the total cost of the project. “I don’t have the figures of total cost off hand as funds from the tourism department are also involved in it. As far as the lack of teachers in the school is concerned, I will have to check with the education department,” he added. Karia Munda, eight time Parliamentarian of the BJP from Khunti Lok Sabha and one of the tallest tribal leaders in the country, expressed displeasure over the prevailing state of affairs. The Septuagenarian, a former Union minister and the deputy speaker of Lok Sabha, is leading a retired political life since 2019 when he was asked by the party to make way for incumbent Arjun Munda. “It was in mid 90s when the then chief minister Lalu Prasad made a visit to Ullihatu. Then, we used to have a tribal welfare commissioner. With active support from him, I got funds valuing ₹3.5 crore sanctioned for development of Birsa Munda memorial and the complex at around 1996-97. But the funds were not released. After the creation of Jharkhand, we got that money and the development work started,” said Munda. Sukhram Munda, however, expressed hope that the renewed focus on his grandfather on the national stage might bring changes in the life of the tribals across the state. “Tribals need to be given good education and modern training in whichever work they do. Be it farming or poultry or any other work. They should be given proper training and exposure with the best practices in the trade. I keep telling all this to people who come to see me. I am hopeful that things will change,” Munda said on his return to Ranchi airport from New Delhi on Friday, expressing happiness about his lifetime experience of flying and the attention he received in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slow-pace-of-development-in-janjatiya-diwas-icon-birsa-munda-s-village-101637491596980.html
21-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm laws||The Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws.During his address to the nation on the occasion of Guru Parab on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government's decision to withdraw the three farm bills.The government introduced the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 during Parliament’s Monsoon Session in 2020. Soon after the introduction of the laws, hundreds and thousands of farmers gathered at Delhi’s border from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for almost a year demanding the repeal of these laws.In a meeting held earlier in the day at Delhi’s Tikri border, the farmers' unions said the protests would continue along with the scheduled programmes, such as the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on November 22 and the tractor march to Parliament on the opening day of the Winter Session on November 29.The farmer leaders at Singhu border also said the demand for a minimum support price (MSP) committee, withdrawal of cases and the waiver of pending electricity bills will continue. “We'll write open letter to PM. Pending demands will be mentioned in it - MSP committee, its rights, it's time frame, its duties; Electricity Bill 2020 and withdrawal of cases against farmers. We'll also write to him to sack the minister related to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI following the completion of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-to-meet-on-nov-24-to-approve-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637489813811.html
21-11-2021||India||Farm laws to be repealed, but what's next for farmers? Key points from SKM meet||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a meeting on Sunday at the Singhu border of the national capital, Delhi, where it discussed the future course of action on farmers' protests. The meeting comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement last week declaring that his government will withdraw the controversial agriculture laws that prompted year-long protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to the administration.The Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws.Also Read | Union Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm lawsHowever, even though the controversial farm laws were on their way out, the protesting farmers said that the demonstrations would continue until Parliament repealed the three contentious legislation. Sunday's meeting was conducted by the umbrella organisation of farmers' bodies, the SKM, to this effect, where they discussed where the future of the protests lies.Here's all you need to know about the meeting in wake of the repeal of farm laws:Current demandsAs the Centre has agreed to withdraw the three farm laws, the farmers' unions have shifted their focus on minimum support price (MSP), demanding a law on it. The farmers are also demanding compensation for those who lost their lives during the protests, the withdrawal of cases registered against some of them, and also the waiver of pending electricity bills.Also Read | MSP law bigger battle for farmers, govt, say analystsWe'll write open letter to PM. Pending demands will be mentioned in it - MSP committee, its rights, it's time frame, its duties; Electricity Bill 2020 and withdrawal of cases against farmers. We'll also write to him to sack the minister related to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI following the completion of the meeting.Parliament march on November 29The farmers have decided to go ahead with a planned march to the Parliament on November 29 to observe the passage of one year of anti-farm law agitations, the SKM said.“We discussed the repeal of the farm laws,” said farmer leader Balbir Singh. “A few decisions were taken. The SKM's predefined programmes will continue as it is – a ‘Kisan panchayat’ in Lucknow on November 22, gatherings at all borders on November 26, and a march to the Parliament on the 29th.”“For a decision on further developments, another meeting of the SKM will be held on November 27,” he added. “The decision will be taken on the basis of the situation until then.”Farmers' ‘mahapanchayat’ to be held on MondayThe umbrella body of farmers' unions will also be holding a ‘mahapanchayat’ on Monday in Lucknow, the capital city of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, in a show of strength days after the Prime Minister's announcement of repealing the three farm laws.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that the agricultural reforms are not going to stop the plight of the peasants. “The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP,” he wrote in a tweet from his handle on the social microblogging website.Removal of Ajay Mishra as Union ministerThe farmers in Uttar Pradesh are also demanding the removal of Ajay Kumar Mishra, the Union minister of state for home affairs, in connection with the violence that had erupted in the state's Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, when farmers were protesting the visit of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Mishra's native place. Four farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist, a driver and two BJP workers, were killed in the ensuing violence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-to-be-repealed-but-what-s-next-for-farmers-key-points-from-skm-meet-101637486119156.html
21-11-2021||India||'Time will tell...': Owaisi tight-lipped on details of 'alliance' ahead of UP polls||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said his party is in talks with “one or two parties” for an alliance for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls even as he refrained from divulging details on it.Owaisi also exuded confidence in his party's victory in the next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, where the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party has been in power since 2017.“Our party has decided to contest elections on 100 seats. We're in talks with one or two more parties and time will tell if we form an alliance or not. We're in a position to win the elections," news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying in Lucknow.Owaisi had earlier said his party was in talks with Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party leader Shivpal Yadav, and suggested he was in talks with the president of Azad Samaj Party Chandra Shekhar Azad.Also read | Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM to set up base in Rajasthan, contest 2023 assembly polls"We are in talks with Shivpal Yadav. I've also met Chandra Shekhar once. We are in talks with other parties too," ANI quoted Owaisi as saying on October 28.Owaisi also asserted that AIMIM's candidates for the assembly polls won't be from the Muslim community only, "but from across the communities".Elections to 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP received a landslide victory by securing 312 assembly seats, and registering a 39.67% vote share.The AIMIM, which fielded candidates on 38 seats, drew a blank in the previous Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, while the Samajwadi Party bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 and the Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-will-tell-owaisi-tight-lipped-on-details-of-alliance-ahead-of-up-polls-101637485262770.html
21-11-2021||India||Devotees allowed to visit Sabarimala in batches after temporary ban lifted||Pilgrimage to Kerala’s Sabarimala temple limped to normalcy after the Pathanamthitta district administration on Saturday permitted the pilgrims to trek to the hills where the shrine is located. The temple authorities had on Friday issued an order to temporarily halt the pilgrimage to the Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala in view of incessant rainfall in Kerala as well as several of its neighbouring states.Heavy rainfall caused water levels in major rivers such as Pamba in Kerala to rise. However, the decision to resume the pilgrimage was taken after the temple authorities noted on Saturday that no major rainfall was reported in the region, especially in the hilly region surrounding the temple.Citing an official statement, news agency PTI reported that the reopening order was issued by district collector Divya S Iyer, who also permitted devotees stranded in Nilackal to trek to Sabarimala and offer prayers.A discussion regarding the resumption of pilgrimage took place between Iyer, the chairperson of the district disaster management authority, and Arjun Pandyan, the additional district magistrate of Sabarimala, on Saturday.An official of the Travancore Devaswom Board said the pilgrimage resumed on Saturday morning, adding that due to the partial shutdown of the shrine, the place is “witnessing heavy footfall.”“Around 20,000 people have booked for visiting the temple today alone,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Two shutters of the Pamba dam were raised and authorities have appealed to people living in the low-lying areas on the banks of rivers to take precautions.The Sabarimala temple opened on November 16 for the two-month-long annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has been witnessing incessant rain, which has so far claimed the lives of at least 25 people, even as dozens remain missing. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force have been deployed in the state and thousands of people have been moved to relief camps.On Saturday, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit regions in Chittoor YSR districts to take stock of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-allowed-to-visit-sabarimala-in-batches-after-temporary-ban-lifted-101637487163705.html
21-11-2021||India||Speed of over 30 knots, equipped with indigenous weapons: Know more about INS Visakhapatnam||INS Visakhapatnam, the first stealth-guided missile destroyer ship of Project 15B, was commissioned on Sunday at the naval dock in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh.Addressing the commissioning ceremony, Rajnath Singh said that with the successful commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam, there should be no doubts that India in future will not only build ships for itself but also for the entire world.Also Read| In a boost to Indian Navy, Rajnath Singh commissions INS Visakhapatnam“Not just Make in India, we will also accomplish the dream of Make for the World,” the defence minister said during the ceremony.The Centre earlier said in a statement that INS Visakhapatnam will reaffirm India’s presence amongst an elite group of countries with the capability to design and build advanced warships.Here is what you need to know more about the destroyer ship: 1. INS Visakhapatnam was constructed using indigenous steel DMR 249A. It is among the largest destroyers made in the country and has an overall length of 163 metre and displacement of over 7,400 tonne.2. The ship is capable of undertaking multifarious tasks and missions spanning the full spectrum of maritime warfare.3. INS Visakhapatnam is equipped with major indigenous weapons such as indigenous medium range surface to air missile systems, surface to surface missiles, torpedo tubes and launchers.4. It also has medium and short-range guns, anti-submarine rockets and advanced electronic warfare and communication suits. Also Read| ‘Will give fitting reply if anyone tries to occupy our land’: Rajnath Singh5. The ship has a capacity of accommodating 312 crew members and has an endurance of 4,000 nautical miles.6. It is propelled by a powerful combined gas and gas propulsion which enables the speed of more than 30 knots. The ship can also embark by a powerful combined gas and gas propulsion which enables.7. INS Visakhapatnam comprises a very high level of automation along with sophisticated digital networks. It also has a combat management system and an integrated platform management system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-know-more-about-the-destroyer-ship-101637480640418.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Need of the hour is…’: Top expert weighs in over need for booster shots of Covid vaccine||A top expert said on Sunday the government needs to focus on vaccinating more and more people against coronavirus disease rather than expanding the eligibility for booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines to get additional protection.“If you ask me, the need of the hour is to attain 80 per cent coverage or more among the individuals with 2 doses of the vaccine. Reaching out to over 80 per cent of eligible individuals is public health priority now,” Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), told news agency ANI.So far, the cumulative doses administered in the country under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive of the government has exceeded 1.165 billion. “So, policy formulation and decisions are based on scientific evidence. Right now, the scientific evidence from within the country does not underline the need for a booster dose. Public health considerations are on the priority now,” Panda said.Also read | ICMR DG says India watching Covid vaccination among children in other countriesThe epidemiologist said that the Union ministry of health and family welfare is guided by scientific evidence and also advised by NTAGI. “These are advisory bodies and considered by the ministry and the respective departments to develop a policy,” he added.The situation has been under control as India has been reporting nearly 11,000 Covid-19 cases every day. Government data shows that the daily rise in new Covid-19 infections has been below 20,000 for 44 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 147 consecutive days now.Also read | Now, service providers can check a customer's Covid vaccination status on CoWINOn Sunday, India logged 10,488 new infections in the last 24 hours taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 34,510,413, according to the health ministry. The health ministry also said that with 313 fresh fatalities, the death toll has risen to 465,662.The government has said it committed to amplifying India's vaccine coverage and expanding its scope to the far ends of the country. The vaccination drive has been ramped up with the help of increased availability of Covid-19 vaccines, its advance visibility to the states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the supply chain, it has also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-booster-shots-of-covid-19-vaccine-top-expert-weighs-in-101637482451834.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan Cabinet rejig after 5 aides includedAhead of the major Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday said that the decision to induct new ministers has been taken by the party and leadership after discussions. Read more.Kerala adoption row: Andhra couple hand over babyA baby who was allegedly given away for adoption without the mother’s consent was handed over to a joint team of Kerala Child Welfare Council and the state police on Saturday by the foster parents, who were given its custody in August this year. Read more.After BJP leaders hint farm laws may be brought back, SP talks about ‘truth'The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi. Read more.'Hope to play my last T20 match..': What Dhoni said at CSK's IPL win celebrationDhoni, however, said he does not know 'whether it is next year or in five years' time’. Watch.China tennis star Peng Shuai ‘smiles, waves at audience’ in new videoIn yet another new video shared by Chinese state media on Sunday, missing tennis star Peng Shuai was seen attending the final match of a teenagers’ tournament. Read more.Maruti to steer clear of diesel cars, to make petrol cars more fuel efficientMaruti Suzuki has decided to stay away from diesel vehicle segment and rather focus on making its petrol vehicles more fuel efficient. Read more.‘Win the toss, win the game’: Former Australia captain Ian Chappell points out ‘major flaws’ of T20 World CupFormer Australia skipper Ian Chappell stated that the recently-concluded T20 World Cup, which was won by Aaron Finch's Australia, saw more teams trying to chase as toss played a major role in handing advantage to the side batting second. Read more.Samantha Ruth Prabhu is drooling on 'this outfit.' So are weSamantha Ruth Prabhu is making our weekend better. Read more.Anand Mahindra uses memes to dismiss quote falsely attributed to himAnand Mahindra recently took to Twitter to share a post dismissing a quote falsely attributed to him. Read more.IFFI 2021: Salman Khan brings the house down with Dabangg moves, Ranveer Singh is his energetic self. WatchThe International Film Festival of India (IFFI) kicked off its 52nd edition in Goa with star-studded performances, including Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, Shraddha Kapoor, Mouni Roy and Riteish Deshmukh-Genelia D’Souza. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sachin-pilot-happy-with-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-101637477286417.html
21-11-2021||India||‘If govt changed in 2014, then..’: Nawab Malik tweets suggestion to farmers as they mull step ahead||Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday offered a suggestion to protesting farmers even as the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre announced the new farm laws will be repealed.Taking to Twitter, Nawab Malik said that if the central government could be changed in 2014 over the “bogus” issues of corruption and circulation of fake money then the legitimate and honest movement of the protesting farmers can remove it from power once again.Also Read| Farm unions say won’t end agitation until all demands met“Keep on fighting, you will win,” Malik's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read, in what is seen as his direct message to the farmers, who have been protesting against the three farm laws since November last year.भ्रष्टाचार और कला धन के फर्जी आंदोलन से २०१४ में अगर सरकार बदली जा सकती हैं, तो किसानों के जायज़ और इमानदार आंदोलन से भी सरकार बदली जा सकती हैं.लड़ाई जारी रखिए, जीत जरूर होगी#FarmersProtest #FarmLawsPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three farm laws on Friday and said that they were meant to benefit the farmers but the latter could not be convinced despite the Centre's best efforts.Malik, who has been at loggerheads with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Aryan Khan drugs-on-cruise case, alleged on Friday that PM Modi never spoke with the opposition parties or farmer leaders over the farm laws.Also Read| PM Modi says will scrap all three farm laws"Now, they have realised that a major political change is taking place in the country and its indications could be seen in Uttar Pradesh elections next year," Malik said and saluted the protesting farmers along with those who were martyred in the ongoing agitation.Meanwhile, farmer unions have said that their protests will continue until their pending demands of a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, rollback of the power bill and air quality ordinance are met by the Centre.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is holding a meeting on Sunday where talks might be held on the issue of farmers who have died and withdrawal of cases against protesting farmers among other issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-govt-changed-in-2014-then-ncp-neta-s-advice-as-farmers-mull-step-ahead-101637475432139.html
21-11-2021||India||India will soon build ships for the world: Rajnath Singh after commissioning INS Visakhapatnam||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday there’s “no doubt” that India will be building ships “not only for our own needs but also the needs of all over the world” as he commissioned INS Visakhapatnam into the Indian Navy.He added that the system features of INS Visakhapatnam are not only going to meet the needs of today but also that of the of the future. “Its commissioning reminds us of our ancient, medieval India's maritime power, shipbuilding skills and glorious history,” Singh added.During his address to the gathering after the commissioning at the naval dockyard in Mumbai, Singh said that India envisions an Indo-Pacific region that is based on rules, has freedom of navigation, and universal rules, “in which the interest of all the participating countries are protected.”Singh noted that India being an important nation in the “security” of the Indo-Pacific region, the role of the Indian Navy “becomes more important.”Citing reports that by 2023, the expenditure on security around the globe will reach $2.1 trillion, the defence minister said that India now has the “full opportunity” to make complete use of its “capabilities” and move towards making the nation “an indigenous shipbuilding hub.”Singh hailed the Indian Navy's “consistent efforts” to take part in several outreach programmes of industries and increase indigenised items under ‘float’, ‘move’ and ‘fight’ categories. “It is important for us to maintain the momentum of the success we have achieved so far,” the defence minister added during his address.Also Read | Indian Navy gets first of four stealth guided destroyer built at Mazgaon DockWith the help of Make in India initiatives, he pointed out, the Indian Navy has provided 76 per cent Air Operations Net (AON), and 66 per cent cost-basis contracts to the country's vendors in 2014. Furthermore, indigenisation of about 90 per cent of Naval Ammunition has also happened.The INS Visakhapatnam, one of the four stealth guided-missile destroyer ships under Project 15B, has been indigenously manufactured by the Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders and the government has said that it will add significant strength to its Make in India endeavour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-boost-to-indian-navy-rajnath-singh-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-101637475441593.html
21-11-2021||India||Indian Railways to run special trains on Christmas, New Year. Details here||The Indian Railways has announced it will operate a few special trains around Christmas break and New Year in view of an increased rush around the festive season. Passengers can check the detailed schedule and train timings of the additional trains on the official website of the Indian Railways.“For detailed timings of above trains please visit www.enquiry.indianrail.gov.in or download NTES App,” the Indian Railways said in an official release.How to book tickets?Passengers can book their tickets at any Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters as well as through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. The booking of the special trains will commence on November 20, the Indian Railways said.Train timings and other detailsTwo special trains have been announced so far by the Indian Railways.Train number 01596: The Madgaon Junction-Panvel Special will leave from Madgaon Junction at 4pm every Sunday and reach Panvel at 3:15am on the next day. The services will be available from November 21, 2021, to January 2, 2022.Train number 01595: Panvel-Madgaon Junction Special will leave from Panvel at 6:05am and reach Madgaon Junction at 6:45pm on the same day.The train will operate every Monday from November 22, 2021, to January 3, 2022.The train will halt at Karmali, Thivim, Sawantwadi Road, Kudal, Sindhudurg, Kankavali, Vaibhavwadi Road, Rajapur Road, Adavali, Ratnagiri, Sangameshwar Road, Sawarda, Chiplun, Khed, Mangaon and Roha stations, the release stated.All Covid-19 protocols including wearing masks, sanitisation, social distancing and others, as issued by the state and central government will be strictly followed inside the trains and at railway platforms, the release added.Recently, the Indian Railways announced the resumption of cooked meals by IRCTC on all train journeys. The decision was taken as a step towards achieving the pre-pandemic normalcy in view of Covid-19 cases having significantly declined in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-special-trains-on-christmas-new-year-details-here-101637475191994.html
21-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Andhra couple hand over baby||A baby who was allegedly given away for adoption without the mother’s consent was handed over to a joint team of Kerala Child Welfare Council and the state police on Saturday by the foster parents, who were given its custody in August this year. The baby will be brought to Thiruvananthapuram by Sunday evening and a DNA test will be done on Monday to establish its parentage, as per the instructions of Kerala Child Welfare Committee, a senior official of the social welfare ministry said. The child welfare panel’s order was the result of a petition filed by 23 year old Anupama S Chandran, a former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI), who had alleged that her boy born in October 2020 was secretively given away for adoption by her parents.  Chandran had claimed that her father, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions), “kidnapped” her child since he was against her marriage to K Ajith, who hails from a Dalit family. She also alleged that some officials of the child welfare council were involved in the plot too. She is now relieved that her child is coming back.“I am really relieved. Our six-month struggle led to some results. But I have a reservation that the same department officials who gave my baby for adoption flouting all norms were given the charge of bringing him back,” said Chandran, adding that she planned to continue her stand-in protest outside the office of the state council of child welfare, till the officials, who allegedly colluded with her parents, were punished. Also Read: Merely being in love doesn’t count as consent for sex, rules Kerala high courtShe has also accused the police of ignoring her several complaints till her case got highlighted in the media, turning into a big controversy, following which six people including her parents were booked. Her father C S Jayachandran has, however, so far rejected the allegations and claimed that the baby was sent to a government-run children’s home with his daughter’s consent.“I did not do any harm to the baby and entrusted it in safe hands with her consent,” he told a news channel. Chandran says she was made to sign on a stamp paper under duress. Chandran said she was forced to hit the street after all her attempts including to get CPM politburo members to intervene failed. The controversy has put the ruling party and the government’s role into question since chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the party have refused to intervene in the matter despite appeals, terming it “a family affair”. To make matters worse, fisheries minister Saji Cherian was quoted saying that Chandran’s parents had “done only what everyone will do in the society.” Legal experts have said that even after the DNA test are conducted, Chandran will have to wait till a court quashes the earlier adoption certificate and the completion of other formalities take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-andhra-couple-handover-baby-101637475155378.html
21-11-2021||India||Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan Cabinet rejig after 5 aides included||Ahead of the major Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday said that the decision to induct new ministers has been taken by the party and leadership after discussions. Expressing satisfaction over the induction of new ministers in the Cabinet, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan said he is happy that the party high command and state government took cognisance of the issues raised by him time and again.“The step taken by the party and leadership after discussions is sending a positive message across the state. We had raised this issue time and again. I'm happy that party, high command and state Govt took cognisance of it,” Pilot told a media briefing.The new Cabinet will have five ministers from the Pilot camp -- MLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Vishvendra Singh, Murari Lal Meena, Ramesh Meena and Brijendra Ola. 15 ministers to take oath in Rajasthan today as Congress seeks to strike balanceReports suggest that Congress wanted to avoid a Punjab-like crisis in Rajasthan amid an ongoing tussle between the factions of Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot, however, has dismissed the reports of factionalism, saying the decisions of the reshuffle has been taken together.“Congress is working under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. Party workers will have to work together to bring forth misdeeds of BJP before people. There are no factions in the party. The decisions (of cabinet reshuffle) have been taken together,” he said.Pilot said the inclusion of 4 Dalit MLAs in the new Cabinet shows that Congress and the state government want greater representation for scheduled castes, backward and poor. Pointing to the representation for tribals, the Congress leader said it was a necessary step by the party and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-happy-with-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-after-5-aides-included-101637473134738.html
21-11-2021||India||'Truth of BJP who made false apology to farmers': SP as speculation about bringing back farm laws emerges||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi.Taking to Twitter, the SP alleged that the Centre will bring back the farm laws again once the elections, scheduled to be held in five states, are over.Also Read| PM Modi says will scrap all three farm lawsThe party’s comments came on the back of remarks by BJP leader Sakshi Maharaj and Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, who said on Saturday that the Centre has only repealed the farm laws at present.“The government tried to explain to farmers the pros of farm laws. But they were adamant about repeal. The government felt that it should be taken back and formed again later if needed but right now they should repeal as farmers are demanding,” Rajasthan governor Mishra told news agency ANI on Saturday.While Sakshi Maharaj said that the laws had nothing to do with the upcoming elections in many states, adding, "they are repealed, they can come back, they can be re-drafted."#WATCH | BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj says, "Bills(Farm Laws)have got nothing to do with polls...For PM Modi, nation comes first. Bills come, they're repealed, they can come back, they can be re-drafted. I thank PM that he chose nation over Bill&dealt a blow to wrong intentions."(20.11) pic.twitter.com/IIs8QCp4tyTagging the statements of both Kalraj Mishra and Sakshi Maharaj, the SP said that this is the truth of the BJP who made a false apology to the farmers.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his televised speech that the constitutional process to repeal the farm laws will be completed during the Winter Session of Parliament. “Today, I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws," PM Modi said on Friday.
21-11-2021||India||Odisha court seeks call details of law minister’s aides in double murder case||A Cuttack court on Saturday asked the Odisha police to submit call detail records of three accused including two aides of law minister Pratap Jena, who was under scanner in the case of the twin murders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Cuttack early this year. The court also slammed the police for failure to submit a progress report in the case.The court of judicial magistrate first class in Salipur area of Cuttack sought call detail records (CDR) of Mahanga panchayat samiti chairman Sarat Nayak and Bapi Biswal, known as Jena’s representative in his assembly constituency, apart from Prafulla Biswal, the main accused who died in a road accident in February this year.The court said that since telecom companies maintain electronic call records only for a year, the inspector of Mahanga police station needed to take immediate steps to collect and preserve the CDRs of the three accused for the period between December 2020 and February 2021.On January 2 this year, Kulamani Baral, 75, and in-charge of Salepur mandal of the BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village. Baral had reportedly been raising the issue of ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders’ alleged involvement in misappropriation of funds forhousing of poorunder thePMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana). Though police booked law minister Pratap Jena and 12 others in the twin murder case following an FIR by Kulamani’s son, his name was subsequently dropped from the charge sheet.Also Read: Odisha allows jatra shows with a maximum audience of 2000 peopleIn August this year, the court asked for a fresh probe into the case following a petition against the exclusion of law minister’s name from the charge sheet. When contacted, Jena said he had no comments to offer.Baral’s son Ramakanta, who filed the petition before the court had alleged that the investigating officer did not examine real witnesses to shield the minister. The investigating officer in his charge sheet had said that the call detail records of all the accused were verified and it showed they didn’t receive any calls from Pratap Jena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-court-seeks-call-details-of-law-minister-s-aides-in-double-murder-case-101637470174694.html
21-11-2021||India||India logs 10,488 fresh Covid-19 cases, 313 deaths in last 24 hours||India on Sunday registered 10,488 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the country's total caseload to 34,510,413, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll climbed to 465,662 with 313 more fatalities related to Covid-19 in the same period, according to the data updated at 8am.At the same time, the number of active cases of Covid-19 declined by 2154 in the past 24 hours to 122,714, the lowest since March last year, showed the health ministry's bulletin.Notably, active cases remained at 0.36 per cent of the total infections once again while the total recoveries rose to 33,922,037. The daily positivity rate, at 0.98 per cent, remained less than 2 per cent for the last 48 days, the health ministry also said.India's recovery rate now stands at 98.30 per cent, the highest since March 2020. The daily rise in Covid-19 infections has been below 20,000 for 44 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases for 147 consecutive days now.Meanwhile, Kerala continued to report the highest surge in infections with 6,075 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths on Saturday. The state's total caseload rose to 50,95,924 while the death toll stood at 37,299.A total of 63,16,49,378 samples have been tested for Covid-19 infections so far, of which, 10,74,099 were tested on Saturday, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.The country has administered as many as 1,16,50,55,210 vaccinations to date.At the same time, coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation around the world remains a concern with the recent rise in infections in Europe, which has emerged as the new global epicentre of the pandemic. The latest restrictions included Austria announcing a nationwide lockdown, one of the most dramatic measures in recent months. Meanwhile, Netherlands has also resorted to partial lockdown.On the other hand, Germany is considering a lockdown as vaccinations alone have failed to contain the infections. Germany reported over 42,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75 related deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-10-488-fresh-covid-19-cases-313-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101637466127794.html
21-11-2021||India||India Covid situation stable amid worrying surge in infections in Europe||While India's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation continues to be in control, the worrying rise in infections in Europe, the new global epicentre of the pandemic, has raised fresh concerns. Several European countries have tightened restrictions, with Austria announcing a nationwide lockdown, one of the most dramatic measures in recent months.The Netherlands has also resorted to partial lockdown and is now planning to put some restrictions on unvaccinated individuals, triggering protests from angry citizens. The protests against the Covid curbs turned violent Friday night as the Dutch police fired warning shots and deployed a water cannon to push back the crowd. Without providing details about the ammunition used, the police said that two people were injured “related to the fired shots”.Germany is the latest European nation to warn about a possible lockdown as vaccination alone has failed to contain the infections. According to Robert Koch Institute, Germany reported over 42,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75 related deaths in the last 24 hours.India logs 10,488 fresh Covid-19 cases, 313 deaths in last 24 hoursDuring a news conference, German health minister Jens Spahn was asked whether Europe's largest economy could rule out an Austria-style full lockdown."We are now in a situation - even if this produces a news alert - where we can't rule anything out,” Spahn replied. "We are in a national emergency.”India, meanwhile, is witnessing a recovery rate of over 98.2%, the highest since March 2020. The daily infections have hovered around 10,000 this week as vaccination numbers continue to grow. On Saturday, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 116 crore milestone. More than 60 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses had been administered till 7 pm on Saturday, with the daily vaccination tally expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports by late night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dramatic-measures-to-contain-covid-in-europe-situation-remains-stable-in-india-101637463910209.html
21-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh tops in cleanliness for 3rd consecutive year||Chhattisgarh on Saturday was adjudged the “cleanest state” in the country for the third consecutive year in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Chhattisgarh was also awarded the “best state” prize in Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge 2021.The survey is done through third party assessment under various parameters such as citizens’ feedback on door-to-door garbage collection, scientific disposal of waste, open defecation free city and garbage free city etc. On the basis of the assessment, states and cities are ranked. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel received the award from President Ram Nath Kovind at the Swachh Amrit Mahotsav held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi and said that the credit goes to 2.5 crore people of the state. “I would especially like to give credit to the women of the state, who have created a new culture of cleanliness from cities to villages,”Baghel said.“Chhattisgarh is the only state where more than 9,000 cleanliness ‘didis’ are collecting 1,600 tonnes of wet and dry waste from houses and scientifically disposing them off. The Centre has also declared Chhattisgarh as the first ODF++ state of the country,” a press note issued by the public relation department stated.According to the urban affairs ministry, ODF++ recognition is achieved if at any point of the day, not a single person is found defecating and/or urinating in the open, all community and public toilets are functional and well maintained, and faecal sludge/septage and sewage is safely managed and treated, with no discharging and/or dumping of untreated faecal sludge/septage and sewage in drains, water bodies or open areas.Officials in Chhattisgarh said that more than 10,000 women played a very big role in maintaining cleanliness in the state.“In more than 7,500 Gauthans of villages, about 5,000 self-help groups are engaged in improving the environment through various activities. The state government took the initiative of connecting the cleanliness campaign with the flagship Narva-Garwa-Ghurva-Bari program.The state emphasised on the ban on single use plastic, worked on the basis of 6-R Policy to encourage rethink, reuse, recycle, repair, reduce, refuge, which reduced the amount of new waste generation, built community and public toilets,faecal sludge treatment plants,” said a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer.Also Read | Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore bags cleanest city tag for fifth consecutive yearSwachhata Didis went door-to-door and trained people to keep wet and dry waste separately. A toll free number 1100 was set up for addressing sanitation related complaints within 24 hours and all public and community toilets were linked to Google which could be located with a simple search on smartphones, the official added.Alarmelmangai D, secretary, Urban Administration and Development Department also singled out the SHG workers for the achievement.“...It is their dedicated hard work and efforts which differentiates us from the other competitive states, time and again we have proved that the human touch can outperform any mechanised model and the Chhattisgarh model of decentralised waste management operated by 10,000 female SHG workers has proved it right, again for the consecutive third time in a row,” the secretary said.“As a next step will be to move forward in preparing vermi-compost from cow dung for making the zero-landfill model in the solid waste sector,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-tops-in-cleanliness-for-3rd-consecutive-year-101637465974272.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian Navy to commission INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Navy to commission 'vigilant', 'valiant' INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai todayThe Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony. Read moreRajasthan cabinet reshuffle: List of probable ministers to be sworn in todayAs many as 15 ministers, including four existing ministers, are likely to take oath on Sunday as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is all set to rejig his cabinet to dispel months of tensions between him and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Read moreRain fury in AP: At least 25 dead, dozens missing. What we know so farAs parts of southern states continued to witness heavy rains due to a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Air Force, NDRF, SDRF, police and fire services personnel scrambled to save lives. Read moreAnushka Ranjan-Aditya Seal sangeet: Bride glows in red, Alia Bhatt and Raveena Tandon deck up for partyActors Aditya Seal and Anushka Ranjan are all set to get married on Sunday. The couple celebrated their wedding with a sangeet ceremony in Mumbai on Saturday evening. Read moreRohit Sharma on verge of breaking Virat Kohli's huge T20I record for IndiaIndia captain Rohit Sharma is in sublime form scoring 48 and 55 in the two matches he played in the three-match T20I series against New Zealand so far. Read moreGabriella Demetriades' video of 'Pilates at home' is all the weekend fitness inspo we needGabriella Demetriades kickstarted her weekend with a dose of fitness. On Saturday, Gabriella shared an Instagram reel where she can be seen taking up multiple fitness routines with her fitness trainer Talia guiding her through the entire process. Watch hereKulgam: Terrorist gunned down, nearly 60 students evacuated from encounter siteSecurity forces killed an unidentified terrorist in J&K’s Kulgam district on Saturday. The terrorist killed was identified as district commander of Hizbul mujahideen, as per reports. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-navy-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-in-mumbai-101637464129727.html
21-11-2021||India||Ex-girlfriend of Nashville Christmas day bomber last year files suit over reward||The ex-girlfriend of the man who detonated an explosive in downtown Nashville last Christmas has filed a lawsuit, saying she should receive $284,000 in rewards offered after the blast.Pamela Perry filed suit Friday in Davidson County Chancery Court seeking the reward because she came forward “at great personal risk to aid law enforcement in identifying” Anthony Warner as the bomber, news outlets reported.Warner parked an RV in the middle of a Nashville tourist district early on the morning of Dec. 25 before setting off the blast that killed him, injured several others and heavily damaged dozens of buildings, including a key AT&T network facility. The explosion disrupted phone and data service for days over hundreds of miles (kilometers).After the blast, Camping World CEO Marcus Lemonis offered a $250,000 reward and Nashville Convention and Visitors Corp. offered $34,500 to anyone who came forward with information identifying the bomber.The Nashville Convention and Visitors Corp. gave the $34,500 it raised to law enforcement organizations including the Metro Nashville Police Department.On Friday, convention officials said they hadn't seen the lawsuit and couldn't comment, but CEO Butch Spyridon told WTVF-TV in May that hundreds of tips were called in and an FBI report thanked law enforcement but didn't identify citizens who gave tips.“I don’t have documentation to say this helped more than anything else,” Spyridon said.A spokesperson for Marcus Lemonis told WTVF that the reward was for information leading to the “capture and conviction” of the person responsible. Warner died in the blast, so he was neither captured or convicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exgirlfriend-of-nashville-christmas-day-bomber-last-year-files-suit-over-reward-101637463952849.html
21-11-2021||India||Rain fury in Andhra Pradesh: At least 25 dead, dozens missing. What we know so far||As parts of southern states continued to witness heavy rains due to a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Air Force, NDRF, SDRF, police and fire services personnel scrambled to save lives. At least 25 people, including an SDRF personnel, have died and dozens remain missing in rain-related incidents in Andhra Pradesh.At least five persons, including two children, were killed after an under-construction building in Kadiri town in Anantapuramu district collapsed due to incessant rain.On Saturday, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in the Chittoor and YSR districts to assess the damage. He inspected the severely damaged Veligallu and Annamayya project areas and also surveyed Pincha projects and the areas affected by the Cheyyeru River."He directed officials to take immediate sanitation measures in Tirupati town and prepare a master plan on the drainage system in the city to take appropriate action," the chief minister’s office said.Meanwhile, teams of NDRF and SDRF have been deployed in flooded areas and thousands of people have been shifted to relief camps.The situation in Tirupati town has remained grim but the scene on the holy Tirumala Hills has improved. On Saturday, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams allowed vehicular traffic on the ghat roads and pilgrims who booked tickets online were also allowed for darshan of Lord Venkateswara.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted ‘light’ to ‘moderate’ rainfall over the weekend in southern states, including Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka as the deep depression formed in the Bay of Bengal gradually weakens and continues to move west-northwestwards."Depression over the Bay of Bengal moved west-northwest wards and crossed north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts between Puducherry and Chennai on November 19. It then moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a 'Well Marked Low-Pressure Area' over north interior Tamil Nadu and adjoining Karnataka and Rayalaseema. It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and weaken further gradually during the next 24 hours," IMD said in a statement on Saturday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-fury-in-andra-pradesh-at-least-25-dead-dozens-missing-what-we-know-so-far-101637461560713.html
21-11-2021||India||CV Raman death anniversary: Remembering Nobel prize-winning Indian physicist||Today marks the 51st death anniversary of Nobel-prize winning physicist Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman, commonly known as CV Raman. Born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli on November 7, 1888, the Nobel laureate’s initial research work as a student was in the field of optics and acoustic to which he dedicated his entire career.Immersed in an academic atmosphere from an early age due to his father’s profession, CV Raman won his first gold medal in physics in 1904 in his B.A. examination. He joined the Indian Finance Department in 1907 after obtaining his M.A. degree but continued to carry out research in the laboratory of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science at Calcutta.During his affiliation with Calcutta University in 1930, he was awarded Nobel Prize in Physics "for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him." He later became a professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 1933 where he worked for 15 years. In 1948, the physicist established and endowed the Raman Institute of Research, of which he became the director.His workIn 1928, Raman discovered that a small portion of the light, which scatters after meeting particles that are smaller than the light’s wavelength, acquires other wavelengths than that of the original light. It was because some of the incoming photons' energy can be transferred to a molecule, giving it a higher level of energy. The phenomenon of exchange of energy and a change in light’s direction was named after the scientist, known as the Raman effect. The phenomenon is used to analyze different types of material.Raman was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1924 and was knighted in 1929.He died in Bengaluru, then Bangalore, on November 21, 1970.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cv-raman-death-anniversary-remembering-nobel-prize-winning-indian-physicist-101637456949012.html
21-11-2021||India||Navy to commission 'vigilant', 'valiant' INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai today||The Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony.“Will be in Mumbai tomorrow, 21st November. Looking forward to attending the commissioning ceremony of INS Visakhapatnam. The event marks the formal induction of the first of the four ‘Visakhapatnam’ class destroyers, into the Indian Navy,” Singh tweeted on Saturday.According to a statement on Saturday, the commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam will reaffirm India's presence amongst an elite group of nations with the capability to design and build advanced warships.Besides indigenous equipment in the 'float' and 'move' categories, the destroyer ship is also equipped with major indigenous weapons such as indigenous medium range surface to air missile systems, surface to surface missiles, torpedo tubes and launchers.Also Read| Indian Navy to get first stealth guided destroyer. All about INS Visakhapatnam"We are ready for INS Visakhapatnam's commissioning. Our indigenous content is the highest today. After commissioning, we will continue with a few more trials and will be one with the fleet," Captain Birendra Singh Bains, the commanding officer (designate) of INS Visakhapatnam, told news agency ANI on Saturday.She is vigilant,She is valiant,She shall always be victorious! India’s first indigenous P15 Bravo destroyer ‘Visakhapatnam’ ready for commissioning. Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh to attend the ceremony in Mumbai today. @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/p19NXxy6uaThe Indian Navy will also commission the submarine Vela on November 25 and chief of naval staff Admiral Karambir Singh will be the chief guest at the commissioning ceremony. Vela will be the fourth submarine of project 75.“Six Submarines are being constructed under Project-75. With the commissioning of Vela, the project would have crossed the halfway mark,” the statement said on Saturday.Also Read| Indian Navy gets first of four stealth guided destroyer built at Mazgaon DockIt added that the commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam and submarine Vela will be major milestones showcasing the Indigenous capacity to build complex combat platforms. “This will enhance our capacity and firepower to address the threats both in the above water and underwater domains,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-to-commission-ins-visakhapatnam-in-mumbai-today-101637453111656.html
21-11-2021||NA||BREAKING: 4 killed, 8 injured in accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Kerala adoption row: Baby arrives in Kerala, DNA test tomorrowA baby who was allegedly given for adoption without the mother's consent arrived in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram late tonight. A DNA test would be conducted tomorrow to confirm real parents. The baby has been entrusted to Child Welfare Council.Click here to know moreRussian President Putin gets Covid booster jabRussian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday he had had a third dose of a Covid vaccine, as the country struggles with a fresh wave of the virus. "I had it two hours ago," AFP quoted Putin as saying on state television channel Rossiya 24.At least 4 killed, 8 injured in accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highwayFour people were killed and 8 others injured in a collision between a van and a container truck on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway in Manor area of Palghar, Maharashtra today: Palghar PoliceRajasthan government appoints 6 MLAs as advisors to CM Ashok Gehlot, reports ANIAfter Cabinet reshuffle, the Rajasthan government on Sunday appointed six MLAs – Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar –  as advisors to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, reports news agency ANI.Shah to lay foundation stone of Rani Gaidinliu Tribal Freedom Fighters Museum in ManipurUnion home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of Rani Gaidinliu Tribal Freedom Fighters Museum in Manipur's Tamenglong district through video conferencing on Monday, news agency PTI reported.Over 15 TMC MPs seek meeting with Amit Shah tonight, reports ANIA delegation of over 15 Trinamool Congress MPs will reach New Delhi tonight. “They have sought an appointment with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the alleged police brutality in Tripura,” news agency ANI quoted TMC sources as saying.The sources added that the MPs will also sit on a dharna from Monday morning in the national capital.Tripura Police detains TMC leader Sayani GhoshTripura Police has detained Bengal TMC leader Sayani Ghosh for questioning after a complaint by a ruling BJP worker that she had disturbed a street corner meeting of Tripura CM Biplab Deb, PTI reported.‘Govt running on agenda of pub, party, peg’: BJP MLA on Maharashtra govt's decision to cut excise duty on imported foreign liquorMaharashtra BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said on Sunday that the MVA government in the state is “running on the agenda of pub, party and peg,” according to ANI. His statement comes after the state government decided to cut excise duty on imported foreign liquor by 50 per cent.BJP leaders participate in ‘mahapadyatra’ in Andhra against YSRCP govt's tri-capital formulaBJP leaders participate in 'mahapadyatra' organised by farmers of Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh against the tri-capital formula proposed by the YSRCP government. "Amaravati should be the only capital of the state," BJP national general secretary D Purandeswari told ANI.Nigerian drug peddler sent to custody till Nov 25 after drugs' recoveryMumbai Crime Branch on Saturday held a Nigerian drug peddler with 5kg of MD drug and 200 grams of cocaine valued at ₹5.4 crore in the illegal market, from Chembur-Shivadi Road. He was then produced before a court, which sent him to the custody till November 25, ANI reported.10-feet long Burmese python rescued from residential area in BengalForest officials in West Bengal's Siliguri on Sunday rescued a 10-feet long Burmese python from a residential area in Fulbari area, ANI reported.Bengal BJP vice president Pratap Banerjee appointed party's in-charge of election management panel for KMC pollsWest Bengal BJP vice president Pratap Banerjee has been appointed as the in-charge of the party's election management committee for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, ANI reported.Former minister Brijendra Singh Ola take oath in Rajasthan cabinetFormer minister Brijendra Singh Ola, son of Sis Ram Ola, take oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministers.Mamta Bhairava, ex minister Vishvendra Singh also take oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministersMamta Bhupesh Bhairava take oath as a minister in Rajasthan cabinet. Former minister Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, who were removed during political crisis last year, also take oath.Four more Congress MLAs take oath as cabinet ministers in RajasthanCongress MLAs Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, and Vishvendra Singh take oath as cabinet ministers in Rajasthan government by Governor Kalraj Mishra, ANI reports.Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministerJaipur: Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as a Cabinet minister in the Rajasthan Government pic.twitter.com/JmxZ2BUkNZHemaram Choudhary takes oath as a cabinet minister in the Rajasthan government.Contribution to governance of those who couldn't be inducted is no less than those who've been made ministers: Gehlot on cabinet rejigRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said that the contribution to the governance of the state of those who could not be inducted in the cabinet is “no less than those who have been made ministers today,” according to ANI.Cabinet to take up withdrawal of three farm laws for approval on WednesdayCabinet is likely to take up withdrawal of three farm laws for approval on Wednesday. The bills for withdrawal will then be introduced in the upcoming Winter Parliament session, GOI sources revealed to ANI.Another meeting of SKM to be held on November 27Farmer leader says March to For a decision on further developments, another meeting of SKM will be held on 27th Nov. Decision will be taken on the basis of the situation until then: Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal at Singhu borderFarmer leader says march to Parliament on Nov 29 to go ahead as scheduledWe discussed repeal of farm laws. After this, some decisions were taken.SKM's predecided programs will continue as it is - Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on 22nd, gatherings at all borders on 26th and march to Parliament on 29th: Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal at Singhu border pic.twitter.com/KqeUY2Nzi7Farmer leader Balbir Singh said on Sunday that the SKM's pre-decided programmes will continue as it is. “Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on November 22, gatherings at all borders on 26, and march to Parliament on 29,” he told ANI.Meeting of farmers' union at Singhu border ends#UPDATE | Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) meeting, that was going on at Singhu border, concludes.A meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which was held at the Singhu border, has concluded, according to news agency ANI. Will begin Tirth Yatra Yojana in U'khand, says Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that if his party forms the government in Uttarakhand, then Tirth Yatra Yojana will begin in the state just like in Delhi. “We'll facilitate free 'darshan' of Lord Ram in Ayodhya. For Muslims, we'll have the provision of visiting Ajmer Sharif and for Sikhs to Kartarpur Sahib. It'll be free,” Kejriwal said. ‘If govt changed in 2014, then..’: NCP neta's advice as farmers mull step aheadMaharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday offered a suggestion to protesting farmers even as the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre announced the new farm laws will be repealed. Read moreFarm laws were forcefully imposed, says Sachin PilotPeople were beaten up, booked & called naxals, terrorists. Laws have been withdrawn after the matter couldn't be settled. Nation has seen that BJP failed on all fronts, be it inflation or farm laws. People are suffering, they'll give reply to Govt in upcoming polls: Sachin Pilot pic.twitter.com/tRBHb2hNaHCongress leader Sachin Pilot said on Sunday that the Centre's three farm laws were forcefully imposed on people without any discussion, an agitation went on for a year, adding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to apologise and withdraw them at the end after immense political pressure. Defence minister Rajnath Singh commissions INS VisakhapatnamDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday commissioned the stealth guided missile destroyer INS Visakhapatnam at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Police commissionerate system to be implemented in Bhopal, Indore: MP CM Chouhanभौगोलिक दृष्टि से भी महानगरों का विस्तार हो रहा है और जनसंख्या भी लगातार बढ़ रही है।इसलिए कानून और व्यवस्था की कुछ नई समस्याएं पैदा हो रही हैं। उनके समाधान और अपराधियों पर नियंत्रण के लिए हमने फैसला किया है।Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that a police ommissionerate system will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore. After BJP leaders hint farm laws may be brought back, SP talks about ‘truth'The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi. Read moreU'khand has made up its mind to give opportunity to a new party: AAPPeople can see the development in Delhi in past few years. So, people of Uttarakhand have made up their minds to give opportunity to a new party this time. We'll speak to the people. We'll hold a press conference today: Delhi CM & AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal,in Dehradun pic.twitter.com/cPlxorKYOmDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national conevener Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that poll-bound Uttarakhand has made up its mind to give opportunity to a new political party. We'll speak to the people. We'll hold a press conference today, Kejriwal, who is on a one-day visit to the state, told reporters. Video shot by activist fresh proof of China's atrocities against UyghursChina, which has faced global provocation over the coronavirus pandemic, the recent standoff with the Philippines in South China and rising tensions with Taiwan, is now making news for the dreadful treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority community at concentration camps in the Xinjiang province. Read moreLibraries in Hong Kong remove 29 books about Tiananmen massacreLibraries in Hong Kong have removed 29 of 149 books about the 1989 Tiananmen massacre. According to the Hong Kong Free Press, the remaining 120 books are immdiately available for borrowing. The move comes as the pro-China authorities in Hong Kong have intensified their crackdown on the pro-democracy movement. Over 1.07 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India in last 24 hours: ICMRA total of 63,16,49,378 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 20th November 2021. Of these, 10,74,099 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pic.twitter.com/SbooGnDUuiThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday that 1,074,099 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count has climbed to 631,649,378.India reports 10,488 new Covid-19 cases, 313 more deathsIndia on Sunday reported 10,488 new Covid-19 cases and 313 more deaths, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 34,510,413 and 465,662 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. Massive fire breaks out in North TripuraNorth Tripura District | Massive fire engulfed around 18 houses at the Hampsapara Bru camp, under the Panisagar subdivision, reportedly due to an electric short circuit. Affected families have been shifted & are being provided necessary help from the State administration. pic.twitter.com/WnxrSSd9xXA massive fire broke out in North Tripura which engulfed around 18 houses at the Hampsapara Bru camp.Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 347 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-IndiaIndian Navy to commission INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai todayThe Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony. Read moreAhead of winter session of Parliament, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi from November 22 -25West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will embark on a three-day visit to the national capital from Monday, days ahead of the winter session of Parliament. Previously, Banerjee visited Delhi in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-21-2021-101637455431389.html
21-11-2021||India||World Television Day 2021: History, significance and all you need to know||World Television Day is celebrated across the globe on November 21 to mark the increasing impact of the early 20th-century invention in the contemporary world. The UN General Assembly proclaimed November 21 as World Television Day to recognise the impact of the ‘idiot box’ on decision making by bringing the world attention to conflicts and its potential role in sharpening the focus on other major issues.“World Television Day is not so much a celebration of the tool, but rather the philosophy which it represents. Television represents a symbol for communication and globalization in the contemporary world,” says the United Nations’ website.The UN General Assembly decided November 21 to be marked as World Television Day since the first World Television Forum was held on November 21-22 in 1996. Leading media figures met for the two-day summit to discuss the growing significance of television and to consider how they might enhance their cooperation. The medium was acknowledged as a major tool for informing, channelling and influencing public opinion.World Television Day: What makes ‘idiot box’ so lovedWhile the digital medium has emerged as a major platform to create, post and consume content, television continues to be the single largest source of video consumption and the number of households with television sets continue to rise globally.“The interaction between emerging and traditional forms of broadcast creates a great opportunity to raise awareness about the important issues facing our communities and our planet,” the UN website says.Invented in 1924 by John Logie Baird, the electronic device was introduced in India after almost three decades with the help of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation. The government owned-Doordarshan remained the only national channel for the next three decades before private and foreign broadcasters were allowed to engage in limited operations under the new economic reforms introduced by the Narsimha Rao government in 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-television-day-2021-history-significance-and-all-you-need-to-know-101637453697423.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Aim to make India powerhouse of cinema’: Anurag Thakur||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday promised to expand the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) and scale up regional festivals to make India the powerhouse of post-production.“Our vision is not limited to the event of IFFI and should not be taken as a standalone event….We aim to make India a powerhouse of content creation, especially regional cinema, by scaling up regional festivals. We aim to make India the post-production hub for the world,” Thakur said at the 52nd edition of the IFFI, which started in Goa on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-make-india-powerhouse-of-cinema-anurag-thakur-101637443508398.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Will give fitting reply if anyone tries to occupy our land’: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said India wants good relations with its neighbours but warned that it will give a fitting reply to any country that attempts to occupy even an inch of its land.Singh, a senior BJP leader, was in poll-bound Uttarakhand to launch the second leg of the ‘Shaheed Samman Yatra’ from Jhaulkhet Moonakot in Pithoragarh district.“We want good ties with our neighbours. India has never attacked any country. Neither has it ever occupied a foreign territory. Having good ties with neighbours has been India’s culture but some people don’t understand this. I don’t know whether it is their habit or temperament,” he said. Naming Pakistan, Singh said it keeps trying to destabilise India through terrorist activities and a stern message has already been given to it.“We have given a clear message that if it cross its limits, we will just not retaliate on the borders but can even cross over into its territory and do surgical and airstrikes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-fitting-reply-if-anyone-tries-to-occupy-our-land-rajnath-singh-101637443274482.html
21-11-2021||India||PMK notice won’t stand, says judge who inspired ‘Jai Bhim’||Tamil Nadu political party Patttali Makkal Katchi’s (PMK’s) notice to makers of popular film Jai Bhim holds no legal standing, said former Madras high court judge Justice (retd) K Chandru, whose 1993 court case became the basis of the movie. “There is nothing like defaming an amorphous group. It should be specific in a defamation law,” Chandru said, adding that the movie states it’s fictional and has a certification from the censor board. Notwithstanding the controversies that the film chose to depict the tribals as Irulars and not the original Kurula tribe, the PMK and their parent body, the Vanniyar Sangam, said that the film shows their community (and core vote bank), the Vanniyars, in poor light. PMK leader and former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss struck first, demanding answers from Tamil actor Suriya, who plays Chandru’s role and has produced the movie. PMK’s ally, BJP’s former national secretary H Raja criticised Suriya – who has been vocal against the Union government’s NEET and NEP. “The person who says that our children shouldn’t study three languages (under NEP) will release his movie (Jai Bhim) in five languages. Let’s understand the selfish lot,” Raja tweeted earlier in November. PMK has been on a warpath since. On November 18, Vanniyar Sangam wrote to the information and broadcasting ministry to not consider Jai Bhim for any awards. On November 15, the Vanniyar Sangam sent a legal notice to the makers of the film and OTT platform, Amazon Prime seeking ₹5 crores in damages. The film isn’t in theatres as yet. Chennai police have deployed armed policemen at Suriya’s residence after PMK members announced a cash award for attacking him. Their grouse is that the name of the sub-inspector who beats Rajakannu to death has been changed from Anthonysamy to Gurumurthy in the film, which they say is a reference to a prominent Vanniyar leader named Guru. “You have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer, as if he belonged to Vanniyar community thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things while in real life, the said sub-inspector does not belong to Vanniyar Community,” PMK’s legal notice read. Also, a symbol of the Vanniyar community has been used in one of the scenes with the sub-inspector, which was subsequently replaced with another symbol. Chandru quotes a similar contempt case from 2012, which he dismissed as a Madras HC judge. The case was filed by a practising Madras HC advocate aggrieved by an article in a Tamil newspaper Dina Malar that published a story titled, “Vanniyars are becoming Gounders (another caste higher in the hierarchy)”. In his order then, Chandru had quoted the work of M N Srinivas, a sociologist from the Delhi School of Economics, who described caste structure and mobility through a concept called Sanskritization as academic background for the news item. Chandru also refuted allegations that the film causes enmity between communities. He said that the only living names that the film retained are his and that of investigating officer I Periyasamy, who submitted a report to the court confirming police brutality. Periyasamy is now 88-years-old living in Pollachi. Since Rajakannu is deceased his name was retained too. The film is directed by Tamil journalist S Gnanavel, who knew Chandru through his work and listened to his story during a train journey they took together. The case has been taken up in the film, but it’s still a work of fiction and has obtained a censor board certificate accordingly, said Chandru. Chandru’s life in law (Subhead)“If the scene shifts to the court I’ll be happy because it is a rational forum where the law will speak and not muscle,” said Chandru. This world view of Chandru’s inspired him to study law, take up human rights cases and eventually pass landmark judgements. The signboard outside his Mylapore office in Chennai that says ‘please do not remove your footwear’ is an example of his divergent cultural standpoint. One of his traits that became a subject of discussion is the story of how on his retirement day as a Justice in 2013, he submitted a declaration of his assets, handed over his official car and took a train back home. The day he had assumed charge as a judge in 2009, his house bell rang at 6.30 am. “The then chief justice had sent the car so early to wait so that I wouldn’t take a train,” Chandru recalled. Every home he took up in Chennai, whether in Mylapore or Mandaveli, was to be close to the train station. In July 1993, when Chandru was an advocate in the Madras HC, he was invited to speak at a teacher’s conference in Neyveli. It was there, when an activist, having seen posters of the event, brought a Kurava tribal woman Parvati to meet him. Her husband, Rajakannu was falsely accused of stealing jewellery and was beaten to confess to the crime until he died in police custody. But police had told Parvati that he escaped. Since Chandru had to take a bus at 5.30 pm that evening back to Chennai, Parvati visited him in the city later and narrated her ordeal. Chandru took up the case pro-bono, built evidence which turned it into a murder case and in 1996, the court, in its interim order, gave monetary compensation and government land for Parvati. This is the portion that was made into the film, though the original case went on for 11 years and culminated in 2004 in another district sessions court. While the case was ongoing in 1996, Chandru had written about it in detail for Tamil magazines such as Ananda Vikatan and Kalki. “But it is being talked about only now. After the film’s release, the original judgment has been downloaded more than 4000 times,” Chandru said. Parvati has moved to Chennai with her children and grandchildren where she continues to live in squalor in a slum in suburban Mugalivakkam. During the crucial moments of the case, police had offered Parvati a bribe of ₹1 lakh. “When they offered her a thousand times the monthly earnings, she said to speak to my lawyer. I have not seen such a heroic tribal woman,” Chandru recalled. On what has changed since the 1993 case began, Chandru said the issues remain the same if not worse. “Barbarism has equally increased,” he said, citing the Sathankulam case in Thoothukudi district in 2020, where a father and son duo Jayaraj and Bennicks died in police custody. “As a lawyer, I would have dealt with 15-20 lock-up deaths, torture and encounter (extrajudicial killings),” he said, adding, “After so many years when I became a judge, I handled more than 45 such cases. That is three times more.” He said this training, however, helped him be determined not to delay judgments in such cases. “Parvati’s case took nine months. But similar cases that came before me took only 3 to 4 months,” he said. “This exposure – that such things do happen is required for judges. We can’t stop the recurrence. But we can show timely relief. Parvati got ₹4.5 lakh compensation. In my court, all the victims got ₹8-10 lakhs.” During his six and a half year tenure as judge, he disposed of 96,000 cases in total. The retired judge, who is now engaged in arbitration and teaching law, is writing his yet to be titled biography on his 50 years of experience with Indian judicial system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmknotice-won-t-stand-says-judge-who-inspired-jai-bhim-101637438257257.html
21-11-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot inducts 12 new faces in Cabinet rejig, promotes 3 ministers||Fulfilling the long pending demand of a cabinet reshuffle, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday declared the names of new ministers, elevating three state minsters to cabinet rank.Hours after collecting resignation letters from the ministers in his Council of Ministers at a meeting at his residence and after meeting the Governor, the list of new ministers was released by Gehlot’s office.The cabinet rejig is expected to happen on Sunday afternoon.Three state ministers – Women and Child Welfare minister Mamta Bhupesh, Labour minister Tika Ram Julee, and Bhajan Lal Jatav have been elevated to Cabinet rank.Former Tourism Minister Vishwendra Singh and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ramesh Meena have been re-inducted in the Cabinet. They were dropped along with former deputy CM Sachin Pilot in July 2020.The new faces to be inducted with cabinet rank are –Hemaram Choudhary, Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya, Ram Lal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishwendra Singh, Ramesh Meena, Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav, Tika Ram Julee, Govind Meghwal and Shakuntala Rawat.Four new ministers will be inducted at the state level – Zahida, Brajendra Ola, Rajendra Gudha and Murari Lal Meena.A senior party leader said of the 12 new faces to be inducted, four are believed to be from the Pilot camp – Hemaram Choudhary, Vishwendra, Ramesh Meena, and Brajendra Ola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-inducts-12-new-faces-in-cabinet-rejig-promotes-3-ministers-101637436087708.html
21-11-2021||India||Many still missing in Andhra floods||The official death toll from rain-related incidents in Rayalaseema and south coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh since Friday morning has been put at 24 and the number of missing persons at 17, even as heavy rain continued to pound several parts of the state for the third consecutive day on Saturday.Unconfirmed reports, however, said over 30 persons, who were believed to have been washed away in floods in Kadapa and Chittoor districts, are yet to be traced. Rescue operations were still underway to find the missing persons, an official bulletin from the state disaster management authority said.Officials confirmed 13 bodies had been recovered from the flash floods caused due to the breaching of the reservoir of Annamayya project on the Cheyyeru river in Pulaputhur village of Nandaluru block in Kadapa district on Friday morning. The floods inundated several villages such as Gundluru, Seshamambapuram, Akepadu and Mandapalli.“In all, 7 NDRF and 9 SDRF teams have been deployed for search and rescue operations in flood-affected districts. Two helicopters were also deployed in Anantapur and Kadapa districts and over 100 who were stranded have been rescued,” the bulletin said.In Chittoor district, bodies of four persons, who were washed away in the floods caused due to overflowing of the Balijapalli tank in Bangarupalyam block. The whereabouts of four others who were washed away in Jeevagram village of Renigunta block near Tirupati are not yet known.In Kadiri town of Anantapur district, seven persons, including two children, died due to the collapse of an under-construction building on an adjacent building in the early hours of Saturday. One person each in Anantapur and Nellore are still missing.More than 2,500 buffaloes, goats and other livestock were also washed away in the flood-affected districts of Rayalaseema.The official bulletin said 1,316 villages were badly affected and a few completely inundated, displacing nearly 24,000 people. As many as 1,549 houses were completely damaged due to flash floods.Authorities set up 243 relief camps and provided shelter to 22,593 people who were evacuated from the affected areas. Preliminary estimates said 151,047 acres of agricultural crops had been damaged.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Chittoor and Kadapa districts on Saturday afternoon. He had a glimpse of the damage caused by heavy rain in Kadapa, Renigunta, Tirupati town, Peruru project and Swarnamukhi river areas, along with inundated areas affected by the Papagni and Penna rivers.He also inspected the Veligallu and Annamayya project area, which was severely damaged. He instructed officials to complete the estimation of crop damage and take up measures to support the farmers. The chief minister directed authorities to provide immediate financial assistance to flood-hit households and to assist them while they were returning home. He announced ex gratia payment of ₹5 lakh to the families of those who died.The South Central Railway announced the cancellation of the Chennai Central-Tirupati train and the Guntakal-Tirupati train on Saturday owing to heavy rain and suspension of tracks between the Renigunta-Pudi section of Chennai division of Southern Railway.In Tirupati, several residential areas continued to be flooded and the shrine management is not allowing two-wheelers on the ghat road to Tirumala as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-still-missing-in-andhra-floods-101637430206361.html
21-11-2021||India||Farm unions say won’t end agitation until all demands met||Farm unions said on Saturday that they would continue their agitation across states until all their “rightful demands”, including a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, were met by the government. The farmers’ resolution came a day after the central government said it would repeal the three farm laws that cultivators say will jeopardise their livelihoods.A statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, said cultivators would gather in Lucknow in thousands for a mahapanchayat on November 22 to demand a legal guarantee on MSP. An MSP is a floor rate for farm produce meant to help avoid distress sale.The SKM also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for skipping any comment on the MSP issue while announcing his decision on Friday to roll back the farm laws in a nationally televised speech.“While the Prime Minister of India announced his government’s decision to repeal the three black farm laws, he chose to remain silent on the pending demands of farmers,” a joint statement of key farm unions said.The SKM also demanded the sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son had been arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. The farm unions said, besides a law on MSPs, they want all cases filed against farmers to be withdrawn unconditionally.Farmers will gather in large numbers at all protest sites on the first anniversary of the farmers’ agitation on November 26, the SKM said. The farmers’ demonstrations at toll plazas and near the Parliament for the entire duration of the winter session beginning November 29 will be held as planned, the unions said.On November 28, the unions are also slated to hold a large rally at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan under the banner of the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, in which over 100 farm and labour organisations will participate.In his speech to the nation on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government would repeal all three agricultural laws enacted last year that had set off tough protests and street battles by tens of thousands of farmers.The laws the government said would be annulled were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement.Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.“The Modi government has refused to acknowledge the high human cost that was imposed on the protesters due to its adamant and egoistic behaviour,” the SKM said in its fresh resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-say-won-t-end-agitation-until-all-demands-met-101637429368146.html
21-11-2021||India||No evidence that Aryan conspired: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has rubbished the claim of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, and others arrested in the cruise ship drug raid case had hatched a conspiracy to commit offences involving commercial quantities.A single-judge bench of justice Nitin W Sambre said in his 14-page order, which became available on Saturday, that there was no evidence to suggest existence of any conspiracy. The judge said merely because Aryan and others, including his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, were travelling together on the cruise by itself cannot be termed as foundation for a conspiracy, as contemplated under Section 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Justice Sambre on October 29 granted bail to the trio, arrested by the NCB on October 3. Acting on a specific tip-off, a team of NCB officials, headed by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on October 2 searched certain passengers slated to take a holiday cruise to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai and their rooms booked on the vessel.During searches, the agency claimed to have seized multiple drugs, including 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstasy) and ₹1.33 lakh in cash from the cruise vessel.The NCB team intercepted 14 persons and after hours of interrogation placed Aryan, 23, Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 28, under arrest in the afternoon of October 3. Subsequently, the agency arrested 17 more persons in connection with the raid.The trio moved the high court after their bail pleas were rejected by the special NDPS court. Opposing their bail, the NCB claimed that the accused were part of a larger conspiracy. The agency relied on Aryan’s WhatsApp chats to claim that he was in touch with some foreign drug supplier and the chats referred to “hard drugs” and “bulk quantities”.Justice Sambre, however, found nothing incriminating in the WhatsApp chats.“After having gone through the WhatsApp chats extracted from Applicant/Accused no. 1’s phone (Aryan’s phone), nothing objectionable could be noticed to suggest that Applicant nos. 1 & 2 (Arbaaz) or all three applicants (Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun) along with other accused persons in agreement had meeting of minds and had hatched conspiracy,” said the judge.“There is hardly any positive evidence on record to convince this Court that all the accused persons with common intention agreed to commit unlawful acts,” said the court. “Rather the investigation carried out till this date suggests that Applicant/Accused nos. 1 & 2 were travelling independent of Applicant/Accused no. 3 and there was no meeting of minds on the aforesaid issue.”The court also refused to accept the NCB’s contention that both Aryan and Arbaaz had in their statements to the agency officials admitted that they were going to consume the six grams of charas, purportedly found on Arbaaz on the cruise ship and that itself amounted to an offence under the NDPS Act.In this regard, justice Sambre said in terms of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Tofan Singh’s case, statements recorded by the NCB under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be taken into consideration as evidence and can at the most be used for the purpose of the agency’s investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-that-aryan-conspired-bombay-hc-101637429367500.html
21-11-2021||India||IITs start quota-based faculty recruitment in senior positions||Following directions from the Union government, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), for the first time, started advertising quota-based posts for recruitment in senior positions such as associate professors and professors. The IITs, having autonomy in the recruitment process, were earlier reserving posts while recruiting faculty at the entry-level of assistant professors.According to the previous norms, there was no SC/ST/OBC quota for recruiting at senior positions at the IITs for courses other than humanities and management. At the entry-level also, in case the IITs were unable to find suitable candidates for the reserved posts, they had the authority to de-reserve the post after a year. This has hit the diversity among teachers at the IITs.As per the data shared by the ministry of education in Parliament in 2018, of the 6,043 faculty members working at the IITs, only 149 were from Scheduled Caste (SC) and 21 from Schedule Tribe (ST). A parliamentary panel had criticised the poor representation of reserved quota candidates in centrally funded technical institutes last year.In November last year, the ministry asked the IITs to extend the reservation to senior positions, and the institute had also been prohibited from “de-reserving” the reserved post after a year. As per the central law, government institutes are required to implement a reservation of 27% in teaching staff for OBC candidates, 15% for SC and 7.5% for ST candidates.In August this year, the ministry of education instructed all centrally funded higher education institutes, such as the IITs, the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to fill all the vacancies including reserved ones in “mission mode”.Between September and November, several IITs, including IIT-Bombay, IIT-Delhi, IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Madras, and IIT-BHU, have advertised faculty posts at all the levels inviting applications to fill posts reserved for SC, ST, OBC, EWS, and disabled candidates.“(The) Institute specifically encourages applicants from SC/ST/OBC category as well as persons with disability to apply for these positions,” stated an advertisement published by IIT-D on its website calling applications for faculty positions at the professor and associate professor levels.Similarly, IIT-Kanpur in its advertisement inviting applications for various faculty positions said, “Reservation is applicable as per government of India norms. The institute also encourages applications from qualified women candidates...The reserved category candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.”A senior official at the IIT-D, who wished not to be named, said, “The IITs were already hiring suitable SC/ST/OBC candidates at the higher positions but now that the government has asked IITs to extend the reservation to all faculty posts, the institutes are trying their best to find suitable candidates and fill the positions. The major change this time is the revocation of the de-reservation system. What will happen if we are not able to find meritorious candidates on reserved posts? So far, we were able to de-reserve these positions and now it is not possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-centre-s-directions-iits-start-quota-based-faculty-recruitment-in-senior-positions-101637429186908.html
21-11-2021||India||Despite Bengal debacle, Congress, Left eye alliance for Manipur elections||The electoral debacle of a seat pact between Congress and Left parties in the West Bengal assembly elections may not be a deterrent for the two sides to stitch another understanding in Manipur where assembly polls are due next year. Congress and Left parties’ leaders confirmed that talks are at a nascent stage but both sides are keen on a pact. A meeting between the two parties is also set to take place at the CPI office here on Sunday.“The shape and nature of the pact is yet to be finalised. But talks are on,” CPI general secretary D Raja said. The Congress for the longest part in the history of the northeastern state enjoys 35.1% popular votes. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got more than 36% votes in the 2017 assembly elections. The CPI and CPIM, now marginal entities in the state’s politics, had just 0.74% and 0.01% votes, respectively, in the last polls. The Congress’ interest in a pact with Left parties mainly stems from the fact that the two outfits, especially the CPI, have cadres in all parts of the state. “An Olympic medal winner’s father is a Left party worker in Manipur,” a Congress worker, who did not wish to be named, pointed out. “The Left parties might not be able to win a seat on their own but in an alliance, it can brighten the prospects of both sides,” a senior Congress leader, involved in the northeast affairs, said on condition of anonymity.In the West Bengal polls held in May this year, the Congress and the Left parties drew a blank for the first time in a tight fight between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. The two sides have been staunch rivals in Kerala, where the Left defeated the Congress in the April assembly polls, defying the trend of change in state government every five years. A senior Congress leader pointed out that the talks for a pact in Manipur with otherwise ‘weak’ political parties should also be seen as party leader Rahul Gandhi’s keenness to engage with the Left. “Last year, the TMC was keen to join hands with the Congress to elect a common candidate for a Rajya Sabha seat. They had also finalised former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar’s name when Rahul preferred to ally with the Left parties to elect former Kolkata mayor Bikash Bhattacharya,” another senior leader said, seeking anonymity.The Congress and the Left are also working together at the national level to put up an opposition front against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bengal-debacle-congress-left-eye-alliance-for-manipur-elections-101637429127077.html
21-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu teen dies by suicide, hints at sexual harassment in note: Police||A 17-year-old girl in Tamil Nadu allegedly died by suicide, leaving behind a note indicating she might have been sexually assaulted, the police said.The 17-year-old was found dead at her home, and a handwritten note recovered from her read, “I should be the last girl to die of sexual harassment,” the police added.“We have sent the note to a handwriting expert for verification,” said Karur’s superintendent of police P Sundaravadivel. A case of unnatural death has been filed under section 174 of the CrPC, but since the note has not named any perpetrator of sexual harassment, the police are further investigating to find out the perpetrator in the alleged sexual harassment case, an official said. Six teams of police have begun questioning the friends of the deceased, the two schools she studied in, her teachers, family. The police are also going through her social media accounts.“Based on her YouTube searches, we have found suicidal tendencies,” said a police officer not wishing to be named. “In 2018, she lost her father. And recently her grandmother died, too. She has been living with her mother.”Karur police said that in the course of their investigations if they find a perpetrator guilty of having sexually harassed the girl, they would alter the case and add sections of the POCSO Act.When asked if this was a copycat suicide similar to the recent case in Coimbatore, the police denied it. This is the second such case in Tamil Nadu in November.In the Coimbatore suicide case, the police arrested her school teacher on charges of sexually assaulting her between March and May earlier this year and for abetment to suicide. The school principal was also arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 for failing to take action. Police are verifying a handwritten letter retrieved from her that names two people, which has not been revealed.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-teen-dies-by-suicide-hints-at-sexual-harassment-in-notepolice-101637429007080.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Define anti-national attitude; bring laws to counter fake news’: House panel||From seeking a definition of what constitutes an “anti-national” attitude, to asking the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) to explore a better system for evaluating television rating points, and introducing dedicated laws to counter fake news, the parliamentary panel on Information and Technology (IT) has recommended a host of reforms for traditional as well as digital media platforms, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, feels that it is “a matter of grave concern that media, which was once the most trusted weapon in the hands of the citizenry in our democracy and acted as trustees of the public interest, is gradually losing its credibility and integrity where values and morality are being compromised,” one of the people aware of the recommendations, asking not to be named. The report is set to be tabled in the winter session of the Parliament, which starts November 29. The issues addressed in the report include instances of violations of code of conduct of ethics by the media in the form of paid news, fake news, TRP manipulation, media trials, sensationalism and biased reporting. “(These) have placed a big question mark on its (media) credibility in the minds of people which is not a good sign for the healthy democracy. A healthy democracy thrives on participation of the public, which is only possible through circulation of accurate information by responsible media,” the person added. The report commends the government bring in new social media and intermediary guidelines, but has also sought feedback from the I&B ministry regarding how well the objectives of introducing them have been achieved. “The Committee hopes that these guidelines will go a long way in regulating digital media content and both the ministries will work coherently and in tandem to ensure that the code for ethics is followed by digital media also,” the person said. The panel has also been informed that there are discussions underway to introduce an umbrella statute for the media sector covering print, electronic and online platforms. The matter is under examination. The Union government is considering an umbrella legislation for all traditional and digital media companies to ensure a level playing field, HT reported on August 17. The law is proposed to cover print and electronic media, digital media, cinema, even so-called over-the-top or OTT platforms such as Netflix and Hotstar. The committee also noted continued concerns about fake news in some newspapers. “The Committee, however finds to their utmost concern, that the erring newspapers tend to repeat the same mistakes, even after being censured by the Press Council of India (PCI), till action is taken by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) to withhold government advertisements to that particular newspaper for a certain period of time as per the Government of India’s Policy,” the person said. During 2016, 2017 and 2020, a total of 105 cases were censured by the PCI, out of which 73 cases led to suspensions by the BOC. The committee would expect the ministry/PCI to strengthen the enforcement mechanism of the PCI so that all its orders are acted upon,” the person said. It has also suggested expanding the membership of the PCI to include people from several states to ensure fair representation. The panel, said the above quoted person, was also informed by the PCI that several complaints were received against electronic media by the media body, but action was not taken since it doesn’t fall under their purview, “So, PCI feels it is advisable that something “parallel (to PCI)” be set up for the entire media i.e. newspapers and periodicals in print or other form, e-newspapers, news portals, social media and any other platform of news dissemination, besides electronic media. The PCI has made recommendations to the government to enact a single legislation so as to cover all the aforesaid media, in line with the Press Council Act, 1978,” the person said. Referring to rule 6(1)(e) of the Cable Network Rules, 2014, which bars the broadcasting of anything that, among other things, promotes ‘anti-national attitudes’, the panel suggested that term be broadly defined to remove any ambiguity in interpretation. The parliamentary committee has also expressed its dissatisfaction with the present system of measuring of TRPs and has drawn the ministry’s attention to the “recent reported episodes of manipulation of TRPs by some TV channels rigging the devices used by BARC”. “This has put a big question mark on the objectivity, accuracy, efficacy and transparency of the current system and clearly indicates how the ratings can be manipulated by some channels in connivance with the BARC officials. While taking a serious view of this, the Committee desires the Ministry to look into the entire process of the TRP system and identify a solution for a more transparent and accountable system for measuring TRPs,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/define-anti-national-attitude-bring-laws-to-counter-fake-news-house-panel-recommendations-for-media-101637428828179.html
21-11-2021||India||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore bags cleanest city tag for fifth consecutive year||Madhya Pradesh’s Indore was adjudged the cleanest city for the fifth consecutive year by Swachh Survekshan 2021, the central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation in urban centres under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Chhattisgarh retained the first position in the “cleanest state” title.The results of the survey were announced by President Ram Nath Kovind, who gave away the awards in the presence of Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and others at the ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’, at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi on Saturday.Surat and Vijayawada were ranked as the second and third cleanest cities, respectively, with a population of over 1 million. New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was adjudged the cleanest city with a population of below 1 million, while Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati bagged the second and third place in the same category, respectively. The NDMC area also ranked first in the “India’s cleanest small city” category having a population between 1 lakh and 3 lakh.Among states having more than 100 urban local bodies (ULBs), Maharashtra was ranked the second cleanest after Chhattisgarh, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Bihar was the worst performer in this category.Jharkhand, for the second time, was given the cleanest state award in the “less than 100 ULBs category”. This was followed by Haryana and Goa. Meghalaya was at the bottom of the list in this segment.“Mahatma Gandhi used to say that cleanliness is next to godliness… Safai Mitras and sanitation workers have continuously rendered their services even during the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is committed to ensure that the life of no sanitation worker is put at risk due to unsafe cleaning practices,” the President said in his address.“On October 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban 2.0 with the goal of making all cities waste-free by 2026. It is obvious that a garbage-free city requires houses, streets and localities to remain garbage-free. The responsibility of the success of this campaign lies with the government as well as all the citizens. We have to ensure that everyone segregates wet and dry waste at home,” he added.Puri said the achievements under the Swachh Bharat Mission (urban) have been the result of unprecedented collective efforts.“This is also reflected in the massive growth of the Swachh Survekshan which began as a pilot in 2016 among 73 cities. The next few years will be dedicated to focusing on holistic cleanliness, i.e. clean air, clean land, and clean water,” he said.With the participation of 4,320 cities, the MOHUA said that the sixth edition of Swachh Survekshan has become the world’s largest urban cleanliness survey.In its debut survey in 2016, the Centre had witnessed the participation of 73 cities. The number gradually rose to 434 in the following year.In 2018, the scale of survey and intensity of participation increased with 4,203 cities and in 2019, the ministry covered 4,237 cities. In 2020, it marginally increased to 4,242.“Despite the on-ground challenges posed by Covid-19, a team of over 2,000 assessors visited over 65,000 wards in a record time of 28 days. This year’s Survekshan, participated by 4,320 cities, also saw an unprecedented number of citizens’ feedback – over 5 crores, compared to 1.87 cores last year. SS 2021 has also helped identify over 6,000 innovations and best practices in sanitation and waste management from across the urban India,” the ministry said in a statementMaharashtra bagged a total of 92 awards, the highest by any state, followed by Chhattisgarh with 67 awards. Additionally, under the Prerak Daaur Samman, a new performance category introduced under Swachh Survekshan 2021, five cities – Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai, NDMC and Tirupati were categorized as ‘Divya’ (Platinum).Delhi’s north, east and south municipal corporations continued to perform abysmally.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) ranked 45 among 48 civic bodies having a population above one million. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) ranked 40, while South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) secured the highest rank of 31.Last year, the EDMC had ranked 46 among 47 local bodies in this category in Swachh Survekshan. The south and north had ranked 31 and 43, respectively.Among the cleanest districts, Surat (Gujarat) bagged the first place followed by Indore (MP) and the NDMC area (New Delhi).Karnataka and Mizoram were adjudged the “fastest mover states” in the big (more than 100 ULBs) and small (less than 100 ULBs) state category, respectively.Hoshangabad (Madhya Pradesh) with a jump of 274 ranks from 361st position in the 2020 rankings to the 87th position this year has also secured a place among the top 100 cities.In the population category of ‘less than 1 lakh’ for cities, the top three spots went to Maharashtra’s Vita, Lonavala, and Sasvad cities. Varanasi topped as the “Best Ganga Town”, while Ahmedabad Cantonment won the title of “India’s Cleanest Cantonment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-indore-bags-cleanest-city-tag-for-fifth-consecutive-year-chhattisgarh-cleanest-state-101637428826963.html
21-11-2021||India||Sidhu refers to Imran Khan as ‘elder brother’, BJP hits out at Congress||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday stoked a controversy after he referred to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan as “bada bhai” (elder brother) during his visit to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur. A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan showed the Congress leader saying Khan was like a “bada bhai” to him and that he loved him a lot.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra called the reference a serious matter of concern for Indians. “Rahul Gandhi’s favourite Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Pakistan PM Imran Khan his “bada bhai”. Last time, he hugged Gen Bajwa, Pakistan Army’s Chief, heaped praises. Is it any surprise that the Gandhi siblings chose a Pakistan loving Sidhu over veteran Amarinder Singh?” Patra said.In 2018, Sidhu was criticised for hugging Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during Imran Khan’s oath ceremony when the latter became prime minister. Sidhu had attended the event as a special guest of Khan.Sidhu dismissed the criticism by the BJP. “Let BJP say whatever they want...,” he told reporters at the border point in Gurdaspur. The Congress leader, however, also came under criticism of his own party for his remark.“Imran Khan may be anybody’s elder brother but for India, he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K. Have we forgotten the martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon?” Congress leader and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-refers-to-imran-khan-as-elder-brother-bjp-hits-out-at-congress-101637428767273.html
21-11-2021||India||CBI charges Mahant Narendra Giri's aide, two others with abetting his suicide||Two months after the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a charge sheet in a local court here against Anand Giri and two others booked for abetment to suicide.According to the CBI charge sheet, Anand, a disciple of Narendra Giri, Prasad, a priest of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj, and Tiwari, son of Prasad, have been charged under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The federal investigating agency has relied on statements of 154 witnesses.On Saturday, Chief Judicial Magistrate Harendra Nath, after perusal of the charge sheet, said there were sufficient grounds for taking cognizance against the three. The accused, Anand Giri, Adya Prasad and Sandeep Tiwari, who attended the proceedings virtually from jail, did not raise any objection.On September 20, Narendra Giri was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Baghambari Math in Prayagraj. Police also recovered a purported suicide note, naming Anand Giri and two others, from the site of the incident.Subsequently, a first information report (FIR) was lodged against Anand Giri and two others under IPC Section 306 at Georgetown police station in Prayagraj.The state government set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. However, the matter was later handed over to CBI.Earlier this month, Prayagraj district court rejected the bail application of Anand Giri, who has been lodged in Naini Central Jail here since September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-narendra-giri-death-cbi-charges-seer-s-aide-two-others-with-abetting-his-suicide-101637428588446.html
21-11-2021||India||Murder, suicide, no regrets: Tale of hate crime in Madhya Pradesh||A 25-year-old woman was raped and killed by her father on November 6, allegedly angered by her inter-caste marriage to a 21-year-old man 18 months ago. Their eight-month-old son, suffering from pneumonia, was also found dead near the woman’s body in a forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district on November 14. Five days later, the husband allegedly died by suicide, unable to bear the trauma. Yet, for both families, there was no remorse. Family members of the 21-year-old man from an OBC (other backward caste) community told HT that he got married a year and a half ago with the 25-year-old woman, who belonged to a scheduled caste (SC), after eloping. At the time, the families tried to locate them and even filed a missing person’s complaint at the Bilkisganj police station in Sehore. When the police found them, the couple told them that they were married and wanted to begin their life afresh. “The woman’s father, 55, a farmer by profession, threatened the couple that he would kill them if they ever tried to come back to him or meet him. The man’s family also refused to accept the woman from the scheduled caste and the couple started living separately in the same village. The woman gave birth to a baby eight months ago and the man’s family accepted the baby, but not the woman,” said Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore. “This Diwali, the woman’s husband, who used to work at a tent house, had to go to Raipur, Chhattisgarh for a month. The woman was alone at her home and decided to celebrate Diwali with her elder sister in the Ratibad area in Bhopal. She also thought of getting in touch with her parents,” said the officer. However, the infant developed pneumonia and on the night of November 5, died. The elder sister then informed their father and brother, and on the pretext of burying the baby, they took the 25-year-old to the Samsgarh forest nearby. “This is where the woman was killed. The father raped her before strangulating her,” a senior police official said. The matter came to light after the bodies of the woman and her baby were found in Samsgarh forest on November 14. The woman’s husband informed the police that the woman didn’t have a mobile phone and she last contacted him via the mobile number of the landlord of her sister on Diwali. The man had then called the landlord wanting to speak to his wife, but the landlord told him that his wife had returned home. On Friday, unable to bear the burden of his wife and child’s death, the man died by suicide. The man’s paternal uncle told HT, “In the villages, caste matters a great deal. The woman belonged to a village which is just 15 km away from us. The villagers knew about the caste of woman and they were not ready to accept the inter-caste marriage.” “She used to live separately in her house. The family was trying to accept her but before it could happen, she died. The family is definitely shocked after the incident but they are not sympathetic towards the couple. They still feel they had committed a big mistake,” said the uncle. The family members of the woman refused to speak to the media. But, the woman’s father, who is lodged in jail, has no regrets, a senior police officer said. An investigating officer from Bhopal, Sudesh Tiwari, said, “The father has no regret. He said he knew his daughter’s fate. She deserved it. Her baby died because God wanted to give him a chance to take revenge.” “During interrogation for hours, the man was smiling all the time and said he did what is correct. I told him that I had never seen a heartless man like him and he said that death and rape was nothing compared to pain the woman gave to him and his entire family. She died once but her inter-caste marriage killed his family every day as relatives had started avoiding them and used to mock him,” said Tiwari. The woman’s village panchayat secretary, Dinesh Kaleriya said, “I don’t know much about the family but nobody mocked about the marriage of the woman in the village. The father himself used to feel offended. Now, the family had gone to some other place and there is a lock at the house.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-suicide-no-regrets-tale-of-hate-crime-in-madhya-pradesh-101637428526915.html
21-11-2021||India||PM attends DGPs’ conference; focus on tackling Maoists and cybercrime||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday attended the conference of DGPs at the UP Police headquarters, where Maoist violence, counter-terrorism challenges and cybercrime were some of the issues that figured prominently, officials said.Union home minister Amit Shah, who inaugurated the three-day conference on Friday, was also present, along with DGs of central police organisations and 350 other senior police officers. The prime minister sat through the deliberations in the entire session on Saturday, an official said.The conference, organised by the Intelligence Bureau, is being held in a hybrid format this year, and restricted entry to select government officials were allowed. The DGPs of states and other police organisations attended the conference physically here, while the remaining invitees participated virtually from 37 different locations across the country.Senior government officials said the PM Modi would also participate in the conference on Sunday and stay at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. They, however, remained tight-lipped over the proceedings at the conference.The area around the state police headquarters remained under tight vigil during the PM’s stay throughout the day.Since 2014, the prime minister has taken a keen interest in the conference of DGPs/IGs and attended such meets.Earlier on Friday, Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurated the conference. He appreciated the role played by security forces and their sacrifices during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.In his address, he laid stress on better coordination between the state police and other central agencies. He also urged the delegates for timely implementations of suggestions discussed during the conference. He emphasised the need to focus on security-related issues, including coastal security, left-wing extremism, narcotics trafficking, cyber-crime and border area management.This year, for the first time, over 200 officers of different ranks from various states/UTs were requested to submit papers on contemporary security issues being deliberated at the conference.The conference has been organised in Guwahati in 2014, Dhordo, Rann of Kutch in 2015, National Police Academy, Hyderabad in 2016, BSF Academy, Tekanpur (Madhya Pradesh) in 2017, Kevadiya (Gujarat) in 2018 and IISER, Pune in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-attends-dgps-conference-focus-on-tackling-maoists-and-cybercrime-101637428468083.html
21-11-2021||India||Varun Gandhi asks PM Modi to take action against minister in Lakhimpur incident||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider “appropriately strict action” against the union minister who is connected to the violence that erupted in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 that left eight dead and urged him to accept farmers’ demand for statutory guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Gandhi also requested the Prime Minister to consider paying ₹1 crore compensation each to the families of farmers who died during the year-long protest against the three farm laws. In a letter to PM Modi, Gandhi blamed “provocative” statements made by several senior party colleagues for instigating the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. “This heartbreaking incident is a blemish on our democracy. It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the union minister who has been connected to this incident, so that there is a fair enquiry,” Gandhi wrote in the letter that he shared on Twitter. Though the BJP MP did not name anyone, but his letter refers to minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish has been named as a prime accused in the case and is currently in custody. Earlier, he had shared a purported video of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which a car is seen running over protesters. While four farmers were killed in the incident, a local journalist, two BJP workers and a driver of Ashish Mishra were killed in subsequent violence. Gandhi, the BJP MP from Pilibhit in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, who had earlier urged the government to take a lenient view of the farmers’ agitation, has also sought dropping all “politically motivated false FIRs” that were filed against the farmers who were part of the anti-farm law protests for over a year. “I believe if this decision has been taken earlier, all these innocent lives would not have been lost. It is my humble request to you that while expressing condolences to the families of the farmer brothers and sisters who were martyred in the movement, a compensation of ₹1 crore each be announced for them,” he said in the letter. On Friday, PM Modi announced that the government will set in motion the process of repealing the three farm laws that saw protracted protests by some farmer groups in Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP. Gandhi has also backed the farmers’ demand of making MSP legally binding. “There are more than 85% small and marginal farmers in our country for the empowerment of these farmers we have to ensure that they get remunerative prices for their crops. This movement will not end without the resolution of this demand and there will be wide spread anger amongst them, which will continue to emerge in one form or the other,” he wrote, seeking statutory guarantee of MSP for their crops. “…Democracy runs on constitutionality, discourse and empathy. The famers expect you to solve their problems in a sensitive and timely manner,” Gandhi further wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-asks-pm-modi-to-take-action-against-minister-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-101637428466918.html
21-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws not for political gains: BJP||The Centre’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws that were strongly opposed by a section of farmers for over a year is not a mere tactic for political gains but a manifestation of the government’s commitment to move forward with all sections, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders said on Saturday. The party also believes that there has been no loss of face for the Centre or a dent in its image as that of a “decisive government” after the rollback of the laws. “The repeal of the farm laws or putting on hold the land acquisition bill is not sidestepping our ideology for popular support or gains in elections. These were decisions based on various factors, including the ramifications that the (ongoing) protests could have on the internal security of the nation. After all, there were attempts by divisive elements to associate with the farmers’ stir,” a Punjab-based BJP leader said, requesting anonymity.Taking a swipe at the Congress for summing the decision as a climbdown by the ruling party, the BJP said the government had at least not succumbed to appeasement of any community.“This is not our Shah Bano moment. This is a decision related to economic and developmental issues and the Prime Minister realised that it would be difficult to pull through reforms if the government has not been able to successfully convince a section of people,” a senior party leader said, also requesting anonymity.The Shah Bano jibe was aimed at the Congress and, more particularly, at the Gandhi family, which has been vocal in its criticism of the farm laws. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that “the country’s farmers have defeated arrogance with their satyagraha. Jai Hind, Jai Hind’s farmers”. In 1986, the Congress government, headed by then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, had overturned the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Shah Bano case on granting alimony to a divorced Muslim woman by passing the Muslim Women (Protection on Divorce) Act. The BJP has often used the case as an illustration to accuse the Congress of alleged minority appeasement. The issue was also the mainstay of the BJP’s argument while making efforts to outlaw the practice of instant triple talaq.Responding to the BJP’s Shah Bano jibe, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said: “This is nothing but bogus bravado. It is a humiliating backtrack for the Prime Minister because of the tenacity of farmers.”Opposition parties said the rollback is a reminder that legislation cannot be cleared on the basis of a brute majority alone.“The government has lost face as it has realised that on the basis of 303 (Lok Sabha MPs) and by bulldozing Parliament, they cannot get their way. This incident in contemporary history has taught us that if we bulldoze Parliament, the streets, the villages and the bylanes will throw up new Parliaments,” Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha said.The decision to repeal the farm laws came six years after the government agreed to put on hold an ordinance that would make it easier for companies to procure agricultural land, following widespread protests by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-not-for-political-gains-bjp-101637428167046.html
21-11-2021||India||Satya Pal Malik interview: Was ready to quit post to raise issues of farmers||Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik, who hails from western Uttar Pradesh, had been vociferously opposing the three contentious farm laws, repeatedly warning the Centre of its repercussions.Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the laws on Friday, the governor on Saturday told HT’s Sunita Aron that the Centre will also have to relent on the farmers’ demand on minimum support price (MSP). Edited excerpts:While holding a constitutional position, you were opposing the government on the farm laws? Do you think it was proper?People actually don’t understand constitutional rights and obligations. In no way a constitutional position compels you to seal your lips. Even ex-president Dr Rajendra Prasad, despite holding a constitutional position, opposed former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s Hindu Code Bill. There are many such instances when presidents have refused to be a rubber stamp. Thus, there is no restriction even on governors to air their views concerning public welfare. In any way, I was ready to relinquish my post, if so required, to raise a burning issue that harshly impacted the farming community.Are we living in an era of reforms? Then why so much opposition to agriculture reforms when there is also a view that the farm laws would have helped the farmers in the long run?No, I come from the same community and fully understand the issues involved. Yeh kisan ki zameen ko hathiyane ka mudda tha ( It was an issue of forcibly capturing the land of the farmers). Now, after the withdrawal of the farm laws, the farmers will feel safe.Does it seem your voice reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi?Yes, I am very thankful to the Prime Minister for taking a decision in the farmers’ interest at an appropriate time. I am equally grateful to farmers, who despite the hardships, kept their year-long agitation peaceful.The issues are settled although some farmers are reiterating their demand for legal sanctity to MSP.The crux of the issue remains unresolved. Legal sanctity for MSP was their main demand and I don’t think the farmers would relent or call off their agitation till that is done.MSP was given some time in the late 1960s. Don’t you think some reforms are required over a period of time?Despite the MSPs, farmers still have to do large-scale distress selling of their crop. Once the MSP is legalised, at least price protection will be guaranteed.You have been in touch with people in power as well as the farmers. Will you again initiate a dialogue on MSP?No, not immediately. Akalmand ko ishara hi kafi hota hai (hints are enough for intelligent people). The government will have to eventually concede to their demand on MSP also.Did the government have an option to give MSP sanctity instead of rolling back the laws?Yes, the government had the option and it also knew nothing short of that would be acceptable to farmers. The farmers will not end their strike till they get their MSP.Why did the Prime Minister take one year to withdraw the bills?As Gujarat chief minister, Narendra Modi always favoured MSP but after his shift from Gujarat to New Delhi, his views changed.What changed his views?I don’t want to define the reasons.Do you think BJP would now harvest votes in the impending UP elections?Yes, to some extent in West UP, as it would temper down the farmers’ anger and animosity against the BJP. In the rest of UP, there are other issues that the party will confront like Hathras, Lakhimpur Kheri violence, et al.Are you planning to return to active politics?No, I plan to write books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satya-pal-malik-interview-was-ready-to-quit-post-to-raise-issues-of-farmers-101637428106886.html
