22-11-2021||India||Toll tax to be levied soon on Delhi-Meerut Expressway: Report||Toll tax will be levied on people travelling on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) from next month onwards, Live Hindustan reported citing National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials familiar with the development.In September, NHAI rolled out tentative toll rates for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) between Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh and also opened bids for prospective toll collectors, according to a news report by HT.There is no toll currently levied while travelling on DME. The NHAI set a tentative rate of ₹140 as the toll fee for travelling the full 60km length of DME.Commuters will be charged on the basis of distance travelled and the toll will be deducted from the FASTag system linked to the vehicle. In case the vehicle does not have a FASTag, the vehicle owner will be charged doubly for failing to have FASTag at the exit point and also penalise the driver.The DME which is 59.77km has three phases—Phase 1 links Sarai Kale Khan and UP Gate, Phase 2 connects UP Gate and Dasna and Phase 4 connects Dasna and Meerut. The six-lane 32-km access-controlled alignment between Dasna and Hapur is Phase 3 but it does not come under the DME.According to the Live Hindustan report, NHAI requested the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) to charge a toll on all three phases but the ministry wanted the road in Phase 4 to be repaired first. It also highlighted that work in Chipiyana in Phase 2 is incomplete.The highways ministry also asked NHAI to construct the Railway Over Bridge (ROB) in Chipiyana and said that a call will be taken on toll tax imposition after that.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the DME and dedicate it to the people of the nation in December, people familiar with the developments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-tax-to-be-levied-soon-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-report-101637603482752.html
22-11-2021||India||‘So much love’: Kejriwal accepts Punjab auto driver’s dinner invite, rides in his vehicle||After a dinner invitation from an auto-rickshaw driver in Punjab’s Ludhiana on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accepted the offer and hopped on to his vehicle to go to his house."Dilip Tiwari invited us with all his heart to his house for dinner today. His family gave us so much love. The food was very tasty. I have invited his entire family to eat a meal at my home in Delhi,” Kejriwal tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Tiwari invited Arvind Kejriwal to his home as the Aam Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and other leaders met with a large group of auto-rickshaw drivers during a campaign event in the Ludhiana city of Punjab, where assembly elections are scheduled to be held early next year.ਆਮ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਦਾ ਆਮ CM!ਇਸ ਕਰਕੇ ਲੋਕ @ArvindKejriwal ਨੂੰ ਇੰਨਾ ਪਿਆਰ ਕਰਦੇ ਹਨ!ਇੱਕ ਆਟੋ ਵਾਲੇ ਨੇ ਕਿਹਾ, "ਮੇਰੇ ਘਰ, ਮੇਰੇ ਆਟੋ ਵਿੱਚ ਚੱਲੋਗੇ ਰੋਟੀ ਖਾਣ?" ਕੇਜਰੀਵਾਲ ਨੇ ਸੱਦਾ ਕਬੂਲ ਕਰ ਝੱਟਪੱਟ @BhagwantMann ਅਤੇ @HarpalCheemaMLA ਨੂੰ ਨਾਲ ਲੈਕੇ ਆਟੋ ਚਾਲਕ ਨਾਲ ਆਮ ਬੰਦੇ ਦੀ ਤਰ੍ਹਾਂ ਚੱਲ ਪਏ। pic.twitter.com/mlWQQvIVEc"I am a big fan of yours. I am an auto-wallah. Sir, you help auto drivers a lot. Sir, will you come for a meal to this poor auto-wallah's home? I am inviting you dil se (from the heart),” Tiwari said."Absolutely, tonight?" Kejriwal asked to a loud cheer from the room. "Tonight only," Tiwari replied. Kejriwal then asked whether he could bring his party’s leaders Bhagwant Mann and Harpal Singh Cheema.Also read | Punjab elections: Kejriwal promises ₹1,000/month each for women“I was sooo touched when an auto driver invited me for dinner to his house. We will certainly go there for dinner tonite,” he tweeted after accepting the invitation.The AAP later tweeted a video showing Kejriwal, Mann and Cheema in Tiwari’s auto-rickshaw and also posted photographs showing them eating at his house.Punjab के एक Auto Driver के Invitation पर CM @ArvindKejriwal जी उसी की ऑटो में बैठ कर उनके घर खाना खाने पहुँचे! pic.twitter.com/XDcaquwj5sEarlier in the day, Kejriwal described Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as "fake Kejriwal" and alleged that he copied his agenda without implementing it."Whatever I promise in Punjab, he announces the same thing after two days. He does not implement it because he is fake," said Kejriwal.Kejriwal will visit several places in the poll-bound state in the next one month to rally support for his party under the AAP's Mission Punjab. He will address a press conference in Amritsar on Tuesday and attend and programme in the holy city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-so-much-love-says-kejriwal-after-dinner-at-punjab-auto-driver-s-home-101637601496774.html
22-11-2021||India||ECI holds conference with chief election officers; review meeting on poll-bound states on Tuesday||Ahead of state legislative elections in seven states, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday organized a conference with the Chief Electoral Officers (CEC) of all states and union territories in New Delhi. The Commission said a separate one-day review meeting with officials of all the poll going states is also scheduled on Tuesday to discuss various matters related to election management.According to the press release from the ECI, the conference was organized to discuss and review various thematic issues related to electoral roll, polling stations, ongoing special summary revision, IT applications, timely resolution of grievances, EVMs/VVPATs, training and capacity building of polling staff, media and communication and extensive voter outreach program amongst others.During his address, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra stressed the significance of effectiveness and visibility of CEOs and asked them to ensure the purity of the electoral roll, availability of Assured Minimum Facilities and ensure better facilities at all polling booths for all voters.He asked the CEOs for expeditious redressal of all pending applications especially with regard to voter registration and added that the CEOs should have regular interaction with political parties to redress their grievances too.“CEC Shri Sushil Chandra during his address added that the objective of this conference is to identify the gaps and challenges to ensure instructions of the Commission are implemented uniformly in all States /UTs across the country,” the press release said.Election Commissioner (EC) Rajiv Kumar while interacting with the CEOs pointed out that even though the legal and regulatory framework of the elections is quite robust, the implementation of various instructions of the Commission at the field is very critical.He stressed that CEOs need to be innovative, more active and should learn from each other’s best practices and challenges.Adding on to Kumar’s emphasis on working on the implementation at the field level, EC Anup Chandra Pandey pointed towards the need to focus on the training and capacity building of Booth Level Officers (BLOs). He also emphasized the involvement of different stakeholders and officials in the field for outreach and Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities at the ground level throughout the year, even during the non-election period.During the conference, the Commission also released ‘Compendium of Cases on Election Law’, a Coffee Table Book “Conduct of General Elections to the Assam Legislative Assembly 2021”, and a short video titled “Call of Duty” developed by CEO Assam. The video highlighted various challenges faced by election officials in setting up polling stations in remote and difficult terrains. A voter anthem titled “Power of 18” prepared by CEO Manipur for the new voters was also released during the conference.The conference was attended by CEOs from all the states and union territories, Senior Deputy Election Commissioners (DECs), DECs, DG and other senior officers from the Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-holds-conference-with-chief-election-officers-review-meeting-on-poll-bound-states-on-tuesday-101637600809287.html
22-11-2021||India||India doesn't need to be a superpower, should aspire to be 'Vishwa Guru’: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Monday the world needs India to create a balance and that the country can guide every other nation in becoming one family."Aatmiyata ka vikas… yahi bharat hai (the growth of mutual understanding, this is India). We need to give a mantra to connect the whole world," Bhagwat said, according to news agency ANI.Mohan Bhagwat made the remarks while speaking at an event to mark the birth centenary of Suraj Prakash, the founder of Bharatiya Vikas Parishad, an organisation inspired by RSS.The RSS chief also said that countries that have been superpowers only dominated the world and fulfilled their vested interests.Also read | Don’t just raise Ram slogans, follow his path too: Mohan Bhagwat“India doesn't need to be one. There is a reason why India exists. We are Hindustan despite so many attacks. We are needed to create balance. We are not only becoming mahashakti. There have been superpowers. We need to be Vishwa guru," Bhagwat was quoted as saying by ANI."We don't need to ask the world to be like us. People across the world should come and learn. Then they can go back and teach humanism based on their culture and religious practices," he added.India can give perspective to the world, according to Bhagwat.Also read | 'Don't have to convert anyone but teach how to live': RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat“People should come here to build character and we will win hearts should be our determination. We should become an example. That is why this organisation is working," he added.Dr Vivek Dixit from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Neelu Suri, a nursing officer with RML Hospital, Ramesh Chaudhary, of the Safdarjung Hospital and RML Hospital’s ward boy Ramanand Paswan were among those felicitated by the RSS chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohan-bhagwat-says-india-doesn-t-need-to-be-a-superpower-has-this-suggestion-101637597998731.html
22-11-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka and Maldives coast guards conduct exercise||The 15th edition of the biennial trilateral exercise “Dosti” by the coast guard forces of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka is underway in the Maldives during November 20-24.The Indian Coast Guard vessels, ICGS Vajra and ICGS Apoorva, and the Sri Lanka Coast Guard’s SLCGS Suraksha are in the Maldives for the exercise. This year marks 30 years since the first edition of the exercise.The trilateral exercise aims to strengthen friendship, enhance mutual operational capabilities, exercise interoperability and build cooperation between the coast guards of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka, officials said.Exercises carried out over the past 10 years have focused on drills on assisting with maritime accidents, eliminating sea pollution, and coast guard procedures and conduct during situations such as oil spills.Exercise “Dosti” was started in 1991 between the Indian and the Maldives coast guards. Sri Lanka joined the exercise for the first time in 2012.“Much excitement & energy was packed into the main exercise & steampast of Dosti XV at Usfasgan’du Area in Male’ today. Chief Guest, Hon. Minister of Defence @MariyaDidi interacted with local students, who claimed they were thrilled to witness the dynamic drills & displays,” the defence minister of the Maldives said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-and-maldives-coast-guards-conduct-exercise-101637597448417.html
22-11-2021||India||Rulers need to introspect daily, people ‘ultimate lords’ of democracy: CJI Ramana||Rulers should introspect everyday whether the decisions taken by them are good and also check if they have any bad characteristics, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Monday. Addressing the 40th convocation of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning in Puttaparthi town in Anantapuramu district, Justice Ramana, quoting Mahabharata and Ramayana, said there are 14 bad qualities of rulers which they should avoid. “All the rulers in the democratic set-up, before beginning their routine work, should introspect whether they have any bad characteristics. There is need to offer just administration and it should be according to people's needs. There are several wise men here and you are watching the developments that are taking place worldwide and countrywide,” he said. He said people are the ultimate lords in democracy and whatever decision has been taken by the dispensation should benefit them. He further said it was his desire that all the systems in the country should be independent and honest aiming to serve the people which Sathya Sai Baba also used to say the same thing. Unfortunately, the modern education system tends to focus only on the utilitarian function and such a system is not equipped to deal with the moral or spiritual function of education which builds the character of students and allows them to develop a social consciousness and a sense of responsibility, Justice Ramana said. “True education is one which imbibes moral values and virtues of humility, discipline, selflessness, compassion, tolerance, forgiveness and mutual respect,” He said. On Sathya Sai Baba, Justice Ramana said, "I had the good fortune of having Baba's darshan. I have always carried with me his words of wisdom." He further said: "There is no greater proponent of service, no greater mentor to follow than Baba himself. Sathya Sai means love, Sathya Sai means service, Sathya Sai means sacrifice.” “…Be it education, medical care, providing clean drinking water, relief work, Baba has showed us the righteous path. This is the concept embedded in our cultural ethos of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' (the world is one family),” he said adding Baba's life should be an inspiration to one and all. The world has gone through unprecedented changes during the past two years and the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed and highlighted deep-rooted vulnerabilities and has increased the inequalities in society, the CJI said. “In such times, selfless service is the need of the hour. I feel so encouraged by the fact that this idea of service is still strong in the hearts and minds of the people, including students of this institution, to provide relief to those in need,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rulers-need-to-introspect-daily-people-ultimate-lords-of-democracy-cji-ramana-101637596144543.html
22-11-2021||India||Indian Railways cancels 10 special trains for 3 months. Check full list here||Indian Railways has said it will cancel some special trains from December until February next year. The Western Railway announced that six pairs of special trains between Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat will be cancelled during the winter season citing operational issues.The chief public relations officer (CPRO) of the Western Railways Sumit Thakur also shared the full list of cancelled trains.Here is the list of cancelled trains:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-cancels-10-special-trains-for-3-months-check-full-list-here-101637590397483.html
22-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD predicts more rains in southern states, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Several southern states continued to bear the brunt of heavy rainfall even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light to moderate rain in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the next five days. Read moreInvestigators are looking into whether the SUV driver who plowed through a Christmas parade in suburban Milwaukee, killing at least five people and injuring more than 40, was fleeing from a crime, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press. Read moreFormer national selector Jatin Paranjape on Monday picked three future replacement for Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane in India's Test line-up. Pujara, who is yet to score a century since January 2019, is 33, same as Rahane, who has struggled to amass 644 runs in his last 15 Tests at 24.76. Read moreGuinness World Records (GWR) often shares such videos on their official Instagram page that leave people stunned. Just like this share about a supersized ‘Nerf’ gun created by an engineer. There is a possibility that the post will surprise you too. Read moreBunty Aur Babli 2, starring actors Saif Ali Khan and Rani Mukerji, has collected ₹8.30 crore over the weekend. The Bollywood film, which released in theatres, collected ₹3.20 crore on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-predicts-more-rains-in-southern-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101637593800042.html
22-11-2021||India||India quietly marks 50 years of key battle before 1971 war began||India on Monday quietly marked the 50th anniversary of a key battle in erstwhile East Pakistan, 11 days before India and Pakistan officially went to war in 1971, in which the Indian Army completely wiped out a Pakistani tank squadron, the Indian Air Force shot down three enemy fighter jets and an estimated 300 Pakistani soldiers were killed or injured, according to military historians who have studied the battle in detail. The Battle of Garibpur, which included a fierce confrontation between rival tanks on November 21, 1971, and an air battle a day later, ended with the Indian Army creating an important launchpad for the upcoming offensive into enemy territory and set the stage for the creation of military history 24 days later with the liberation of Bangladesh.“In the run-up to the 1971 war, the Indian armed forces were focussed on creating launchpads across the border fully aware that a full-scale military confrontation was imminent. Garibpur was among the key launch pads because of its proximity to Jessore in erstwhile East Pakistan,” said Brigadier Balram Singh Mehta (retd), an armoured corps officer who fought in the Battle of Garibpur as a young captain.The C Squadron of the Indian Army’s 45 Cavalry destroyed 14 American M-24 Chaffee tanks of the Pakistan Army on November 21 at Garibpur at the expense of two Indian PT-76 tanks, with the IAF’s Gnats intercepting a detachment of Pakistan Air Force fighter jets and shooting down three F-86 Sabres in the first aerial combat with PAF in the build-up to 1971 war. The IAF calls the air action Battle of Boyra.On November 22, 1971, four PAF F-86 Sabres violated Indian airspace and attempted to strafe Indian positions when they were intercepted by an equal number of IAF Gnats of the No. 22 Squadron (Swifts). All the IAF fighter jets returned to base unscathed. Flight Lieutenant Roy Andrew Massey, who led the four-aircraft package, was awarded India’s third highest wartime gallantry award, Vir Chakra, along with Flying Officer Donald Lazarus and Flight Lieutenant MA Ganapathy.The Battle of Garibpur, followed by the Battle of Boyra, was for all practical purposes the beginning of the 1971 war, said Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (retd), a military historian and the author of India’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971. “It was part of the Indian Army’s shallow thrusts into erstwhile East Pakistan to create bases for subsequent operations. The Battle of Garibpur and its outcome was significant as the army was shaping the future battlefield,” said Subramaniam. The Indira Gandhi government cleared the army to cross the international border “for self-defence” in a decision taken on November 18, experts said. “In one fell swoop, the 3 (Independent) Armoured Squadron, consisting of Chaffee tanks, was completely destroyed and two infantry battalions badly mauled… The biggest attack planned by Lieutenant General AAK Niazi (Pakistani commander) to teach the Indians and the Mukti Bahini a lesson had gone up in smoke. This battle was a victory and a decisive one at that. Garibpur was held in a bold and decisive move by ground troops, one battalion beat back an enemy brigade,” Mehta wrote in his 2016 book The Burning Chaffees: A Soldier’s First-Hand Account of the 1971 War.The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the creation of a new country, Bangladesh, and the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war.Also, it was on November 21 that the Bangladesh government-in-exile under Sheikh Mujibur Rahman placed its armed forces and freedom fighters directly under the Indian Army’s Eastern Command. Bangladesh celebrates November 21 as Armed Forces Day. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who visited the Bangladesh High Commission in Delhi on Monday to attend a reception to mark the Armed Forces Day, said, “This year is of extraordinary significance for India-Bangladesh relations as we commemorate the golden jubilee of the Liberation of Bangladesh and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In this momentous time, I salute the valiant struggle of the Mukti Bahini in the Muktijuddho, the War of Liberation in 1971”. Singh described the war for the liberation of Bangladesh as an unprecedented event in the 20th century history. “It was a moral fight against injustice, atrocities and oppression. Ordinary people were brutally maimed and murdered. The barbaric atrocities of Operation Searchlight (a crackdown by the Pak army to crush the voices of self-determination) stirred the conscience of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-quietly-marks-50-years-of-key-battle-before-1971-war-began-101637592230340.html
22-11-2021||India||Southern states to receive more rain as govts assess damages||Several southern states continued to bear the brunt of heavy rainfall even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light to moderate rain in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the next five days.“Light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall over Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall over Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe during next 5 days and over coastal Karnataka on November 21,” the IMD said in a tweet.Citizens in Andhra Pradesh continue to face troubles due to the heavy rain, which caused floods and led to the damage of roads as well as personal and public property.According to news agency PTI, the state recorded at least 30 deaths and several thousand people have been displaced due to the floods in the Penna and Cheyyeru rivers. After 200,000 cusecs of water flowed out of the Somasila reservoir in SPS Nellore, the Cheyyeru river went into spate leading to severe inundation of Togurupeta, Mandapalli, Pulapathur and Gundlur villages and many other hamlets.The Andhra Pradesh government also announced that it will distribute essential commodities like rice, dal, edible oil, onions, and potatoes to all flood-affected families free of cost. The state government also held a review meeting on the flood situation in the Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and Anantapur districts.Heavy rains lash BengaluruParts of Bengaluru remained inundated on Monday following heavy rains on Sunday night. Yelahanka and Mahadevapura areas of the city witnessed water entering houses of residents.Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) was present at the spot and will hand out essentials to affected residents. Visuals shared by news agencies showed roads in the Kendriya Vihar area of Bengaluru completely submerged and police officials helping residents in various areas of the city.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a decision was taken on Monday to release ₹500 crore to repair roads and bridges damaged due to incessant rains and floods in different parts of the state. Bommai said that officials were instructed to immediately disburse compensation for those whose houses have been damaged.He also said that surveys of crop loss due to rains are also being conducted and after receiving the final report compensation will be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-states-to-receive-more-rain-as-govts-assess-damages-101637591313454.html
22-11-2021||India||First national survey of domestic workers launched||Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday rolled out the country’s first survey of domestic workers, the latest among a group of five national jobs enumeration campaigns aimed at discerning data on the country’s vast informal workforce that will feed a forthcoming national employment policy in Asia’s third-largest economy. Domestic workers are believed to be a million strong, but there is little official information on their actual numbers and parameters, such as work conditions and average pay. Lack of such data leaves them out of any formal policy governing the country’s informal workers, who make up a majority of the total workforce.The survey is designed to fill this gap and offer “time-series data on domestic workers”, the minister said. The survey for domestic workers is among five national jobs surveys that will be conducted periodically and provide crucial data for an upcoming national employment policy being planned by the Modi government, an official said, requesting anonymity. In September, the government had released the results of the first All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey (AQEES) for the April-June 2021 quarter.Along with the latest survey, the AQEES is part of four other annual surveys conducted by the labour bureau. These are the All-India Survey of Migrant Workers, All-India Survey of Domestic Workers, All-India Survey of Employment Generated by Professionals and All-India Survey of Employment Generated in the Transport Sector. The survey, for the first time, will provide a headcount of domestic workers and their employers through a nationwide household-based survey. According to the manual of the survey, specific features of domestic work such as living conditions, their employment relationships, would be looked at extensively which are usually not covered in the traditional labour force surveys. “The numbers, thus, thrown up would improve the availability of official data on DW and would provide a basis for meaningful social dialogue,” the manual states. The parameters the survey aims to capture include the number and proportion of household workers by major states, with separate rural and urban break-ups, their percentage distribution, households that employ them and socio-demographic characteristics.The labour bureau’s all India quarterly establishment-based employment survey (AQEES) in September showed a 29% increase in employment in nine sectors during the peak Covid-19 months of April-June 2021 over a base of 2013-14. The survey showed a jump in jobs in sectors such as IT, business process outsourcing and manufacturing. India lacks official short-term, high-frequency jobs data and the AQEES is meant to fill the critical gap. Economists usually depend on the Periodic Labour Force Survey, a government jobs survey, or data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private data firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-national-survey-of-domestic-workers-launched-101637591089800.html
22-11-2021||India||Advisory group on immunization likely to discuss booster dose in upcoming meeting||The top government expert panel on immunisation is likely to take up key issues regarding administering booster Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses, and opening vaccination for children, in its next meeting scheduled towards the end of this month, said people familiar with the matter.The Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) is likely to meet in the last week of November.“The experts on the panel have been discussing these issues in past meetings but the decision is ultimately taken based on the quality of evidence, including real-world data, and consensus among the members within the group,” said a senior person in the know of things, on condition of anonymity.As for offering booster doses as evidence currently suggests that vaccine-derived immunity is not for life, the government experts are also likely to announce a detailed policy on administering additional doses soon. However, the government priority remains to vaccinate all adults first.Even the Union health minister mentioned on past several occasions that the decision to vaccinate children will not be taken in a hurry, and before booster doses, the government’s focus was to ensure all adults were vaccinated against Covid-19.“The experts have to be fully convinced on the issue as it is a matter of children. We will have to be extremely careful as even the developed countries that have begun vaccinating their children are treading cautiously. The decision of the experts will be final on this,” said Mansukh Mandaviya, Union health minister, during one of the recent media interactions.“Vaccinating all adults is on government’s priority list; booster doses come later,” he added.Only one Covid-19 vaccine, Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D, that was tested in children aged 12 years and above has been approved for emergency use in India. The drugs controller general of India is still reviewing the emergency use authorization of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin that has been tested in children aged 2 years and above, even though the expert committee recommended it for use in children. According to people familiar with the development, even if a consensus is reached on starting vaccination in children among panel members, it is highly likely that the exercise will be conducted in a phased manner wherein the first phase will include children with comorbidities.Government experts are at present working on a list of comorbidities that could determine which children are eligible for a vaccine first. The list is likely to have those on cancer treatment; transplant cases; those with compromised immunity, etc. Experts, however, have been saying that there may not be an immediate need but eventually all children will have to be vaccinated.“Eventually, we will have to vaccinate all children and not just those at risk because children can bring the infection home and expose those members who are at high risk, especially the elderly and sick in the family,” said Dr JS Bhasin, director and head, department of paediatrics, BLK Hospital.A Booster dose is also likely to be introduced in a phased manner, with those at high risk getting the additional vaccine shot first. “The experts will focus on India’s requirements and local data to draft the plan. Global data is important but India also has managed to generate a significant amount of data that will be relevant in decision making,” said the person cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisory-group-on-immunization-likely-to-discuss-booster-dose-in-upcoming-meeting-101637589589855.html
22-11-2021||India||Tripura court grants bail to Trinamool Congress youth leader Saayoni Ghosh||A local court in Tripura on Monday granted bail to Trinamool Congress youth wing leader and actor Saayoni Ghosh, arrested a day earlier for allegedly “disturbing” the chief minister Biplab Deb's public meeting.Police in Tripura also slapped charges on Ghosh for allegedly promoting enmity between people, attempt-to-murder, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy, apart from disrupting a civic poll rally led by Biplab Deb on Saturday.According to multiple reports citing police, Ghosh chanted Trinamool Congress' iconic slogan ‘khela hobe’ at the street-side meeting addressed by the chief minister. Soon after, the Bharatiya Janata Party filed an FIR against her at the East Agartala Women’s police station.However, Trinamool Congress general secretary Kunal Ghosh claimed that someone attending Biplab Deb's rally spotted Saayoni Ghosh in a vehicle and greeted her with “Didi, khela hobe” and the youth leader replied with “haan, khela hobe.”Ghosh's arrest came a day before Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee's scheduled roadshow in Agartala. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev claimed the motive behind Ghosh's arrest in the alleged ‘attempt-to-murder case’ was to disrupt Abhishek Banerjee’s rally. It is not immediately known if the Trinamool Congress leader's roadshow continued as planned even though he was reportedly in Tripura's state capital till the filing of this report.ALSO READ | Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs meet Shah to protest against attacks on its workersThe political battlefield in Tripura is heating up ahead of the November 25 civic polls. Several clashes have been reported in the northeastern state over the past week, with former Union minister and Babul Supriyo – who switched over to Trinamool Congress from the BJP recently – claiming on Saturday that he was harassed by BJP cadres while assessing poll preparations.Earlier in the day, Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee stood by her party’s workers in Tripura and said she would discuss the issue of violence with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during her proposed meeting with him in New Delhi later this week. Banerjee slammed her Tripura counterpart Biplab Deb and accused him of creating an “atmosphere of lawlessness” in the state.The Supreme Court, too, agreed to hear a contempt plea of the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday regarding the deteriorating law and order situation in the state ahead of the elections. The top court had last week asked Tripura police to ensure that no political party was prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saayoni-ghosh-trinamool-congress-tripura-civic-polls-bjp-biplab-deb-101637584939308.html
22-11-2021||India||President Kovind confers Shaurya Chakra posthumously on armed personnel||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday conferred Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) on personnel of the armed forces at a ceremony in the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The President, who is the Supreme Commander of the armed forces, conferred the award on Lance Naik Sandeep Singh of 4 Para (Special Forces) for killing a foreign terrorist and injuring two others in an operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018. His wife Gurpreet Kaur received the award.The gallantry awards were given to the personnel for displaying conspicuous gallantry, indomitable courage and extreme devotion to duty. Shaurya Chakra is the country’s third highest peacetime gallantry award after Ashok Chakra and Kirti Chakra.Also read | Shaurya Chakra awarded to Major Dhoundiyal, Major Bhure and Naib Subedar SombirJammu and Kashmir SPO Ashiq Hussain Malik was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra posthumously for showing highest degree of courage leading to the elimination of four heavily armed terrorists during an operation in Anantnag in 2018. His parents Maqbool Malik and Shahzado Bano received the award.Also read | President awards Vir Chakra to Abhinandan Varthaman, who downed Pak F-16J&K Police sub-inspector Imran Hussain Tak, who killed a top terrorist commander and arrested another despite sustaining bullet injuries in Srinagar in 2017, also received the award posthumously. His wife Gulnaz Akhtar received the award from the President.#WATCH | J&K Police Sub Inspector Imran Hussain Tak conferred with Shaurya Chakra posthumously for killing a top terrorist commander & arresting another despite sustaining bullet injuries in Srinagar in 2017 His wife Gulnaz Akhtar received the award from the President in Delhi pic.twitter.com/MgdbAyCO3HSepoy Hari Singh of 55th Rashtriya Rifles was accorded Shaurya Chakra posthumously for killing a terrorist and injuring another in Pulwama, J&K, in 2019. His wife Radha Bai received the award.Shweta Kumari, the widow of Sepoy Brajesh Kumar of Punjab Regiment of the Indian Army, received the award on Kumar’s behalf for killing an A++ category terrorist during an operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-confers-shaurya-chakra-posthumously-on-armed-personnel-101637585931816.html
22-11-2021||India||Not against MSP, but open-ended procurement a problem: SC panel member Anil Ghanwat||Anil Ghanwat, a member of the the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws, said on Monday that he was not against minimum support price, but open-ended procurement was a problem. He said if a law on MSP is made as demanded by protesting farm unions, all farmers would demand MSP on their crops and nobody would be in a position to earn anything out of it.His statement came in the wake of farm leaders stating the year-old agitation would continue until issues such as legal guarantee for MSP were not resolved.“We're not against MSP but open-ended procurement is a problem. We require 41 lakh tonnes of grains for buffer stock, but procured 110 lakh tonnes. If MSP law is made, all farmers will demand MSP on their crops and no one will be in a position to earn anything out of that,” Ghanwat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The panel member, who had earlier rued over the Narendra Modi government’s decision to repeal the three central farm laws, said he hoped another committee would be formed comprising leaders from the opposition and farming communities.He said the current government had the will to reform agriculture unlike previous regimes.We're not against MSP but open-ended procurement is a problem. We require 41 lakh tonnes of grains for buffer stock but procured 110 lakh tonnes. If MSP law is made,all farmers will demand MSP on their crops &no one will be in a position to earn anything out of that: Anil Ghanwat pic.twitter.com/wOVxcPe80w“It is very unfortunate that the farm laws were taken back. Farmers were demanding reforms for the last 40 years. This is not a good step. The existing system of agriculture is not enough,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-against-msp-but-open-ended-procurement-a-problem-anil-ghanwat-101637581848324.html
22-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: New portfolios assigned to Rajasthan ministers following cabinet reshuffle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan cabinet rejig: CM Gehlot retains home, finance, Kalla gets edu and artParsadi Lal Meena was allocated health and excise departments, Shanti Dhariwal has local self government, urban development and parliamentary affairs with him. Read more here. Cold wave conditions likely in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan over next two daysWeak La Nina conditions, which are also associated with colder winters in northwest India, are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific region, according to weather experts. Read more here. 'SRK winning it in style!': Shahrukh Khan hits last-ball six to seal Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy title for Tamil Nadu -VIDEOShahrukh finished it off in style for Tamil Nadu as they lifted their record third Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy defeating Karnataka by four wickets. WatchRohit Shetty says he used to earn ₹35 on first job: 'I had to choose between food and travel'Rohit Shetty opened up on his Bollywood journey and the financial struggle that he had to face in the early says. He said that he earned ₹35 when he started working. Read more here. At 555.9 kmph, this Rolls-Royce breaks record as world's fastest EVDuring its record-breaking runs, the Rolls-Royce aircraft reached a maximum top speed of 623km/h, making it the world’s fastest all-electric vehicle. Read more here. Rajkummar Rao, Patralekhaa are couple fashion goals in twinning metallic jacketsRajkummar Rao slays a blue metallic biker jacket and ₹22.5k shirt while Patralekhaa raises the heat in a see-through metallic structured cape worth ₹34.5k on their ‘pyjama party night’ and we are swooning over their bling twinning game as they ace couple fashion goals. Read more here. 'Modi would win all awards…': Owaisi's film industry jibe at PM | UP polls||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-new-portfolios-assigned-to-rajasthan-ministers-and-all-the-latest-news-101637580606916.html
22-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs meet Shah to protest against attacks on its workers||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmakers met Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday to register their protest against the alleged police brutality and attacks on its workers of the Tripura unit ahead of the civic polls in the northeastern state.“We told him in detail how leaders were arrested and MPs were beaten up. He said he spoke to Tripura chief minister over the phone yesterday and will seek a report from the state,” TMC leader Kalyan Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Santanu Sen, Kalyan Banerjee and Mala Roy along with 11 other MPs were part of the delegation which met home minister Amit Shah.The Trinamool MPs said on Sunday that they would protest against the alleged disruptions caused by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers during campaigning in Tripura. Numerous clashes between both sets of cadres have been reported over the past month ahead of the civic body polls in the state.Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday also called for support for her party’s workers in Tripura and said she will discuss the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during her meeting with him this week. The West Bengal chief minister attacked her Tripura counterpart Biplab Deb and accused him of creating an atmosphere of lawlessness in the state.“The administration, the BJP and the chief minister himself are defying the Supreme Court verdict. The Tripura issue will be raised in Delhi, Mumbai and everywhere else. I'll meet the PM regarding this issue. They want to capture power and bulldoze the federal structure in the name of cooperative federalism,” Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.She was referring to the Supreme Court order issued earlier this month which instructed the Tripura police to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner.Tensions remain high as another TMC lawmaker and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee is currently in Agartala despite permission being denied for his roadshow.Over the past week, several clashes have been reported and the Tripura police also detained TMC youth wing leader Saayoni Ghosh for allegedly disturbing a public meeting, which was attended by Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb.Former Union minister and ex-BJP leader Babul Supriyo also alleged that on Saturday he was harassed by BJP cadres as he was assessing poll preparations. The BJP workers denied these allegations.Tripura civic body polls are scheduled to be held on November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-tmc-mps-meet-shah-to-protest-against-attacks-on-its-workers-101637579881809.html
22-11-2021||India||Two former Uttarakhand chief ministers meet, spark speculation||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday met Harish Rawat of the opposition Congress and fuelled speculation ahead of the assembly elections due early next year. The meeting came months after the BJP leader was removed as the Uttarakhand chief minister in March.The two posted photographs of their meeting on Facebook and said they met to ask about each other’s well-being. “It was nice to see Trivendra Singh Rawat in an enthusiastic mood,” wrote the Congress leader. Trivendra Singh Rawat wrote the two met after a long interval. “There has been an improvement in his health after recovering from Covid-19. When asked about his health, he replied in his style-- ‘I am healthy’.”Political analyst S M A Kazmi said the BJP leader has been unhappy with his party since he was asked to step down as the chief minister. “He is also being given somewhat less importance by the party leadership. Meeting Harish Rawat and then posting its photographs on Facebook was an attempt to show his clout...”Also Read | Free pilgrimage for Uttarakhand senior citizens if AAP comes to power: KejriwalM M Semwal, a political science professor at Garhwal Central University, ruled out the possibility of Trivendra Singh Rawat joining Congress and called the meeting a pressure tactic. “It is visible that he is not being given enough importance in the party. Hence, by meeting Harish Rawat and then sharing photographs on his Facebook, he is in a way trying to send a message that he is not weak if they assume him to be so and has options...”The BJP leader could not be contacted for comments but Harish Rawat tried to play down the speculation. “It was a very informal meeting. I was visiting a physiotherapy centre in Dehradun on Sunday evening where Trivendra came to meet me as he lives in the nearby area. We had a healthy informal conversation in which we asked about each other’s health and well-being. Despite being from rival parties, we should not lose mutual respect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-former-uttarakhand-chief-ministers-meet-spark-speculation-101637580166114.html
22-11-2021||India||Cold wave conditions likely in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan over next two days||Cold wave conditions are likely in parts of Punjab, Haryana and northern Rajasthan for the first time this season over the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.A minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days is classified as a cold wave in the plains. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than four degrees Celsius in the plains. The mercury in Delhi fell to 9.6 or three degrees below the normal on November 17 and 9.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, on Sunday. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees Celsius. Hisar recorded 7.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal on Monday.D S Pai, who heads climate research and services at IMD (Pune) said there are two ways by which the temperature falls. “One is a clear sky, which leads to the warmth radiating back quickly from the surface. It is called radiational cooling. There are clear skies over northwest India now.” He added the other reason for cold setting in is that northwesterly cold and dry winds are blowing over the region from the Himalayas. “There is a low-pressure area over the Arabian Sea, which causes advection of northwesterly winds over the northwestern region. Consecutive low-pressure areas have formed over the Arabian Sea.”A cyclonic circulation is lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move west-northwestward towards the Tamil Nadu coast during the next four-five days. A trough (line of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood to the Tamil Nadu coast. In association with the cyclonic circulation, moderate to heavy rainfall is likely in Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days.Also Read: Winter woes: Keep seasonal allergies at bayR K Jenamani, a senior scientist at IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre, said they were expecting cold air incursion. “In Delhi, there may not be cold wave conditions but minimum temperatures will fall to about 8 to 9 degrees, around three to four notches below normal. In rural pockets, the cold wave conditions are likely to set in.”Weak La Niña conditions, which are also associated with colder winters in northwest India, are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific region. The latest model forecast is indicating they are likely to strengthen and peak to moderate conditions during the winter season. Thereafter, the La Niña conditions are likely to start weakening to reach cold El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) neutral conditions during the second quarter of the next year, according to an IMD bulletin for November.ENSO is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean. It has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods, and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures. La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina with the strong monsoon, above-average rains, and colder winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-likely-in-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-over-next-two-days-101637579206059.html
22-11-2021||India||Protect small fishermen, oppose ban on fishing subsidies: BMS tells government||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), wants the Centre to oppose a group of countries that has urged the World Trade Organization (WTO) to push for withdrawal of fishing subsidies, arguing that such a move will be detrimental to the interests of small fishermen. The organisation representing labour unions has alleged that by allowing big trawlers and ships to resort to deep-sea fishing, the government has worsened the difficulties faced by small fishermen. Last month, 296 scientists from 46 countries urged the WTO to pass a motion to ban fishery subsidies. In a submission to the WTO, the scientists said the ban must be considered to “curb overfishing, biodiversity degradation and loss, and carbon dioxide emissions, and to safeguard food and livelihoods”. “WTO members must prohibit fisheries subsidies that cause harm such as those that lower the cost of fuel and vehicle construction and those that provide price support to keep market prices artificially high,” the scientists wrote. Watch: Modi govt reacts to Pakistan navy killing Indian fisherman off Gujarat coastThe BMS has, however, argued that if the Indian government agrees to the demand from developed countries in banning fishing subsidies, such a move will hamper the livelihood of millions of marine fishermen in 10 coastal states. “There is pressure building on the Indian government to also push for ending subsidies. So, we are urging the government to refrain from siding with the demand as the majority [of fishermen] in India are small fishermen who do not have the wherewithal for deep-sea fishing,” said Binay Kumar Sinha, BMS general secretary. He said the organisation strongly opposes the proposals on banning subsidies to fishermen in the “name of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing” by the organised sector’s fishermen. Pointing out the differences in fishing practices followed in India as against those in developed countries, Sinha said small fishermen in India and developing countries face many limitations and low capacities, and are not responsible for depleting marine reserves. “It is the organised sector’s fishing that catches fish through mechanised trawlers and huge ships, particularly by developed countries that are responsible for depleting marine fishing reserves. In India, traditional fishermen follow norms, such as observing a fishing ban during breeding season. Apart from this, small fishermen are allowed to catch fish within only 12 nautical miles. It is in no way hampering the reserves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protect-small-fishermen-oppose-ban-on-fishing-subsidies-bms-tells-government-101637578547716.html
22-11-2021||India||Rajasthan cabinet rejig: CM Gehlot retains home, finance, Kalla gets edu and art||The Rajasthan government on Monday allocated portfolios to ministers of the rejigged cabinet. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot retained home, finance, and IT and communication departments, while BD Kalla got education, and art and culture.Parsadi Lal Meena was allocated health and excise departments, Shanti Dhariwal has local self government, urban development and parliamentary affairs with him, Saleh Mohammad minority affairs.Among other key portfolios, Brijendra Ola was allocated road transport, Bhajan Lal Jatav public works department (PWD) and Shakuntala Rawat industries.Meanwhile, sacked from Rajasthan Cabinet last year, Vishvendra Singh was given back the tourism department, while Ramesh Meena got Panchayati Raj.Pramod Jain Bhaya retained mines and petroleum, Lalchand Kataria agriculture and Udailal Anjana cooperative .Rajasthan Govt allocates portfolios to ministers of the rejigged Cabinet, CM Ashok Gehlot keeps Home, Finance, and IT & Communication pic.twitter.com/NhHZP0E65pHours after the Cabinet reshuffle was announced on Sunday, the chief minister said he tried to give representation to people belonging from all communities.In a much-awaited cabinet reshuffle, as many as 15 ministers -- 11 of cabinet rank and four ministers of state -- were inducted into Gehlot's cabinet on Sunday afternoon.The ministers were administered the oath of office by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra at Raj Bhavan.Also, six MLAs, including three independents, have been appointed advisers to Gehlot. The Congress MLAs who have been appointed advisers are Jitendra Singh, Rajkumar Sharma and Danish Abrar, while independent legislators are Babu Lal Nagar, Sanyam Lodha and Ramkesh Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-cm-gehlot-retains-home-finance-kalla-gets-edu-and-art-101637578052337.html
22-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh slashes VAT on diesel, petrol. Check details||The Chhattisgarh government on Monday slashed the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by 1 per cent and 2 per cent respectively. Notably, the decision was taken during the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, news agency PTI quoted a government official as saying.“Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel-led cabinet has decided to cut the prices of petrol and diesel. VAT on diesel and petrol has been reduced by 2 per cent and 1 per cent respectively. The state government will bear the loss of about ₹1,000 cr..” the chief minister's office (CMO) tweeted.With this, the price of petrol will come down by ₹70 paise and that of diesel by ₹1.36, a press note issued by public relations department stated.On November 3, the central government slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre, respectively. Following this, BJP-ruled states, Punjab and Odisha reduced VAT on fuel to further reduce the prices.On November 16, the Congress-ruled state of Rajasthan slashed VAT on fuels, making petrol cheaper by ₹4 per litre and diesel by ₹5 per litre. “In the cabinet meeting today, it was unanimously decided to reduce the rate of VAT on petrol/diesel. After this, the rates will be reduced by ₹4 per litre in petrol and ₹5 per litre in diesel from 12 o’clock tonight,” state chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-slashes-vat-on-diesel-petrol-check-details-101637576807306.html
22-11-2021||India||BJP focussing on youth and professionals: Rituraj Sinha||Rituraj Sinha’s elevation to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda’s core team is an indication of a generational shift in the BJP which began soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha election with the aim to infuse youth and professionals into the organisational set up, people aware of the development said.Son of veteran BJP leader RK Sinha, the founder of Security and Intelligence Services (SIS), Rituraj Sinha has been actively working since 2005 for the BJP’s growth in a state it has struggled to dominate. He was key to BJP’s war room management and the party’s campaign committee during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in Bihar. In 2019, he was roped in for the national campaign committee headed by Arun Jaitley. The latest recognition came on Sunday when he was appointed national secretary of the party.“It is an honour to be in the BJP president’s national team and I will discharge whatever responsibility is given to me. It is true that the BJP is looking for a generational shift with focus on youth and professionals from varied fields. From Bihar, I am only the second person to be included in the national team as secretary, while former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh is the vice president,” said Rituraj, who went to Doon School before getting an MBA degree from Leeds University and completing Public Leadership Credential programme from the Harvard University.Rituraj said he has seen the party evolve in the 15+ years of his association. “Even otherwise, one can witness the party’s shift towards professionals and youth, which was also evident in the Union cabinet shakeup. In Bihar too, I was the co-convenor of the team that gave shape to the party’s manifesto for the 2020 assembly election on the theme of ‘self-reliant’ Bihar. In fact, Bihar was the first state to align its manifesto with the national agenda of self-reliant India. I had the privilege of working closely with Bihar BJP incharge Bhupendra Yadav. I also worked at the mandal level in three districts of Barh, Nalanda and Nawada,” he added.Also Read: Bihar ministers involved in liquor trade, alleges Tejashwi YadavRituraj said the BJP aims to effectively communicate the good work done by the Central government to the masses. “A lot is happening and a lot more will happen as the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is breaking the stereotypes to develop a new India. It is in this backdrop that the party is focusing on youth and professionals at all levels, as they will lead the country in future,” he said.After the 2020 assembly elections, many fresh faces from the Bihar BJP were given responsibilities in chief minister Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state, underlining the party’s thinking. Rituraj’s elevation is also being seen as an extension of the party’s youth oriented approach to leadership development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-focussing-on-youth-and-professionals-ruturaj-sinha-101637577166738.html
22-11-2021||India||Took us a year to make some understand farm laws are harmful for us: Rakesh Tikait||Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said it took the farmers over a year to make a few people understand that the three agri-related laws were harmful for them.Addressing a massive gathering of a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow, Tikait said, "It took us over a year to make a few people realise that the new farm laws will harm farmers."Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the occasion of Gurpurab on Friday, announced the repeal of the farm laws and urged the protesters sitting along the borders of the national capital for a year to withdraw their stir.Tikait further said that besides the repealing of the three laws, there are many key issues of farmers that need to be resolved, one of which is a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).Also read | Will believe agri law rollback once gazette is issued, say farmers"The Prime Minister need not say sorry. Rather he must assure the policy of MSP. They claim they have formed a committee on MSP, but this is a lie. A report of a committee in 2011 recommended that the MSP must be guaranteed. We don't want another committee. We want you to implement the recommendation of the previous committee," Tikait said.He further said the government has lied about implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee. "The government is not giving employment. It is adamant to turn the country into a private mandi," he added.He said the farmers’ struggle will continue. "The government should either talk to us or our struggle will continue. If you won’t listen to us, the movement will continue against you," he added.He further said the arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni is one of the protesting farmers’ main demands. Teni’s son is in jail for his involvement in last month’s Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least four farmers were killed. “If Teni inaugurates a sugar mill, then the sugarcane of that mill will be sent to the DM's office.""If militants of Kashmir can come to Agra Jail, then the killer of farmers will also be sent to the same jail," he added.Tikait further said, "We don't want to make the Prime Minister of the country weak, but we want him to listen to us. If the PM does not listen to us, then the protest will continue against him.""The government must also withdraw cases against the protesting farmers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-us-a-year-to-make-some-understand-farm-laws-are-harmful-rakesh-tikait-101637576836997.html
22-11-2021||India||When Abhinandan Varthaman shot down Pakistan's F-16 fighter jet. How it happened||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday awarded the Vir Chakra to Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman who, in 2019, shot down a Pakistani F-16 fighter jet during a dogfight over the Line of Control (LOC) in the aftermath of the Balakot airstrike. Abhinandan received the third-highest wartime gallantry award at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi for showing “conspicuous courage” and demonstrating “gallantry in the face of the enemy while disregarding personal safety” with an “exceptional sense of duty”.What happened on February 27, 2019?A day before, India had conducted an airstrike on Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) camp in Pakistan’s Balakot after crossing the Line of Control (LoC) in a major “non-military pre-emptive action”. On February 27, a large force of Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft consisting of advanced fourth-generation F-16 and JF-17 was detected heading towards the LoC at around 9.55am. Within minutes, Abhinandan, then a Wing Commander, scrambled to intercept the jets and scanned the low altitude airspace with the airborne intercept (AI) radar of his MiG-21 Bison.“Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft," Abhinandan’s citation reads.Abhinandan Varthaman: Know the IAF officer, now a Vir Chakra awardeeHe alerted the other formation pilots about this surprise threat and gathered his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani jet which, according to the citation, had started dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. The “audacious and aggressive manoeuvre” by Wing Commander Abinandan “forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos”. The enemy aircraft, including the ones that were yet to launch their air to ground weapons, were forced to turn back.Abhinandan pursued the retreating F-16 fighter jet and shot it down with his onboard missile.“However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory,” the citation further states.He was captured by the enemy in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and was repatriated on March 1, 2019. Despite being captured by Pakistan, the citation says, Abhinandan continued to display exceptional resolve in dealing with the adversary in a stoic, brave and dignified manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-abhinandan-varthaman-shot-down-pakistan-s-f-16-fighter-jet-how-it-happened-101637573096733.html
22-11-2021||India||6 inmates escape Odisha juvenile home after attacking guard||Six juvenile inmates of an observation home at Berhampur city in Odisha’s Ganjam district escaped early Monday morning after attacking a guard on the premises, officials said.The inmates also removed a grilled window at the special home for boys, functioning under Berhampur Juvenile Justice Board, to facilitate their escape between 2 and 3 am, they added.Superintendent of the observation home, Rameswar Rout said a complaint has been lodged with Baidyanathpur police station, however, the escapees had not been located yet. The house had 116 minor inmates accused of various crimes and this was not the first such incident at the observation home. Earlier in May 2020, 27 minor boys had escaped from the facility after attacking the staff with knives and firewood.Observation homes are for temporary stay of juveniles in conflict with the law during the pendency of any inquiry against him or her. Children in conflict with law brought under the purview of the Indian Penal Code and other legislations are produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, constituted as per Section 4 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and Amendment Act 2006. The apprehended children are normally detained under probation up to 4 months in these facilities.Also Read: Odisha court seeks call details of law minister’s aides in double murder caseIn Odisha, 16 observation homes including the one in Berhampur are functioning. However, a study by the Centre for Child Rights of National Law School of India, Cuttack in 2015 found several problems with the observation homes in the state. For instance, the dormitories in the Berhampur home housed 58 children in the age group of 10-18 against the maximum capacity of 40. The survey also found that the homes did not maintain mandatory protocols like installation of children suggestion box, display of child protection protocol, weekly food menu chart, formation of children committee, risk management plan etc.Not just that, it was found that there was no provision for professional counselling and guidance for social mainstreaming of children and no attention was given to individual care plan to address their developmental needs. The report also said that more guards were required to ensure safety and security of children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-inmates-escape-odisha-juvenile-home-after-attacking-guard-101637573565800.html
22-11-2021||India||Modi likely to attend all-party meet ahead of Parliament's Winter Session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend an all-party meeting to be convened on Sunday, news agency ANI tweeted on Monday.The Winter Session of Parliament will commence on November 29 and is expected to continue till December 23.An official communique from the Lok Sabha secretariat read, “The Seventh Session of Seventeenth Lok Sabha will commence on Monday, the 29th November, 2021. Subject to exigencies of Government Business, the Session is likely to conclude on Thursday, December 23, 2021."The Winter Session of Parliament assumes significance in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the government's decision to repeal the three controversial farm laws last week.The previous seating of the House — the Monsoon Session — was a washout amid disruptions by the opposition parties over several issues, including the contentious farm laws.ALSO READ | Mamata plans 3-day Delhi visit ahead of Parliament's Winter SessionLast week, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla raked up the issue of frequent disruptions in the House and called for a holistic discussion with political parties to inculcate self-discipline among legislators.Birla, however, said that he expects the Winter Session to function smoothly.The Winter Session is significant as it is being held months before the legislative assembly elections in five states, including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh. The issues related to inflation, rise in fuel prices, growing cost of edible oil and recent attacks on civilians in Jammu & Kashmir are likely to be raised by the Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-likely-to-attend-all-party-meet-ahead-of-parliament-s-winter-session-101637571668922.html
22-11-2021||India||Domestic workers survey flagged off, instruction manual unveiled||Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday flagged off the fieldwork of All India Survey on Domestic Workers and unveiled its instruction manual.It will cover 742 districts of 37 states in the country."This survey will cover a database of five and a half lakh households across the country and cover all types of domestic services like cook, driver, housekeeping, tutors (for children), watchman etc. This evidence-based study will help the government in policy-making for this segment of workers," Yadav said, addressing at the launch of fieldwork of the survey.Rapid urbanisation due to expansion would lead to migration of workers and a rise in the number of domestic workers, he added.Yadav released an instruction manual with a questionnaire for the All India Survey on Domestic Workers being conducted by Labour Bureau, Chandigarh.According to the latest data on the e-Shram portal, around 8.8 per cent of the registered 8.56 crore informal sector workers fall in the category of domestic workers.Labour Secretary Sunil Barthwal said that if we take into account that we would cover 38 crore informal sector workers on the e-Shram portal then there are three to three-and-half crore domestic workers in the country.He also said that domestic workers are the third-largest category of workers after agriculture and construction.Domestic workers (DWs) constitute a significant portion of total employment in the informal sector. However, there is a dearth of data on the magnitude and prevailing employment conditions of DW, a labour ministry statement said.Hence with the view to have time-series data on domestic workers, the central government has entrusted Labour Bureau to conduct an all- India survey on DWs. It will help the government understand the significant issues on the certain special and vulnerable segments of labour and will guide effective policymaking, it added.All India Survey on Domestic Workers is aimed to estimate the number and proportion of domestic workers at the national and state level, percentage distribution of domestic workers for live-in/live-out, formal/ informal employment, migrant/non-migrant, their wages and other socio-economic characteristics.The survey will also provide the household estimates of live-in/live-out domestic workers and an average number of domestic workers engaged by different types of households.The main objectives of the survey are to estimate the number/proportion of DWs at the national and state level; household estimates of live-in/ live-out DWs and to find out the average number of DWs engaged by different types of households.Under this survey, all 37 states and all 742 districts will be covered. At the All-India level, a total number of 12,766 first stage units (FSUs) i.e. 6,190 villages and 6,576 UFS blocks will be covered.The Domestic Worker Survey collects information on the following broad parameters, including household (HH) characteristics such as HH size, religion, social group, usual monthly consumption expenditure, nature of dwelling unit.Demographic characteristics, such as name, age, relation to head, marital status, general education level, usual principal activity status, subsidiary activity status and status of DWs.In addition to this, it will also collect information on DWs such as their age of entry, social group, migrant status, vocational training/education, number of HHs served by DW, activities performed by them, the number of days worked, duration of work, type of remuneration and its frequency, type of contract, among others.Information on Employer HHs is also collected such as their preferences of DW regarding gender and marital status, mode of payment of wages, the number of days worked, mode of engagement, whether DW services were availed during the COVID-19 pandemic, and medical support given to DWs.The result of the All-India Survey on Domestic Workers is expected within a time span of one year.The result of this survey will help the government understand the significant issues about certain special and vulnerable segments of labour and will guide effective policymaking in respect of domestic workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-workers-survey-flagged-off-instruction-manual-unveiled-101637571265744.html
22-11-2021||India||Hidden agenda is coming out: MP minister on recent demands to repeal CAA||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday a hidden agenda is now coming out in the open, adding, supporters of the ‘Tukde Tukde gang’ are raising the demand to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Speaking at a press conference, Mishra said, “A hidden agenda is now coming out in the open. Only those people who are supporting the Tukde-Tukde gang for their political gains are now talking about taking back the CAA. The Modi government has done what it had to do.”Also Read| Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind demands repeal of CAAMishra’s comments came days after the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi said the citizenship law must be repealed by the Narendra Modi government."We think that (CAA-NRC) is concerned with nationality and Muslims will have to bear its brunt. Power of public strongest. So this (CAA) should also be repealed," Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind national president Maulana Arshad Madani told news agency ANI last Saturday, a day after Modi announced the scrapping of the Centre's three new farm laws.टुकड़े‌-टुकड़े गैंग का समर्थन कर अपने राजनीतिक एजेंडे को साधने वाले लोग ही अब #CAA को वापस लेने की बात कर रहे हैं। pic.twitter.com/IGpFUCjtadOwaisi said the CAA is against the spirit of the Constitution and it was formulated by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to target the Muslim community. Owaisi, who also heads the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM),further warned that if the legislation is not repealed, then protestors will "take to streets in Uttar Pradesh and make another Shaheen Bagh".The CAA permits minorities who belong to Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi, and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan to avail of Indian citizenship.Also Read| AIMIM chief Owaisi demands repeal of CAAThe provisions of the Act state that people from the above communities who arrived in India till December 31, 2014, because of religious persecution in these three countries will be provided with Indian citizenship.Such people are not required to present a birth proof of parents and can apply for citizenship after six years of residence in India.Opposition parties in India and a section of the civil society have pointed out that CAA along with the National Register of Citizens (NRC) is calculated to target minorities in the country. Since late 2019, widespread protests had happened across India against the implementation of the CAA.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hidden-agenda-is-coming-out-mp-minister-on-recent-demands-to-repeal-caa-101637566829728.html
22-11-2021||India||From November 30, Canada to allow entry to people vaccinated with Covaxin||After the United States, its northern neighbour, Canada, too, has announced that it will allow entry to those jabbed with Covaxin, the made in India vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Travellers who have taken the jab, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, will be considered ‘fully vaccinated’ from November 30 for entry into Canada, the country’s Public Health Agency (PHAC) has announced. The Government of Canada will adjust some of Canada’s border measures beginning on Nov. 30 to include additional #COVID19 vaccines accepted for entry to Canada and changes to certain exemptions, testing and #ArriveCAN requirements. For more information: https://t.co/RdflwyZ6vm pic.twitter.com/XRvxE50wLT“Effective November 30, 2021, fully vaccinated individuals with right of entry to Canada who depart and re-enter the country within 72 hours of leaving Canada will not have to present a pre-entry molecular test. This exemption is only for trips originating in Canada taken by fully vaccinated Canadian citizens, permanent residents or individuals registered under the Indian Act,” the health body said in a statement.“Also effective from November 30, 2021, Canada will expand the list of Covid-19 vaccines that travellers can receive to be considered fully vaccinated for the purpose of travel to Canada,” it further said.Besides Covaxin, two other vaccines, both Chinese-made--Sinopharm and Sinovac--will become recognised from the said date, the agency said. The recognition is in accordance with the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for each of the three jabs; Covaxin received EUL from the global health body on November 3.Also Read | WHO gives Covaxin its stamp of approvalCanada currently recognises Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines.Reacting to the announcement, Ajay Bisaria, India’s High Commissioner to the North American nation, tweeted, “Great news for India’s #Covaxin: effective Nov 30, covid vaccines to be considered fully vaxed for travel to Canada will include Covaxin, matching the @WHO Emergency Use Listing.” Great news for India’s #Covaxin: effective Nov 30, covid vaccines to be considered fully vaxed for travel to Canada will include COVAXIN, matching the @WHO Emergency Use Listing. @BharatBiotech @MEAIndia @HCI_Ottawa https://t.co/ENg0y0y4yaCovaxin is India’s first indigenous jab against Covid-19. It has an efficacy of 77.8 per cent against this viral illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-november-30-canada-to-allow-entry-to-people-vaccinated-with-covaxin-101637570251472.html
22-11-2021||India||80 students test positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram in last 24 hours||Mizoram's COVID-19 tally surged to 1,31,897 as 212 people including 80 students of three private schools in Aizawl tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours, an official statement said on Monday.The statement issued by the state Information and Public Relations department said that two more persons from Aizawl district succumbed to the infection on Sunday night, taking the COVID-19 death toll to 479.Of the 212 new cases, Aizawl district reported 149 cases, Champhai (24), Khawzawl (14), Lunglei (10), Mamit (6), Serchhip (4), Kolasib (3) and Lawngtlai (2), it said.The single-day positivity rate increased to 19.31 per cent as the fresh cases were detected from 1,098 sample tests, it said.A total of 509 people recovered from COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,26,672, the statement said.Mizoram currently has 4,746 active COVID-19 cases, it said.According to the state Health department, a total of 13.99 lakh samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far.Over 7.10 lakh people have been inoculated with COVID-19 vaccine till Saturday, of which more than 5.46 lakh people have been fully vaccinated, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mizoram-in-last-24-hours-101637569825229.html
22-11-2021||India||Australia welcomes vaccinated students, workers from Dec 1, Indians to benefit||Australia said on Monday it will allow fully vaccinated skilled migrants and international students holding valid visas to enter the country from December 1 without having to apply for a travel exemption, a move expected to benefit tens of thousands of Indians. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the move was in line with a national plan to safely reopen Australia, while “reuniting families and securing our economic recovery by opening our border to skilled and student visa holders”. The Indian side has been pressing Australia to open up travel for Indian nationals, especially students wishing to join courses at universities and educational institutions. India is the second largest source of foreign students in Australia, behind China. During 2019-20, Indian students contributed $6.6 billion to the Australian economy. “From 1 December 2021, fully vaccinated eligible visa holders can come to Australia without needing to apply for a travel exemption. Eligible visa holders include skilled and student cohorts, as well as humanitarian, working holiday maker and provisional family visa holders,” Morrison said in a statement. “The return of skilled workers and international students to Australia will further cement our economic recovery, providing the valuable workers our economy needs and supporting our important education sector,” he added. Under these arrangements, travellers must be fully vaccinated with a vaccine approved by Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). Both Covishield and Covaxin, the two main vaccines used in India’s immunisation programme, are recognised by TGA. Also Read: Singapore, India to resume flights under Vaccinated Travel Lane from Nov 29Travellers must also have a valid visa for one of the five eligible sub-classes, provide proof of their vaccination status, and present a negative Covid-19 PCR test taken within three days of departure. Australia is among the 99 countries with which the Indian government has an agreement for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates for nationally or World Health Organization (WHO)-recognised vaccines. Foreign nationals travelling to Australia must comply with quarantine requirements in Australian states or territories they are travelling to. Morrison also announced that from December 1, citizens of Japan and South Korea who hold a valid visa will be able to travel to Australia without needing to quarantine on arrival. Australian officials had earlier said foreign students, including Indians, would be able to start returning towards the end of this year and the beginning of 2022, ahead of the start of the first semester in February-March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-welcomes-vaccinated-students-workers-from-dec-1-thousands-of-indians-to-benefit-101637569606648.html
22-11-2021||India||Will believe agri law rollback once gazette is issued, say farmers at Mahapanchayat||Farm leaders said on Monday they will only believe that the three central farm laws, against which they have been protesting for almost a year, have been withdrawn once the government issued a gazette saying as much. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation on Gurpurab, announced the repeal of the agri laws and urged the farmers to withdraw their protests.At a kisan mahapanchayat convened by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, the farmers also demanded the immediate resignation of Union home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which at least four ryots were killed last month."We don't trust the announcement made by the Prime Minister. We will believe that the farm laws are taken back only after we see a government gazette regarding it," said farm leader Joginder Singh Ugaraha."Ajay Mishra's family is the main accused of the Lakhimpur incident. His son is in jail but the Modi government has not asked him to resign yet," said Singh.Over a thousand farmers from several districts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab have turned up at the kisan mahapanchayat being held at Eco Garden in Lucknow.Senior Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leaders, including Rakesh Tikait and Balbir Singh Rajewala are addressing the gathering. Activist Yogendra Yadav is also attending the event.Tikait said the ongoing agitation along the borders of the national capital would continue until all farmers’ demands are met. “The government should bring a law to guarantee MSP (minimum support price) and announce 700 farmers who lost their lives during the struggle as martyrs," he said.Yadav said the Prime Minister is suffering from a disease of arrogance. "The people of Bengal gave him a small injection for this that proved effective slightly but he needs a bigger dose and that is the election of Uttar Pradesh," he said."I want to make this clear that the farmers' protest will continue till a law is formulated to guarantee MSP. The form of the protest will be decided by morcha," Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-believe-agri-law-rollback-once-gazette-is-issued-say-farmers-101637568892979.html
22-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh government to withdraw laws to create three capital cities||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced it is withdrawing the legislation for creating three capitals for the state in place of the existing Amaravati after a decision in this regard was taken at an emergency meeting chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy chaired of the state Cabinet.The Cabinet decided to repeal the two laws passed in June 2020. The Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development (Repeal) Act was passed to abolish the authority the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government passed in 2015 to develop Amaravati as the state capital. AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act was passed for establishing the executive, judicial and legislative capitals at Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, and Amaravati.Also Read: ‘Everyone knows Chandrababu is in frustration’: Jagan on Naidu’s breakdownState minister Kodali Nani told reporters Reddy would make a detailed statement on the move in the assembly later on Monday.State advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram informed the high court about the Cabinet’s decision.A division bench of the court has been hearing a batch of petitions against the decision to form three capitals since November 15. Farmers, who gave up over 34,000 acres of their fertile lands for setting up the capital in Amaravati, challenged the two laws in the court. Over 100 petitions were filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-government-to-withdraw-laws-to-create-three-capital-cities-101637567325664.html
22-11-2021||India||TMC MPs sit on dharna outside MHA in Delhi over alleged police brutality in Tripura||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs on Monday staged a sit-in protest outside the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) in Delhi, over the alleged police brutality in Tripura, visuals tweeted by news agency ANI showed. The protesting MPs are seeking an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah against the arrest of the Trinamool Youth Congress president Sayonni Ghosh, and over the attacks on party leaders in Tripura.A total of 16 MPs, including Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Santanu Sen and Mala Roy, arrived in the national capital earlier in the day.Sayonni Ghosh was arrested on Sunday by Tripura Police for allegedly causing a ruckus during a public meeting where Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb was present.Also read | Civic polls: Tripura Police deny permission for BJP, TMC rallies in Agartala todayDelhi: TMC MPs stage a sit-in protest outside the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA. They are seeking an appointment from Union Home Minister Amit Shah over alleged police brutality in Tripura. pic.twitter.com/rsesSWz8VPSoon after her arrest, some TMC activists said they were attacked by BJP workers at East Agartala Women Police Station on Sunday, where Ghosh was being interrogated.The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations and accused the TMC for trying to “disturb peace” in Tripura.Tensions in Tripura flared up after violent incidents in the run-up to the elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 12 other municipal bodies slated to be held on November 25.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has agreed to hear a contempt plea of the TMC, which claimed that the law and order situation in Tripura is "worsening" by the day, ahead of the upcoming civic body elections in the state. The court will hear the matter on Tuesday.The court earlier asked Tripura Police authorities to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mps-sit-on-dharna-outside-mha-in-delhi-over-alleged-police-brutality-in-tripura-101637566388788.html
22-11-2021||India||MPs file dissent notes citing ‘reservations’ over Data Protection Bill report||Two Opposition Congress members of a parliamentary committee reviewing the Data Protection Bill have filed dissent notes citing a lack of oversight, failure to quantify penalties, absence of state-level data protection authorities (DPAs), and “unbridled” exemptions for the government as “reservations” to the panel’s final report. Jairam Ramesh and Gaurav Gogoi sent the dissent notes to the committee chairperson, PP Chaudhary, on Monday as the 30-member panel was due to adopt the final version of the report ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session beginning next week, people aware of the matter said.The people added Manish Tewari of the Congress, the Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien and the Biju Janata Dal’s Amar Patnaik were likely to follow suit as the report is slated to be tabled during the session.“Today (Monday), the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 will adopt its report. I’m compelled to submit a detailed dissent note. But that should not detract from the democratic manner in which the Committee has functioned. Now, for the debate in Parliament,” Ramesh tweeted hours before the panel’s meeting was set to begin.Also Read: ‘Expect Winter Session to function smoothly’: Lok Sabha speaker Om BirlaRamesh filed his note contesting the exemptions to the government under Section 35 of the bill. He has argued the section provides unbridled power to exempt any of the government agencies from the proposed law. Ramesh added that Section 12, which covers non-consensual processing of data by the government, should have been made “less sweeping”.Gogoi cited a “lack of attention” paid to “harms arising from surveillance” and said a “modern surveillance framework” may be created. He also flagged concerns against Sections 35 and 12, along with a lack of “parliamentary oversight and engagement”. HT has seen a copy of Gogoi’s note. Gogoi noted the report has failed to “quantify penalties under the framework”.The people said Patnaik is likely to object to a lack of inclusion of state-level DAPs in the bill. The governments of Karnataka and Maharashtra sought this during the meetings of their representatives with the committee. In an interview with HT in September, Patnaik argued that the lack of state DPAs would raise issues of federal override.The panel has been looking into the draft law since 2019. It has been given several deadline extensions. The latest was due to changes in the panel after several of its members, including chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, were inducted into the Union council of ministers in July.As per its summary, the report has proposed to treat social media platforms as publishers, which will make them liable for content posted by users. It has recommended adding back the condition of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” to Section 35, which deals with exemptions the government can claim in accessing personal data, one of the persons cited above said. This was of particular concern for the dissenters because the bill cleared by the government allowed it to claim an exemption as long as it felt it was “necessary or expedient” to do so in a particular set of circumstances such as those relating to national security. The “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” portion was part of the first version of the bill, which was presented as per the recommendations of the Srikrishna Committee set up to recommend a legislative framework for data privacy in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-file-dissent-notes-over-glaring-lacunae-in-report-on-data-protection-bill-101637566365637.html
22-11-2021||India||Shaurya Chakra awarded to Major Dhoundiyal, Major Bhure and Naib Subedar Sombir||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday awarded the Shaurya Chakra to Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal and Naib Subedar Sombir (both posthumously), and Major Maheshkumar Bhure. The awards were given at an investiture ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Major Dhoundiyal was killed in the 2019 Pulwama terrorist attack. His wife, Lieutenant Nitika Kaul, and mother Saroj Dhoundiyal received the award at the ceremony.Watch the video below:#WATCH | Delhi: Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal’s wife Lieutenant Nitika Kaul and mother Saroj Dhoundiyal receive his Shaurya Chakra (Posthumous) for an operation in Jammu and Kashmir in which five terrorists were killed and 200 kg explosives were recovered. pic.twitter.com/0TmNwgBQ3bMajor Dhoundiyal has been accorded the Shaurya Chakra for his role in an operation where five terrorists were eliminated and 200 kg explosive material was recovered.He lost his life in the February 2019 encounter with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir.Major Maheshkumar Bhure was given the award for displaying "exemplary leadership and unparalleled courage" during an operation in which six top terrorist commanders were killed in Jammu and Kashmir on November 25, 2018. “Captain Maheshkumar Bhure cordoned the target house and achieved complete surprise, thereby trapping the terrorists. The terrorists attempted to break the cordon in darkness by lobbing grenades and firing indiscriminately. As they ran towards his position, the officer retaliated with deadly accurate fire at close range, thereby killing a terrorist and forcing the other terrorists to retreat back,” his citation read.Seeing his buddy wounded in this fire fight, he put himself at great risk and personally evacuated him under very heavy fire. He then readjusted the cordon to prevent any escape and was able to pin down the terrorists, the citation further said. Major Bhure (30) hails from Osmanabad district in Maharashtra. He graduated in electrical engineering from Pune university.Naib Subedar Sombir was among the armymen who died while fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir in February 2019. During the encounter, three hardcore terrorists were killed. One of them was a foreigner and an 'A++' category terrorist, and he was shot down by Sombir in a close quarter battle.Shaurya Chakra is awarded to the personnel of the armed forces for instances of extraordinary gallantry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaurya-chakra-awarded-to-major-dhoundiyal-major-bhure-and-naib-subedar-sombir-101637564601328.html
22-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: NCB mulls moving SC against bail to Aryan Khan, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is reportedly deliberating if it wants to file an appeal before the Supreme Court against the bail of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case. Read moreFormer India opener Aakash Chopra, following the culmination of the India-New Zealand T20I series, has come out in criticism of wicketkeeper-batter Rishabh Pant, saying that the talented player hasn't batted to his full potential. Read moreActor-comedian Vir Das received backlash for his international show, Two Indias. On Monday, Vir, who is nominated for the International Emmys Awards 2021 for his Netflix comedy special, Vir Das: For India, spoke about the controversy and said that his monologue was just a satire and as a comedian, he will continue doing his job. Read moreSkoda Slavia is the next big ticket-launch from the Czechs in the Indian car market. With bookings for the Slavia being opened earlier this month, the premium mid-size sedan promises to be a breath of fresh air in a world filled with SUVs of all shapes and sizes. Read moreBe it as a regular meal or to satisfy untimely hunger pangs, there are many for whom their go to food in these situations is Maggi. Some also like adding twists to its classic taste to prepare a new fusion dish. Read moreKarishma Tanna loves monochrome. The actor's Instagram profile is replete with pictures of herself donning the colours black and white with lots of fervour and grace. Karishma can make monochrome colours look better and we have proof of the same as well. Read moreA grenade blast occurred outside a gate of the Army cantonment in Punjab's Pathankot. Police said that the incident has prompted authorities to sound an alert. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ncb-mulls-moving-sc-against-bail-to-aryan-khan-and-all-the-latest-news-101637564501101.html
22-11-2021||India||Army Major's wife, now an officer herself, receives husband's posthumous Shaurya Chakra||Lieutenant Nitika Kaul, whose husband, Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal was martyred during an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir in February 2019, on Monday received the Shaurya Chakra (posthumous) accorded to him, at an investiture ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.In a video shared by news agency ANI, Lieutenant Kaul, dressed in her Army uniform, and accompanied by her mother-in-law, is seen marching towards President Ram Nath Kovind to accept the bravery award accorded to Major Dhoundiyal. A voice in the background narrates the operation which led to the officer’s martyrdom. #WATCH | Delhi: Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal’s wife Lieutenant Nitika Kaul and mother Saroj Dhoundiyal receive his Shaurya Chakra (Posthumous) for an operation in Jammu and Kashmir in which five terrorists were killed and 200 kg explosives were recovered. pic.twitter.com/0TmNwgBQ3bIn February 2020, almost a year after the demise of Major Dhoundiyal, Nitika Kaul left her day job to join the Chennai-based Officers Training Academy (OTA), after clearing the written exam and interview for the Indian Army’s Short Service Commission (SSC), the training for which is given at the academy.Also Read | Army officer died fighting terrorists last year. Now, 28-yr-old wife signs upIn May 2021, she passed out from the OTA as Lieutenant Nitika Kaul, with Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who heads the force’s Northern Command, pipping stars to her shoulders. A native of J&K, she married Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal in April 2018. Also Read | 2 years after he died fighting terrorists in Pulwama, Major VS Dhoundiyal's wife Nitika Kaul joins armyVS Dhoundiyal was martyred during an operation on February 18, 2019, four days after a suicide attack on a convoy of the Central Reserve Police Officer (CRPF) in J&K’s Pulwama. A member of the 55 Rashtriya Rifles (RR), he was seriously injured during an exchange of fire with terrorists, and eventually succumbed to his injuries, but not before neutralising a foreign terrorist. Total five terrorists were killed in the operation and 200 kg explosives recovered.A video of Kaul saluting her husband during his last rites went viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-major-s-wife-now-an-officer-herself-receives-husband-s-posthumous-shaurya-chakra-101637562905545.html
22-11-2021||India||Assam: Complaint against alleged attempt to convert Hindus to Christianity||Two Christian women were detained and later released in Assam’s Silchar on Sunday after a Hindu group lodged a complaint against them for allegedly attempting to convert Hindus to Christianity.Ananda Medhi, in charge of the Tarapur police station in Silchar, said local residents Nitu Goala and Shirsha Bagdi were “temporarily detained” and later allowed to go home. Police said the investigation in the matter will continue as per the complaint of Hindu Rakkhi Bahini.The two were detained when a mob surrounded them for playing messages of the Bible on an amplifier and distributing leaflets with Biblical content allegedly urging people to follow Christianity.Hindu Rakkha Bahini member Bijoy Nath said Goala and Bagdi were Hindus but later converted to Christianity. “Now they are trying to convert more Hindus to Christians. They were saying that Hindus do not have to perform puja; their God and faith are superior. This has hurt Hindu sentiments and it cannot be tolerated in a Hindu area.”Also Read | Uniform civil code is a necessity, mandatorily required today: HCAnother Hindu Rakkhi Bahini member alleged the two were offering cash to convert poor Hindus. “They were offering money to some Hindus and asking them to follow Christianity because their faith is superior. The leaflets they were distributing also say that people can get mental peace if they converted to Christianity to attain God,” he said, requesting anonymity.Police superintendent Ramandip Kaur claimed the two were not detained. “There was a chaotic situation...and a complaint was lodged against (the) two... Our officials went there and took them to the police station. They were neither detained nor rescued. We are investigating the matter and the situation is under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-complaint-against-alleged-attempt-to-convert-hindus-to-christianity-101637563485088.html
22-11-2021||India||President awards Vir Chakra to Abhinandan Varthaman, who downed Pak F-16||Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman, who shot down a Pakistani F-16 jet during a dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019, was on Monday awarded Vir Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind at an investiture ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi.Vir Chakra is India’s third highest wartime gallantry award after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra.The dogfight in which Abhinandan was involved took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) men were killed on February 14, 2019.Abhinandan’s citation for the honour said he courageously engaged the Pakistani aircraft package despite its “immense numerical and technological superiority”, and his aggressive manoeuvres “forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos”.“All the enemy aircraft thereafter turned back including the rear echelon aircraft which were yet to launch their air-to-ground weapons. Wing Commander Varthaman Abhinandan then pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft, and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16 aircraft with his onboard missile,” the citation read.Abhinandan’s is the IAF’s first Vir Chakra after the 1999 Kargil war when Squadron Leader Ajay Ahuja and Wing Commander AK Sinha were awarded the wartime gallantry medal. Ahuja was given the honour posthumously.Also Read: Army Major’s wife, now an officer herself, accepts late husband’s Shaurya ChakraBefore the fighter pilot received his Vir Chakra on Monday, an Indian president last awarded the wartime medal at the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s Durbar Hall in November 2002 to Major Manoj Deshpande, Major Amitabh Roy and Havildar Chuni Lal for special missions on the LoC with Pakistan, officials said.The awards given by Kovind on Monday included two Kirti Chakras and 10 Shaurya Chakras. Sapper Prakash Jadhav was posthumously awarded a Kirti Chakra for his heroics in a counter-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir three years ago. Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal and Naib Subedar Sombir were posthumously awarded Shaurya Chakra for operations in Jammu and Kashmir. Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra are the country’s second and third highest peacetime gallantry awards after Ashok Chakra.The president awarded Kirti Chakra to CRPF deputy commandant Harshpal Singh. The Shaurya Chakra awardees are Colonel Ajay Singh Kushwah, Lieutenant Colonel Jyoti Lama, Major Konjengbam Bijendra Singh, Major Maheshkumar Bhure, Naib Subedar Narender Singh, Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey, Naik Naresh Kumar and the Indian Navy’s Amit Singh Rana.Abhinandan’s citation read, “Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft… Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat.”He was then a wing commander and promoted to the rank of group captain earlier this month. An IAF group captain is equivalent to an army colonel.Abhinandan, then 35, scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. Experts had hailed it as the first ever kill of an F-16 by a MiG-21 Bison, fighter jets of two different generations. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft, but Pakistan returned him to India on March 1, 2019, after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.His Vir Chakra was announced on Independence Day 2019. The citation said, “Despite being captured by the enemy, he continued to display exceptional resolve in dealing with the adversary in a stoic, brave and dignified manner till he was repatriated on March 1, 2019.”In February 2019, Abhinandan was posted with a MiG-21 Bison squadron and was on “operational readiness platform” duty at air force station Srinagar when a large Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft package was detected heading towards LoC. The hostile jets were armed with advanced beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missiles and modern air-to-ground standoff weapons.Abhinandan was scrambled to intercept this package five minutes after it was detected.“He then consolidated the riposte, by gathering his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani aircraft now dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. This audacious and aggressive manoeuvre forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos,” it further said.The citation said the wing commander then pursued a retreating enemy fighter aircraft and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory.”On February 26, the IAF’s Mirages hit three targets in Balakot with five Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrator warheads that allowed them to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-awards-vir-chakra-to-abhinandan-varthaman-who-downed-pak-f16-101637563245211.html
22-11-2021||India||Abhinandan Varthaman: Know the IAF officer, now a Vir Chakra awardee||Abhinandan Varthaman was awarded the Vir Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. With this, he has joined the long legacy of brave soldiers who were awarded for their bravery. The award was given at an investiture ceremony held in Rashtrapati Bhavan.Varthaman, now a group captain, had shot down a Pakistani F-16 during an aerial dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019.Varthaman's citation read, “Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft... Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat.”Vir Chakra is India's third highest wartime gallantry award after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra.Varthaman picked up the rank of group captain earlier this month. A group captain in the Indian Air Force (IAF) is equivalent to a colonel in the army.Varthaman is an alumnus of the Khadakwasla-based National Defence Academy. He was an accomplished Sukhoi-30 fighter pilot before being assigned to the MiG-21 Bison squadron.He was captured by Pakistani forces after his MiG-21 aircraft was shot down during the dogfight in 2019. It took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot. Varthaman's release was announced by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, as “a peace gesture”.The 38-year-old, who is married and has two children, hails from Tamil Nadu's Tiruvannamalai district but completed his education in Delhi because his father - a decorated and senior officer of the IAF - was posted in the capital.His father, Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman, played a significant role during the 1999 Kargil conflict. His mother, Shobha, is a doctor.Abhinandan Varthaman is also an alumnus of Sainik School Amaravathinagar in Tamil Nadu. He stayed at Tambaram in Chennai while pursuing the flying instructor's course there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhinandan-varthaman-know-the-iaf-officer-now-a-vir-chakra-awardee-101637562703258.html
22-11-2021||India||BJP accuses TMC, CPM and Congress of ‘shadow alliance’ in Tripura||Tripura’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP) has accused the Trinamool Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress of forming a “shadow alliance” in the state to malign Tripura in an attempt to show the BJP in a poor light nationally and internationally.The political charge comes after actor-turned Trinamool Congress leader Sayoni Ghosh was arrested on Sunday for allegedly disrupting chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s civic poll rally in Agartala on Saturday night by shouting ‘Khela Hobe’ (Game On), a poll slogan used successfully by the party in West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year to thwart the BJP’s challenge.Ghosh was arrested and booked for attempt to Murder among other charges such as criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion; she will be produced before a court on Monday.Following her arrest, some TMC activists said they were attacked by ruling party workers at East Agartala Women Police Station on Sunday, where Ghosh was being interrogated. However, the BJP rejected the allegations and blamed the TMC for attempts to “disturb peace” in Tripura.“ Hooligans and criminals are being brought from Bengal to disturb peace in Tripura. Now, a delegation of TMC is visiting Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday just to hide their own shortcomings. These are pre-planned conspiracies and we will tackle them in a disciplined and cool head way, “ Law minister Ratan Lal Nathtold reporters in Agartala in a late night press conference.Also Read: SC to hear TMC’s contempt plea on ‘worsening’ law and order in TripuraThe political tension in Tripura increased after violent incidents in the run-up to the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 12 other municipal body elections, slated for November 25. Ghosh’s arrest and the alleged attack on TMC workers happened barely 24 hours before the Mamata Banerjee-led party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to reach Agartala.“ We believe that the TMC, CPM and Congress are in a shadow alliance and were involved in the incident [of violence]. We are also ascertaining if any of our activists were involved in it,” said Nath.The CPM ,in a press statement, condemned Ghosh’s arrest and the attack on the TMC activists and said that opposition leaders and candidates have been attacked several times in the state but the police have not taken any action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-tmc-cpm-and-congress-of-shadow-alliance-in-tripura-101637562284986.html
22-11-2021||India||Drones figure in DGPs conference for manning troubled borders||Even as unarmed and armed drones figured in a big way in the DGPs conference in Lucknow for manning international borders this weekend, the Indian military is in the process of getting upgraded surveillance drones and examining the options of procuring armed drones from Israel.While the Indian Navy, the designated service for armed drones, is soon approaching the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) for acquiring 30 MQ-9B Predator drones from US, it is also examining the armed Heron TP drone from Israel for additional purchases.According to officials in knowledge of developments, a separate session on drone technology was held during the DGPs conference, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi part of the discussions. It was emphasised that India should be using drone technology for surveillance and response on the borders till such time the border infrastructure is upgraded to meet the future challenges posed by neighbours.Already, India is getting its surveillance Herons upgraded from Israel with advanced communication and data links, it is also examining the Heron TP, which virtually carries the same weapon payload as the Predator albeit has a larger radar cross-sector as compared to the US craft. The earlier plan of acquiring Heron TP on lease from Israel has apparently been shelved and there is a strong possibility of the craft being acquired from Israel on government-to-government basis.While indigenous design and development of surveillance and armed drones is work in progress, the regional security environment has changed with China stationing Wing Loong II armed drone at Ngari Gar Gunsa air base across the Demchok LAC in Ladakh. To complicate matter, China is also supplying the same drones to Pakistan with the possibility of technology transfer or joint development.If the issue with China is surveillance of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the issue gets escalated on the western borders with Pakistan using drones for supplying weapons to terrorists with the aim of fomenting trouble in the Indian hinterland. Since 2019, the Pakistani deep state has chosen the low-cost option of not only supplying assault rifles and grenades to the terrorists in Kashmir and Punjab, they have also gone to the extent of targeting Jammu airbase with explosives this June. That the threat on western border is real becomes evident as the grenade used in the attack on Indian army establishment in Pathankot was part of the Pakistani drone consignment.At the DGPs conference, there were discussions and presentations on threat posed by radicalization and terrorism as well as the military challenge from China. The prognosis was that as India should use technologies like drones to manage the LAC as it cannot match border infrastructure put up by the Chinese PLA overnight with each military post connected by road and optical fiber for better response and decision making on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-figure-in-dgp-conference-for-manning-troubled-borders-101637560316006.html
22-11-2021||India||On meeting with 3 states and Puducherry, health minister says will review progress of Covid-19 vaccination||Ahead of his meeting with officials from three states—Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland—and the Union territory of Puducherry over low coverage of first dose of Covid-19 vaccines, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday that discussions will centre around the progress of vaccination in the said regions.Also Read | Covid-19: Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to hold review meeting with 3 states with low first dose coverage“Will chair a review meeting today with the States of Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and UT of Puducherry. Our discussion will centre around the progress of #COVID19 vaccinations in these regions and the roadmap to further scale up our fight against the pandemic,” Mandaviya said in a tweet. Will chair a review meeting today with the States of Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and UT of Puducherry.Our discussion will centre around the progress of #COVID19 vaccination in these regions and the roadmap to further scale up our fight against the pandemic.The first dose vaccination coverage in the three states and Puducherry is at less than 70 per cent, news agency PTI reported citing government data. The related figures for the four regions are as follows: Puducherry (65.7 per cent), Meghalaya (56.7 per cent), Manipur (54.2 per cent) and Nagaland (49 per cent).Overall, since the nationwide vaccination drive commenced on January 16 this year, nearly 1.17 billion doses have been administered, of which 3,299,337 were given the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). Of these, 765,872,227 beneficiaries have received their first doses, while 402,856,158 have received both doses, or, in other words, are fully vaccinated.At present, only adults (aged 18 and above) are eligible for inoculation. The Centre aims to fully inoculate all 940 million adults by December. The figures, therefore, mean that around 81.5 per cent of the adult population has been jabbed with the first dose, while nearly 43 per cent are fully vaccinated.On October 21, India crossed the landmark of administering more than 1 billion vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-meeting-with-3-states-and-puducherry-health-minister-says-will-review-progress-of-covid-19-vaccination-101637559160352.html
22-11-2021||India||SC to hear TMC's contempt plea on ‘worsening’ law and order in Tripura||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear a contempt plea of the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday regarding deterioration of law and order in Tripura ahead of civil body elections in the northeast state.The court had earlier asked Tripura Police authorities to ensure that no political party was prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.The state police have denied permission to both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the TMC for their rallies in Agartala on Monday.Elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 12 other municipal bodies are due on November 25.The Court had earlier asked Tripura Police authorities to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.The Mamata Banerjee-led party has also sought an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah during the day over the attacks on party leaders in Tripura. Party MP Derek O Brien shared on Twitter that 16 of his colleagues reached Delhi to meet Shah.“Brutal attacks on TMC. Even members of media clobbered in Tripura. Unprecedented attacks. Arrests on trumped-up charges. 16 Trinamool MPs have reached Delhi. Sir, please do give us an appointment this morning. Patiently waiting,” he wrote.The MPs have planned to stage a dharna in the national capital against the arrest of Trinamool Youth Congress chief Saayoni Ghosh by Tripura Police.Ghosh was arrested on Sunday for allegedly causing a ruckus at a public meeting where chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb was present.The TMC has alleged several of its supporters and functionaries sustained injuries following an attack on the residence of the party’s Tripura unit leader Subal Bhowmik in the Bhagaban Thakur Chowmuni area of Agartala on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-tmc-s-contempt-plea-on-worsening-law-and-order-in-tripura-101637559018902.html
22-11-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally below 10,000 for 2nd time in less than a week||India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a sharp decline on Monday after 8,488 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 34,518,901, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8 am. Monday's cases have been the lowest in 538 days, the ministry said.This is the second time in less than a week that the daily infection count dropped below the 10,000-mark. Previously, the country recorded 8,865 fresh Covid-19 cases on November 16, the lowest in 287 days.Nearly 250 patients died and 12,510 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll and total recoveries to 465,911 and 33,934,547, respectively, in the same time period, according to the health ministry. The active cases have dropped below 120,000-mark at 118,443 and constitute 0.36% of the caseload, the ministry said, adding they have been the lowest in 534 days.The overall recovery rate, meanwhile, has climbed to 98.31%, the highest since March 2020.On Sunday, the country had recorded 10,488 cases and 313 more deaths due to the viral disease.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday that a total of 632,524,259 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 783,567 were tested in the last 24 hours.Authorities have administered over 1.16 billion vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January this year. Of these, 765,872,227 beneficiaries have received the first dose and the remaining 402,856,158 have received the second doses as well. Nearly 3.3 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours.Later on Monday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will review the vaccination progress in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry, where the first dose coverage is less than 70%.According to government data, the lowest first dose coverage among the above three states and one Union Territory (UT) is from Nagaland at 49%, followed by Manipur at 54.2%, Meghalaya at 56.7% and Puducherry at 65.7%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-below-10-000-for-2nd-time-in-less-than-a-week-101637553132142.html
22-11-2021||India||Grenade attack near Army camp in Pathankot, probe underway||A grenade blast occurred at the Indian Army's Triveni Gate near Pathankot's Dheerapul early morning on Monday. Police said some unidentified motorcyclists lobbed the grenade in front of the Triveni gate of the cantonment, adding that they were verifying the CCTV footage obtained from the scene."A grenade blast took place near Triveni Gate of an Army camp in Pathankot. Further investigation is underway. CCTVs footage will be probed," news agency ANI quoted Surendra Lamba, SSP Pathankot, as saying.An alert has been sounded in the area after the blast.Local police officials recovered parts of the grenade from the site. While the investigation is underway, police have not divulged further information regarding the incident.No injuries have been reported in the explosion.In January 2016, the Indian Air Force's Pathankot Air Force base was attacked by heavily armed terrorists in which two security forces personnel died in the initial fight and another succumbed to injuries hours later.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-attack-near-army-camp-in-pathankot-probe-underway-101637551691103.html
22-11-2021||India||Unaccounted cash, jewellery seized during search, seizure op in Maha, Gujarat||The Income Tax department has said it has conducted a search and seizure operation at the premises of a prominent group involved in the manufacturing of chemicals and the development of real estate in Gujarat and Maharashtra.“The search operation has resulted in the seizure of unaccounted cash of about ₹2.5 crores and jewellery of ₹1 crore, and 16 bank lockers have been placed under restraint,” the finance ministry in a statement. “A preliminary analysis of the documents/evidence unearthed during the search has indicated that estimation of unaccounted income is likely to be more than ₹100 crores.” Also Read: ‘Online filing of ITR glitches resolved’: CBDT chairmanThe statement added evidence was found in the form of documents, diary noting, and digital data showing huge amounts of unaccounted income by the group. It said its investment in assets has been found and seized. “The evidence clearly indicates evasion of taxable income by adopting various modus operandi such as suppression of production, use of bogus purchase invoices without actual delivery of the goods to inflate purchases, availing of bogus GST credit, claim of bogus commission expenses, etc.”The searches were conducted last week at 20 premises at Vapi and Sarigam (Gujarat), Silvassa, and Mumbai.The statement said further investigation is on without elaborating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unaccounted-cash-jewellery-seized-during-search-seizure-op-in-maha-gujarat-101637552563947.html
22-11-2021||India||Rainfall in Andhra Pradesh recedes, over 30 dead due to floods: Top updates||Rainfall in Andhra Pradesh's south coastal areas and Rayalaseema district has finally receded after it wreaked havoc across the state over the past few days. More than 30 people have died due to the floods so far, while 12 others are still reported to be missing.According to the state disaster management authority's (SDMA's) bulletin on Sunday, a total of 181 blocks, 1,366 villages and four towns have been affected due to the heavy downpour in the past two days which has displaced more than 36,000 people, Hindustan Times reported.Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to distribute essential commodities to flood-affected families for freeHere are the latest updates:> More than 100 express trains have been cancelled due to the damage caused to tracks near Nellore, the South Central Railway said, adding that 29 more have been diverted.> A total of 2007 houses have been damaged due to floods and 1,137 houses are still submerged, the state government said.> Authorities in Chittoor district have told people living in 20 villages to move to safer areas.> According to the government's free essential commodities provision, families whose houses were inundated or marooned in floodwater will receive 25 kg of rice and 1 kg each of red gram, onions and potatoes. One litre of cooking oil will also be given to these families.> The temple-town Tirupati and surrounding villages were staring at a possible fresh flood after a breach started developing in the Rayalacheruvu Lake.> Irked residents of Mandapalli and Togurupeta villages, which were also hit by floods, alleged that they did not receive any help from the administration.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-in-andhra-pradesh-recedes-over-30-dead-due-to-floods-top-updates-101637548187565.html
22-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases dipped after Diwali||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have dipped in the two-week-long incubation period after Diwali despite the crowding during the festival triggering fears among medical experts of an impending surge. The number of new cases fell to 833 on November 20 from the 892 cases registered on November 7. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 845 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths, while Mumbai saw 212 new cases and three deaths. 93,193 Covid tests were conducted on Sunday, registering a positivity rate of 0.90 %. The state’s Covid tally has now reached 6,629,875, while the death toll stands at 140,739. There are currently 9,799 active cases in the state, of which, Mumbai with 2,758 cases has the highest share, followed by Pune’s 2,150 and Thane’s 1,211 cases.A surge in cases after Diwali was feared as people gathered for festivities and also travelled in large numbers. In addition, reopening of theatres, auditoriums, schools in October too resulted in more people stepping out of their homes. Similarly, traffic in local trains increased with fully vaccinated residents getting clear to travel in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on single-return tickets. The state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We have observed that we are two and a half months behind the west in terms of Covid-19 pandemic. We have been able to keep the virus under control and the decline shows that we have now almost reached the endemic stage.”“We saw the Delta variant playing havoc during the second wave [of infections] but it is currently in a declining stage. We are relieved that the genetic make-up of the virus is not changing,” he added.Also Read | Amravati violence probe one-sided, Hindu protesters being targeted: Devendra FadnavisDr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital said the situation is almost similar to that witnessed last year. “We saw a similar decline last year too. However, what we are witnessing this time is the thick tail of the second wave, which has now pushed the third wave to the next year. The cases are declining as more people are now vaccinated and a natural herd immunity is getting developed among the people,” he added.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid task force, while acknowledging that new cases have reduced cautioned against complacency. “We are now seeing many foreign tourists coming to India, which may lead to an increase in cases. We need to strictly follow some basic rules like wearing masks as well as get ourselves vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-dipped-in-2-weeks-after-diwali-101637552144125.html
22-11-2021||India||Mamata to visit New Delhi today, likely to meet PM Modi, Opposition leaders||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to arrive in New Delhi on Monday for a four-day visit and is expected to meet Opposition leaders and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“She is likely to visit multiple political leaders. She may also meet Modi later this week. A number of issues including expanding the jurisdiction of BSF (Border Security Force in states including Bengal) may be discussed,” said a leader of her Trinamool Congress (TMC), who did not want to be named.The visit is seen to be part of her attempts to boost opposition unity against the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the 2024 national elections.Also Read: Leander Paes speaks about what made him join politicsShe visited Delhi last in July for the first time after TMC returned to power in West Bengal. Banerjee’s fresh visit comes days before the winter session of the Parliament is scheduled to begin from November 29.TMC separately plans protests in Delhi on Monday against Tripura Police’s arrest of the party’s youth leader from West Bengal, Sayani Ghosh, in Agartala on Sunday.A TMC delegation is also likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday over the alleged continued political violence in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-visit-new-delhi-today-likely-to-meet-pm-modi-opposition-leaders-101637551904031.html
22-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Facebook convinced Election Commission to settle on voluntary code and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Facebook convinced poll panel to settle on a voluntary codeThe social media company fronted the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) to push its view and achieve consensus over the rules, Facebook’s internal documents show. Read moreDelhi's min temperature likely to be 10 degrees Celsius, air quality ‘very poor’Delhi’s air quality was in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday morning with the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am reaching 314, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board. Read moreIND vs NZ: 'Rohit trusts him a lot'- Karthik names bowler who'll be a certain selection in India's T20 WC 2022 squadVeteran Indian wicketkeeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik on Sunday picked leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal as an absolute certainty for Rohit Sharma-ledIndia's squad for the 2022 T20 World Cup slated to be played in Australia next October. Read moreStep inside Kartik Aaryan's cosy Mumbai apartment, where he once used to live as a paying guestKartik Aaryan has been staying in Mumbai for a while now. Having spent his growing up years in Gwalior, the actor had moved to the city to fulfill his aspirations of becoming an actor. Read moreAlia Bhatt stuns as bridesmaid in pink bralette-flared pants set for Anushka Ranjan-Aditya Seal's wedding festivitiesAlia Bhatt in a bright pink embroidered bralette and flared pants set with stunning cape will inspire your bridesmaid look this wedding season. She wore the ensemble for Aditya Seal and Anushka Ranjan's wedding ceremonies. Read moreWatch how Indian Army hoisted 76-ft-tall National flag at 15,000 feet in LadakhThe Indian Army hoisted a 76-ft-tall National flag in Ladakh overlooking the Hanle valley at 15,000 ft. The fire and fury corps of the Indian Army hoisted the flag and shared a video. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-facebook-convinced-election-commission-to-settle-on-voluntary-code-and-all-the-latest-news-101637547993054.html
22-11-2021||India||TMC MPs seek appointment with Amit Shah to discuss Tripura situation||A delegation of 16 MPs from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) arrived in New Delhi to get an appointment with union home minister Amit Shah on Monday in order to discuss the recent arrest of a party functionary in Tripura and the political situation in the state in general.The TMC MPs are yet to hear from Shah’s office.TMC leader Derek O’Brien tweeted on Monday, “Mr @AmitShah Home Minister, Sir. Brutal attacks on @AITCofficial. Even members of media clobbered in Tripura. Unprecedented attacks. Arrests on trumped-up charges. 16 Trinamool MPs have reached Delhi. Sir, please do give us an appointment this morning. Patiently waiting.” Along with the tweet, he shared a purported video of a TMC worker in Tripura injured in an apparent attack.TMC spokesperson Saket Gokhale said, “At the end of the day, we have very legitimate concerns and it is the duty of the home minister to listen to our grievances. If he is non-partisan, he will definitely help us out.”Gokhale said the main issue the TMC delegates want to discuss with Shah is about the party’s youth wing president in Tripura, Sayani Ghosh, who has been charged with attempt to murder, among other things, for raising the party slogan “khela hobe (game on)”. Also Read: Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs allege ‘police brutality’He questioned how a political slogan could amount to an attempt to murder.Gokhale also made several other claims, saying that ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers allegedly attacked the TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev at a police station in Agartala. “Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee’s flight was allegedly refused permission to land by Agartala’s airport authority. This is the level of mayhem in Agartala right now… Chief Minister Biplab Deb has taken the law into his own hands,” Gokhale said.Tripura’s ruling BJP alleged that the TMC, CPI(M) and Congress are in a “shadow alliance” and their motto is to malign Tripura, hours after Trinamool leader Ghosh was arrested on the charge of criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between two groups and attempt to murder after she was accused of her attempt to disrupt chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s civic poll rally in Agartala. Amid the interrogation of Ghosh, some TMC activists were attacked allegedly by the ruling party cadres in the premises of East Agartala Women Police Station on Sunday. However, the BJP ruled out the allegation of their involvement in the incident. “Hooligans and criminals are being brought from Bengal to disturb peace existing in Tripura. Now, a delegation of TMC is visiting union home minister Amit Shah... just to hide their faults. These are their pre-planned conspiracies. We will tackle these conspiracies in a disciplined way and cool head, “ law minister Ratan Lal Nath told reporters in Agartala. “We believe that the TMC, the CPI(M) and the Congress are in shadow alliance and were involved in the incident happened. We are also looking if any of our activists were involved in it,” said Nath. Ghosh was charged under sections of 153 ( promoting enmity between different groups),153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 506 (criminal intimidation) ,307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. She is expected to be taken to court on Monday. The CPI(M) condemned Ghosh’s arrest and the alleged attacks on TMC activists.Highlighting the current situation in Tripura, Trinamool’s Gokhale expressed concern over the unbiased conduct of civic elections in the state, saying the TMC has demanded “independent monitors for a just electoral process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mps-seek-appointment-with-amit-shah-to-discuss-tripura-situation-101637551303916.html
22-11-2021||India||Civic polls: Tripura Police deny permission for BJP, TMC rallies in Agartala today||The Tripura Police have denied permission to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for their rallies in Agartala on Monday, for the upcoming civic polls in the northeastern state. The decision has been taken in view of tensions between the two parties, the police said, referring to the arrest of Sayani Ghosh, the Trinamool's youth wing president, for allegedly trying to mow down BJP workers.Also Read | TMC leader arrested in Tripura, party plans protest in Delhi today“No permission for roadshow/rally either for BJP or TMC in Agartala today. Permission for street corner meets granted to both. TMC hasn't intimated to us the time when they're going to organise the street corner meet. The permission for rallies are denied in view of the tension escalating in the city,” news agency ANI quoted Ramesh Yadav, sub-divisional police officer, Sadar, as saying. The permissions for rallies are denied in view of the tension escalating in the city: Sub Divisional Police Officer Sadar Ramesh Yadav#TripuraThe TMC, which is in power in the neighbouring West Bengal, has also alleged that its workers were attacked by those from the BJP. 15 parliamentarians from the party have sought an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah, and plan to hold a dharna in Delhi, against what they have described as ‘brutality’ of the Tripura Police.Also Read | Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs allege ‘police brutality’, seek meet with Amit ShahSunday's incidents were the latest in a series of clashes between workers of the two parties in Tripura. Buoyed by its third consecutive victory in West Bengal assembly elections, held in April-May this year, the Mamata Banerjee-headed Trinamool is looking to expand itself nationally, with the BJP-ruled Tripura and Goa being the first two states the TMC looks to expand itself to.The BJP won 112 of the total 334 seats in urban local bodies, uncontested. Total 785 candidates are in the fray for the remaining 222 seats, elections for which will take place on November 25. Assembly polls in Goa, meanwhile, are likely to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civic-polls-tripura-police-deny-permission-to-bjp-tmc-for-rallies-in-agartala-today-101637549403412.html
22-11-2021||India||Minimum temperatures likely to fall sharply over northwest, central India||New Delhi witnessed a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday – three degrees below normal – while minimum temperatures are likely to fall by two to four degrees over most parts of northwest and central India in the next two days, according to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.A well-marked low pressure area is lying over southeast and east-central Arabian Sea with a cyclonic circulation extending up to the middle tropospheric levels.A line of low pressure area is running from the cyclonic circulation associated with the low pressure area up to Maharashtra at lower tropospheric levels. A cyclonic circulation is lying over southern Andaman Sea and its surrounding areas at lower tropospheric level. It is likely to move west-northwestwards during next four to five days.In association with the cyclonic circulation, light to moderate rainfall is likely over parts of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the next five days. Also Read: Delhi’s air quality is in ‘very poor’ categoryIsolated to heavy rainfall is likely over parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry over the next five days. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry from November 24 to 26.Wind speeds reaching 40-50kmph gusting up to 60kmph are likely over east-central and adjoining west-central Arabian Sea on Monday. The sea will be between rough and very rough over east-central Arabian Sea and the adjoining west-central area on Monday.Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperatures-likely-to-fall-sharply-over-northwest-central-india-101637550583792.html
22-11-2021||India||Delhi's min temperature likely to be 10 degrees Celsius, air quality ‘very poor’||Delhi is likely to see mist on Monday morning with the minimum temperature likely to be 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum 26 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 27 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s air quality was in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday morning with the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am reaching 314, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) had said that transport level winds were likely to stay strong till 23rd noon and with the farm fire counts educing rapidly, the percent share of stubble burning related pollutants to Delhi’s PM2.5 may remain low. Also Read: Kejriwal to begin 2-day visit to Punjab, will make big announcements in MogaRelatively high surface winds and moderate mixing layer height results in efficient ventilation of near surface pollutants. Net effect of drastic reduction in fire counts and increase of surface wind speed tend to improve the air quality, it had added. According to Safar’s projection, from 24th onwards, a likely drop in air temperature as well as surface wind speed may lead to less dispersion of pollutants. However, transport level winds’ speed was likely to reduce keeping the air quality in the upper end of ‘poor’ to lower end of ‘very poor’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-is-in-very-poor-category-101637549623568.html
22-11-2021||India||Facebook convinced poll panel to settle on a voluntary code||In the run-up to the 2019 general elections, internal Facebook documents say it managed to convince the Election Commission of India (ECI) to scuttle its original intention of introducing stiff social media regulations and settle for a voluntary code of ethics, avoiding additional legal obligations. The social media company fronted the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) to push its view and achieve consensus over the rules, Facebook’s internal documents spirited out of the company by whistleblower Frances Haugen show.The ECI, the documents show and former government officials independently confirmed, wanted a strict social media regulatory framework, perhaps not a fresh legislation (or an amendment to an existing one) in time for the elections.The EC spokesperson said that it wasn’t familiar with Facebook’s internal report, but the claim doesn’t seem to be correct. “Political advertisement on electronic media including social media is always prohibited during the silence period. Section 126(1)(b) of R.P. Act 1951 prohibits display of any election matter (including political advertisement) by means of television or similar apparatus (electronic media) during the period of 48 hours ending with the hour fixed for conclusion of poll,” the EC spokesperson told HT and The Intersection.“And as per the VCE (voluntary code of ethics), platforms had committed to act upon the violations of section 126 of R.P. Act, 1951. For this they had created a dedicated reporting mechanism for ECI under the provisions of VCE.”A Meta spokesperson, in an emailed response to The Intersection and The Hindustan Times said, “Promoting election integrity in India isn’t something we can do alone. Ahead of 2019 general elections, we joined other social media companies in a voluntary code of ethics for the general elections with the Election Commission of India (ECI).”Election integrityIn July 2018, the Commission set up a committee led by the then deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha to suggest such a framework. In its draft report, accessed by The Intersection and HT, the committee recommended that “the Commission may issue directions to social media agencies to ensure that political advertisements are not uploaded on their platforms during the prohibited period of 48 hours mentioned in Section 126”.While the original scope of the committee, which submitted its report in January 2019, was to “look into social media regulation during the poll period”, it eventually zeroed in on the last 48 hours before the actual voting, or what is known as the “silence period”. The recommendations contained in the draft report are previously unreported.Also Read: Delhi Assembly panel asks Facebook to submit records on complaints on 2020 riotsOn 29 May 2019, five days after the Indian general elections drew to a close, officials from Facebook’s civic integrity team shot off a memo to the rest of the company. It was an after-action report of sorts, detailing everything the company had done during the polls; from proactive monitoring to taking action on content flagged by the ECI and driving the Voluntary Code of Ethics (VCE) that governed social media platforms.It was a big relief for the Menlo Park, California-based company which was just coming off a bruising scandal involving the controversial election management company Cambridge Analytica. Facebook (now Meta Platforms), the memo shows, was determined to avoid onerous legal obligations. It wanted to do the minimum to be able to dodge any backlash later, former Facebook officials told The Intersection and HT.Outlined in part one of a document titled “India Elections: A Case Study”, it included, among other platform-specific goals such as fighting misinformation and fake news, the prevention of “any bad regulation or law for social media on election integrity”.These details are from disclosures made to the Securities and Exchange Commission and to the US Congress in a redacted form by Haugen’s legal counsel. The redacted versions received by Congress were reviewed by a consortium of news organizations, including The Intersection, which is publishing a series of stories based on the documents and in partnership with The Hindustan Times.No ads, pleaseFacebook, multiple people confirmed, aggressively pushed back against the EC’s plan to require it to disable ads during the silence period. This was despite suggestions by the Sinha committee, to “consider the possibility of blocking posting of election advertisements during the period of the last 48 hours…” The social network, the people confirmed, was also the “most vocal and driving things” in meetings between industry body IAMAI and the ECI.Referring to a March 23, 2019 notification, the EC spokesperson reiterated that “TV/Radio channels and cable networks/internet website /social media platforms should ensure that the contents of the programmes telecast/broadcast/ displayed by them during the period of 48 hours referred to in Section 126 do not contain any material, including views/appeals by panelists/participants that may be construed as promoting/ prejudicing the prospect of any particular party or candidate(s) or influencing/ affecting the result of the election”. This, among other things also included display of any opinion poll and of standard debates, analysis, visuals and sound-bytes.It was also party to a public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court to enforce campaign silence for social media companies. “With the help of the Voluntary Code of Ethics and continued engagement with ECI, we were able to avoid an onerous and prescriptive direction from the Bombay High Court,” an internal Facebook memo said. The VCE was a potent instrument that Facebook used to blunt any new binding commitments.In a section titled “Code of Ethics Election Commission: The Incredibles”, Facebook notes, “This [VCE] was a significant development which helped our family of apps to continue working within the existing legal framework without attracting any new election law or attracting bad regulation.” Under the code, it created a high-priority channel for notice and take-down after receiving valid legal orders. That meant the onus of flagging content shifted to the ECI and Facebook merely carried out its instructions.Sahana Udupa, professor of media anthropology at University of Munich and a Joan Shorenstein Fellow at Harvard University, told The Intersection over phone, “The voluntary code that was drawn (up) during the 2019 general elections was weak and insufficient, not least because of the very manner in which it was created.”Facebook was alarmed that the ECI was planning to introduce a regulatory framework for platforms requiring them to proactively monitor and remove content, including disabling all ads during the silence period. “They also wanted us to pro-actively inform users on Silence period related Election laws for every round of polling.” In the end, the VCE merely said that participants will commit to following transparency in paid political advertising and instituted a mechanism to fast-track the ECI’s action requests.Writing in the memo, a Facebook official said, “We ensured our primary trade body IAMAI was involved to negotiate on behalf of the industry so that no bad recommendation was made. Eventually, we managed to get a text which was in line with intermediary protection for tech platforms.” Despite repeated requests, IAMAI remained unavailable for comment.Udupa said by negotiating with the ECI through an entity like the IAMAI, social media companies secured the buffer of an association to agree to a voluntary code. “Such double distancing on the part of the social media companies—first from being direct parties and second from enforceable obligation—showed that the voluntary code arrangement was weak from its very inception.”In sharp contrast, even though there is no concept of a silence period in the US, Facebook disabled fresh political ads on its platforms for a seven-day period before the 2020 presidential elections. A former Facebook official said that the company says it wants regulation, but in reality “they’re trying to shape regulation to what works best for them”.The ECI pulled one back on removal of content. Facebook’s original position on content takedowns, multiple sources confirmed, was a maximum duration of 72 hours, in line with the then version of the IT Act of 2000. The Sinha committee wanted it in 24 hours. An EC official told The Intersection and HT that while there was demand from social media companies to increase the time for take-down of content. The Commission held firm, asking them to remove any flagged material within three hours. Ultimately, it came down to two hours.Just a codeIt worked in Facebook’s favour that the Election Commission was pressed for time. An amendment to the legislation governing the elections, the Representation of People Act, 1951, the ECI official added would have taken a while to go through Parliament. A voluntary code therefore was a fair idea. “At that stage, it was considered that an amendment would take time to process, and thus, the voluntary code was considered a better via-media,” the ECI official said.“Our priority was to have a framework where grievances were expeditiously addressed and one that all social media companies abide by.”A former EC official who worked on the voluntary code said on condition of anonymity that it was beyond the mandate of the Commission to frame a law. “The Commission doesn’t make the laws. Whatever compliance is required must be anchored in a law and as such the EC had made recommendations to the IT ministry what to include.”To be sure, the Sinha Committee report recommended the insertion of the term “election matter” to the draft Information Technology [Intermediaries Guidelines (Amendment) Rules, 2018], to “suitably to address the concern of misuse of social media for the purposes of elections, particularly during the prohibitory period.”In September 2019, the ECI mandated that the VCE would be in use in all future elections, including the ones to elect legislative assemblies. At the time, Haryana and Maharashtra were going to polls.While the code had served its purpose, a senior IT ministry official told The Intersection and HT fresh legislation was required as it was no longer about the bigger platforms. “It is applicable to everyone, the smaller ones too. And if there is no legislation, the code should be evolutionary in nature, and reflect changes in prevailing conditions,” he said.(Venkat Ananth is a co-founder at The Intersection published by The Signal, www.thesignal.co)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-convinced-poll-panel-to-settle-on-a-voluntary-code-101637549263683.html
22-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Applications for Vaccinated Travel Pass for Singapore to open today||From Monday, travellers from India fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), can apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) for flights to Singapore, a day after aviation regulators from the two countries reached an agreement to resume daily commercial passenger flights from India, beginning November 29.Also Read | Singapore, India to resume flights under Vaccinated Travel Lane from Nov 29The applications for VTPs will open at 6pm. Those applying for such passes should present a digital proof for full vaccination. They are also required to take two Covid-19 tests, of which the first has to be taken within two days before departing for the city-state. The other, meanwhile, has to be taken upon arrival at the Changi airport, following which the visitors have to keep themselves under self-isolation, until the result turns out to be negative.Flights from India to Singapore will operate under the latter's Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) facility; on November 15, Singapore included India on its VTL list. Under this facility, travellers from the countries on this list are exempted from quarantine upon arrival, provided they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, and have proof for this.Also Read | Fully vaccinated against Covid? Singapore scraps quarantine upon arrival from IndiaUnder VTL, six daily flights, two each from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai, will commence operations. Non-VTL flights can also operate, though passengers on these will be subjected to certain public health requirements.The resumption of regular passenger air traffic between the two countries also comes in the backdrop of external affairs minister S Jaishankar's visit to Singapore last week.Singapore started the VTL mechanism on September 8 with, Brunei and Germany being the first two countries. The arrangement is now available with 13 countries, including Australia, the UK and the US. VTLs for India, Finland, Indonesia, Malaysia and Sweden will be effective from November 29, and similar arrangements with Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will begin from December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/applications-for-vaccinated-travel-pass-for-singapore-to-open-today-101637545458124.html
22-11-2021||India||SC to hear pleas accusing Twitter of promoting fake news, anti-India content||The Supreme Court is expected to hear pleas today seeking directions to the government to bring in legislation enabling the prosecution of Twitter for alleged “anti-India tweets”. One of the pleas has sought the framing of a mechanism that could check advertisements and paid content on Twitter that may be hateful or seditious and to rein in social media accounts "in order to stop the hatred, fake, investigative and other news which are contrary to the law of the country or violates the law of the country".Former national co-convener of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) IT cell Vinit Goenka, advocates Vinit Jindal, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay and others had filed petitions in the apex court on the issue. The court issued a notice to the Central government in February and tagged Goenka’s plea along with another similar matter pending before the top court. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar will hear pleas today.In his plea, Goenka alleged that the social media company is sympathetic to terrorist groups and promotes tweets that are “anti-India” and amount to waging war against the Union. The plea claimed that fake Twitter handles are used to"propagate casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism, radicalism, and separatism, which endanger fraternity, unity and regional integration."It also mentioned Twitter’s refusal to block Twitter handles allegedly involved in promoting fake and provocative content. The petition stated that social media platforms, in the absence of any law to deal with offensive and hatred messages, "knowingly” promote messages which are “against the law of the land.”Advocate Vinit Jindal had sought directions for the central government to formulate laws that regulate and enforce accountability on social media platforms for spreading hate speech and fake news. He also sought directions to frame criminal prosecutions on those who are involved in spreading fake news or hate via social media channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-accusing-twitter-of-promoting-fake-news-anti-india-content-101637542159239.html
22-11-2021||India||UK rules recognising Covaxin for inbound travel come into effect from today||The changes announced by the United Kingdom, adding India's Covaxin to the list of approved Covid-19 vaccines for international travellers, will come into effect from November 22. This means that thousands of travellers from India, who have been inoculated with the Bharat Biotech-manufactured jab, will not have to self-isolate after arrival in Britain.The UK government has also added China’s Sinovac and Sinopharm in its list of approved vaccines, benefiting fully vaccinated people from the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia too. Around one billion doses of these three Covid-19 vaccines have been delivered worldwide.The changes were announced earlier this month, after the World Health Organization (WHO) cleared their “emergency-use listing”. The WHO issued an emergency-use listing for Covaxin on November 3.The UK began recognising Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca vaccine, for inbound travel from October 4.It also began accepting India’s vaccine certificates from October 11, ending a travel row that had resulted in UK nationals facing mandatory 10-day quarantine on arrival even if they were fully vaccinated.Covishield and Covaxin are the two main vaccines being used for India's immunisation programme. The country has also approved Russia-made Sputnik and Johnson & Johnson's single-dose vaccine.Last week, government officials said that as many as 110 countries have given recognition to Covaxin and Covishield, according to news agency ANI. Among these countries are New Zealand and Australia.Covaxin and Covishield were the first two jabs to receive emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the nationwide inoculation drive, which commenced on January 16. The former has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, and is the first made-in-India anti-Covid shot. The latter is the Indian variant of Britain's AstraZeneca vaccine, and manufactured locally by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-rules-recognising-covaxin-for-inbound-travel-come-into-effect-from-today-101637542215651.html
22-11-2021||NA||Breaking news: India to send 50k MT of wheat as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Dozens killed in attacks on DR Congo villages, displaced camp, reports AFPDozens of people were killed in attacks on villages and a centre for the internally displaced in DR Congo's northeastern Ituri province, news agency AFP quoted a military source as saying on Monday.Speaking on condition of anonymity, the source further told AFP that attacks on Sunday night in Djugu territory resulted in "dozens of deaths".Bengaluru airport becomes 1st facility in South Asia to commission Rosenbauer firefighting equipment, reports PTIKempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, has commissioned a state-of-the-art firefighting system Rosenbauer Tactical Simulator, making it the first facility in South Asia to have this high-tech equipment, news agency PTI quoted BIAL as saying on Monday.Air India board members may resign soon With Tatas taking over Air India from January 2022, the board members of the airline have been asked to resign, people familiar with the development said on Monday. Air India board of directors were asked to resign in their meeting that took place last week.Pak PM allows humanitarian aid for Afghanistan sent by India to pass though nationPakistan PM Imran Khan announces Pakistan will allow the 50,000 MT of wheat India has offered to provide Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance to go through Pakistan as soon as modalities are finalized with the Indian sideTMC youth wing leader Saayoni Ghosh granted bail by Tripura CourtTMC youth wing leader Saayoni Ghosh, who allegedly disturbed CM Biplab Deb's public meeting, granted bail by Tripura court.Congress announces candidates for elections to Maharashtra Legislative CouncilCongress fields Satej alias Bunty D Patil and Gaurav Devendralal Wani for the biennial elections to Maharashtra Legislative Council from local authorities' constituencies pic.twitter.com/Q6dJLHGIoDThe Congress on Monday fielded Satej alias Bunty D Patil and Gaurav Devendralal Wani for the biennial elections to Maharashtra Legislative Council from local authorities' constituencies, reports ANI.Shah seeks report from Tripura CM on police brutality allegedly faced by TMC workersUnion home minister Amit Shah has sought report from Tripura chief minister Biplab Dev on police brutality allegedly faced by TMC workers. Patalpani railway station in Indore to be renamed as Tantya Mama railway stationPatalpani railway station in Indore to be renamed as Tantya Mama railway station, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces.TMC MPs reach Amit Shah's residence against alleged police brutalityDelhi: A delegation of TMC MPs reaches the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to meet him over the alleged police brutality in Tripura pic.twitter.com/3oIdRFVTvRA delegation of TMC MPs has reached the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah to meet him over the alleged police brutality in Tripura.Harish Rawat-Trivendra Singh Rawat meeting sparks fresh speculations in UttarakhandBJP leader Trivendra Singh Rawat and Congress' Harish Rawat met on Monday, people familiar with the development said. Even as both the leaders termed it a courtesy meeting to enquire about each other's health, the political analysts termed it a "display of power politics" especially by Trivendra Singh.Bombay HC grants relief to Rahul GandhiBombay high court directs Metropolitan Magistrate to defer hearing on a defamation complaint filed by a BJP worker beyond December 20, 2021.'Will give ₹1000 per month to every adult woman in Punjab'If we form govt in Punjab in 2022, then we will give every woman of the state, who is above 18 years of age, ₹1000 per month. If a family has 3 female members then each will get ₹1000. This'll be the world's biggest women empowerment program: Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CMChhattisgarh announces 2% reduction in VAT on diesel, 1% reduction on petrolThe Chhattisgarh government on Monday announced a 2% reduction in VAT on diesel and 1% reduction on petrol. In a statament, the Chhattisgarh CMO said that the government will incur a loss of around ₹1,000 crores. Mamata says she will raise matter of alleged police brutality in Tripura with PM Modi during a meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she will raise the alleged police brutality against TMC leaders in Tripura during a meeting with PM Modi .All-party meet called ahead of Parliament session, reports ANIAn all-party meet has been called ahead of Parliament Winter Session slated for November 28, reports news agency ANI, citing sources.According to ANI, Prime Minister Narendra Modi may also attend the meet.BJP leader in Maharashtra joins Congress in the presence of state Minister Nitin RautDr Ravindra Bhoyar, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and corporator, joined the Congress party in Nagpur in presence of Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut.Delhi lifts ban on construction, demolition as air quality improvesDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Monday that his government has lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities in the city in view of an improvement in air SC shields ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh from arrest in 6 FIRsThe Supreme Court on Monday has protected former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in 6 First lodged against him in Maharashtra. He has been asked to join the investigation.Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh is in India, lawyer tells SCParam Bir Singh, the former commissioner of Mumbai Police, is in India and does want to abscond, his lawyer told the Supreme Court on Monday. ‘Elbow room for 5G rollout’: Bharti Airtel hikes prepaid mobile tariffs from Nov 26Telecom giant Bharti Airtel on Monday said it will increase rates of its prepaid mobile plans by at least 20 per cent later this week. The company said the move will give Airtel the elbow room to roll out 5G in India. Read moreUnexpected rainfall in Karnataka led to huge crop loss, says CM BommaiCompensation of ₹1 lakh will be given for house collapses. We have released ₹500 crores for roads & bridges & have made emergency rescue teams all around the city: Karnataka CM Basavaraj BommaiKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that unexpected rainfall in the state has led to huge crop loss. “I've asked for an immediate report on the compensation (of ₹685 crores). ₹130 crores have already been released for previous crop loss,” Bommai told news agency ANI. No Covid-19 cases recorded in Andaman and Nicobar Islands for a weekAndaman and Nicobar Islands has not reported a single infection due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for seven consecutive days, and the caseload remains unchanged at 7,646. Previously, the Union Territory recorded four new cases on Novermber 14. From today, Western Railway introduces 8 more AC local trains in MumbaiFrom Monday, the Western Railway (WR) will introduce eight more air-conditioned local train services in Mumbai, taking the total number to 20. Read moreGroup Captain Abhinandan Varthaman to be awarded the Vir Chakra todayFor shooting down a Pakistani F-16 fighter aircraft aerial combat on February 27, 2019 Wing Commander (now Group Captain) Abhinandan Varthaman to be awarded the Vir Chakra today by President Ram Nath Kovind in an investiture ceremony. pic.twitter.com/aO4NGdffzfGroup Captain Abhinandan Varthaman, who shot down a Pakistani F-16 fighter jet in 2019, will be awarded the Vir Chakra today.SP workers perform ‘havan’ to celebrate party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthdayLucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) workers perform 'havan' and cut a cake at the party office to celebrate party's founder-patron Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthday today. pic.twitter.com/dgO9qqFevqWorkers of the Samajwadi Party (SP) celebrated party founder and patron Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthday on Monday by cutting a cake and performing a 'havan' at the party office in Lucknow.India sees decline in daily Covid-19 tally with 8,488 new casesIndia's tally on Monday saw a major decline after 8,488 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8 am. Read moreBJP, TMC denied permission to hold rallies in TripuraThe permissions for rallies are denied in view of the tension escalating in the city: Sub Divisional Police Officer Sadar Ramesh Yadav#TripuraThe Tripura Police on Monday denied permission to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) told hold rallies and roadshows in Agartala today in view escalating tensions in the city. Read moreSUV plows into Wisconsin Christmas parade, some deaths reportedA SUV plowed through a Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, on Sunday, striking more than 20 people including children and causing "some fatalities," the city's police chief said. Mizoram reports 212 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsCOVID19 | Mizoram reports 212 new cases; Active caseload stands at 4,746 death toll 479 pic.twitter.com/qsHIrqiIvoMizoram on Monday reported 212 new Covid-19 cases and two more deaths, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 131,897 and 479 respectively. US trade representative Katherine Tai to begin India visit todayUnited States Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai will on Monday visit India for two days and hold discussions with officials on enhancing trade and economic ties between the two countries. This is Tai's first visit to India after she assumed office in March. Read moreUnited States: 20 injured in Wisconsin after vehicle plows into Christmas paradeA vehicle plowed into a Christmas parade in the US state of Wisconsin on Sunday, injuring more than 20 people, news agency AFP reported citing police officials.Karnataka rains: 24 people dead, 658 houses completely damagedA total of 24 people lost their lives due to heavy rain in Karnataka. Crop damage at over 5 hectares of land. As many as 658 houses were completely damaged while 8,495 homes were partially damaged. At least 191 livestock were reported dead: CMOAs many as 24 people have died in Karnataka due to heavy rains while 658 houses have been completely damaged, according to a statement by the chief minister's office (CMO). Kejriwal to begin 2-day visit to Punjab, will make big announcements in MogaDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday begin his two-day visit to Punjab, where assembly elections are due next year. Read moreFresh protests against Covid-19 restrictions break out in EuropeA fresh wave of protests broke out in many European cities and in some French overseas territories on Sunday against the Covid-19 restrictions which have been reintroduced to ward off the spread of the virus. There were fresh demonstrations in Austria, where the government is imposing a new lockdown and vaccine mandate. In Belgium, violence was reported during a protest in the capital city of Brussels which was attended by 35,000 people. On the other hand, protests continued in several Dutch cities for a third consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-22-2021-101637541506704.html
22-11-2021||India||Ahead of Bombay HC order, Nawab Malik's bombshell: ‘What did you do, Sameer Dawood Wankhede?'||Ahead of Bombay high court order on a plea by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede’s father seeking interim reliefs against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has shared another photograph to push his claims that the NCB officer was born a Muslim but forged caste documents to get into civil services through reserved category. Sharing a picture apparently clicked during Wankhede’s ‘nikah’, Malik wrote on Twitter: ‘What did you do, Sameer Dawood Wankhede?'कबूल है, कबूल है, कबूल है...यह क्या किया तुने Sameer Dawood Wankhede ? pic.twitter.com/VaVMZbrNo0Malik recently tweeted a picture of Wankhede and his first wife, Shabana Quraishi, and also posted a copy of the couple’s ‘nikah nama’ to insinuate that Wankhede got married as per Islamic rules. Wankhede has repeatedly denied the claims and released caste certificates of several of his family members, showing they are Mahars, a Scheduled Caste.The high court reserved an order last Thursday on the interim application filed by Wankhede’s father Dnyandev pertaining to the temporary injunction against Malik. Dnyandev Wankhede had filed a defamation suit against Malik and urged the court to restrain the Maharashtra minister from posting defamatory statements against him and his family on social media.Sameer Wankhede runs bar, hid info from department, alleges Nawab MalikOn November 12, the high court had reserved its order on the interim relief aspect in Dnyandev’s defamation suit but, a few days later, Malik moved the court seeking its permission to place on record additional documents. Malik submitted a letter by the public health officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) with a copy of the declaration regarding Wankhede’s rechristening, and two school leaving certificates. The minister claimed that these documents showed Wankhede was born a Muslim and his father’s real name was Dawood and not Dnyandev.Dnyandev Wankhede's counsel, advocate Arshad Shaikh, argued that Wankhede's birth certificate had initially mistakenly mentioned his father's name as Dawood, but the same had been corrected "way back". Shaikh told the high court that Malik must stop calling Dnyandev as Dawood."He (Malik) should not continue to call me Dawood since it was corrected to Dnyandev way back. Somehow, for the last four days, he kept quiet. Then he has started again," said Shaikh. "Whether his birth certificate is right or mine that has to be seen," he told the high court.The court directed both parties to refrain from submitting any fresh documents until it pronounces its order on November 22.Sameer Wankhede has been at the forefront of recent NCB investigations involving the film industry, including the drugs-on-cruise case and a drug probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bombay-hc-order-nawab-malik-s-bombshell-what-did-you-do-sameer-dawood-wankhede-101637540769176.html
22-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to hold review meeting with 3 states with low first dose coverage||The union health ministry will on Monday hold a meeting with officials from Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and union territory of Puducherry, news agency ANI reported. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and other senior ministry officials will be present in the virtual meeting, it further reported.The minister will review the progress and planning of Covid-19 vaccination in these states and the union territory of Puducherry, where the first dose coverage is less than 70 per cent.Also Read | On booster shots of Covid-19 vaccine, top expert weighs inThe first dose coverage in Meghalaya was 56.7 per cent, Manipur 54.2 per cent, Nagaland 49 per cent and Puducherry 65.7 per cent, according to government data, as reported by news agency PTI.The meeting comes amid the government's efforts to speed up the vaccination coverage across the country. Apart from focusing on administering the second dose to all the eligible adults, the Centre has also asked state governments to ensure all the candidates receive the first dose as well.According to officials, over 12 crore beneficiaries are overdue for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two jabs.The government has launched a month-long 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign for house-to-house vaccination of those who are yet to take the first dose and those whose second dose is overdue.The Centre launched the campaign days after India achieved the milestone of administering one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. The milestone was crossed on October 21, little over nine months after the nationwide vaccination programme began.Also Read | 1.29 billion Covid-19 vaccines given to states so far, 216 million still unused, says CentreThe number of doses administered in India is next only to China, which is said to have given over 2.2 billion doses to its citizens.According to officials, around 82 per cent of the eligible population in India have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while around 43 per cent have been fully inoculated.The total number of vaccine doses administered in the country has now crossed 1.16 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-mandaviya-to-hold-meeting-with-3-states-with-low-first-dose-coverage-101637539484489.html
22-11-2021||India||Where is Param Bir Singh? Supreme Court expected to get the answer today||The Supreme Court is expected to get a response today from the lawyer of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh about his whereabouts. The top court had made it clear during the last hearing on Thursday that it will not entertain Singh's plea for protection against arrest in an alleged extortion case until his location is known.The bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul had Singh's lawyer on November 18 that his petition will be heard "only after he tells which part of the country or the world he is in"."No protection, no hearing till we have the answer to the question - where are you?" the bench told Singh's counsel, who then sought time till Monday to get instructions.The top court also took exception that Singh's plea seeking protection has been filed through the power-of-attorney holder.The complainant, restaurateur Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets - Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar.Singh, the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court on Wednesday after he remained elusive since March this year and did not show up before the trial court despite several notices and warrants issued against him.This was the first instance of a Mumbai police commissioner being declared a proclaimed offender. Singh, 59, was the city's 43rd police commissioner.Currently posted as Director General of Home Guards, Singh last attended his office in May, after which he went on leave. The state police had told the Bombay high court in October that his whereabouts were not known.The petition was filed against the September 16 judgment of the Bombay high court, which had dismissed the petition filed by Singh challenging two preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-is-param-bir-singh-supreme-court-expected-to-get-the-answer-today-101637538388243.html
22-11-2021||India||Facebook lobbied over poll rules: Papers||In the run-up to the 2019 general elections, internal Facebook documents say it managed to convince the Election Commission of India (ECI) to scuttle its original intention of introducing stiff social media regulations and settle for a voluntary code of ethics, avoiding additional legal obligations. The social media company fronted the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) to push its view and achieve consensus over the rules, Facebook’s internal documents spirited out of the company by whistleblower Frances Haugen show.The ECI, the documents show and former government officials independently confirmed, wanted a strict social media regulatory framework, perhaps not a fresh legislation (or an amendment to an existing one) in time for the elections.The EC spokesperson said that it wasn’t familiar with Facebook’s internal report, but the claim doesn’t seem to be correct. “Political advertisement on electronic media including social media is always prohibited during the silence period. Section 126(1)(b) of R.P. Act 1951 prohibits display of any election matter (including political advertisement) by means of television or similar apparatus (electronic media) during the period of 48 hours ending with the hour fixed for conclusion of poll,” the EC spokesperson told HT.“And as per the VCE (voluntary code of ethics), platforms had committed to act upon the violations of section 126 of R.P. Act, 1951. For this they had created a dedicated reporting mechanism for ECI under the provisions of VCE.”A Meta spokesperson, in an emailed response to The Intersection and The Hindustan Times said, “Promoting election integrity in India isn’t something we can do alone. Ahead of 2019 general elections, we joined other social media companies in a voluntary code of ethics for the general elections with the Election Commission of India (ECI).”Election integrityIn July 2018, the Commission set up a committee led by the then deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha to suggest such a framework. In its draft report, accessed by The Intersection and HT, the committee recommended that “the Commission may issue directions to social media agencies to ensure that political advertisements are not uploaded on their platforms during the prohibited period of 48 hours mentioned in Section 126”.While the original scope of the committee, which submitted its report in January 2019, was to “look into social media regulation during the poll period”, it eventually zeroed in on the last 48 hours before the actual voting, or what is known as the “silence period”. The recommendations contained in the draft report are previously unreported.On 29 May 2019, five days after the Indian general elections drew to a close, officials from Facebook’s civic integrity team shot off a memo to the rest of the company. It was an after-action report of sorts, detailing everything the company had done during the polls; from proactive monitoring to taking action on content flagged by the ECI and driving the Voluntary Code of Ethics (VCE) that governed social media platforms.It was a big relief for the Menlo Park, California-based company which was just coming off a bruising scandal involving the controversial election management company Cambridge Analytica. Facebook (now Meta Platforms), the memo shows, was determined to avoid onerous legal obligations. It wanted to do the minimum to be able to dodge any backlash later, former Facebook officials told The Intersection and HT.Outlined in part one of a document titled “India Elections: A Case Study”, it included, among other platform-specific goals such as fighting misinformation and fake news, the prevention of “any bad regulation or law for social media on election integrity”.These details are from disclosures made to the Securities and Exchange Commission and to the US Congress in a redacted form by Haugen’s legal counsel. The redacted versions received by Congress were reviewed by a consortium of news organizations, including The Intersection, which is publishing a series of stories based on the documents and in partnership with The Hindustan Times.No, ads pleaseFacebook, multiple people confirmed, aggressively pushed back against the EC’s plan to require it to disable ads during the silence period. This was despite suggestions by the Sinha committee, to “consider the possibility of blocking posting of election advertisements during the period of the last 48 hours…” The social network, the people confirmed, was also the “most vocal and driving things” in meetings between industry body IAMAI and the ECI.Referring to a March 23, 2019 notification, the EC spokesperson reiterated that “TV/Radio channels and cable networks/internet website /social media platforms should ensure that the contents of the programmes telecast/broadcast/ displayed by them during the period of 48 hours referred to in Section 126 do not contain any material, including views/appeals by panelists/participants that may be construed as promoting/ prejudicing the prospect of any particular party or candidate(s) or influencing/ affecting the result of the election”. This, among other things also included display of any opinion poll and of standard debates, analysis, visuals and sound-bytes.It was also party to a public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court to enforce campaign silence for social media companies. “With the help of the Voluntary Code of Ethics and continued engagement with ECI, we were able to avoid an onerous and prescriptive direction from the Bombay High Court,” an internal Facebook memo said. The VCE was a potent instrument that Facebook used to blunt any new binding commitments.In a section titled “Code of Ethics Election Commission: The Incredibles”, Facebook notes, “This [VCE] was a significant development which helped our family of apps to continue working within the existing legal framework without attracting any new election law or attracting bad regulation.” Under the code, it created a high-priority channel for notice and take-down after receiving valid legal orders. That meant the onus of flagging content shifted to the ECI and Facebook merely carried out its instructions.Sahana Udupa, professor of media anthropology at University of Munich and a Joan Shorenstein Fellow at Harvard University, told The Intersection over phone, “The voluntary code that was drawn (up) during the 2019 general elections was weak and insufficient, not least because of the very manner in which it was created.”Facebook was alarmed that the ECI was planning to introduce a regulatory framework for platforms requiring them to proactively monitor and remove content, including disabling all ads during the silence period. “They also wanted us to pro-actively inform users on Silence period related Election laws for every round of polling.” In the end, the VCE merely said that participants will commit to following transparency in paid political advertising and instituted a mechanism to fast-track the ECI’s action requests.Writing in the memo, a Facebook official said, “We ensured our primary trade body IAMAI was involved to negotiate on behalf of the industry so that no bad recommendation was made. Eventually, we managed to get a text which was in line with intermediary protection for tech platforms.” Despite repeated requests, IAMAI remained unavailable for comment.Udupa said by negotiating with the ECI through an entity like the IAMAI, social media companies secured the buffer of an association to agree to a voluntary code. “Such double distancing on the part of the social media companies—first from being direct parties and second from enforceable obligation—showed that the voluntary code arrangement was weak from its very inception.”In sharp contrast, even though there is no concept of a silence period in the US, Facebook disabled fresh political ads on its platforms for a seven-day period before the 2020 presidential elections. A former Facebook official said that the company says it wants regulation, but in reality “they’re trying to shape regulation to what works best for them”.The ECI pulled one back on removal of content. Facebook’s original position on content takedowns, multiple sources confirmed, was a maximum duration of 72 hours, in line with the then version of the IT Act of 2000. The Sinha committee wanted it in 24 hours. An EC official told The Intersection and HT that while there was demand from social media companies to increase the time for take-down of content. The Commission held firm, asking them to remove any flagged material within three hours. Ultimately, it came down to two hours.Just a codeIt worked in Facebook’s favour that the Election Commission was pressed for time. An amendment to the legislation governing the elections, the Representation of People Act, 1951, the ECI official added would have taken a while to go through Parliament. A voluntary code therefore was a fair idea. “At that stage, it was considered that an amendment would take time to process, and thus, the voluntary code was considered a better via-media,” the ECI official said.“Our priority was to have a framework where grievances were expeditiously addressed and one that all social media companies abide by.”A former EC official who worked on the voluntary code said on condition of anonymity that it was beyond the mandate of the Commission to frame a law. “The Commission doesn’t make the laws. Whatever compliance is required must be anchored in a law and as such the EC had made recommendations to the IT ministry what to include.”To be sure, the Sinha Committee report recommended the insertion of the term “election matter” to the draft Information Technology [Intermediaries Guidelines (Amendment) Rules, 2018], to “suitably to address the concern of misuse of social media for the purposes of elections, particularly during the prohibitory period.”In September 2019, the ECI mandated that the VCE would be in use in all future elections, including the ones to elect legislative assemblies. At the time, Haryana and Maharashtra were going to polls.While the code had served its purpose, a senior IT ministry official told The Intersection and HT fresh legislation was required as it was no longer about the bigger platforms. “It is applicable to everyone, the smaller ones too. And if there is no legislation, the code should be evolutionary in nature, and reflect changes in prevailing conditions,” he said.(Venkat Ananth is a co-founder at The Intersection published by The Signal, www.thesignal.co)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-lobbied-over-poll-rules-papers-101637530999072.html
22-11-2021||India||Rain-hit Andhra limps back to normal, 17 still missing||The south-coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh have limped back to normal after rainfall that wreaked havoc in the region gave the state some respite on Sunday.The state disaster management authority (SDMA) in an official bulletin in the evening said the death toll was 24 but the fate of 17 people believed to have been washed away in the floods in Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Nellore is still not known.“There has been no trace of 11 people, who were washed away in the floods of Cheyyeru River due to a breach of the Annamayya reservoir near Pulaputhur village of Nandalur block in Kadapa district. Four teams of NDRF and three of SDRF are still on the rescue operations,” the bulletin said.Four people in Chittoor and one each in Anantapur and Nellore are also still missing.“There has been very scanty and scattered rainfall in these four districts, ranging from 0.02 mm in Chittoor to 1.7 mm in Nellore. However, there was 4 mm rainfall in Kurnool,” the SDMA bulletin said.The flood fury continued to ravage Kadapa, Nellore and Chittoor districts, due to the heavy rainfall in the last three days. The bridge over Papagni River in Kamalapuram block of Kadapa district collapsed, bringing traffic to a halt on this road.In Chittoor district, a high alert was sounded in several villages like Mullapudi, Padipeta, Kuntrapakam, Tanapalli, Balijepalli and Gangireddipalli, as the Rayalacheruvu irrigation tank of Ramachandrapuram block is on the brink of a breach. Though the officials have been trying to plug the breach, they evacuated thousands of people from these villages to safer places.There are reports of at least three causeways on the Swarnamukhi river in Chittoor district getting washed away, cutting road links to as many as 30 villages. The officials said that it would take at least 20 days to restore the road connections.In the temple town of Tirupati, several colonies are still submerged. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) authorities, however, restored the traffic on both the ghat roads to Tirumala to facilitate pilgrims to get a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara.In Nellore district, the Penna river has been overflowing for the last three two days, inundating as many as 29 villages. Even in Nellore town, several colonies remained submerged on Sunday.The SDMA authorities said as many as 181 blocks, 1366 villages and four towns were affected due to heavy rains in the last two days, displacing over 36,000 people. As many as 2007 houses were damaged and 1,137 houses are still submerged in waters.The officials have shifted 31,827 people to 274 relief camps, where they are being provided with food and water. “According to preliminary estimates, agricultural crop in 2.41 lakh hectares and horticulture crop in 1.86 lakh hectares were totally damaged,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainhit-andhra-limps-back-to-normal-17-still-missing-101637526340423.html
22-11-2021||India||At 1.53%, Assam conviction rate lags behind the national average: NCRB||GUWAHATI The conviction rate in Assam paints a dismal picture of law enforcement in the state as merely 1.53% of those charged with IPC (Indian Penal Code) offences get convicted, against a national average of 14.35%, data for 2020 from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed.According to the NCRB report, 133,641 people were arrested in Assam for IPC crimes last year, of which charge sheets were filed against 61,668 but only 949 got convicted. Courts acquitted 15,919 of those arrested and 208 were discharged. “One prime reason for this is faulty and unscientific investigation. There’s also a lot of pressure on policemen who besides doing investigation are responsible for maintaining law and order and other duties,” said a former DGP of the state, wishing not to be named.“Slow pace of trial is another factor as sometimes witnesses retract from their earlier statements or turn hostile after a few months or years. Lawyers involved in prosecution should be more professional and the tendency to file frivolous cases or several cases for one incident also needs to be curbed,” he said.The conviction rate for crimes under special and local laws (SLL) in Assam is also very low. While the all-India rate stood at 34.16%, in Assam the conviction rate for SLL crimes in 2020 was just 1.36%, said the NCRB report. In 2020, a total of 12,482 persons were arrested under SLL in the state. Charge sheets were filed against 5,564 of them and only 76 of them ended up getting convicted. The courts acquitted the accused in 1,128 cases and discharged one. “The total strength of Assam police is very low and as there is no division of investigation, law and order and security duties, the same policeman ends up doing all of these tasks, which results in improper investigation. There’s a problem with infrastructure as well,” said noted lawyer Nekibur Zaman. “The state doesn’t have a fully equipped forensic sciences laboratory. There is also a lack of proper training for policemen to conduct scientific investigation. In some cases, charge sheets are not filed on time, which results in criminals getting bail and influencing witnesses,” he added. Zaman said while the judiciary is doing its bit, police also need to ensure delivery of summons on time and produce exhibits on schedule in courts. He blamed the state government for appointing prosecution lawyers on political considerations and not giving them adequate support. In 2020, a total of 146,123 persons were arrested under IPC and SLL crimes in Assam. Charge sheets were filed against 67,232 of them. Of them, 1,025 got convicted, 209 were discharged and 17,047 acquitted. The conviction rate for the state was 1.52% of those charge sheeted in comparison to the national figure of 21.63%. While conviction rates were low, the figures for recidivism (the tendency of persons arrested/convicted in past to commit crimes again) in Assam were better than the all-India numbers. In IPC cases, the rate of recidivism in Assam was 1.4% while the national figure was 4.8%. In SLL crimes, 4% of those arrested in 2020 were found to be repeat offenders in contrast to the all-India figure of 5% for such crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-1-53-assam-conviction-rate-lags-behind-the-national-average-ncrb-101637522740025.html
22-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Andhra couple hand over baby, DNA test to be held||A baby who was allegedly given away for adoption without the mother’s consent was handed over to a joint team of Kerala Child Welfare Council and Kerala Police on Saturday by the foster parents, a couple from Andhra Pradesh who were given its custody in August this year.The baby will be brought to Thiruvananthapuram by Sunday evening and a DNA test will be held on Monday to identify its biological parents, a senior official of the social welfare ministry said.Last week, the Kerala Child Welfare Committee, a quasi-judicial body, ordered authorities to produce the baby in five days and conduct a DNA test to decide biological parents, following a petition filed by 23-year-old Anupama S Chandran, a former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI), who has alleged that her boy born in October 2020 was secretively given away for adoption by her parents.The team comprising three senior officials of the child welfare council and three police officers, including a woman officer, is expected to return in the state capital on late on Sunday. The Kerala Child Welfare Committee had ordered a senior police officer to give protection to the child till a final decision is taken. According to reports in local media, the Andhra couple returned the baby and reportedly told the team that they would be happy if the child finds his real parents.“I am really relieved. Our six-month struggle evoked some results. But I have a reservation that same department officials who gave my baby for adoption flouting all norms were given charge of bringing him back,” said Chandran, adding that she will continue her stand-in protest outside the office of the state council of child welfare till officials who allegedly colluded with her parents get punished.The whole issue came to light after a police case was registered on October 20 after Chandran filed a complaint alleging that her parents forcibly took away her baby soon after its birth last year and gave it for adoption, bypassing her request to live with the newborn. Later, police registered a case against six people, including her parents.In her complaint, Chandran alleged that her father, S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, took away her newborn child and handed it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage in the state capital in October last year. The child was reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in a hurry, flouting adoption rules, she claimed in her complaint.Her father, Jayachandran, said since the baby was born out of wedlock they decided to shift to the government-run children’s home in the state capital with the consent of his daughter. He said she signed on stamp paper but Anupama later said she signed under duress. She said her parents opposed her relations with her husband Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family. But her parents alleged that Ajith was already married and the child was born out of wedlock.The issue turned into a massive controversy cornering the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the state government. Many writers and left intellectuals appealed to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to intervene, but he is yet to react while his party has maintained its stand that it was a “family affair”. During a recent assembly debate too, Vijayan skirted the issue. However, state fisheries minister Saji Cherian criticised Chandran justifying her parents. “Her parents have done only what everyone will do in the society,” he said. Later, Chandran filed defamation compliant against the minister.Chandran said she approached many including party politburo members and the CM but failed to get justice and forced to hit the street after all attempts failed. Legal experts said even after the DNA test she will have to wait till a court quashes the earlier adoption certificate and other formalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-andhra-couple-hand-over-baby-dna-test-to-be-held-101637522380130.html
22-11-2021||India||Over 1.8 million get jabs in Tamil Nadu in 10th mega drive||Tamil Nadu inoculated 1,821,005 people against Covid-19 in the 10th mega vaccination exercise conducted across the state on Sunday, the health department said.A total of 672,580 people got the first dose while 1,148,425 the second dose, comprising 75.75% (first dose) and 39.53% (second dose) of the population, a press release said here.Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian said Tamil Nadu has set a target to achieve 100% vaccination by the month-end against the Covid-19 pandemic and till date it has inoculated 75% of the population with single dose. “Even if there is a fourth or fifth wave of the contagion, the fatalities due to the virus was expected to be ‘minimal’ since it has been proved that people who receive the vaccination were 97.5 per cent safe, “ the minister told reporters after inaugurating the 10th mega vaccination camp in Chennai.He inspected the vaccination drive in the city that was conducted in various places like primary health centres, government hospitals and schools.The health department commenced the mass vaccination programme every Sunday beginning September 12 and since then it has been conducting the campaign every week.On November 17, the department decided to hold two mass vaccination exercises every week instead of weekly programme.The state saw 756 new infections on Sunday, pushing the coronavirus count to 2,720,271 while the toll rose to 36,375 with 14 more deaths, the department said. Recoveries outnumbered new infections with 847 people getting discharged in last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,675,174 leaving 8,722 active infections, a bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-8-million-get-jabs-in-tamil-nadu-in-10th-mega-drive-101637522319901.html
22-11-2021||India||Brother of former Miss Kerala runner-up seeks probe into car crash||The brother of former 2019 Miss Kerala runner-up Anjana Shajan, who, along with two others, died in a car accident, filed a complaint with the Kochi Police on Sunday and sought a detailed probe into the circumstances which led to the accident.In the complaint, Arjun Shajan has asked the police to probe the role of Roy Joseph, owner of the hotel where the models participated in a party and one Shaju Thankachan who followed them in his luxurious car after the party. “Some of the emerging details are serious. We want a thorough probe into the role of hotel owner Roy Joseph and Thankachan,” Arjun said in Kochi. Earlier, the parents of former Miss Kerala Ansy Kabeer, another accident victim, also filed a similar police complaint.During the investigation, the police found that the car was being tailed by an Audi car. Moreover, CCTV visuals from the hotel in Kochi were missing. During the probe, the police also found that employees retrieved the storage disk of the party area, as directed by the owner, and threw it into backwaters later.Sixteen days after the tragic deaths, the police arrested the hotel owner Joseph and five employees where the late-night party was held after two days of intense questioning. They got bail the next day.A senior police officer of the port city said they were arrested on charges of destroying evidence (section 204 of the IPC) and rash and negligent driving amounting to culpable homicide (section 304).Initially, the police booked the driver Abdul Rehman under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code. There were charges against the police that they are under pressure to go slow in the case, and driver Rehman was trying to hide vital information about the incident. Rehman remains in the hospital owing to his injuries but in under judicial custody, the police said.The fatal mishap took place on November 1 at around 1.30 am when the driver hit a tree on the roadside to save a motorbike rider in front of them. The car mangled in the impact, and it took some time for the rescuers to retrieve the trapped, the police said. Both Ansy and Anjana died on the spot while their friend Mohammad Ashiq, an advertising professional, died after a week. The driver escaped with minor injuries, the police added.Ansy was crowned Miss Kerala in 2019. In the same competition, Anjana ended as runner-up. After the accident, Ansy’s mother, unable to withstand her daughter’s tragic end, tried to die suicide but was saved by her relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brother-of-former-miss-kerala-runner-up-seeks-probe-into-car-crash-101637522139982.html
22-11-2021||India||Dhinakaran banks on Sasikala to regain key role in AIADMK||V K Sasikala’s renewed political journey has in effect given TTV Dhinakaran another shot to play a role as the future of the political party in Tamil Nadu, but experts said if the AMMK founder continues to hope that he and his aunt can reclaim the AIADMK, his political performance would dwindle further. “There is no doubt that Sasikala rehabilitated him and made him number one in command in the AIADMK before she went to prison, but much water has flown under the bridge since then,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “The 2.5% that AMMK got in 2021 is in favour of Dhinakaran’s character, his way of giving interviews. With that, he and Sasikala are aiming to reclaim the AIADMK, which has a 33% vote share. It is better if Dhinakaran keeps to himself and aligns with the UPA or NDA alliance in the 2024 elections. His vote share can convert into seats. Sasikala will only pull him down.” Dhinakaran’s place in Tamil Nadu politics was once touted to be the future of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), when he succeeded late J Jayalalithaa as the MLA of R K Nagar Assembly constituency in Chennai in 2017, at the height of his rebellion against the current leadership. Since then, he faced successive defeats and remained anonymous. His political future is inadvertently tied to the destiny of Sasikala, an all-powerful woman behind the scene when Jayalalithaa was alive – a position she lost after being imprisoned in 2017, and she, too, is picking up the pieces now. His lieutenants left him to join the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), his aunt, Sasikala abandoned him and their political quest before the assembly elections held this April. Dhinakaran had floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) with Sasikala’s supporters after the AIADMK had expelled both. It is perhaps the only party formed to reclaim the AIADMK. The AIADMK, after stonewalling Sasikala, has been divided in their opinion of her in recent months, given that the party lost three elections since Jayalalithaa’s death--2019 parliamentary polls, 2021 assembly polls and the rural body polls in October this year. On Sunday, Sasikala distributed relief materials to those affected by the rains in Chennai and alongside her was AMMK spokesperson C R Saraswathi. “AMMK cadre are all AIADMK cadre isn’t it?” said a leader of the AMMK, who did not wish to be identified. “We aim to merge with the AIADMK, and we are working towards that.” Sasikala continues to refer to herself as the AIADMK’s general secretary and has been releasing statements on current developments such as the northeast monsoon related floods, the repeal of the farm laws. “In other districts, homes have collapsed, people are suffering, so it raises a question if the government is doing enough,” she told reporters on Sunday. “The government has to safeguard people. In Chennai, people are suffering in huts. Relief has to be provided to them immediately.” Dhinakaran’s rise In 2017, Sasikala brought back Dhinakaran into the AIADMK and elevated him as deputy general secretary after Jayalalithaa had removed him in 2010. After Sasikala took over the AIADMK as its interim general secretary, and while facing a rebellion from O Panneerselvam before she could occupy the chief minister chair, the Supreme Court convicted Sasikala in the disproportionate assets case to a four-year jail term in Bengaluru. Following that, Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami expelled both Sasikala and Dhinakaran. Dhinakaran then contested as an independent candidate from Dr Radhakrishnan (RK) Nagar assembly constituency in Chennai, which fell vacant after late J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016. He won the RK Nagar by-poll surpassing Jayalalithaa’s margin in 2016, which shook state politics. He also created history on two accounts – being the first independent candidate to win an assembly by-poll and the election here was rescinded twice by the election commission on charges of cash being distributed to voters. Dhinakaran’s victory pushed the AIADMK to the second spot, and the DMK nominee lost his deposit. Previously, it was back in 1999 when Dhinakaran won the Periyakulam Lok Sabha constituency from the south district of Theni. Following his win in RK Nagar, Dhinakaran stood as a lone challenger to the Dravidian majors. Analysts had then said that he could even pull off a successful third front in Tamil Nadu’s politics, which has been successively ruled by the DMK and AIADMK since 1967. His cool and ever-smiling demeanour while fielding questions from the press had earned him an aura that nothing could startle him. But he could not recreate his magic. The fall In 2018, he floated the AMMK with a breakaway faction of Sasikala’s supporters, including 18 disqualified MLAs. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, AMMK did not win any seats but registered a 5% vote share, eating into the vote base of the AIADMK. In the assembly elections held in April, too, the AMMK drew a blank and registered a vote share of 2.35%. Dhinakaran was banking on Sasikala to boost his party’s prospects. His hope that her release from prison, earlier this year in January, would shake up the AIADMK did not happen. This disappointed Sasikala, too, when the AIADMK stayed tight and no senior leader, including those appointed by Sasikala when Jayalalithaa was alive, approached her. In March, Sasikala decided to step away from politics. On the day she announced her decision, Dhinkaran visited her home in Chennai and came out dejected and told the media that he could not convince her. Dhinakaran soldiered alone tying up with smaller parties such as the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of Popular Front of India, actor-politician Vijayakanth’s DMDK and Hyderabad-based Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM). Dhinakaran shifted his constituency from Chennai to Kovilpatti in Thoothukudi, but he lost. However, the AMMK did play a spoiler for the AIADMK in at least 20 assembly seats where the Dhinakaran and Sasikala’s community – Mukkalathor have strong support. “Dhinakaran did not take care of RK Nagar after his victory. So people did not want to give him another chance,” said a political observer who did not wish to be named. Before the April elections, a former AIADMK MLA, SG Subramanian, among 18 disqualified legislators for supporting Dhinakaran, was re-inducted into the AIADMK. Earlier, V Senthil Balaji and Thanga Tamilselvan quit AMMK and joined the DMK. Balaji is now the electricity minister of Tamil Nadu in the ruling DMK government. However, the party has had new energy recently since Dhinakaran supported Panneerselvam’s statement that the AIADMK would discuss inducting Sasikala. AIADMK has been speaking in different voices since then, with Palaniswami saying there is no chance of having her back. AMMK also held a two-day meeting in Chennai to prepare for the ensuing urban local body polls at the start of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhinakaran-banks-on-sasikala-to-regain-key-role-in-aiadmk-101637521841348.html
22-11-2021||India||24 die in November as rain fury batters Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Sunday said that at least 24 people lost their lives due to the incessant rains in the month of November. The heavy rains continue to batter down Karnataka, leaving a trail of destruction. “Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar, Hassan districts have suffered extensive damage,” said the Karnataka government. According to data by the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KDMA), more than 658 homes were completely destroyed and nearly 8,500 homes were partially damaged. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who held a meeting with senior officials on Sunday, instructed for the immediate release of ₹1 lakh as the first installment of relief for those who lost houses. Opposition political parties have accused the Bommai government of mismanagement and prioritising elections over the calamity. Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition in Karnataka, on Sunday questioned governance of Bommai-led government. “Thousands of acres of paddy, ragi, maize, vegetables, banana, [and] coconuts have been destroyed. Farmers are washing their hands with tears. Ministers are on tours and officials are warmly in their homes. People are on the streets. Is there a government here?” former chief minister Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter. Janta Dal (Secular) or JD (S) too criticised the Bommai government for its decision to prioritise elections when the state’s population was reeling under hardships. “There have already been unexpected rains in massive proportions. There have been mishaps, farmers have lost crops, homes and roads are damaged. We have tried to get the government’s attention towards this. “People are in pain. The government should not prioritise the election and first heed to the problems of the people which is their duty,” HD Kumaraswamy, former chief minister and JD(S) leader said on Sunday. Bommai on Sunday said he had visited affected regions in the city. “State government definitely has priority for Bengaluru. Instructions have been issued to take repair and relief works in affected areas immediately after rains subside, I will go on city rounds soon,” he said. The chief minister directed that ₹25 lakh be released for each zone in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits for filing potholes. The KDMA data showed that over 3.79 lakh hectares of agricultural crops were damaged and over 30,114 hectares of horticulture crops were lost due to the incessant rains; over 2,203 kms of roads were damaged. An official statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that “crops in 3.43 lakh hectares were affected due to incessant rains in August and September, affecting 1.5 lakh farmers, (and) ₹130cr has been released for them. Compensation for 79,000 farmers is pending and Chief Minister Bommai instructed for [the] release of ₹79 crore towards clearing the compensation due for them.” Karnataka received 85% more rains than the average in the months of October and November, the state disaster management authority said. In the month of November, Karnataka received 129 mm actual rains against the average of 35mm, registering an excess of 271%, data showed. Coastal Karnataka, one of the badly affected regions in the state, received 228 mm of rains as against the average of 52 mm, registering an increase of 338%. Among the districts, Chikkaballapura, about 70 kms from Bengaluru, registered 500% increase in rainfall, receiving 251 mm in November so far against the average of 42 mm. Bengaluru Urban district recorded an increase of 364%, receiving 195 mm of rainfall against the average of 42mm between November 1 and 21. Data showed that 21 districts have registered over 200% increase in rains in November. Only one district, Bidar, in the northeastern part of the State, registered a deficit of -1% of rains in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-die-in-november-as-rain-fury-batters-karnataka-101637521719956.html
22-11-2021||India||NIA to investigate arms, drugs smuggling by drones from Pakistan||New Delhi: Amid inputs of a looming threat of terror attacks in Punjab around the assembly elections, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been roped in to investigate a series of incidents related to smuggling of arms and ammunition, explosives as well as drugs from across the border via Punjab and Rajasthan by Lakhbir Singh Rode, one of the most wanted Khalistani militants in India and the chief of Pakistan-based International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), people familiar with the development said. Initial investigations have revealed that multiple consignments of small and large firearms, heroin and explosives such as RDX packed in tiffins (lunchboxes) have been sent in the past several months with the help of Pakistani spy agency ISI. Drones are primarily being used to drop these consignments with a motive to revive militancy in Punjab as well as to carry out terror attacks in other parts of the country, said a senior officer, requesting anonymity Rode, who also goes by the moniker Baba, is a nephew of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. He is currently said to be living in Lahore, Pakistan, and works closely with one Qasim, a suspected ISI officer. Officials said the NIA is probing a case regarding the arrest of one Darvesh Singh on September 7 this year. Darvesh Singh, along with his father Anokh Singh, both residents of Ferozepur, and 5-6 others was coordinating pick-ups of arms, heroin and explosives on the Punjab and Rajasthan borders.Between August and September alone, Punjab police busted at least four modules involved in the smuggling of weapons and explosives from across the border. In fact, multiple arrests were made and several tiffin bombs, hand grenades, detonators, small pistols, etc were recovered by police in Ambala, Kapurthala, Amritsar, and Ferozepur following which the Punjab government ordered a high alert in the state. The federal anti-terror agency is already investigating a case pertaining to the recovery of a tiffin bomb in Lopoke sub-division in Amritsar on August 8. It will investigate whether there is a link between the recovery of tiffin bomb on August 8 and arrest of Darvesh Singh on September 7. Apart from the ISYF, other Khalistani outfits such as the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) are using Chinese drones with ISI help to arm a movement to destabilise Punjab. Multiple assessments by Indian agencies and border guarding force, Border Security Force (BSF), have warned that the Pakistani army, ISI and terror groups’ use of commercial drones or quadcopters is a serious threat considering the size of the border, which is difficult to man physically round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-investigate-arms-drugs-smuggling-by-drones-from-pakistan-101637521481070.html
22-11-2021||India||BJP seeks JD(S) support in upcoming MLC polls||Karnataka’s ex-chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa on Sunday expressed confidence in Janata Dal (Secular) or JD (S) to support the saffron party in the upcoming MLC elections on December 10. “Wherever JD(S) does not have a candidate, I have confidence that they will support us and for this – I request both (HD) Deve Gowda and (HD) Kumaraswamy,” Yediyurappa said in Belagavi on Sunday. However, Kumaraswamy denied receiving any proposal. “There is no such proposal in front of me, when it does come, we will think about it,” Kumaraswamy said on Sunday. The statement fuelled speculations of the growing proximity between the BJP and the JD(S). Congress continues to attack the JD(S), terming JD(S) ‘B-Team’ of the BJP for providing tacit support to the saffron party. Defection to the BJP has been a worrying factor for the JD(S) as their presence in the old Mysuru region is being threatened due to a large number of leaders switching sides. The BJP had engineered defections in 2019 that led to the collapse of extremely turbulent 14 months of the Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-Congress alliance that was stitched up to deny BJP a chance at forming government. The JD(S) are trying to survive the onslaught of both parties – the BJP and the Congress – by siding with the one they think is a lesser threat in the Old Mysuru region where Congress has a better foothold than the other, said people familiar with the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-seeks-jd-s-support-in-upcoming-mlc-polls-101637521479968.html
22-11-2021||India||ACB raids BDA offices: No question of shielding guilty, says Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Sunday said that anyone guilty of corruption will not be spared as allegations of corruption surfaced in the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA), the principal planning authority of Bengaluru. “Our government will not tolerate corruption in any form. There is no question of shielding anyone found guilty,” Bommai said.Around 100 Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials raided the BDA offices on Friday after widespread corruption was alleged by SR Vishwanath, BDA chairman and BJP legislator from Yelahanka.“The ACB conducted a raid recently at the BDA office. We will act on the report to be submitted by the ACB. The truth will come out. There is no question of shielding anyone found to be involved in corruption,” Bommai said. He also said, “SR Vishwanath, who is the Chairman of BDA, had also drawn my attention in this regard. Urban Development Department officials have been instructed to investigate the complaints. The guilty, whoever it may be, however influential they may be, we will take action. BDA needs cleanup in the interest of delivering its services to the common man.” The BDA is one of the major departments that come under the Bengaluru district in-charge portfolio that Bommai continues to retain for avoiding the infighting within his cabinet members. Ex-CM B S Yediyurappa too had retained control over Bengaluru for the same reason, said people familiar with the developments. The corruption in the BDA comes at the time when the Bommai-led BJP government is still facing heat from the opposition on the Bitcoin scam. Congress has been relentless in its attacks on the Bommai government over the alleged laundering of money using the cryptocurrency with the help of a hacker named Srikrishna or Sriki. This is not the first time the BDA has come under the scanner. Earlier in 2010, irregular site allotments had started a series of corruption charges against Yediyurappa, which eventually led to him stepping down from the CM post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acb-raids-bda-offices-no-question-of-shielding-guilty-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-101637521300097.html
22-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Congress slams BJP over ‘Yatra’ as state reels under rain misery||Karnataka opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday said in a Twitter post that the ‘Janaswarjya Yatra’, a rally organized by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to mobilize support for the upcoming Karnataka’s legislative council polls as well as local elections, was actually the ‘Jana Barbadi Yatra’. He criticized the ruling party for prioritising politics when the entire state is reeling under heavy losses due to incessant and unseasonal rains. “Half the state has been hit by unseasonal rains. Though there has been a good crop, farmers are not able to reap the benefits. The state government is like touring talkies and performing. This is not Janaswarjya Yatra, it is the Jana Barbadi Yatra,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter. “Affected by the rains, over 20 people have died. Over 10,000 hectares of crops have been destroyed. People are on the streets as their homes have collapsed. The BJP government has to rush to their aid but instead are going around doing their drama Janaswarjya Yatra,” Siddaramaiah added. Unseasonal rains have battered several states, including Karnataka, in October and November. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said rains have caused extensive damage. “About 3 lakh farmers were affected due to excessive rains in July, August, September months. Compensation amount had been released for them. Instructions had been issued for disbursal of ₹130 crore pending amount through Direct Benefit Transfer system,” Bommai said on Sunday. The chief minister added that district officials were instructed to submit survey reports on the losses. Bommai said the election code of conduct is also an issue that is causing delay as permission from the Election Commission is needed, adding “We will write to the Election Commission in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakacongress-slams-bjp-over-yatra-as-state-reels-under-rain-misery-101637521121848.html
22-11-2021||India||Andhra: Rain recedes in coastal area, but 17 still missing||Heavy rain that has wreaked havoc in the south coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh as well as the Rayalaseema region over the last few days lifted on Sunday, bringing some much-needed respite to the districts in these regions, state authorities said. An official bulletin from the state disaster management authority (SDMA) in the evening said the death toll remained at 24 but the fate of 17 people, believed to have been washed away in the floods in Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Nellore, is still not known. “There has been no trace of 11 persons, who were washed away in the floods of Cheyyeru river due to the breach of Annamayya reservoir near Pulaputhur village of Nandalur block in Kadapa district. Four teams of NDRF and three of SDRF are still on the rescue operations,” the bulletin read. Four people in Chittoor, and one each in Anantapur and Nellore, were also missing till Sunday evening. “There has been very scanty and scattered rainfall in these four districts, ranging from 0.02 mm in Chittoor to 1.7 mm in Nellore. However, there was 4 mm rainfall in Kurnool,” the SDMA bulletin said. However, the flood fury continued to ravage Kadapa, Nellore, and Chittoor districts due to heavy rain in the last three days. The bridge over Papagni river in Kamalapuram block of Kadapa district collapsed, bringing traffic to halt on this road. In Chittoor district, a high alert was sounded in several villages like Mullapudi, Padipeta, Kuntrapakam, Tanapalli, Balijepalli and Gangireddipalli, as Rayalacheruvu — a major irrigation tank of Ramachandrapuram block — is on the brink of a breach. Though the officials have been trying to plug the breach, they evacuated thousands of people from these villages to safer places. There are reports of at least three causeways on the Swarnamukhi river in Chittoor district getting washed away, cutting road links to as many as 30 villages. The officials told them that it would take at least 20 days to restore the road links. Meanwhile, in the temple town of Tirupati, several colonies are still submerged. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) authorities, however, restored the traffic on the ghat roads to Tirumala. In the Nellore district, the Penna river has been overflowing for the last three days, inundating as many as 29 villages. Even in Nellore town, several colonies remained submerged on Sunday. The SDMA authorities said as many as 181 blocks, 1,366 villages and four towns were affected due to heavy rain in the last two days, displacing over 36,000 people. As many as 2,007 houses were damaged and 1,137 houses are still submerged. As many as 31,827 people have been shifted to 274 relief camps where they are being provided with food and water. “According to preliminary estimates, agriculture crop in 2.41 lakh hectares and horticulture crop in 1.86 lakh hectares were totally damaged,” the bulletin said. Principal secretary (revenue) Usha Rani said each affected family would be given 25 kg of rice, one kg each of red gram, onions, potatoes and palm oil free of cost. The loss of crops is being estimated and suitable compensation would be worked out, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhrarain-recedes-in-coastal-area-but-17-still-missing-101637520819991.html
22-11-2021||India||Don’t just raise Ram slogans, follow his path too: Mohan Bhagwat||Public service is not only about raising slogans but also requires one to be conscious and work on the ground, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking at an award function organised by Sant Eshwer Foundation in association with Sewa Bharti, an offshoot of the Sangh, Bhagwat said it was not enough to raise slogans in praise of Ram, but efforts must also be made to emulate him. “Nowadays, we raise the slogan of Jai Shri Ram enthusiastically. There is nothing wrong in it but we should also follow the path shown by Lord Ram,” the 71-year-old said. Bhagwat said that the Indian civilization survived many odds and continued to move forward as it believed in taking everyone along. “There a tradition from the time of Vedas that assumes entire India belongs to you. This compassion towards this land which we treat as our motherland and all those born here as our siblings…If we work with this compassion there is nothing which can stop India from growing at a desired pace,” he said. While the opponents of the RSS accuse it of fostering a communal sentiment, the RSS chief said Indian society does not oppose anyone based on their faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-just-raise-ram-slogans-follow-his-path-too-mohan-bhagwat-101637520760991.html
22-11-2021||India||Former Maha minister Vinod Tawde named BJP’s national general secretary||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Maharashtra minister Vinod Tawde was on Sunday appointed as the party’s national general secretary. The elevation is seen as a strong message to former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and is believably done against his wish, party insiders said.Tawde (59) was appointed as the national general secretary by party’s national president JP Nadda on Sunday. The Maratha leader was appointed as secretary and made in-charge of Haryana last year, after he was almost sidelined during the state assembly polls in 2019 when he was denied party ticket. Tawde was the minister for school education, higher and technical education for five years in the Fadnavis government. The ticket was denied, according to party insiders, reportedly owing to infighting within the state unit and at the behest of Fadnavis.“Tawde, Eknath Khadse, Chandrashekhar Bawankule were a few heavyweight party leaders who were not re-nominated in the assembly polls. It was not only shocking but sent out a wrong message that the party loyalists were being ill-treated, while the outsiders were given upper hand. Similar treatment was meted out to Pankaja Munde, who had to face defeat in the polls because ‘anti-party activities’ in her constituency during the election,” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity.“The leaders were believed to be from the anti-Fadnavis camp. Tawde was divested of the medical education department within one-and-a-half years after the Fadnavis government was formed. He was also kept away from the decision making on key issues including Maratha reservation, during the stint. Tawde’s appointment has come just a day after Bawankule was featured in the list of candidates announced for the legislative council elections to be held on December 10. This is a clear message to the Fadnavis camp,” the leader added.On Sunday, Tawde said the appointment has shown that “patience pays rich dividends in politics”.“I have been given many responsibilities by the party in the past. I was general secretary at state level, youngest chief of the Mumbai unit of the party, leader of opposition in legislative council, minister with 8 departments among other responsibilities in my political career. When I was denied ticket in 2019-Assembly polls, I had said that I am a party worker who believe in patience and there was no question of quitting party for just one denial. The patience has paid today,” Tawde said.Tawde, who was elected from Borivali constituency in 2014, is also one of the key leaders from Konkan and his elevation is seen as an attempt by the party to woo Konkani voters living in Mumbai ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections next year. Shiv Sena enjoys larger influence on this vote bank.Former minister and BJP leader Ashish Shelar called it a happy moment for the Maharashtra unit of the party. “He (Tawde) has been a prominent leader from Maharashtra. As a secretary and in-charge of Haryana, he has done an impressive job even in the adverse atmosphere. His elevation as national general secretary is delight for all of us,” he said.Tawde began his political career as active member of ABVP and went on to become general secretary of state unit, leader of opposition in the legislative council between 2011 and 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maha-minister-vinod-tawde-named-bjp-s-national-general-secretary-101637520759904.html
22-11-2021||India||TMC leader arrested in Tripura, party plans protest in Delhi today||The Trinamool Congress will hold protests in the national capital on Monday after Tripura Police arrested their youth leader from West Bengal, Sayani Ghosh, in Agartala on Sunday for allegedly trying to disrupt chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s civic poll rally the day before, the party informed.A group of 15 TMC members of Parliament will be reaching Delhi on Sunday night and have a meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday over the alleged “continued” political violence in Tripura. Party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also expected to be in the Capital on Monday afternoon on a four-day visit, party insiders said. She had earlier said that she wanted to discuss a host of issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.On Monday, TMC’s youth wing leader Ghosh will be produced before a local court in Tripura. The charges against her are grave: promoting enmity, criminal conspiracy and even attempt to murder.Ghosh was booked on Saturday under sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).“We got a complaint and accordingly summoned her. Based on the statements of the witnesses, we arrested her,” said additional superintendent of police Jagadeswar Reddy. “Four more people were with her at that time. We are trying to arrest them as well,” Reddy said without elaborating on the attempt-to-murder charge.Ghosh’s counsel, Shankar Lodh, contested this and said she was returning from a political programme in Dhalai district’s Ambassa on Saturday when her vehicle came to Ashram Chowmuhani in Agartala where a poll meeting of chief minister Deb was underway.“Someone told her ‘Khela Hobe’ and she replied to the same politically. Being a lawyer, I will not comment on political matters. But a political slogan can’t be unconstitutional. If someone threatens to kill someone, that might be considered unconstitutional,” Lodh said.TMC leader Sushmita Dev alleged that the police went to the hotel where Ghosh was staying on Saturday night and asked her to report to the police station the following morning. While she was being interrogated on Sunday, some TMC leaders who were present outside the police station were assaulted by some Bharatiya Janata Party cadres, Dev alleged.“The main motive of the BJP is to disturb TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s rally here tomorrow (Monday). We are with Sayani,” Dev told the reporters.Police said that some people were attacked by some unidentified miscreants and two were injured. “We have filed a suo motu case and will arrest them when they are identified,” Reddy said.But BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya rubbished the allegation. “We don’t consider Trinamool Congress as our opponent and our activists didn’t attack them. They should also restrain themselves from using any such words that are not welcome,” he said.But the TMC will hold protests in the national capital on Monday while their national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, will lead a procession in Agartala. The party delegation in Delhi will also seek an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah.Meanwhile, TMC started a Twitter storm on Sunday evening. “This is the HORRIFIC state of affairs in Tripura under @BjpBiplab’s Gunda Raj! While our leaders & workers are being MERCILESSLY ATTACKED every moment, @Tripura_Police continues to shield the @BJP4Tripura assailants! Urging the Hon’ble Supreme Court to take strict actions,” TMC tweeted around 8pm on Sunday.HT spoke with TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh over the phone who was in Agartala.“Violence is going on at the Agartala women’s police station where TMC youth wing president Sayani Ghosh has been kept in custody after her arrest. Goons stormed inside the premises and attacked us in the afternoon and once again in the evening. Even a journalist was injured. We were trapped inside till a senior police officer rescued us and took us to a safe place late in the evening. Such attacks in a police station can only be seen in movies,” Ghosh said.“The BJP government in Tripura is blatantly violating the orders of the Supreme Court which said a few weeks ago that the civic elections in the state have to be fair and democratic. This is contempt of the apex court. We will raise these in Delhi,” said Kalyan Banerjee, TMC Lok Saba member.(With inputs from HTC in Kolkata)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-arrested-in-tripura-party-plans-protest-in-delhi-today-101637520581153.html
22-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu cop killed while trying to nab thieves||A 50-year-old special sub-inspector was murdered by two men in the early hours of Sunday in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district, the police said.S Boominathan was on patrolling duty with another police beat officer, Chitravel, when he saw the duo on a motorbike with a goat. Suspecting them to be thieves, Boominathan went ahead of his colleague on a two-wheeler to intercept them. However, the suspected two thieves assaulted him with weapons and fled, the police said.A statement from the police confirmed that he was assaulted on his head with a machete. CCTV footage from the spot near Pallathupatti railways underground bridge in Keeranur shows that the special SSI bled out heavily on the road. His associate reached the spot later. “The two officers started chasing the goat thieves together, but the second officer’s bike couldn’t pick up speed, so he couldn’t follow Boominathan and went another way. By the time they spoke over the phone, and he reached the spot, the murder had occurred,” said Trichy DIG Saravana Sundar.Tamil Nadu’s additional director general of police (ADGP), Tamarai Kannan, visited the grieving family and later told reporters that they are taking rapid action in the case. “We have received a tip-off on the accused, and we will arrest them soon,” he said. Four special police teams have been formed to track down the accused. Boominathan was an SSI in the Navalpattu police station in Trichy. He was cremated with state honours and a gun salute. He is survived by his wife Kavitha, who is a homemaker, and a 21-year-old son, Kugan, who is studying an MBA course at Chennai’s Anna University. Expressing grief, chief minister M K Stalin issued a solatium of ₹1 crore to Boominathan’s family and also assured a government job for one of his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cop-killed-while-trying-to-nab-thieves-101637520459910.html
22-11-2021||India||All issues have been addressed, says Sachin Pilot after Rajasthan cabinet rejig||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister and senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday said he is happy that all issues he had raised, including the representation of Dalits, were addressed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the Cabinet reshuffle.“Four Dalits have been included in the Cabinet. This is a big message. At the same time, the representation of tribals and women has been increased. This was a necessary step and the party and the government worked hard to take it forward,” Pilot told reporters at his residence here.“I am happy that the issues raised, including increasing representation of Dalits, have been addressed by the party leadership,” he added.Five of Pilot’s loyalists were among 15 ministers inducted in the rejig which was necessitated following the former deputy chief minister’s rebellion against Gehlot last year. The rebellion had prompted the Congress to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by Pilot.Since then, the demand for a cabinet reshuffle and equal representation of all castes and communities were raised for several months by the Pilot camp, consisting of 18 Congress MLAs, excluding the party leader.The Cabinet rejig, which took place late on Saturday, was the first in the Gehlot government, which will complete three years of its term next month. The council of ministers now has 19 cabinet ministers and 10 ministers of state, apart from the chief minister.“It has been tried that no one should be left out and the decision has been made keeping in view every section and region. The representation of Scheduled Caste and women has increased manifold in the cabinet. This in itself is very important which we all should welcome,” Pilot said.“The work has been done to give representation, participation in proper proportion to the (Dalit) section which has always stood with the Congress. For this, I thank Congress president Sonia Gandhi, (party in-charge of state) Ajay Maken, Ashok Gehlot and Govind Singh Dotasra. They discussed with all the leaders and such a big reshuffle has been done with a very comprehensive approach and after taking feedback from all the leaders and workers,” he added.The senior Congress leader also said that after the reshuffle, the state Congress was likely to be revamped to help the party take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2023 assembly elections.The former deputy chief minister also denied any factionalism in the party.“There is only one faction, the faction of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and we all are the members. It will be our endeavour to move forward collectively and win the next assembly elections,” he said.Asked what role he would assume now, Pilot said he will wait for the party to decide.Speculations are rife that the senior Congress leader would be appointed as the general secretary in-charge of an important state which will go to polls next year.“I have always worked for the party. My aim is to bring Congress back to power in 2023,” he said.Pilot also said that the panel formed last year to look into the issues raised by him had delivered results. He added that he expects that those loyal to him would find a place in political appointments, expected to start from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-issues-have-been-addressed-says-sachin-pilot-after-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-101637520399969.html
22-11-2021||India||Congress attacks Centre over Chinese ‘intrusion’ in Arunachal Pradesh||The Congress on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of deception and deliberate distortion over alleged Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “silence” on the issue. Sharing two satellite images of any area in Arunachal Pradesh, Congress spokesperson Dr Abhishek M Singhvi claimed that China constructed 60 structures inside the Indian territory. HT could not verify the authenticity of the two images. He also pointed out contradictions in the defence ministry and ministry of external affairs’ stance in the matter. “Chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, at a conclave, said all is well and all constructions are happening on the Chinese side of the border. But Arindam Bagchi from the ministry of external affairs, on the same day, said illegal constructions have been done by China,” “On an issue like this, can we have this double-voiced-hypocritical-unimaginable-inexcusable divergence of views between two ministries as important and high as foreign affairs and the defence ministry?” he added. Condemning Modi’s silence on the matter, the Congress leader said: “I beseech the Prime Minister to be honest and transparent and to immediately address this very huge issue of national security.” Hitting back, BJP national spokesperson Tom Vadakkan said: “Now that the farmers’ issue is sorted out, the Congress is creating a false narrative over China’s territorial expansion. The MEA and MoD have very categorically stated that there has been no intrusion.” “These are desperate times for Congress given the elections and that’s why they are using China to reach the public, by throwing false narratives,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attacks-centre-over-chinese-intrusion-in-arunachal-pradesh-101637520341243.html
22-11-2021||India||2021 sees 199 fatalities on Pune city roads||On November 21 or the third Sunday of November which is traditionally observed as World Remembrance Day for victims of road accidents, the traffic branch revealed that there were as many as 199 fatal accident-related deaths in 2021 as compared to 143 in 2020, and 206 in 2019. The traffic branch said that the number of fatalities had gone down only marginally despite awareness created by different wings of the state government seeking to reduce road accidents and fatalities. Traffic experts and activists said that bad roads, incomplete roads, rash driving and indiscipline were some of the main reasons behind the rise in the number of vehicular accidents in the city.Despite restrictions for almost five months and offices allowing work from home due to Covid, the fatalities this year were high. Last year the number had come down drastically with complete lockdown for over two months.DCP (traffic) Rahul Srirame said that relaxation of lockdown restrictions and the addition of two new police stations – Lonikand and Lonikalbhor – had led to the rise in number of accident-related deaths. Most of the accident-related deaths were reported on stretches of the Pune-Solapur and Pune-Ahmedabad highways that come under the city limits. “Two-wheeler riders form the major chunk of accidental deaths wherein more than 90 two-wheeler riders have died in road fatalities during the year,” Srirame told Hindustan Times.Lonikand accounted for 20 fatalities while Lonikalbhor saw 16 fatalities even as most of the city’s old areas did not witness major accidents and deaths. However, citizen-activists pointed out several roads where accidents had occurred in areas including Chandan nagar, Yerawada, Dhanori, Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi, Undri, Baner, Pashan and other areas where the traffic police was found wanting in terms of manpower, patrolling and taking strict action against rash driving.Traffic expert Prashant Inamdar said, “We need more vigilance and enforcement on the part of the traffic branch in terms of implementation of traffic rules in the city. Wider dissemination of the dangers of rash driving along with strict implementation of penalties will lead to reduction in road accidents and fatalities. It is a continuous process and long-term measures are needed so that Pune becomes safe for commuters.”November 21 – origin and significanceSince the adoption of World Remembrance Day for victims of road accidents, pursuant to the General Assembly resolution, the day is being observed by a growing number of countries around the world. According to the United Nations, the day has become an important tool in the global efforts to reduce road casualties. It offers an opportunity for drawing attention to the scale of emotional and economic devastation caused by road crashes, and for recognising the suffering of road crash victims as also the work of support and rescue services.On the occasion, a dedicated website was launched to make the day more widely known and to link countries through shared objectives and remembrance of those killed and injured in crashes.Deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane said, “On the occasion of this day, more than 40 programmes on road safety will be organised. We are working closely with different government departments, motor training schools, and our RTO office for spreading traffic safety-related awareness in the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-sees-199-fatalities-on-pune-city-roads-101637520339994.html
22-11-2021||India||Train services between Siliguri and Dhaka to begin soon: Shringla||Train services between north Bengal’s Siliguri, the second-largest city in the eastern state, and Bangladesh’s capital Dhaka will start soon, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Sunday.Shringla, who was in Darjeeling to attend a charity event, made the announcement while interacting with the media.“The Centre is trying to operationalise the railway services between the two cities and the announcement on the same would be made soon,” he said.“The plan is to start the service at the earliest and it will take advantage of the opening of Haldibari-Chilahati train services. It is important for linking Bangladesh to north Bengal. It will provide a lot of opportunities in transportation of goods. The services will start with freight trains and, over a period of time, passenger train services will start between Siliguri and Dhaka,” Shringla added.Freight train services between Haldibari in the Alipurduar railway division and Chilahati in Bangladesh resumed on August 1, after 56 years.“The two countries have passenger train services between Kolkata and Dhaka and between Kolkata and Khulna. Passenger trains between Dhaka and Siliguri will bring in tourists and people coming for medical reasons. This is good for the region,” Shringla said.Five railway services between West Bengal and Bangladesh are currently operational. These are: Petrapole (India) - Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede-Darshan, Singhabad-Rohanpur, Radhikapur- Birol and Haldibari-Chilahati.The foreign secretary also reiterated that India has a clear laid policy in regards to China.“The Tibetan Autonomous Region is a part of that country and there is no change in our policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-services-between-siliguri-and-dhaka-to-begin-soon-shringla-101637520099946.html
22-11-2021||India||Centre’s outreach fails to make mark in Jharkhand tribal icon's village||The Union government earlier this year announced to observe the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda on November 15 as the national ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’, with this year’s celebrations including Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing a tribal conclave in Bhopal and virtually inaugurating Birsa Memorial at the old Ranchi jail, where the tribal icon breathed his last in captivity of the British in 1900 at a young age of 25.While the legacy of Birsa Munda gained national significance this year with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s tribal outreach, his name is one of the most prominent ones in Jharkhand and is often revered with a prefix Bhagwan (God) and several important landmarks such as airport, stadiums, academic institutions, jails and roundabouts among others named after him.Jharkhand, which was carved out of Bihar on Birsa Jayanti in 2000, observes its statehood day on November 15 every year. On the day, it’s an annual ritual for politicians and bureaucrats to make a beeline to Ulihatu, the paternal village of the tribal icon located around 70 km south of state capital Ranchi, and deep inside the hilly and forested terrain under Arki block in Khunti district, which was in news for its Pathalgadi movement in 2017-18.Despite deep inside the forest, ride to Ulihatu from the Khunti district headquarters is an easy one, thanks to a high-profile visit by home minister Amit Shah in 2017 when he was the BJP national president. A 12.5-km double-lane road constructed ahead of Shah’s visit remains in good shape.On November 19, this correspondent visited Birsa Complex at Ulihatu. It was just passed the noon and a few workers were busy painting the iron grills of the huge round platform at the Birsa Complex, spread across seven acres and housing a boarding school, an upcoming hospital and a guest house.Junior engineer of the district administration, Anil Shrivastava, who was supervising the renovation work, said it was due to recent spell of rain that they were behind schedule.“Our Baba (Birsa Munda) has become the face of the state. Every year, top politicians and senior officials come here. But this is what shows the actual situation on the ground. Couldn’t this work have been started 10 days back and completed before Birsa Jayanti,” said Gangi Munda, grand daughter-in-law of Birsa Munda, pointing at the renovation work being carried by the team of the junior engineer.One of the buildings on the complex meant for the school is now home to a company of Shahastra Seema Bal (SSB) stationed permanently here as part of the state’s anti-naxal operations. Though the school, from class I to X, became operational in 2008, it only has three permanent teachers against the sanctioned strength of 18, said its principal Kartik Singh Munda, who has been posted here since 2017.“Till the first lockdown, we were given 13 extra temporary teachers who were paid on hourly basis. We have opened this month and a few students from class 6 and above have returned,” he said.The memorial, with a marble floor, has a small two-room hut. The outside wall of the hut has two marble plaques. One lists the family lineage of Birsa Munda while the second has a name of two former ministers who laid foundation stone of the memorial in 2003-04.As per the family tree, Birsa had two siblings, Konta and Kanu Munda. While Birsa was unmarried when he died, there isn’t much documentation available on Konta. Kanu’s grandson Sukhram Munda who lives just next to the memorial is the recognised living member of Birsa’s family. As a mark of honour, Sukhram and his family have been given the economic security by the state government over the past two decades.In 2007, two sons of Sukhram — Jungle Singh Munda and Kanu Munda — were inducted as peons in Khunti district administration. While the siblings live in government quarters in Khunti, their parents Sukhram and Lakhmani Devi live in the house next to the memorial. While their house still has an asbestos roof, the floor is tiled and inner courtyard covered by paver blocks. The tiles and paver blocks were laid in 2017 ahead of Shah’s visit, besides piped water connection that draws water from a solar-power tank.The renewed focus on Birsa Munda this year at the national stage brought symbolic windfall for Sukhram in an era of the growing identity politics. Sukhram, along with his sons, was flown to New Delhi the morning after Birsa Jayanti, with the trip being sponsored by the office of Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, who represents Khunti Lok Sabha constituency. During his three-day trip, Sukhram was given the honour of inaugurating the Aadi Mahtosav at Dilli Haat, given a tour of the Rashtrapati Bhawan and a thorough health check-up at AIIMS.While Sukhram Munda’s family has something to count in assistance, most of the villagers in Ulihatu still live in kachha houses and dependent on rain-fed agriculture. While majority of them speak Mundari, they also show reluctance in interacting with an ‘outsider’.Shyam Singh Munda, in his early 20s, said he was “tired of speaking to press as it hardly makes any difference”, pointing at the slow pace of development of the village amidst tall promises made by successive governments.“I am seeing this since childhood. Nothing happens. People visit our village once a while but things remain as usual,” said Shyam in broken Hindi, focusing on arranging the rice straw lying on the floor.On November 15, almost the entire district machinery was at the village with the Sarkar Aapke Dwar programme. The 42-day outreach programme for service delivery at panchayat level was inaugurated by chief minister and president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Hemant Soren.Deputy commissioner-cum-district magistrate of Khunti, Shashi Ranjan, said there has been a delay in providing pucca houses to the villagers. “Pucca houses in this village are being provided under Shaheed Gram Vikas Yojna and not under the PM Awas Yojna. The villagers had been demanding bigger houses. Now all formalities have been completed. Few from the village were even given certificates for their entitlements. All houses would be completed soon,” said Ranjan.As per the 2011 census, Ulihatu has 196 families with a population of 1,126, including 675 male and 451 female with an average sex ratio of 668, much lower than that of state at 948.Ranjan said they are all set to inaugurate the hospital within a fortnight, while refusing to provide details about the total cost incurred in the project. “I don’t have the figures… as funds from tourism department are also involved in it,” he added.Karia Munda, eight-time BJP MP from Khunti and one of the tallest tribal leaders in the country, expressed displeasure over the prevailing state of affairs.“It was in mid 90s when then chief minister, Lalu Prasad, made a visit to Ulihatu. Then we should to have a tribal welfare commissioner. With active support from him, I got funds worth ₹3.5 crore sanctioned for development of Birsa Munda memorial and the complex around 1996-97. But the funds were not released. After creation of Jharkhand, we got that money back and then the development work started,” said Karia Munda, sitting in his ancestral home in Angira village on the outskirts of the Khunti district headquarters.Munda underlined that none of the governments in the state, irrespective of party, gave due importance and urgency towards development of the iconic village.Sukhram, however, expressed hopes that the renewed focus on his grandfather at the national stage might bring changes in life of the tribals across the state.“The key, however, is that tribals are given good education and modern training in whichever work they do. Be it farming or poultry or any other work, they should be given proper training and exposure with the best practices in the trade,” Sukhram said on his return to Ranchi airport from New Delhi on Friday, expressing happiness about his experience of flying and the attention he received in the national Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-outreach-fails-to-make-mark-in-jharkhand-tribal-icon-birsa-munda-s-village-101637520042356.html
22-11-2021||India||After acing court, Leander prepares for political battle in Goa||Indian tennis legend Leander Paes, who has recently joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), is busy traversing through the streets of poll-bound Goa, talking to local residents about problems faced by them and promising solution while tracing his ancestral legacy in the coastal state’s political court. Taking a leaf out of his playing days, he starts early in the morning, holding meetings to plan his day, followed by making strategies for the poll campaign and review people’s response. After the meeting, the celebrity campaigner for the TMC in Goa along with his partner and Bollywood actor Kim Sharma hit the road, greeting people, posing for photographs and offering a genteel smile to those that stare from the distance. “It’s been incredible. The reception that I’m so blessed to receive was one of being a son of the soil when we went into Velim, Tolleacanto, Assolna (the village where his father Vece Paes hails from) or when we came here to Calangute to Calangute or Candolim. They all start first talking about how wonderful it was to have a son of the soil coming back to make a difference,” and Olympic bronze medalist said, while being driven from one house to another. Helping him in his first plunge in politics is a group of around 20 IPAC (Indian Political Action Committee) volunteers, who have to constantly adjust his logistics and schedule as engagements take longer than planned and meetings either get delayed or cancelled. On Sunday, Paes had to cancel a meeting with Bruno Coutinho, former India football captain in the 90s, at the last minute while trying to squeeze in a meeting with a popular local restaurateur before rushing to back-to-back meetings with party strategists later in the day.“I served the country for 30 years playing my tennis. I’ve travelled around the world and tried to bring laurels to our flag and to our people. But now that I’ve retired from tennis, my single-minded focus is to bring a better quality of life to our people and to bring a sense of peace in society and a sense of harmony,” Paes said. His plunge into politics, he said, received a “mixed reaction” even within his family. “It’s amazing how everyone has a point of view on politics. I’ve pretty much heard it all,” he added. In between getting selfies and greetings, Paes also attempts to field questions about the party’s plans for Goa, which will go to assembly polls in February-March next year. One question that he recalls being frequently asked is as a son of the soil, where was he all these years and why has he emerged in a political outfit only months before the state elections.“I think there are so many Goans and Indians who have left their roots to pursue other professions to make a living. But we never leave our roots in our hearts and minds. Could have I come ten years ago? Could I have come five years ago? Could I have come six months ago? Maybe. But the fact that I’m here now is what matters,” he said. “There is a time and a place for everything and I’ve been very blessed to be in the right place at the right time. If given the right opportunity and a platform to bring a quality of life just as my parents and forefathers have given me and my sisters, I would like to do that to all my brothers and sisters of Goa,” he added. However, there are many who remain sceptical about the promises Paes and his party are making for development of Goa.“They (TMC) are speaking the right language but are yet to grasp the intricacies of Goa’s politics and prove that they really are here with an aim to defeat the BJP. They have to choose the right candidates and support the right candidate where they can’t find the right one,” said one such person after meeting Paes. “There are several issues that affect the locals, that they don’t seem to have fully understood,” he added, requesting anonymity.“We appreciate Paes for all he has done, but politics is a different ball game. I do not think he has had much of an impact. He didn’t come to Goa even during his playing days and now suddenly before elections he is here,” said Michael Beny da Costa, a resident of Velim, where Paes’s ancestral family hails from. He was a candidate for the TMC during its earlier foray in to Goa in 2012.“It is good for the voter that he has a choice of many candidates but we are worried about a split in the secular vote,” da Costa added.Neshwin Almeida, who traces his roots to the village but now lives in Margao, said Paes’s entry will get eyeballs, but may have little impact on the party’s ultimate chances in the election.“Velim constituency comprising villages of Assolna, Ambelim, Velim, Tollecanto, Chinchinim and Sarzora is surely proud of his 1996 Olympic Bronze, but Leander never recognised his Goan ancestry in the past and preferred to be known as a Kolkata boy or Bombay lad. In fact, he is more known for his club tennis in the USA and his visits to the White House to meet Obama as Washington Kastles captain,” Almeida said. “Bringing him to Velim will cause more insecurity amongst voters that an outsider with a distant son of the soil tag is being imposed on the constituency while the local lad Antonio Clovis da Costa who joined the TMC (and is a ticket aspirant) was sidelined. Bringing sportsperson to shake hands with children, wave at fishermen and interact for two hours can’t win you polls, it’s the foot soldiers that always win polls,” he added.When asked if he was going to contest the assembly election, Paes said, “I’m growing every day and learning something new. We are assessing the situation as it is on a daily basis and if the party decides that I should contest the polls then I’m ready.”The TMC with IPAC’s assistance has decided to once again foray into the Goa political space and has brought on board former CM Luizinho Faleiro to lead the party and has even begun poaching members mainly from the Congress to boost its numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-acing-court-leander-prepares-for-political-battle-in-goa-101637519920025.html
22-11-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Union cabinet to meet, farm laws withdrawal on table||It just does not end when it comes to Sameer Wankhede, the controversial western zone chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau. This week, the Bombay high court will hear a petition regarding a caste certificate. A petition was filed in the Bombay high court seeking directions to the caste scrutiny committee to verify Wankhede’s caste certificate. It also asks the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) to terminate his services if the scrutiny committee finds that he has misused his father’s scheduled caste (SC) certificate. The petition claims that the SC status was relinquished after Dnyandev Wankhede, Sameer’s father, got married to a Muslim woman. In essence, the petition states that Wankhede entered the civil service by hiding the fact that he was a Muslim and by misrepresenting his caste/religion. Perhaps the biggest story this week will be the Union cabinet meeting on Wednesday when it is likely to discuss the repealing of the three controversial farm laws that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced last week in a nationally televised speech. On Monday, farmers will gather for the mahapanchayat called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of more than 40 organisations from across the country, ahead of the cabinet meeting. Farmers are demanding the formal decision to repeal should come early and that should be accompanied by a new minimum support price regulation. In Kerala, a local court in the state capital Thiruvananathapuram will start hearing on Monday a charge sheet filed against education minister V Sivankuty and five former legislators in a case related to destroying assembly property in a fracas in 2016. All courts, including the Supreme Court, had dismissed their pleas to discharge the accused. The child welfare commission is expected to take a final decision on former SFI leader Anupma S Chandran’s plea by Wednesday. Hectic political activity is likely to be witnessed this week in Rajasthan after a new cabinet was sworn in on Sunday under chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The CM on Monday is likely to allot departments to ministers, appoint parliamentary secretaries and advisors. The process to make political appointments in corporations and commissions will also begin this week. Assam will embark on a door-to-door campaign to ensure 100% coverage of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine among all eligible beneficiaries. The campaign will continue till November 27. In Karnataka, political parties will switch gear ahead of the MLC polls as the deadline for nominations ends on Tuesday. Next week will see the Karnataka government publish an estimate on loss to crops and infrastructure due to rains since November 11. Karnataka high court is also expected to take up a case against a ban on gambling. In West Bengal, the schedule of the upcoming civic body polls in Kolkata and Howrah will be decided this week. The government wanted to hold the polls on December 19, but the BJP moved the Calcutta high court demanding simultaneous polls in all 120-odd civic bodies across Bengal. The hearing is on November 24. Meanwhile, in Tamil Nadu, restoration of damaged roads and other infrastructure touch points will begin this week after torrential rain disrupted life last week. A Central team of six members is likely to visit the state to assess the damage and provide aid for restoration work. BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh will reach Dehradun, Uttarakhand’s capital, on a three day visit from November 24 during which he will hold meetings ahead of the upcoming polls. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Delhi on Monday and is likely to meet PM Narendra Modi. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will visit Punjab for what he termed as the ‘Mission Punjab’ tour. Also, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will visit Jammu & Kashmir on Tuesday, while BJP chief JP Nadda will launch the party’s Uttar Pradesh poll campaign from Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-union-cabinet-to-meet-farm-laws-withdrawal-on-table-101637519742789.html
22-11-2021||India||Singapore, India to resume flights under Vaccinated Travel Lane from Nov 29||Singapore said on Sunday it has reached an agreement with India on resuming commercial flights under the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) facility that will commence with six daily flights from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai on November 29.The city state began discussions with Indian authorities last week for a temporary arrangement for partial resumption of commercial flights between the two sides following the launch of VTL for quarantine-free travel for fully vaccinated travellers.Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong tweeted that joint efforts by the lead agencies of both sides resulted in the resumption of commercial flights. Travellers from India can apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) from November 22, he said.VTL travellers must be fully vaccinated and present a digital proof of vaccination. They must also take two Covid-19 tests – a pre-departure test within two days before departing for Singapore, and an on-arrival test at Changi airport, following which they have to remain self-isolated until the result is confirmed to be negative.External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who was in Singapore last week, tweeted on November 17 that he had discussed enhancing travel arrangements between the two countries at a meeting with Singapore’s transport minister S Iswaran.The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) said in a statement it “reached an agreement with the Ministry of Civil Aviation of India on the resumption of scheduled commercial passenger flights”.“This will facilitate quarantine-free travel on the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) from India to Singapore, which will start from 29 November 2021 with six designated VTL flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai,” it said.Airlines can also operate non-VTL flights between India and Singapore, and travellers on these flights will be subject to certain public health requirements, including a Covid-19 test two days before departure and serving a seven-day “Stay-Home Notice (SHN)” at the place of residence, a hotel or a serviced apartment.The airlines will announce the schedules for VTL and non-VTL flights when ready.People familiar with developments said the arrangement with Singapore will be on the lines of an air bubble. India currently has air bubble arrangements with 30 countries.According to the CAAS statement, short-term visitors and long-term pass holders will need to apply for a VTP to enter Singapore under the VTL. Applications for VTP for both categories of visitors from India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Finland and Sweden will open on November 22.“CAAS understands that travellers are looking forward to the launch of the VTL and would like to assure travellers that there is no need to rush to apply for the VTP,” the statement said.VTPs will initially be issued to those who intend to travel to Singapore from November 29, 2021 to January 21, 2022. Those who intend to enter Singapore after December 1 were encouraged to apply after November 24.Short-term visitors were advised to obtain a visa after receiving VTP approval. They must also purchase travel insurance, with a minimum coverage of $30,000 for Covid-19-related medical treatment and hospitalisation costs. In Singapore, these visitors must also use the TraceTogether app to facilitate contact tracing.Currently, the only flights from Singapore allowed to carry passengers to India are those under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). Since these are chartered repatriation flights, they could not be designated as VTL flights.Singapore started the VTL mechanism on September 8 with two countries – Brunei and Germany. It now has VTL arrangements with 13 countries, including Australia, the UK and the US. VTLs for India, Finland, Indonesia, Malaysia and Sweden will become operational from November 29, and similar arrangements for Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will begin from December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-india-to-resume-daily-flights-under-vaccinated-travel-lane-from-nov-29-101637519741816.html
22-11-2021||India||Centre may bring back three farm laws after 2022 assembly polls, fears Samajwadi Party||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday expressed apprehension that the Centre could bring back the three contentious farm laws after the assembly polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, next year as it cited the statements made by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj on them. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws after nearly a year-long agitation by a section of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, opposing the laws. Both Mishra and Maharaj told reporters on Saturday that the laws can be brought back again, if needed.In a tweet in Hindi, the Samajwadi Party charged, “It is absolutely clear that their (BJP) heart is not clean and after the elections, the bills will be brought in again. Occupying Constitutional posts, Governor of Rajasthan Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj have said that the BJP government may bring a bill for farm laws...This is the truth of those tendering false apologies to farmers...The farmers will bring a change in 2022.”Mishra on Saturday said in Bhadohi that efforts were made to make the farmers understand the provisions of the farm laws, and positive aspects, but the farmers had been demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws and were protesting against them. Eventually, the government felt that the laws should be withdrawn, and if there was a need to make the laws again, it would be done. “The farmers were continuously demanding that the farm laws be withdrawn and it was done in a very civilised manner. It is a good step and an appropriate decision,” Mishra said.Speaking to reporters in Unnao on Saturday, BJP’s Sakshi Maharaj said, “Bills are made and repealed. They will come again, and will be made again. It hardly takes any time (Bills to bante rehte hai, bigarte rehte hai...vaapas aajaayenge, dobara ban jaayenge...koi der nahi lagti hai). But I thank Modiji that he displayed a big heart and he chose the nation over the laws. And those whose intentions were wrong, those who had raised slogans of ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ and ‘Khalistan Zindabad’, have got a befitting reply.”He also categorically stated that there was no connection between the announcement of repealing of the farm laws with next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “In the UP 2022 assembly elections, the BJP will cross the 300-mark in the (403-member) UP Legislative Assembly. In India, there is no substitute for (Prime Minister) Modi and (UP chief minister) Yogi Adityanath. Their magic will stay,” he said.SP national president Akhilesh Yadav in a press conference on October 25 (much before the PM’s announcement) had said, “It is quite possible that the BJP government (at the Centre) will withdraw the ‘black’ farm bills and then reintroduce them after the elections.” And in a press conference on Friday, hours after the PM’s announcement, Akhilesh Yadav had said: “Saaf nahin hai inka dil, chunayo ke baad fir layengey Bill (Their heart is not clean; they will reintroduce the bill after the elections). (With inputs from agencies.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-bring-back-three-farm-laws-after-2022-assembly-polls-fears-samajwadi-party-101637519681260.html
22-11-2021||India||Uttarakhand elections: Free pilgrimage service for senior citizens if AAP voted to power, says Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised to introduce a free pilgrimage service for senior citizens in Uttarakhand if the party was voted to power in the assembly elections next year.Under the scheme, Hindus will be taken to Ayodhya, Muslims to Ajmer Sharif and Sikhs to Kartarpur Sahib, Kejriwal told reporters during his one-day visit to Haridwar.“The AAP government in Uttarakhand will provide senior citizens free pilgrimage facilities to Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya for Hindus, Ajmer Sharif for Muslims and Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage for Sikhs residing in the state,” he said.Uttarakhand is already a religious hub and our party will make it a spiritual capital of the country, he added. Referring to a similar scheme introduced by his government in Delhi, Kejriwal said: “We introduced a free pilgrimage scheme for the elderly in Delhi under which they are taken in the comfort of AC trains for free to 12 pilgrimage destinations all over the country, including Haridwar, Rishikesh, Vaishno Devi and Puri.”At least 36,000 people have already availed the scheme under which people are selected every year for pilgrimages, he added. Besides this, the AAP chief also promised a monthly stipend of ₹5,000 to the unemployed, 80% reservation in jobs for local residents and one lakh jobs within six months of the party coming to power. “To check hill migration, a separate migration department will be formed in Uttarakhand,” he said. Kejriwal assured the people of Uttarakhand a huge positive change in development works, time-bound completion of projects and corruption-free governance which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, he alleged, only promise prior to the polls but fail to fulfill them after forming a government.Claiming that his party changed Delhi when people gave it a chance, Kejriwal asked for just one opportunity for the AAP to serve Uttarakhand.“We changed Delhi thoroughly when we were given a chance. Give us just one opportunity in Uttarakhand. You will forget about all political parties,” he said.Kejriwal also held a meeting with autorickshaw drivers in Haridwar and promised to address their problems as he had done in Delhi, if the AAP forms the government in the state. The auto-rickshaw drivers of Delhi are admirers of the AAP and played a vital role in its victory, he said.Several local residents and party workers took part in the AAP chief’s roadshow which began from Parshu Ram and ended at the Shankar Ashram intersection. Hitting out at the AAP chief over his poll announcements, BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari said: “They don’t have party cadre in all the 13 districts but making unrealistic claims of contesting in all 70 segments. Will the Delhi chief minister and his deputy (Manish Sisodia) be their faces or crowd pullers in Uttarakhand too?”“It is BJP which will win 60 plus seats, even Congress is nowhere near, forget the AAP,” he added. Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat said Kejriwal should first fulfil similar promises he had made to the people of Delhi. This is Kejriwal’s third visit to the hill state this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-elections-free-pilgrimage-service-for-senior-citizens-if-aap-voted-to-power-says-kejriwal-101637519679947.html
22-11-2021||India||PM Modi pitches for high-power technology for grassroot policing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appreciated the positive change in police attitude towards the public, particularly post Covid, at a conference of director generals of police (DGP) and inspector generals of police (IGP) in Lucknow, officials said.The Prime Minister also pitched for setting up of a high-power police technology mission, under the leadership of the Union home minister Amit Shah, to adopt future technologies for grassroot policing requirements.Modi was addressing the valedictory session of the three-day conference at the UP Police headquarters here when he made the suggestions, an official statement said. The event was inaugurated by Shah on Friday. “Took part in the DGP/IGP conference in Lucknow. This is an important forum in which we are having extensive deliberations on modernisation of our police set-up,” Modi tweeted. At the event, Modi sought an analysis of all police-related incidents and developing case studies to make it an institutionalised learning mechanism. He further hailed the hybrid format of the conference as it allowed a free flow of information between various ranks, the statement said. It added that Modi suggested involving highly qualified youth to look for technological solutions, through hackathon, to tackle some of the routine challenges faced by the police.The Prime Minister suggested the development of inter-operable technologies which would benefit police forces across the country. Citing the importance of technology in the lives of the general public, Modi gave examples of CoWIN, the online platform for Covid-19 vaccination, the GeM, the government e-market place and UPI, the instant real-time payment system. He also suggested a positive use of drone technology for the benefit of the people and stressed on a review of the SMART policing concept introduced in 2014. He suggested the development of a roadmap for its continuous transformation and institutionalisation of the same concept in police forces, the statement said. Violence perpetrated by Maoists, action against terror modules and cyber crime were some of the issues that figured prominently for discussion at the event.The Prime Minister sat through the deliberations in the entire session on Saturday. The conference was attended by 62 DGPs/IGPs of states/Union territories and DGs of CAPFs (central armed police forces)/central police organisations (CPOs). Over 400 officers of various ranks attended the conference virtually from Intelligence Bureau (IB) offices across the country. The Prime Minister also awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service to IB personnel.In the run-up to the conference, various core groups of DGPs were formed for holding discussions on key aspects of national security such as prison reforms, terrorism, left-wing extremism, cyber-crimes, narcotics trafficking, foreign funding of NGOs, drone-related matters and development of border villages.For the first time, as per the directives of the Prime Minister, Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from various states submitted articles on contemporary security issues, which added more value to the conference.On Friday, Shah awarded trophies to three best police stations of the country. He also participated in all the discussions and offered his suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pitches-for-high-power-technology-for-grassroot-policing-101637519559821.html
22-11-2021||India||Negotiations over release of vaccine for Covax in final stage||Negotiations for release of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses for the Covax facility are on the final leg in India, with the Union ministry of health and family welfare and other ministries concerned working together on it, according to people familiar with the development.“The negations are on at the moment, and the approval could be granted for releasing Covid-19 vaccine doses for the Covax facility any time now,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.In September this year, India announced resuming Covid-19 vaccine exports in the last quarter of this year, including doses to be distributed under the Covax facility.“The health minister himself announced that India will resume export of Covid vaccine in the last quarter of 2021; therefore, it will happen in coming weeks. The process is currently on with the health and ministry of external affairs and other departments working closely to make it happen. It is just a matter of time before the approval is granted,” added the official.Covax facility was created in 2020, to ensure global equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, and is led by Gavi, the vaccine alliance, the coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations (CEPI), and WHO (World Health Organisation).Covax facility has two categories — one is self-financing countries and second is those needing support. Rich countries that are part of the Covax facility are paying for their vaccines and also support 92 countries that require support.India also contributes to Covax facility because the country’s vaccine manufacturing base is solid and very appropriate for use in lower- and middle-income countries. It suits the settings of these countries in terms of cold chain management, training of workers etc., and the vaccines developed and manufactured in the country are also cost-effective, easy to use and easy to administer.India halted export of Covid-19 vaccines in April this year, after a severe second wave hit the country because of which the government of India decided to open up vaccination for all adults.After almost 70% of the country’s population received at least first dose and about 30% were fully vaccinated, the government decided to resume exports. Last month, 4 million doses were approved for exports to four countries — Iran, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Myanmar — as part of the Modi government’ vaccine maître initiative, and Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has also been given approval this month to export 20 million doses of its second Covid-19 vaccine, Covovax, to Indonesia.Government is making efforts through a special drive — Har Ghar Dastak (knock on every door) — to ensure no eligible person is left without taking the vaccine shot.“The supply chain has improved tremendously, and we have enough to vaccinate the remaining population; therefore, the surplus amount can be shipped to other countries that are in need of the vaccines,” said a top government functionary, on condition of anonymity.On Sunday, at least 200 million balanced and unutilised vaccine doses were lying with all states and Union territories.Experts also said that vaccine supply seems no longer an issue in the country, and efforts of the authorities concerned must now be concentrated towards covering the last mile efficiently as those who were willing to get vaccinated have already received the shot.“In past couple of months, we have seen that there is no shortage of Covid vaccines doses; so, the focus now should be on identifying and reaching out to those who are vaccine hesitant. Instead of waiting for these people to reach vaccination centres, it was a good idea to go door-to-door,” said Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negotiations-over-release-of-vaccine-for-covax-in-final-stage-101637519439873.html
22-11-2021||India||Amarinder says he will not leave Patiala seat||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced that he will contest the upcoming assembly elections from the Patiala assembly constituency.“I will contest from Patiala. Patiala is with us for 400 years,” a post on his official Facebook page said, quoting him. The two-time former chief minister quit the Congress earlier this month and floated his outfit, the Punjab Lok Congress.Punjab will pick a new assembly in elections early next year.“I am not going to leave it (Patiala) due to Sidhu,” the Facebook post said, in a reference to his spat with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The veteran leader, in April, challenged Sidhu to contest against him from the seat months before the feud between the two leaders snowballed into a crisis in the party’s state unit and led to the unceremonious exit of Singh as chief minister.The Patiala assembly constituency has been a stronghold of Singh’s family. He has won the seat four times in the past, while his wife, Preneet Kaur, represented it between 2014 and 2017. Singh’s father, Yadavinder Singh, was the last ruler of the princely state of Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-says-he-will-not-leave-patiala-seat-101637518600287.html
22-11-2021||India||New Raj cabinet takes oath, Pilot camp gains||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra administered on Sunday the oath of office to 15 lawmakers as ministers in the Ashok Gehlot-led state government, the first major overhaul of the cabinet, a month before the Congress completes three years in office.Of the 15 MLAs administered oath, 12 are were not in the council that resigned on Friday and three have been elevated to cabinet rank. The 15 include five lawmakers considered close to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who rebelled against CM Gehlot in July 2020 before an uneasy truce came into effect.All 20 ministers in the Gehlot cabinet tendered resignations on Saturday to pave way for the reshuffle. On Sunday, only three were dropped as they were not eligible for cabinet positions. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra is state party chief; health minister Raghu Sharma and revenue minister Harish Chaudhary were made state in-charges for Gujarat and Punjab, respectively.Of the remaining 17 ministers, three were elevated to Cabinet rank and 14 were retained. With the induction, the Cabinet has reached its maximum strength of 30 for a 200-member state assembly. Among the inductees were five Pilot loyalists including -- Vishwendra Singh and Ramesh Meena --- who were sacked from the cabinet after Pilot’s rebellion last year. Other Pilot loyalists inducted are Murari Meena, Brajendra Ola and Hemaram Choudhary.Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav and Tika Ram Julee were promoted to cabinet rank. Four new MLAs were inducted as ministers of state including BSP leader-turned-Congress MLA Rajendra Gudha, who is considered close to CM Gehlot. Other ministers of state were – Zahida Khan, Brajendra Ola and Murari Lal Meena.Of the 30 ministers, nine are from reserved SC/ST category and there are ministers from all prominent communities such as Gujjars, Jats and Rajputs. However, there are 12 districts without a minister while 14 out of 30 ministers are from four districts – Jaipur, Bharatpur, Dausa and Bikaner.None of the independents supporting the government have found a place in the cabinet.Congress leaders, wary of unease within the state unit, said the chief minister will appoint 15 MLAs as parliamentary secretaries and another seven as his advisers in the coming weeks. Some others could be appointed as head of commissions and boards, people aware of the matter said. “Everyone would get some important position in the government or the party,” a senior Congress leader said, after the oath taking ceremony, asking not to be named.Before the oath taking ceremony, Gehlot addressed MLAs at state party office and said those who could not become ministers have no less roles. All India Congress Committee chief Sonia Gandhi said that those who keep patience get rewarded one day, one of the leaders aware of the meeting said.The CM said ministers should meet people every day and that they have responsibilities towards the entire state and not just towards their constituencies.Congratulating the new ministers, Gehlot tweeted: “Best wishes to all the MLAs who took oath as ministers of Rajasthan government today. In the last 35 months, our government has done the work of giving sensitive, transparent and accountable good governance to the state. Despite all the adverse circumstances, our government have taken the state forward on the path of development.”Pilot expressed satisfaction over the new face of the council of ministers and said the rejig was after much brainstorming and discussions. “I am happy that the issues raised including increasing representation of Dalits have been addressed by the party leadership,” said Pilot.“It has been tried that no one should be left out and the decision has been made keeping in view every section and regional point of view. The representation of SCs, women has increased manifold. This in itself is very important which we all should welcome,” he said.The clamour for Cabinet reshuffle was growing for the last several months with the Pilot camp demanding they be accommodated.Political analyst Manish Godha said the reshuffle is a balancing act to settle the conflict within the state Congress. The party has come up with a formula in which the dissident faction got five and Gehlot’s got ten berths. The party high command has maintained the supremacy of the CM but Gehlot failed to get some independent MLAs inducted. For Pilot’s camp, the return of two leaders – Ramesh Meena and Vishwendar Singh -- is a key win.“Overall it is a good act of balancing ahead of the assembly polls in 2023,” said Godha.Congress has 108 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. It also has the support of 12 out of 13 independent MLAs.Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Ram Lal Sharma said Congress leaders making statements of unity was just a front and there were many developments behind closed doors. He said the party will face resentment from senior MLAs, who are sidelined and not inducted in the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-raj-cabinet-takes-oath-pilot-camp-gains-101637518539027.html
22-11-2021||India||Worker’s hand chopped off for demanding wages in MP||Three men have been arrested for allegedly chopping off the hand of a 45-year-old Dalit man in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district after he asked his employer to pay his pending wages, police said on Sunday.The victim, Ashok Saket, is undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Medical College in the district, the officials said.The incident occurred at Dolmau village under the Sirmaur police station, about 40 km away from the Rewa district headquarters, on Saturday, when Saket went to his employer, Ganesh Mishra, to ask for his wages, officials said.An argument broke out between the two, following which Mishra severed Saket’s hand, Rewa superintendent of police Navneet Bhasin said.“Ashok Saket used to work as a labourer at a construction site of Ganesh Mishra. Mishra was not paying his wages. On Saturday, Saket went to collect his wages but they had a heated argument. Mishra chopped off one of his hands,” Bhasin said.The incident came to light when Saket approached the Sirmour police station, Bhasin said. “Saket reached Sirmour police station and informed police about the incident. Police admitted him to a hospital.”“A police team reached the spot and recovered a hand after two hours. A team of doctors performed surgery but could not reattach it,” Bhasin said. Saket is reported to be in a stable condition.Mishra has been arrested along with his brothers Ratnesh and Krishna Mishra, and booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPc and under relevant section of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Bhasin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/workers-hand-chopped-off-for-demanding-wages-in-mp-101637518479014.html
22-11-2021||India||Five charts that explain the inflation situation in India||How serious is the inflation problem in India? The answer depends on which indicator one is looking at. Retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 4.5% on a year-on-year basis in October. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI), on the other hand, grew at 12.5% in this month. What is one to make of these divergent estimates of inflation in India? Here are five charts which put this in perspective.CPI has been higher in the past, but WPI is at an all-time highAs far as retail inflation goes, India has seen worse even in the current CPI series which starts from January 2011. However, WPI has been in its highest ever territory in the past few months; it had never breached the double-digit barrier until April 2021.But CPI and WPI measure different set of pricesLest one assumes that the difference between CPI and WPI is the former measuring retail and the latter wholesale prices, it is important to clarify that the CPI and WPI commodity baskets differ significantly. The difference is on two counts: weight of different commodities in the two indices and the kind of commodities which are included in each basket. For example, food items have a share of 39% in the CPI basket. For food and beverages combined, this share is 46%. In contrast, food items account for just 24% of the WPI basket. Price of housing, which accounts for 22% of the CPI basket, is not present in WPI at all. Then there are items such as fertilisers and synthetic rubber in the WPI, which are not present in the CPI. This difference is on account of the purposes of the two indices. CPI seeks to measure the price change facing a household’s budget; WPI is the best proxy for producer prices in India.There is more to inflation than fuel pricesHeadline inflation numbers would have been higher had it not been the recent moderation in food prices. And, fuel prices have been an important source of tailwinds for both retail and wholesale inflation. The fuel sub-category of both CPI and WPI is at an all-time high at the moment. However, fuel is not the only source of inflation at the moment. Prices of non-food non-fuel goods and services have also been rising at a fast pace. Trends in the CPI sub-categories of clothing and footwear and miscellaneous (it mostly includes consumer services) and WPI sub-category of manufacturing goods clearly shows that inflation is pretty broad based in nature at the moment.Is it a case of imported inflation?International prices have definitely played a role. And it is not just an increase in crude oil prices. The Bloomberg Commodity Index – it is a weighted average of prices of energy, grains, industrial and precious metals, cotton and livestock – has increased significantly in the post-pandemic period. To be sure, it is still way below its all-time high and the trend has flattened in the past few weeks. Some independent economists have been arguing that the post-pandemic surge in international commodity prices – it was the result of twin shocks of disrupted value chains and sudden spike in pent-up demand – might have peaked already. If this is indeed the case, price pressures should ease going forward.But there is also a profiteering angle to current inflation storyWhether or not, and to what extent producers raise prices for consumers is among the most important bargains in economies. Producers are more confident of raising prices when they expect demand to be price inelastic i.e. less sensitive to change in prices. This is likely to be the case when consumer incomes are robust (higher prices do not hurt) or when producers do not fear being outcompeted by someone offering lower prices. Economic inequality, both among producers and consumers, plays an important role in this bargain.In a research note dated August 2, Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India economist at HSBC had underlined this possibility. “A key structural shift over the last year has been the rise in inequality. At the firm level, there is evidence that the pricing power of large firms has risen over the last year. At the individual level, higher demand for services could distort prices. The rich tend to consume more services than the poor, and the disproportionate rise in demand could stoke services inflation (which can’t be traded away like goods)”, the note said. In her note after the latest CPI numbers were released, Bhandari has reiterated this argument. “This component (core inflation or non-food non-fuel component of CPI basket) is most at risk over the foreseeable future as producers start to pass on higher input costs to consumers and services demand rises as vaccination rates pick up”, the note said.An HT analysis of data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s Prowess database – it is among the most comprehensive corporate database in India – supports Bhandari’s argument. The ratio of corporate profits to raw material costs – other things remaining the same, it would tell us whether firms are passing a greater or smaller share of input costs to consumers – has increased significantly in the post-pandemic period.It might be tempting to call for anti-profiteering actions to control such tailwinds to inflation. However, this is an option where a policy intervention carries a big risk of subverting market signals in the name of correcting them. A better way to look at this problem is to ask what has led to the rise in economic power of large corporations or the formal sector which has bestowed it with asymmetric pricing power in the economy. The answer to this question must confront the larger realm of political economy rather than tracking the intersection of demand and supply of individual commodities.(Vineet Sachdev contributed to this story for analysis of the CMIE Prowess data)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-charts-that-explain-the-inflation-situation-in-india-101637513078703.html
22-11-2021||India||‘Irresponsible nations twisting definitions of sea laws’: Rajnath Singh||In a veiled jibe at China, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said “some irresponsible nations” for the sake of their narrow partisan interests and hegemonic tendencies are coming up with inappropriate interpretations of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).It is a matter of concern that UNCLOS is being repeatedly weakened by arbitrary interpretation of its definition by some nations, he added.The minister was speaking after commissioning of Indian Navy’s destroyer INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai when he made the remarks.“There are some nations - I would like to say irresponsible nations – (who) for the sake of their narrow partisan interests, keep on giving new and inappropriate interpretations to these international laws from hegemonic tendencies,” he said, without naming China.“The arbitrary interpretations create obstacles in the path of a rule-based maritime order,” he added.China has been militarising islands in South China, a move that has attracted global criticism. The area has overlapping claims of several East and Southeast Asian nations.“India is a responsible maritime nation and we believe in rule-based navigation and friendly and peaceful relations with all nations,” Singh said, adding that India envisions a rule-based Indo-Pacific, with freedom of navigation, free trade and universal values, in which the interests of all the participating countries are protected.Prime minister Narendra Modi’s SAGAR (security and growth for all) embodies the same values and principles, the defence minister said.Besides border disputes, Singh said maritime matters have been leading nations to bolster their militaries. “Make India an indigenous ship-building hub for not only our country but also the world,” he said.INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first of the four stealth guided-missile destroyers under project-15B, was commissioned in the Indian Navy at the naval dockyard here. Project 15B comprises four ships — Visakhapatnam, Mormugao, Imphal and Porbandar, and all are being built by the Mazgon Dock Limited (MDL).The ship is also packed with sophisticated state-of-the-art weapons and sensors such as surface-to-surface missile and surface-to-air missiles. It is fitted with a modern surveillance radar which provides target data to the gunnery weapon systems of the ship. The anti-submarine warfare capabilities are provided by the indigenously developed rocket launchers, torpedo launchers and Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) helicopters.“INS Visakhapatnam commissioning marks a milestone in indigenous shipbuilding, capability, firepower and intent in securing the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). Indian Navy is the primary manifestation of India’s maritime power,” Navy chief admiral Karambir Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-of-four-stealth-guided-destroyer-ins-visakhapatnam-commissioned-in-indian-navy-101637488837757.html
22-11-2021||India||Army, navy and IAF get 6 months to respond to theatre command final proposal||The department of military affairs (DMA) has given the Indian Army, Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force service headquarters six months till mid-2022 to respond to its final military theatre commands proposal before commencing the raising of much required rationalised structures for countering adversaries. China has already integrated theatre commands with mixed element brigades and is now helping Pakistan to also reform its warfighting systems with theatre commands.According to officials in the know of the developments, the DMA under Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has sent the final structure to the three-service headquarters for giving their considered view in writing to the defence ministry in the next 180 days. It is understood that once the army, navy and the air force come back to DMA with their suggestions or objections before the process of raising theatre commands begins with senior military commanders indicating that the new commands will be functioning by end-2022.While the army and the navy are all for theatre commands, the air force is trying to reconcile with the division of its air assets among respective theatre commands. Fuelling discontent and new hurdles against the theatre commands is the fact that the service chiefs will no longer be numero uno of the respective military branches but will only be responsible for training and prioritisation of hardware purchases as part of the committee headed by the permanent chief of staff or the CDS in this case. It is this resistance to change or reform by the three services and the pressure from the retired ex-servicemen lobby that has led to the defence ministry consulting all and sundry for military theatre commands.Fact is that while the entire 3488 of Line of Actual Control is handled by the Western Theatre Command of the PLA including elements of the air force, armour, artillery and rocket regiments, it is faced with three—northern, central and eastern command—of the Indian Army along with similar three commands of the Indian Air Force. While the PLA theatre commander directly reports to the Central Military Commission (CMC) under President Xi Jinping, the Indian Army and Indian Air Force report to their respective chiefs like in World War II and who in turn report to the defence minister with a dotted line to the Prime Minister of India.Even the Indian Navy is divided into western and eastern commands, whose commanders report to Chief of Naval Staff, while the Andamans and Nicobar Commander, the key to any sea battle in future, reports to the Chief of Integrated Defence Staff or CISC. Simply put, all the services operate within their own silos and rarely are on the same wavelength on crucial issues facing the security of the nation. But for record’s sake, all the services have been talking about joint manship or battle synergy since the 1999 Kargil war.While India, often described as raucous and chaotic democracy, takes its own time to reform and rationalise the Indian military amidst continuous state, by-elections, and general elections, it is faced with as authoritarian Communist China ruled by a dictator for life and a quasi-democracy in Pakistan where the army is forever in power and rules the roost. Indian military must reform or else it will be surprised again by the PLA like it was in May 2020 on the banks of the Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-navy-and-iaf-get-6-months-to-respond-to-theatre-command-final-proposal-101637481379968.html
