23-11-2021||India||‘Mamata can aspire to become PM but…': Here's what Tathagata Roy said||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya Tathagata Roy on Tuesday took a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and said the Trinamool Congress supremo can never become the prime minister.“If Mamata Banerjee thinks that as head of a regional party, she can aspire to become PM, she can aspire but it is not going to come true. Nobody trusts her. Opposition unity is not going to happen,” Tathagata Roy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The veteran BJP leader who decided to bid ‘farwell’ to the West Bengal unit of the party “for the time being” on Saturday, said "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will come to power again with a huge margin."He further said that if there is any opposition party that would be Congress. “The Trinamool Congress is a local party. But the situation of Congress is so bad that they cannot even get 100 seats,” Roy said.The veteran leader slammed the Mamata Banerjee-led party for allegedly creating unrest in Tripura, ahead of the November 25 civic polls, and said it would never come to power in the northeastern state."Trinamool Congress should be ashamed of speaking about law and order. They are great at shouting. In West Bengal, more than 100 BJP workers were killed. Has any Trinamool Congress worker been killed in Tripura? They are just creating unrest to come to power in Tripura," he told news agency ANI.Asked about Mamata Banerjee's scheduled meeting with Prime Minister Modi over the Border Security Force jurisdiction issue, Roy said, "Chief ministers can meet Prime Minister and discuss any issue. But she should read Constitution that BSF is the subject of the Centre. Modi ji will listen to it but it will not make any difference."ALSO READ | Congress leaders Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool CongressThe West Bengal chief minister reached New Delhi on Monday and is scheduled to be in the national capital till November 25, ahead of Parliament's Winter Session on November 29. The visit is seen by political experts as a booster shot to opposition unity against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The visit is expected to provide fillip to regional opposition powers right before the parties rush into election mode for the upcoming assembly polls in five states, including in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura.Following her stellar victory in the assembly elections in West Bengal, where she faced the Bharatiya Janata Party in a do-or-die battle, Mamata Banerjee emerged as a prominent figure among the opposition camp's attempt at stitching together a unified anti-BJP coalition ahead of the 2024 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-can-aspire-to-become-pm-but-here-s-what-tathagata-roy-said-101637687498203.html
23-11-2021||India||PM Modi’s pics on vaccine certificate: Kerala HC issues notice to Centre||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday admitted a plea challenging Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on the vaccination certificate and directed the Centre and state governments to file counter-affidavits.While hearing the plea earlier Justice N Nagaresh orally observed that it will have serious implications and posed a question that if someone wants to remove the photo of Mahatma Gandhi from currency notes saying it is their blood and sweat and they don’t want to see his face, what will happen? Earlier the petition was heard by another judge Justice PB Suresh Kumar.Counsel for petitioner M Peter, Advocate Ajit Joy contended that the photo of Mahatma Gandhi was printed on the currency as per the regulations of the Reserve Bank of India but the PM’s photo was affixed not based on any statutory provision or rule. “The photograph is a needless intrusion into the private space of the petitioner. The Central government or the PM cannot claim to have done anything particular, but their duty,” Peter contended in the petition. The petitioner, also a frequent traveller, said he has to carry the certificate with him to several places and the photo of the PM has “no substance, utility or relevance.” If the government is firm, people can be given an option to carry the certificate without any photo. He also produced vaccination certificates of different countries including the United States, Indonesia, Israel and Germany saying they all carried necessary information, not photos of their heads of the government.Earlier, the union government defended its decision to include the photograph in the certificate saying the PM’s image along with his words help create general awareness and Covid-appropriate behaviour. When a question came up in the upper house in August, Minister of State for Health BP Pawar said it was ideal to promote awareness. “The photograph, along with his words, reinforces the message for creating awareness and importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after the vaccination. It was done in the larger public interest,” he said in a written reply. But Congress and other opposition members deplored it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-pics-on-vaccine-certificate-kerala-hc-issues-notice-to-centre-101637689376393.html
23-11-2021||India||3 Lashkar terrorists held in connection with killing of Kashmiri salesman||Police in Jammu and Kashmir arrested three people on Tuesday for their involvement in the killing of salesman Mohammad Ibrahim Khan on November 8, news agency ANI reported.All three nabbed are residents of Pulwama and are allegedly linked to terror outfit The Resistance Front (TRF), the offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The trio killed Khan on the instructions of their Pakistani-based handlers, ANI reported citing police.The names and other information pertaining to the handlers are yet to be reported.Khan, who worked as the salesman for Kashmiri Pandit businessman Roshan Lal Mawa, hailed from Bandipore district. He was mistakenly shot dead after a little-known organisation, Muslim Janbaaz Force, claimed that the attack was supposed to be on Sandeep Mawa, the son of Roshan Lal.Notably, Roshan Lal was also shot dead by terrorists many years before. The Mawas were among several Kashmiri Pandits who left the Valley during the insurgency in 1989. They relocated to Delhi in the 90s, but moved back to Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and resumed their wholesale dry fruits business.According to a Hindustan Times report, Sandeep escaped bullets as he left his shop early on November 8 after police gave him a prior warning of a possible attack. Khan was shot dead hours later outside the shop, and succumbed to his injuries on the spot.“Khan was like a brother to me. He always stayed with me... in Delhi, Bengaluru and even Jammu. It is unfortunate that he lost his life. We are trying to get a government job for his daughter or son,” Sandeep told HT.The situation in Jammu and Kashmir deteriorated since the series of civilian killings began in October wherein as many as 11 migrants, mostly from Bihar, were gunned down. The matter intensified after the killing of constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani on November 7 and Khan a day later.Furthermore, among multiple encounters that police and security forces in the Valley have conducted, the latest one in Hyderpora drew severe attention and criticism due to the death of two civilians — Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul. While police said they were “overground workers” of the two terrorists, who were killed during the Hyderpora encounter, the civilians’ families stated they were killed in “cold blood” and used as “human shields.”Also Read | Jammu and Kashmir: Families of civilians killed in Hyderpora now root for justiceFollowing massive protests, including from People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) vice president Omar Abdullah, the bodies of Bhat and Gul were exhumed in Handwara and handed over to their families for proper funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-lashkar-terrorists-held-in-connection-with-killing-of-kashmiri-salesman-101637687630702.html
23-11-2021||India||Guaranteed MSP? Both farmers and govt need to look at three key points||Farmers’ organisations continue to demand guaranteed minimum support prices (MSPs) before they withdraw their agitation, even after the government has announced a repeal of the three farm laws. How justified is this demand?It is clearly a non-starter if farmers are demanding that the government procure the entire output of all 23 crops (17 in the monsoon and six in the winter season) for which it currently announces MSPs. However, this is unlikely to be the case. Even for rice and wheat, which is the mainstay of MSP-based procurement in India, just about one-third of the total production is bought by the government.There can be no argument that a higher guaranteed MSP would mean a spike in inflation, but it still makes sense to ask some pertinent questions about the way in which the support price policy is implemented in India.Can the Orwellian framework of MSP operations go on forever?The crux of the problem with MSP procurement in India is best captured by paraphrasing George Orwell. All farmers are equal, but some farmers are more equal than others.The bulk of MSP procurement happens in the traditional green revolution regions of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Data from the Food Corporation of India shows this clearly. 33% of paddy and 60% wheat procurement in the past 10 years has been done from the states of Punjab and Haryana. When seen against the share of these two states in total rice and wheat production in the country, it exposes a huge bias.Favouritism in MSP-based procurements is not just a function of states. The latest data from the National Sample Survey shows that farmers with larger landholdings are more likely to enjoy the gains of MSP-based procurement. This is yet another regressive element in the present form of MSP-based operations.MSP operations are funded by the central government’s revenues, which is raised from all states. States with a disproportionate share in MSP procurement receive an exogenous boost to their farm incomes and hence GSDP. India’s Constitution provides for a rule-based distribution of central revenues under the framework of the finance commission, which is constituted every five years.Why should we not have a formula-based procurement of foodgrain from every state? Political parties have always shied away from this question due to electoral concerns. Maybe it is an opportune time to pose this question to the farmers’ organisations, which claim to represent the farmers of the entire country and not just a few states.The churn in Indian agriculture: From won’t sell to the state to will only sell to the stateFarmers’ organisations demanding that the state offers guaranteed MSPs and back it up with procurement is a radical change in the political economy of agriculture in post-Independence India.In the first couple of decades after Independence, when India was a food-deficient economy, the Indian state was keen to procure foodgrains but farmers were unwilling to sell, as they stood to make greater profits in private markets.Francine Frankel’s classic work, India’s Political Economy 1947-2004: The Gradual Revolution, talks about this contradiction. “The Prime Minister (Jawaharlal Nehru in 1958) argued that additional deficit financing could be absorbed and the Plan maintained at ₹4,500 crores if the states accepted the approach of the Planning Commission to mobilise rural resources for increased agricultural production through an acceleration of the cooperative movement; and ·also acted to stabilize the general price level by a program of state trading in foodgrains...The members of the National Development Council appeared to accept Nehru’s lead...Simultaneously, the NDC endorsed the immediate introduction of state trading in foodgrains, beginning with wheat and rice,” the book says. The policy faced attacks even within the Congress party. “During the months that followed Nagpur (Congress session which endorsed these policies), the press gave wide currency to the charge that “Sino-socialist minded planners” were plotting to collectivize Indian agriculture. There were bitter attacks against cooperative farming within the Congress Party,” Frankel wrote.This historical digression makes a simple point. India’s farmers are demanding guaranteed MSPs to protect them from price volatility rather than a sudden desire for handing over their business to the state. Indian agriculture today is significantly more commercialised than it has ever been. This holds true for both international and domestic markets. For many commercially driven crops, prices often go higher than MSP values. Of course, they are sometimes lower than MSPs for a long period. Data from the reports of Commission on Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) shows this. While MSP-based operations were, and continue to be, a useful tool to achieve food self-sufficiency, their efficacy in ironing out income volatility is limited.Rich farmers might not like the after-effects of an expanded MSP-PDS regimeMSP operations are only sustainable if the government is able to sell or distribute the grains it buys. The traditional way of doing this has been through the public distribution system (PDS).The story of the PDS in post-reform India is marked by flip-flops. In 1997, a universal PDS was changed into a targeted one with the introduction of above and below poverty lines (APL and BPL) categories; issue prices were significantly higher for the APL category. This change was more than undone when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government brought in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013, which entitles more than two-thirds of India’s population to heavily subsidised grains.If the government was to widen and expand the MSP-PDS regime, which would entail more government purchase of wheat and rice along with other crops, it will also require a concomitant expansion in PDS entitlements. This will significantly reduce the food-spending burden of PDS beneficiaries. Spending on food accounts for more than half of total spending for the bottom 50% of all households in India.It might be a good development from the perspective of poverty reduction. In 2013, Abhijit Sen and Himanshu wrote a two-part paper in the Economic and Political Weekly to show that in-kind food transfers from the PDS and midday meal schemes contributed significantly to poverty reduction in India.However, such pro-poor policies are also likely to lead to an increase in reservation wages – the minimum wage at which a person is willing to work – for the rural and urban blue-collar workforce. Indeed, the period after implementation of MGNREGS – the programme offered guaranteed work for 100 days and thus, an income cushion to the rural poor – saw a sharp spike in rural wages. This is bound to squeeze the political and economic clout of large farmers in rural areas, who might have to share a larger part of their surplus with the erstwhile have-nots.The reluctance of food producers in India to engage with the predicament of the majority of food consumers, who still cannot afford a proper meal, is what gives the Indian state the moral high ground in squeezing farm incomes through price interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guaranteed-msp-both-farmers-and-govt-need-to-look-at-three-key-points-101637687934124.html
23-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Nov 24, 2011 - 43-year-old Cyrus Mistry to take over $83-bn Tata empire||The Tata Sons board on Wednesday anointed 43-year-old Cyrus Pallonji Mistry as successor to its iconic chairman Ratan Tata, 73.For now, Mistry, whose family owns 17% in Tata Sons, making it the largest individual shareholder in the company, will work as deputy chairman and take over from Tata when he retires in December 2012. Mistry, currently managing director of Shapoorji Pallonji Group, India’s second-largest infrastructure company, is a director on the board of Tata Sons.The five-member search committee to select the chairman, set up in August 2010, zeroed in on Mistry from a reported shortlist of five. Though no names were ever officially released, media reports had declared Tata’s half-brother Noel, who turned around retailer Trent, as the front-runner. Pepsico CEO Indra Nooyi and Infosys Technology chief mentor NR Narayana Murthy were also mentioned as possible successors to Tata. Terming the appointment far-sighted, Tata said he will work with Mistry — who will be the second person sans the Tata surname to head the group after Nowroji Saklatwala (1932-38) — over the next one year to provide his successor the necessary exposure and operating experience required for the job.“He has been on the board of Tata Sons since August 2006 and I have been impressed with the quality and calibre of his participation, his astute observations and his humility. He is intelligent and qualified to take on the responsibility being offered,” Tata, who will remain in charge of the Tata Trusts that own 66% in Tata Sons even after he retires, said in a statement.“I take this responsibility very seriously and in keeping with the values and ethics of the Tata Group I will undertake to legally dissociate myself from the management of my family businesses to avoid any conflict of interest,” Mistry said in a statement.The “responsibility” is, indeed, challenging. Over the last decade, Tata has turned the R10,000-crore India focused group he inherited in 1991 into India’s largest multinational.In 2007, under his leadership, Tata Steel boldly acquired Anglo-Dutch steel maker Corus for $12.3 bn (R50,000 crore then) in a hotly contested takeover to emerge, almost out of nowhere, among the Top 10 steel companies in the world, leaving behind such icons of the industry as Nucor and ThyssenKrupp.A year later, Tata Motors bought out Jaguar Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. These followed a spate of smaller buyouts in the beverages and hospitality industries that greatly expanded the footprints of the Taj Group of Hotels and Tata Global Beverages (formerly Tata Tea).Mistry was a member of the search committee that comprised former Tata Sons vice chairman NA Soonavala, Tata Sons director RK Krishna Kumar, Warwick Manufacturing founder Lord Kumar Bhattacharya and Tata Group lawyer Shirin Bharucha, but recused himself from it when his name came up for discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-nov-24-2011-43-year-old-cyrus-mistry-to-take-over-83-bn-tata-empire-101637685534880.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 70 students in Odisha test positive for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 70 school, medical students test positive for Covid-19 in OdishaMore than 70 students, including 53 girls, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Odisha’s Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts in the last three days, a report said on Tuesday. Read more.Not Delhi, this city in Bihar recorded the worst AQI in past 24 hoursBad air quality days are no longer limited to the north Indian states and Union territories as the toxic wind has now engulfed other corners of the country, too. Read more.17-year-old missing boy swims across border, reaches BangladeshA 17-year-old Indian citizen, who has been missing for the past few days, reportedly crossed the international border between India and Bangladesh by swimming across Kushiyara river on Monday, officials said. Read more.'I have played and worked with him': Senior batsman explains how Rahul Dravid's experience will help India growVeteran Indian batsman Cheteshwar Pujara on Tuesday was all praise for the team's newly-appointed head coach, Rahul Dravid, saying that his abundant experience will only help the team grow as a stronger Test side in the coming months. Read more.All about pulmonary fibrosis, the fatal disease that can leave one breathlessLiving with pulmonary fibrosis can be a hard task. Read more.Kangana Ranaut's 'bheekh' remark draws criticism from Mukesh Khanna: 'Was it a side effect of Padma Award?'Actor Mukesh Khanna has criticised Kangana Ranaut's 'bheekh (alms)' remark. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-70-students-in-odisha-test-positive-for-covid19-101637680273358.html
23-11-2021||India||Not Delhi, this Bihar city recorded worst AQI in past 24 hrs; southern states continue to see ‘good’ air days. Full list||Bad air quality days are no longer limited to the north Indian states and Union territories as the toxic wind has now engulfed other corners of the country, too. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin, which records the air quality in the previous 24 hours, as many as 11 cities were listed under ‘very poor’ category. Of these, except one from West Bengal, the remaining 10 cities were from Bihar.The CPCB bulletin may not come as a surprise since a recent report by Switzerland-based climate group, IQAir, named Kolkata and Mumbai, besides Delhi, among the world’s top-10 most-polluted cities.In the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 290 in the ‘poor’ category. This comes after the Aam Aadmi Party-led government in the national capital on Monday lifted the temporary ban on construction and demolition activities owing to the improvement in the AQI.Also Read | New Delhi wakes up to ‘poor’ air quality; partly cloudy sky predicted todayMeanwhile, Kolkata that also saw ‘poor’ category air quality recorded an AQI of 229 in the past 24 hours. Mumbai, on the other hand, saw comparatively much better air quality than its metropolitan counterparts with an AQI of 76 in the ‘satisfactory’ category.The southern states, on the other hand, continued to record good air days. Data from the CPCB bulletin revealed that a total of 27 cities or towns recorded ‘good’ category air quality in the past 24 hours, of which, at least 20 belonged to the southern states.Top 5 cities and towns that recorded best AQIs in the past 24 hours:1.     Hassan in Karnataka at 192.     Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh at 253.     Chikkaballapur and Medikeri in Karnataka at 294.     Yadgir in Karnataka at 315.     Puducherry at 32Top 5 cities and towns that recorded worst AQIs in the previous 24 hours:1.     Katihar in Bihar at 3862.     Purnia in Bihar at 3843.     Siwan in Bihar at 3814.     Darbhanga in Bihar at 3695.     Kishanganj in Bihar at 358||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-delhi-this-city-in-bihar-recorded-the-worst-aqi-in-past-24-hours-101637679131390.html
23-11-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut booked for hurting sentiments of Sikh community||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has been booked by the police for allegedly defaming the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s border by equating it to the Khalistani movement and allegedly calling the agriculturists Khalistanis on social media, officials said on Tuesday.Following the announcement of repeal of the farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Kangana allegedly made the statements on Instagram and also referred to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Kangana also shared the picture of former prime minister Indira Gandhi on Instagram and said that she “crushed Khalistanis” even “at the cost of her life” while lauding her for taking “decisive action”.The first information report or FIR was lodged against the actor at the suburban Khar police station and she was booked under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Maninder Singh Sirsa, the president of Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee (DGMC), Amarjeet Singh Sandhu of Dadar’s Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara, and Jaspalsingh Siddhu, the president of the Supreme Council Navi Mumbai Gurudwara, filed the FIR on Monday.Sandhu accused Kangana of ‘making derogatory remarks against his community’ in her Instagram post. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is also the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), met Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil and top officials of the Mumbai police demanding action.Kangana’s social media posts also irked the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and both filed police complaints against the actor last Saturday.Kangana also called the repeal of the farm laws ‘unfair’ and said that the move shows ‘street power’ is supreme.“Sad, shameful, absolutely unfair. If people on the streets have started to make laws and not the chosen government in the Parliament, then even this is a jihadi nation. Congratulations to all who wanted it like this,” Kangana wrote in her post.In a subsequent post she wrote, “When the conscience of the nation is in deep sleep, lath (the cane) is the only solution and dictatorship is the only resolution. Happy birthday madam Prime Minister,” while sharing a picture of Indira Gandhi.A police official said that further investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-booked-for-hurting-sentiments-of-sikh-community-101637679104235.html
23-11-2021||India||‘India should be prepared for extreme sea-level events, floods and droughts’: Meteorologists||Extreme sea-level events are on the rise along the Indian Ocean according to meteorologists. A very severe cyclone, Yaas, which crossed the northern Odisha coast on May 26 recorded extremely high sea levels compared to extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae which crossed the Gujarat coast on May 17 this year.This is mainly because of the tide, topography and the mean sea level which determine the possibility of extreme sea-level events said Swapna Panickal, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and co-author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report “The Physical Science Basis” released in August.These events are also increasing over the Mumbai coast and show sea level data from 1870 onwards, Panickal said during her presentation at the ongoing International Symposium on Tropical Meteorology (INTROMET-2021) on Changing Climate: Consequences and Challenges (November 23 to 26), while cautioning that the coastal regions in India need to be better prepared for sea-level rise related concerns. Between 1870 and 2000, there was a 1.8 mm per year increase in global mean sea level which nearly doubled to 3.3 mm per year during the 1993 to 2017 period.“When heat is added ocean water expands, melting of glaciers also contributes to the rise in sea level. Oceans absorb more than 91% of the heat of the climate system, they have a higher heat capacity than other components of the earth system. The global mean sea level is increasing and the sea levels over the Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea, are also projected to increase. By 2050, the sea level is expected to increase by another 15 to 20 cm over the Indian Ocean region also. This is one of the concerns,” Panickal explained, adding that “Extreme sea levels are also going to increase as during severe cyclones there will be storm surges and when they are happening with high tide they will produce higher elevation of the sea level.”“Tide gauge observations for Tauktae and Yaas shows Yaas recorded extremely high sea levels. So, extreme sea-level rise events are determined by topography, tide and mean sea-level increase,” she added. Another IPCC co-author, Subimal Ghosh, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Civil Engineering at IIT Mumbai also flagged that urbanisation, urban heating, urban heat island effect, air pollution also contributes to variability in rainfall, increase in moisture leading to extreme rain events in urban areas.M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences who spoke on the role of oceans in modulating the Indian monsoon said that observations suggest that heavy rainfall events during northeast monsoon are showing an increasing trend and future climate change scenarios also indicate that extremely heavy and heavy rainfall events will increase in coming years. “We are seeing these events this season also over several parts of Peninsular India. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka will be impacted and should be prepared.”He also pointed that though during La Nina years lower than normal rainfall is expected during the northeast monsoon, this time heavy rainfall events are being recorded over peninsular India. Rajeevan recommended a research roadmap to be developed for a better understanding of the role of Indian and Atlantic Oceans on monsoon variability with more focused observations for the Indian Ocean region.M Ravichandran, secretary, ministry of earth sciences said monitoring the impact of climate change on the Indian monsoon will be of the greatest importance for the research community. Aerosol loading and cloud albedo effect (less solar energy reaching surface could cause cooling) often complicates the understanding of climate change impacting the monsoon but monsoon will be even more erratic with prolonged wet and dry seasons interspersed with floods and droughts, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-be-prepared-for-extreme-sea-level-events-floods-and-droughts-meteorologists-101637678636193.html
23-11-2021||India||17-year-old missing boy swims across border, reaches Bangladesh||A 17-year-old Indian citizen, who has been missing for the past few days, reportedly crossed the international border between India and Bangladesh by swimming across Kushiyara river on Monday, officials said. The border between the two countries is divided through the river where the Border Security Force (BSF) is deployed. The boy is yet to be recovered and security forces from both countries are trying to find him, an official said. According to the Karimganj police, the boy named Abhijit Das is a resident of Rangamati area under Bazaricherra police station in Karimganj district of Assam. He had been missing since November 18 and his parents informed the police as well. On Monday, he is said to have jumped into the river from an area near Karimganj town and crossed it.An on-duty BSF official said, “Before we could understand what was happening, the boy crossed the border. We immediately informed the security agencies of Bangladesh and they assured us to stop the boy. But he managed to hide somewhere in their country. We’ll find him and will bring him back soon.”Abhijit’s parents had lodged a missing diary in Bajarichara Police Station after he left home. Local police called his father Nishindra Das to identify him by watching a video of him taken while he was crossing the river. The father recognised his son and appealed to the officials to bring his minor son back to India. The Battalion 7 of Border Security Force (BSF) is deployed along the river lining the international border between India and Bangladesh in Karimganj. Their surveillance is under scanner after this incident when a person crossed the river in broad daylight. According to Sudip Das, a resident of Latu area in Karimganj, a few days back, locals caught two Bangladeshi nationals who crossed the border by swimming Kushiyara river and handed them over to the BSF.Karimganj SP Padmanabha Baruah however claimed that they are still trying to identify the person who crossed the border. He said, “Kushiyara is an open river border and there is no fencing. BSF is deployed on different points and the boy chose a place between two points. We have heard that a boy from Bazaricherra was missing and there is a possibility that this is the same person who crossed the border. But we are yet to establish the fact.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-missing-boy-swims-across-border-reaches-bangladesh-101637676053969.html
23-11-2021||India||Railways to begin Bharat Gaurav trains to promote tourism. Details here||Indian Railways will begin Bharat Gaurav trains – the third segment of trains of tourism after freight and passenger segments—in order to boost tourism, railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw announced on Tuesday.A set of 3,033 coaches or 190 theme-based trains are being introduced under the Bharat Gaurav segment, the railways minister said during a press conference, adding that these trains can be run both by the private sector as well as the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).Bharat Gaurav train schedule, fare and other details:The Bharat Gaurav trains are not regular trains but they will run on timetables, the minister said. Tourists will be able to choose luxury or budget coaches depending on the requirement.The train will be composed of 14 to 20 coaches including 2 SLRs (guard vans).The train fare will be practically decided by tour operators but the railways will ensure that there is no abnormality in the prices, Vaishnaw said at the press briefing.The themes would be decided by the service providers and the packages will include rail travel, hotel accommodation, sightseeing arrangement, visit to historical/heritage sites, tour guides, etc for the tourist."These trains will showcase India's culture and heritage. We have invited applications for them from today," he added.The minister also said that state governments of Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have shown interest in these trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-begin-bharat-gaurav-trains-to-promote-tourism-details-here-101637663093880.html
23-11-2021||India||Shimla tops India's sustainable development goals list, Dhanbad worst. List here||Shimla achieved the top spot on the first Sustainable Development Goals Urban Index released by the Centre on Tuesday in an attempt to localise SDGs and ensure progress at the national, state, Union territory and local levels.The index and dashboard are the result of the collaborative efforts of NITI Aayog-GIZ and BMZ, under the Indo-German Development Cooperation, that assessed 56 cities on 77 SDG indicators.The list was prepared taking into consideration performance of cities under categories such as poverty, health, education, gender equality, affordable and clean energy and climate action, among others.“Cities are fast becoming engines of growth. The SDG Urban index and dashboard, a product of an innovative partnership between NITI Aayog and GIZ, will go a long way in instituting a robust SDG monitoring system in our cities, and is a milestone step in our SDG localisation journey,” Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog’s vice chairperson, said at the launch event of the sustainable development goals index and dashboard.Here’s the list of the top 10 and bottom 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:Top 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:1. Shimla2. Coimbatore3. Chandigarh4. Thiruvananthapuram5. Kochi6. Panaji7. Pune8. Tiruchirapalli9. Ahmedabad10. NagpurBottom 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:1. Faridabad2. Kolkata3. Agra4. Kohima5. Jodhpur6. Patna7. Guwahati8. Itanagar9. Meerut10. DhanbadThe data on these indicators have been sourced from official data sources including the National Family Health Survey (NFHS), National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE), data portals of various ministries, and other government data sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shimla-tops-india-s-sustainable-development-goals-list-among-urban-cities-full-list-here-101637670571566.html
23-11-2021||India||Two get double life-term in Marad riot case in Kerala||A special court in Kozhikode (north Kerala) on Tuesday awarded double life-term to two accused in the Marad riot case of 2003 in which eight persons were stabbed to death, officials said. After the riot, one of them fled to a middle-east country and the other jumped the bail and absconded during the trial.Both, Koyamon alias Hyderkutty and M Nizamuddin, were found guilty by the special court judge KS Ambika on November 20 and the quantum of punishment was announced on Tuesday. The trial of these two was held separately as they were absconding and later arrested by police in 2011.Koyamon was found guilty under the explosives act for manufacturing country-made bombs and Nizamuddin for murder, rioting and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.In 2009, the special court sentenced 63 of the 139 accused who faced trial in the case. As many as 148 persons were named in the case including nine juveniles. In August 2012, the High Court awarded life-term to 24 more accused, setting aside their acquittal by the lower court.The riot took place in May 2003 in a communally-sensitive beach village in Kozhikode called Marad in which eight persons were killed, many injured and some houses were damaged. A minor issue over water from the public tap led to a full-blown communal riot and people from a particular community were targeted. Some of the accused were caught red-handed after they took refuge in a religious place. The riot remained a blot on Kerala but people from both sides later came together to avoid another round of retaliation and bloodshed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-get-double-life-term-in-marad-riot-case-in-kerala-101637673594869.html
23-11-2021||India||Over 70 school, medical students test positive for Covid-19 in Odisha||More than 70 students, including 53 girls, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Odisha’s Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts in the last three days, a report said on Tuesday.According to news agency PTI, 53 girls in a government-aided St Merry Girls' School in Odisha's Sundargarh and 22 students of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR) in Sambalpur tested positive for Covid-19."The girls have been isolated and special provisions have been made for their treatment. Their health condition is normal, while the educational institute has been shut for a week," Sister Petrica, the headmistress of high school, was quoted as saying by PTI.The headmistress said that those infected are students of classes 8, 9 and 10, and they were tested for Covid-19 after a majority of them exhibited symptoms of cold and cough.Also read | Odisha allows jatra shows with a maximum audience of 2000 peopleThe 22 students of VIMSAR in Burla have been admitted to the Covid hospital. Authorities suspect that the infection might have spread after the institute's annual function, which was held recently.Health expert Dr Narayan Mishra told PTI that the sudden spurt in cases in the western districts of Sundargarh and Sambalpur is a cause of concern even as Odisha has witnessed a significant drop in the number of infections.Data showed Odisha’s coronavirus tally rose to 10,47,386 on Tuesday after 212 people, including 70 children, tested positive for Covid-19 and two fresh fatalities pushed the state’s death toll to 8,396.Also read | India's daily Covid tally further down at 7,579; active cases drop by nearly 5kKhurda district, under which Bhubaneswar falls, registered the highest number of new cases at 90, followed by Sundargarh at 39 and Mayurbhanj at 13 infections.Out of the 212 new Covid-19 cases, 123 were reported in quarantine centres, while the remaining 89 infections were detected during contact tracing. Fourteen of the 30 districts have not recorded any new cases.The rate of infection among those in the 0-18 age group was recorded at 33.01 per cent against 19.88 per cent on the previous day.Also read | Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX: ReportsThere were 171 cases on Monday, 205 on Sunday, 239 on Saturday, and 242 on Friday in Odisha. The state now has 2,191 active cases of Covid-19, 10,36,746 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 245 in the last 24 hours.Odisha's cumulative positivity rate stands at 4.48 per cent and the daily test positivity rate at 0.44 per cent.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-school-medical-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-101637671916726.html
23-11-2021||India||Congress leaders Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool Congress||In a fillip to the Trinamool Congress ahead of the 2024  Lok Sabha elections, Congress leaders Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar on Tuesday joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party in New Delhi.Earlier in the day, former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Varma also joined the Trinamool Congress in the presence of Mamata Banerjee.The development comes amid the West Bengal chief minister's visit to the national capital ahead of Parliament's Winter Session on November 29."It makes me happy to say that under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, I'll work for the development of the nation. Today, a personality like her is needed in the country who can show the country the right direction," cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The cricketer who was part of India's winning World Cup team in 1983 forayed into politics with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and became a parliamentarian from Bihar's Darbhanga. However, he was suspended from the BJP in 2015 over “anti-party” activities, following which he joined the Congress in 2019 to contest the Lok Sabha elections from Dhanbad. He lost to BJP's Pashupati Nath Singh by a huge margin.On the other hand, a former president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, Ashok Tanwar, quit the party in 2019.The Trinamool Congress posted on Twitter the news of the induction of the three leaders into the party fold.Today was a very special day for the Trinamool Congress family!Our Chairperson @MamataOfficial briefly interacts with everyone who joined us to strengthen the fight against all autocratic forces. pic.twitter.com/477OLfQb9JA close confidante of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, Varma was removed from the JD(U) along with political strategist Prashant Kishor over their disagreements with the party chief on the controversial amended citizenship laws.“Looking at the current political circumstances and the potential in Mamata Banerjee, I have today joined Trinamool Congress,” Varma said.The Trinamool Congress said Varma's rich political experience will help the party serve the people of India and “take this nation forward to even better days.”Kirti Azad is the third Congress leader to join the Trinamool Congress after Goa's Luizinho Faleiro Assam's Sushmita Dev.Meanwhile, Mamata Banerjee, who is on a three-day visit to New Delhi, is expected to meet several opposition leaders and prominent personalities. She is also likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi.It is the Trinamool Congress supremo's second visit to the national capital since her party came to power in West Bengal with a thumping majority for the third consecutive term in May this year. The visit is seen by political experts as a booster shot to opposition unity against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leaders-kirti-azad-ashok-tanwar-join-trinamool-congress-101637670693826.html
23-11-2021||India||‘Postponing elections extreme thing to order in democracy’: SC on Tripura civic polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that postponing elections is an extreme thing to order in a democracy and expressed its aversion towards it.The top court was hearing a contempt plea by Trinamool Congress in connection to the violence in the poll-bound northeastern state, and refused to postpone the municipal elections scheduled on November 25.“If we do it then it will set a wrong precedent,” the Supreme Court said, adding that postponing the elections is the last resort.The top court observed that the election process has begun and the campaigning was set to end at 4.30pm on Tuesday. While the voting for 334 seats of the urban local bodies would take place on Thursday, the ballots will be counted November 28.  The court, however, said that the concerns expressed by the Trinamool Congress can be suitably addressed and directions can be issued to the Tripura government to ensure that remaining phases of the civic polls take place in a peaceful and orderly manner.The top court had last week asked Tripura police to ensure that no political party was prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.The Trinamool Congress alleged that several of its supporters and workers sustained injuries following an attack on the residence of the party’s Tripura unit leader Subal Bhowmik at Bhagaban Thakur Chowmuni area in state capital Agartala on Sunday.The political battlefield in Tripura is heating up ahead of the November 25 civic polls. Several clashes have been reported in the northeastern state over the past week, with former Union minister and Babul Supriyo – who switched over to Trinamool Congress from the BJP recently – claiming on Saturday that he was harassed by BJP cadres while assessing poll preparations.On Sunday, the Tripura police arrested Trinamool youth leader and actor Saayoni Ghosh on charges of allegedly promoting enmity between people, attempt-to-murder, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy, apart from disrupting a civic poll rally led by Biplab Deb on Saturday. However, a local court granted her bail a day later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-violence-supreme-court-trinamool-congress-contempt-plea-101637667442777.html
23-11-2021||India||Scindia, top aviation ministry officials to be aboard SpiceJet 737 MAX flight||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and senior officials from his ministry will be on board a special SpiceJet 737 MAX Delhi-Gwalior flight on Tuesday. The airline commenced its 737 MAX operations on Sunday after a ban on the aircraft for over two years.Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation in August lifted the 2019 ban on airlines flying Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The aircraft were grounded around the world following crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia that killed 346 people. The US and European countries allowed the aircraft to resume 737 MAX flights last year. Overall, at least 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service.SpiceJet’s chairman and managing director Ajay Singh on Tuesday said the airline’s all Boeing 737 MAX aircraft will back into service over the next 15-20 days with free broadband internet initially.Also Read: 72 planes, $9 billion: Akasa Air orders Boeing 737 MAX jetsThe airline operated its first 737 MAX flight after the ban from Delhi to Mumbai on Sunday. The second such flight on Monday operated between Delhi to Ahmedabad.“Two (737) MAX (aircraft) have resumed operations and the third aircraft will be in air today (Tuesday). We aim to operate all our (737) MAX in the next 15 to 20 days,” Singh said. “This aircraft will cater to passengers in a better manner as it will have large number of premium seats and broadband internet that we plan to offer on board. This broadband service will initially not be charged.”Singh said out of the 155 aircraft they have ordered; the airline will induct 50 737 MAX by 2022-23. “Out of the 50 aircraft, 15 to 20 aircraft are going to be replacements.” Singh called the return of the aircraft a game-changer for SpiceJet. “After the intense scrutiny this aircraft has gone through, I can say with full confidence that it is the safest aircraft to fly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-top-aviation-ministry-officials-to-be-aboard-spicejet-737-max-flight-101637669273387.html
23-11-2021||India||Law on MSP is a legitimate demand, says Jairam Ramesh||Ahead of Parliament’s winter session that begins next week, Jairam Ramesh, chief whip of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, spoke to Saubhadra Chatterji about the farm laws and related issues. Edited excerpts: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation, said the larger section of the experts and farmers’ bodies supported the three farm laws. This is hogwash, trying to assume an aura of false modesty. This is characteristic of our dramajeevi PM. He is a master of communication who could not convince the farmers who are smarter than what he thought of them. They knew that the laws would open doors for corporatisation and MSP, public procurement was under threat. Modi was trying to make a virtue out of necessity. Why there were no consultations with CMs? Even their current favourite Amarinder Singh said on record that he was not consulted when he was the CM. Some agricultural experts and a member of the Supreme Court panel have said that agricultural reforms will now be only piecemeal.I am allergic to the word reforms. Yes, there are serious problems in agriculture such as in investment, production, water-related, and profitability-related issues. There are major challenges and both the states and the Centre have to tackle them. The Prime Minister has also announced that he wants to form a committee to look into the issues of the agricultural sector. I welcome that decision. Let them form a committee, let them consult states, experts, and farmer organisations. In 2019, the SC gave a verdict on data privacy. The government formed the Sri Krishna Committee. After its report came, the government brought a bill and sent it to a joint committee and now we have submitted our report. A lot of problems this government faced have come from a lack of consultations. Dramabaazi gets you nowhere. They do not allow any discussion in Parliament and the presiding officers are complicit in this. They have a majority in the two Houses and the standing committees. Why do not they send bills to standing committees? Also Read: Data Protection Bill: Five MPs file dissent notes in final reportThe three farm laws were first issued as an ordinance. What was the urgency? You did not consult states or farmer bodies but then go and issue an ordinance. They could have waited and discussed it in Parliament and referred it to a standing committee. They did the same thing with the land law and after sometime, they had to withdraw it altogether. The recent statements by Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders indicate now the fight will be on other pending issues including a law on MSP.We can discuss the nature of the changes in agricultural laws in Parliament. The logical thing could be the government presents an amended bill and we discuss all the issues at length. It took me two years and three months to get the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Bill passed. We had two all-party meetings and I consulted the states. I even accepted amendments by Sushma Swaraj and Rajnath Singh. Some people in my party were in favour of the ordinance route but I said, no. So, what will be your strategy when the repeal of legislation for the three farm bills is brought to Parliament? I cannot tell you what will be our strategy. But certainly, we would demand a discussion. Why did it take one year and the death of 700 farmers for the government to repeal the bills? Certainly, we want to raise questions even as we are not allowed to raise questions on China or Pakistan. Politically the issue is not over. Let us have a well-informed debate to revisit why those acts were made. Let us also discuss the way forward. I would certainly like this session to function normally. I do not want a repeat of the monsoon session. The washout was forced upon us by the government. We want to play a constructive Opposition party’s role. The law on MSP is now your latest demand. It has been there for quite some time. Up till now, the MSP was an executive decision. But now a law has assumed importance because there is an effort to bring in the private sector. There is also fear because this government tried to dismantle FCI and public procurement. It is a legitimate demand to have a law on MSP. But the PM has already given assurance in both Houses of Parliament that MSP will remain. Well, the PM had also said that the farm laws will remain. He called the farmers andolanjeevi. His party even termed them as secessionists, anti-national, and Khalistanis. PM tailors what he says to his audience. What are the priorities of the Congress in this winter session? We still believe a responsible, sober discussion on the border situation is needed. We must discuss Afghanistan and our neighbourhood. The economic situation is worse than what the government claims it to be. There is also an urgent requirement to discuss the environment as the PM made lofty promises in Glasgow but in reality, all environmental laws are being diluted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-msp-is-a-legitimate-demand-says-jairam-ramesh-101637668733435.html
23-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav, Jayant Chaudhary tweet pics after meeting, hint at poll alliance||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday tweeted photos of their meeting giving heft to speculations that both the parties are firming up to form an alliance ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year.Akhilesh Yadav and Jayant Chaudhary shared pictures with captions which indicate that a deal may be close between the regional parties as they look to challenge the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in UP.“Heading towards change with Jayant Chaudhary,” Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi sharing a photo of both and shortly afterwards the RLD leader also tweeted a photo of their meeting with a similar caption.Rashtriya Lok Dal state president Masood Ahmad told news agency PTI that both leaders discussed the issue of seat-sharing in the 2022 UP assembly polls during their meeting on Tuesday but have not taken a final call.Jayant Chaudhary earlier while speaking to HT said the Samajwadi Party has a “credible base” in Uttar Pradesh when asked about coalitions ahead of the polls which are seen as a precursor to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.“We were working on creating a viable alternative to the BJP and a strong opposition platform. We will go forward in that direction,” Chaudhary said while confirming that both parties held discussions.“Within the opposition, Samajwadi Party has a credible base across the state. We are in conversation with them,” he said.The SP and RLD have contested assembly elections and Lok Sabha bypolls together since 2017.Jayant Chaudhary’s RLD was crucial to the movement against the farm laws as it wields considerable influence in western Uttar Pradesh and the sugarcane farmers in that region. The Samajwadi Party is to bring smaller parties to form a formidable alliance against the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-jayant-chaudhary-tweet-pics-after-meeting-hint-at-poll-alliance-101637668489246.html
23-11-2021||India||BJP seeks Amit Shah’s intervention over recent killings in Kerala||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday attacked the Kerala government for failing to take action against the Popular Front of India (PFI). It blamed the PFI for at least two murders of the activists of the BJP and its ideological mentor Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) over the last two months.BJP state unit president K Surendran said the party has apprised union home minister Amit Shah about the operations of a “fundamentalist group” and how no action has been taken by Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan government against the accused.“Kerala is coming closer to becoming Syria; that is a general feeling,” Surendran said.The PFI is an Islamic organisation, which follows a hardline ideology and is under the scanner for alleged financial wrongdoings.Also Read: Kerala BJP calls for NIA probe into RSS worker’s death“There have been two brutal attacks in Kerala by the PFI. Sanjith (an RSS worker who was killed last week) was hacked to death. His autopsy showed more than 36 wounds. A police officer was a witness, but the Kerala Police were not able to block the traffic and conduct search. It is still groping in the dark,” said Surendran. He said a similar incident occurred in Trichur as well.Surendra, who is in Delhi to meet Shah, alleged there is political patronage to the PFI. “In Kerala, there is a secret understanding between CPI (Communist Party of India) and PFI; they are hand in glove. The police are shielding them and people have lost their faith in them. We have briefed the Union home minister about the fundamentalist groups operating in Kerala. The government is not even naming it as a terror group,” he said.On why the party has not sought a ban on the outfit, union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar said, “Law is a state subject…we are demanding free and fair investigation and prosecution of the guilty. Otherwise, criminal activities will flourish.” He added in the absence of action against criminals, the state’s economy is affected adversely. “The victim is Kerala’s economy and job creation in the state. Without prosecuting criminals, it creates an overall narrative that it is a weak, vulnerable economy. The opportunities for investment will also suffer as a consequence of appeasement politics.”Another union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, attacked the state’s Congress-led opposition and the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) led alliances for not raising their voice against PFI’s crimes. “In any part of the world, you can speak against religious terrorisms but not in Kerala. If you do, the so-called secularists start attacking those speaking the truth. This is what happened when the Bishop of Palla spoke about Love Jihad….the chief minister said it is for the first time he has heard the word.”Muraleedharn said the Congress kept mum even when its worker was killed. “The situation is that no one dares speak out against Islamic terrorism and the reason is that the CPM and the Congress feel they will lose their vote share if they do so,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-seeks-amit-shah-s-intervention-over-recent-killings-in-kerala-101637667953502.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: IRCTC, pvt operators to operate Bharat Gaurav trains and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Gaurav: IRCTC, pvt operators allowed to operate theme-based trainsRailways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday that the Bharat Gaurav trains, launched to boost tourism in the country, can be operated by private operators as well as the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Read moreChinese cemetery for PLA’s 1962, Galwan war dead now patriotic education baseA high-altitude, wind-swept military cemetery in Xinjiang which houses the tombs of more than 100 Chinese soldiers who died fighting Indian troops during the 1962 war and in the Galwan Valley clash last year is being renovated to serve as a base for patriotic education. Read moreHansal Mehta shares pics with Patralekhaa and Rajkummar Rao, calls it the ‘wedding of a lifetime’Filmmaker Hansal Mehta shared pictures with actors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa on Instagram. Hansal also wrote a touching note, congratulating the newly married couple. Read moreIND vs NZ: Cheteshwar Pujara swats away strike rate poser, hopes to stay 'fearless' against New ZealandIt has been over five years since the chatter about Cheteshwar Pujara's strike rate started. Skipper Virat Kohli's assessment of India's successful tour of the West Indies and the 197-run win over New Zealand at the Green Park Stadium had one common theme: Pujara's ordinary strike rate. Read moreVidya Malavade demonstrates the 'fastest way to tripod headstand’ in phasesVidya Malavade is a fitness enthusiast. The actor is often spotted on Instagram, sharing snippets of her fitness diaries and also noting the steps of the exercise that are to be performed. Watch hereRoyal Enfield unveils 120th Year Anniversary Edition of 650 Twin motorcyclesRoyal Enfield started its production in November 1901 by launching its first bike at the Stanley Cycle Show in London. From these humble beginnings in 1901, Royal Enfield has been the oldest motorcycle brand to remain in continuous production to date. Read moreMom, wife of Galwan martyr Col Santosh Babu accept Mahavir Chakra (posthumously)Galwan valley hero Col Santosh Babu was awarded the Mahavir Chakra (posthumously). He was honoured with the second-highest wartime gallantry medal in an investiture ceremony. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-irctc-pvt-operators-to-operate-bharat-gaurav-trains-and-all-the-latest-news-101637667013091.html
23-11-2021||India||Vanniyar Sangam takes Jai Bhim to court, alleges defamation, seeks punishment||Vanniyar Sangam, the parent body of the Tamil Nadu-based political party PMK, an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has taken legal action against the makers of the Tamil-language film Jai Bhim, alleging that it portrays the Vanniyar community in bad light. Vanniyar Sangam’s president T Arulmozhi has filed a private complaint before the second judicial magistrate in Tamil Nadu’s Chidambaram district against the film’s main actor Suriya, who jointly produced the movie along with his wife Jyothika under the banner 2D Entertainment. The complaint also names director TJ Gnanavel and OTT platform Amazon Prime Video, which released the legal drama earlier this month. In the complaint, Arulmozhi urges the court to proceed against the accused for airing offensive scenes and also to punish them under sections 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (1) (promoting enmity between different groups), 499 (defamation), 500 (punishment for defamation), 503 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to breach peace) and 505 (statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. The organisation had earlier sent a legal notice to the makers of the film, claiming that the Vanniyar community was wrongly portrayed in the movie.The case was eventually filed after Jai Bhim’s makers didn’t tender an unconditional apology as demanded by Vanniyar Sangam. Also Read: Suriya thanks fans ‘for standing by us’ amid police protection at Chennai house“The accused persons’ reckless depiction of the Vanniyar community in poor light, with villainous and criminal bent of mind, has delivered an irreparable dent to the hitherto earned high reputation of the community with one deadly blow… [with the] accused film wiping out all goodwill the Vanniyar community has enjoyed so far from all other communities,” the petition filed on Tuesday said. “Accused persons have created communal issues, criminal intimidation between the people, and also provoke breach of peace by inciting violence among the people in the state of Tamil Nadu,” the petition said.The petition also says that a Chidambaram police station had refused to register a complaint filed on the same issue earlier, after which a complaint was filed in Cuddalore. But no action was taken.The film Jai Bhim fictionalises a real-life case of a tribal man, Rajakannu, who was falsely implicated in a theft case and died in custody following police torture in 1993. The film narrates how his wife and retired high court justice K Chandru fought for justice. The case Rajakannu vs. State of Tamil Nadu eventually resulted in three policemen being sentenced to 14 years of rigorous imprisonment for Rajakannu’s death.Among the multiple issues raised, the petition argues that the movie retains the real names of all the characters but changed the name of the sub-inspector who had tortured the victim in police custody from his real name Anthonysamy to Gurumurthy. The petition claims he was “repeatedly referred to as guru”, which could seemingly be a reference to the community’s late leader J Guru. “The accused have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer, as if he belonged to the Vanniyar community, thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things, while in real life, the said sub-inspector did not belong to the Vanniyar community,” the petition says.The complainant argues that freedom of expression cannot be used to defame a particular community and earn substantial revenue by “distorting facts”. The complainant also says the film’s dialogue writer Kanmani Gunasekaran returned his remuneration saying facts had been suppressed, and consent was not taken from the real-life widow Parvathy. In an interview to HT last week, retired Justice Chandru had said that among those alive from the real case, only his name and police officer I Periyasamy’s names have been retained besides the names of the deceased, Rajakannu.The controversy first erupted when PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss shot off a letter to actor Suriya demanding answers over the film’s controversial narrative. Suriya clarified that the film was intended to show the real-life struggle of Justice Chandru. Director Gnanavel also released a statement recently, saying the movie was not intended to target or shame a particular person or a community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vanniyar-sangam-takes-jai-bhim-to-court-alleges-defamation-seeks-punishment-101637667233541.html
23-11-2021||India||NCB raids shops in Maharashtra’s Nanded; seizes 111 kg poppy straw, 1.4 kg opium||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday busted a clandestine drug unit being run from three shops located at Kamtha in Nanded district of Maharashtra and arrested three persons, officials said. The agency claimed to have seized 111 kilograms of poppy straw (commercial quantity), 1.4 kilograms of opium and an amount of Rs. 1.55 lakh in cash. The NCB also seized equipment like two grinding machines – used for grinding poppy seeds, electronic scale and note-counting machines from the shops. “The raid at Kamtha shops has been going on since Monday, following on specific information. We have seized 111 kilograms of poppy straw, 1.4 kilograms of opium along with cash ₹1.55 lakh while three persons have been arrested,” said Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the NCB. For the last two weeks, a team of Mumbai NCB is tracking down drug suppliers and peddlers active in Nanded, Jalna and Aurangabad districts of the Marathwada region. On November 15, the agency seized a total of 1,127 kilograms of marijuana worth Rs. 5.63 crore at Manjram in Nanded and arrested two persons. They also seized a 12-wheeler truck and during the interrogation of the accused learnt that the consignment was coming from Andhra Pradesh and was to be delivered at Jalgaon. Poppy straw and opium are the raw material used for producing heroin. Opium is obtained from the unripe poppy seedpods which exude a milky latex that coagulates and changes colour, turning into a gum-like brown mass upon exposure to air. This raw opium is treated further to obtain derivatives – contraband materials such as morphine, codeine and heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-raids-shops-in-maharashtra-s-nanded-seizes-111-kg-poppy-straw-1-4-kg-opium-101637665134828.html
23-11-2021||India||Bharat Gaurav: IRCTC, pvt operators allowed to operate theme-based trains||Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday that the Bharat Gaurav trains, launched to boost tourism in the country, can be operated by private operators as well as the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).“We have allocated over 180 trains for Bharat Gaurav trains and 3,033 coaches identified. We will start taking applications from today. We have received a good response. The stakeholders will modify and run the train and the railways will help in maintenance, parking and other facilities,” Vaishnaw said at a press conference.“After passenger and goods segments, we will start the tourism segment to run Bharat Gaurav trains. These trains will show India's culture and heritage,” Vaishnaw said.“For example, if an operator wants to do a ‘Safari’ tour, the operator can decide at which station they want the train parked. They can also decide on a flexible itinerary. We have made provisions for operators so that they can enable these features when they take people out for a tour,” the railways minister added.Vaishnaw also explained that any tour operator or departments, for example, MakeMyTrip or state tourism departments can take as many trains as they want, as per their business plan and they can then modify it accordingly depending on the tour plan or them.He further said that the Indian Railways will offer assistance related to maintenance, parking, water supply and raw materials for food as and when required.Speaking about fares, he said that tour operators will decide on fares but the Indian Railways will ensure that abnormal fees are not charged to travellers. Vaishnaw pointed out that all kinds of coaches - Vistadome, Vande Bharat or Tejas etc - can be used for these trains and the Indian Railways will try to cater to these demands as much as possible.Bharat Gaurav trains are a segment of trains that aims to give people an authentic way to experience India's culture, heritage, diversity, the railway minister said earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-gaurav-irctc-pvt-operators-allowed-to-operate-theme-based-trains-101637664171342.html
23-11-2021||India||‘We have learned from it’: Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw after row over Ramayana Express staff uniform||A day after the Indian Railways withdrew the uniform of the staff serving on the Ramayana Special Trains amid objections from a section of seers, railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday the issue has been a learning experience.“We have learned from it. When we deal with any point in culture then there are many sensitive points to it. We must consciously adopt in our processes of designing, food, dress and other things,” railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said, according to news agency ANI.“So, we should move forward with this learning,” Ashwini Vaishnaw added.The catering and tourism arm of the railways ministry, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), said on Monday it will change the saffron uniform of the serving staff on board the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train after seers from Ujjain took strong objection to the dress code, saying it was an "insult" to Hindu religion.Also read | After outrage from seers, Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress code“It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff,” IRCTC said in a tweet on Monday.The seers threatened to stop the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train at Delhi's Safdarjung railway station on December 12 if the dress code was not withdrawn.“We have written a letter two days back to the Union Railway Minister lodging our protest against waiters in saffron serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express,” Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri told PTI.“Donning saffron attire with sadhu-like headgear and wearing 'malas' (necklaces) of 'rudraksha' (sacred seeds) is an insult to Hindu religion and its seers,” he said, adding it was necessary for protecting the Hindu religion.Also watch | Railways withdrew saffron uniform of Ramayana Express' staffAfter IRCTC changed the uniform of the staff on the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train, Avdeshpuri told PTI “it is a victory of (Hindu) religion and sanskriti (culture)" and that it was his duty to raise the issue.IRCTC launched the special tourist train in line with the government’s initiative "Dekho Apna Desh" to promote domestic tourism on November 7. At a price of  ₹82,950 per person for 2AC and  ₹102,095 for 1AC class, the train will take passengers to 15 places associated with the life of Lord Ram.Pilgrims will be taken to places such as Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nashik, Hampi and Rameshwaram as the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train will cover a distance of more than 7,500km.After the first Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train started earlier this month, Ashwini Vaishnaw tweeted that there was an “overwhelming response” to the first tour of the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special with 100 per cent occupancy. He also announced that the next tour on the Ramayana circuit is on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learned-from-it-ashwini-vaishnaw-after-ramayana-express-staff-uniform-row-101637663129999.html
23-11-2021||India||Number of people likely to attend marriages this wedding season expected to rise: Survey||A recently-conducted survey has found that more people are likely to attend engagement or wedding ceremonies in November-December this year as compared to those from the year-ago period. The survey, conducted by LocalCircles, also found that not many people are of the opinion that attending such events comes with a ‘high’ risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | No seating cap in Delhi cinema halls from today; 200 guests allowed at weddingsFor the exercise, the agency said that it received responses from more than17,000 respondents. After observing the responses, the conclusion was that six in 10 Indian families are likely to attend marriage ceremonies during the ongoing wedding season, it added. “The number of people likely to attend engagements or marriages during this period is thrice of the corresponding figures from the same period last year. This is due to a combination of various factors: declining cases of Covid-19 across the country, confidence due to vaccination, and Covid-19 fatigue in general,” the survey said.The survey also reported a decline in the number of people who responded that they were invited to a wedding, but will skip due to the viral illness. The figure for this year stood at just 12 per cent as against 35 per cent from the previous year.A total of 8758 responses were received for a question which asked about the risk of contracting Covid-19 by attending such ceremonies. A whopping 76 per cent answered that such a risk was ‘average,’ ‘low’ or ‘non-existent.’ Around 3 per cent said that there was no risk, while nearly 2 per cent did not have an opinion.Only 22 per cent respondents to this question opined that the risk associated with functions like these was ‘high.’Participants for this LocalCircles survey were from 319 districts. Of these, around 48 per cent were from tier-I cities, while 29 per cent were from tier-II towns. The remaining 23 per cent, meanwhile, were from tier-III, IV and rural districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-people-likely-to-attend-marriages-this-wedding-season-expected-to-rise-survey-101637658100017.html
23-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh assembly passes resolution asking Centre to conduct OBC census||The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Tuesday unanimously adopted a resolution requesting the Centre to take up caste-based census to enumerate the population of Other Backward Classes (OBCs).There has been a growing demand for the caste-based census. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar led an all-party delegation from his state that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to raise the demand.The British enumerated castes in the decadal censuses from 1881 to 1931 but the practice was discontinued thereafter. The census has since counted the number of people belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. OBC are believed to account for over 50% of India’s population.Andhra Pradesh’s backward classes minister Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna introduced the resolution, which was adopted through a voice vote. Opposition Telugu Desam Party stayed away from the proceedings.Also Read: Non-Yadav OBCs dominate new Samajwadi Party state executive committee“The state legislative assembly is of the unanimous view that there is a need to take up caste-based census in order to ensure equal justice to all sections of people as envisaged in the preamble of the Indian Constitution. The enumeration of the other backward classes, along with the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities as part of the 2021 general census,” the resolution said. It added it is necessary to maintain accurate statistics for taking up various welfare and developmental schemes for the uplift of the backward classes, apart from taking decisive actions like identifying the poor among OBCs and extending them benefits for education and employment.Krishna called OBCs society’s backbone. He added they were unable to get adequate benefits from the government. Krishna underlined it is essential to have the exact data of these sections so that benefits of the welfare schemes reach them. “Unfortunately, there has been no accurate data with regard to the OBCs. The last caste-based census was conducted in India way back in 1931, when the country’s population was just 300 million, including that of (present-day) Pakistan and Bangladesh. At present, the country’s population is 1.3 billion. We are forced to make estimates of the castes based on the 1931 data.” He added an accurate data of the castes would help the government extend reservations and benefits of other welfare schemes and judicious use of its resources. “This has been the long-pending demand of various OBC sections, intellectuals and social groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-assembly-passes-resolution-asking-centre-to-conduct-obc-census-101637660872997.html
23-11-2021||India||NCB seizes over 100 kg poppy straw, other drugs during raids in Maharashtra’s Nanded||The Narcotics Control Bureau or NCB said on Tuesday seized more than 100 kilograms of drugs as it busted a drug factory in the Nanded district of Maharashtra during a raid and is conducting more searches at multiple locations in Madhya Pradesh.The anti-drugs agency said it seized 111kg of poppy straw, 1.4kg of opium, cash worth ₹1.55 lakh and two grinding machines used for grinding poppy seeds, an electronic scale and a note counting machine on Monday.Also read | Two Kolkata men held with charas get 10-year RI"On specific information, a team of NCB Mumbai raided three shops located at Kamtha, Nanded and busted clandestine drug unit. Other than seizures three persons were intercepted by the bureau," NCB said in a statement, according to news agency ANI."It is an interstate gang which is operating. Searches in multiple locations in Madhya Pradesh have also begun," Sameer Wankhede, NCB's Mumbai zonal director, said.Also read | Drugs unit in Kolhapur farmhouse busted by cops. Mumbai lawyer is prime suspectThe NCB said in a note that poppy straw—also known as opium straw, mowed opium straw, crushed poppy capsule, poppy chaff, or poppy husk—is a raw material from which illegal heroin may be produced. Poppy straw is derived from opium poppies that are harvested when fully mature and dried by mechanical means, without the ripe poppy seeds, the note added.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-seizes-over-100kg-poppy-straw-other-drugs-after-raids-in-nanded-101637660014117.html
23-11-2021||India||MVA leaders lose in Satara bank polls, supporters ransack NCP office||Angry supporters of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Shashikant Shinde hurled stones at party office in western Maharashtra’s Satara after Shinde lost the poll for the post of board of directors at Satara District Cooperative Bank, results for which were declared on Tuesday. Shinde lost by one vote to NCP rebel Dyandev Ranjane and as the news spread, a group of Shinde supporters reached the NCP office in Satara city and pelted stones, police said. Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Shinde said about seven to eight Shinde supporters were detained. Shinde, a member of the Maharashtra legislative council, and loyal to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, later apologised for his supporters actions, saying he was a committed worker of the NCP and its chief Sharad Pawar. “I apologise for whatever has happened as workers reacted in an emotional outburst. I appeal [to] my supporters to exercise restraint. I lost the polls by a margin of one vote. There was a conspiracy behind my defeat and it will be exposed in the coming days. At the same time, I was a bit lax during the polls which cost me dearly. However, I must clarify that for me, NCP, Sharad Pawar, and Ajit Pawar are everything,” said Shinde. Also Read: Fake insurance agents held for impersonation,cheating elderly of ₹19.28 lakhThe polls was for 21 seats on the board of directors for the cooperative bank and 11 of these were elected unopposed, leaving 10 posts for which the polls were held. The polls for Cooperative banks are crucial as these institutions play an important role in funding cooperative sugar mills and other industries controlled by political leaders.Post victory, Ranjane expressed gratitude to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA, Shivendraraje Bhosale, for his support. Besides Shinde, Shiv Sena leader and minister of state for home, Shambhuraje Desai too suffered a loss. Desai was defeated by former minister Vikramsingh Patankar’s son Satyajit Patankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-leaders-lose-in-satara-bank-polls-supporters-ransack-ncp-office-101637660272885.html
23-11-2021||India||Assam forest officials claim Mizoram again constructing road on its land||Mizoram has constructed a stretch of a 3.5km road inside a reserve forest in Assam despite a central government advisory against constructions in disputed areas along the inter-state border, officials have said citing a drone survey conducted in Assam’s Hailakandi on Sunday.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6km disputed border. The two states have held talks over the border since the Centre intervened after six people were killed in firing between their police forces in July.Hailakandi divisional forest officer Jayanta Deka said the stretch was being constructed inside Assam and that the construction work was going in violation of the advisory. He added over 100 people with arms were working for the construction almost one kilometre inside from the inter-state border. “Our team of five members visited the area but we could not protest because they were large in number.” Deka cited the difficult terrain and added it took the team over five hours to reach there.“It is a complete reserve forest area near the inter-state border. Our officials... reached the spot after travelling on boats for hours. They came back at night with pictures and videos which can prove that the construction is happening.” He added Assam has kept the forest untouched and Mizoram has destroyed it and cut trees on their side. “They have constructed a 3.5km-long road. We are going to send a report to the state government based on our drone and physical survey.”Also Read: Assam police stop road construction by Mizoram near inter-state borderHailakandi police superintendent Gaurav Upadhyay said he discussed the matter with his Mizoram counterpart and he agreed to discontinue the construction works. “We found on last Saturday some movement of machineries...at Haticherra reserve forest area. As the area is near Assam-Mizoram border, we took up the matter with Mizoram’s Kolashib administration. They immediately responded and assured to stop the construction activities.”Mizoram’s Kolashib district police superintendent Vanlalfaka Ralte echoed Upadhyay. “A road repair work was being carried out... near the border. After getting the information we immediately ordered them to stop the work and they have assured to follow the orders.”Union home ministry on November 5 issued an advisory to Mizoram and Assam to maintain the status quo in the disputed areas along the border and refrain from undertaking any construction activities. The home departments of the two states accordingly instructed the deputy commissioners of border districts to comply.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana last week ordered the deputy commissioners of Kolasib and Mamit, which share borders with Assam, not to halt construction activities after a meeting of the State Boundary Committee. He alleged Assam is not following the status quo. Assam denied the allegation and asked Mizoram to refrain from spreading wrong information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-again-constructing-road-on-assam-s-land-claim-assam-forest-officials-101637657692704.html
23-11-2021||India||Fake insurance agents held for impersonation,cheating elderly of ₹19.28 lakh||The North Mumbai Cyber Cell on Monday arrested six persons from Uttar Pradesh for allegedly cheating a Mumbai based senior citizen by luring him into buying fake insurance policies, sold with the promise of big benefits and interest free loan in return. Two of the accused are employees of a mobile SIM card retailer who misused identity documents of insurance sales executive for fraudulently activating SIM cards in their names. Their accomplices then made sales calls to the senior citizen posing as insurance agents and cheated him of ₹19.28 lakh, police officers said. The senior citizen complained to the police that he received calls from “executives” of two different insurance companies in March 2021 and they lured him into buying policies in his grandson’s name, promising big benefits such as lifetime pension and interest free loan. The senior citizen was sold fake policies worth ₹19.28 lakh and received confirmation sent from fake insurance company e-mail address and fake policy documents. The elderly was promised returns of around ₹71 lakh and interest-free loan up to ₹12 lakh, his complaint revealed. After receiving the email, the victim approached the company’s Mumbai branch only to be told that no such policy had been issued in his grandson’s name, the police said. The Kandivali resident then approached the Cyber crime unit at Samta Nagar in Kandivali east, following which, a case of cheating was registered and a probe started. Also Read: CBI court imposes ₹10.2 crore fine on man in customs fraud caseThe probe revealed that the SIM cards used by the accused were activated from a shop in Uttar Pradesh. A police team then arrested two employees of the shop and apprehended their accomplices identified as Bani Singh, Vijay Mehta, Deepak Dubey, and Sneha Singh. Police officers said the accused misused identification documents of an employee of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority ((IRDA) and an insurance company executive to obtain SIM cards in their name, which were used to call the Kandivali resident among others. “We are now trying to find out how many more such SIM cards were activated by the employees of the shop at Gaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and how many more people have been cheated using this modus by the accused,” said sub-inspector S Thakur from Cyber crime police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-insurance-agents-held-for-impersonation-cheating-elderly-of-rs-19-28-lakh-101637657452764.html
23-11-2021||India||After Centre decides to scrap farm laws, Sachin Pilot warns BJP of consequences||Congress leader and former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) defeat in the recent bye-elections and a “looming bad performance” in the upcoming assembly elections, led to the Modi government announcing the scrapping of the three farm laws.Speaking to news agency PTI, Pilot said there will be consequences for the BJP in the elections as farmers' distrust of the Centre will not go away with one rollback.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that the farm laws will be scrapped, farmer unions have stated that the agitation will continue until their pending demands of a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, rollback of power bill 2020 and air quality ordinance are met.Also Read| Why govt failed to convince farmers about the new lawsSachin Pilot said on Tuesday that the Centre should not only ensure a legal guarantee for the MSP but also provide a regulation ensuring that procurement takes place. The Congress leader pointed out that such a long agitation by the farming community had not been seen in the history of India."If they had to rollback (the laws) then what was the need to waste lives and livelihoods, so much damage was caused, farmers were called Naxalites, separatists, even terrorists and some of the ministers' kin even mowing down people," Pilot further told PTI.He alleged that no discussion was held with the farmer groups before the farm laws were announced. "There has been a "kind of breakdown of trust" between the government and the farmers which is "damaging" for future dispensations also," Pilot added.PM Modi had said that the constitutional process to repeal the farm laws will be completed during the upcoming winter session of Parliament.On Wednesday, the Union cabinet is likely to discuss whether to approve the removal of the laws.Meanwhile, the Congress and other opposition parties will demand a full-fledged discussion on the consequences of the farm laws during the all-party meeting this Sunday, which will be attended by Prime Minister Modi.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-centre-decides-to-scrap-farm-laws-sachin-pilot-warns-bjp-of-consequences-101637653083904.html
23-11-2021||India||How Galwan braves fought in remote Ladakh valley, became heroes||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday conferred wartime honours on the Galwan braves, who fought off numerically superior Chinese troops on June 15, 2020. While Colonel B Santosh Babu was posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for extraordinary courage and leadership, five other soldiers were honoured with Vir Chakra (VrC).Four of them were awarded the VrC posthumously. The MVC is India’s second-highest wartime gallantry award followed by the VrC.The posthumous VrC awardees are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar), Havildar K Palani (81 Field) Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab). Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium) is the only living recipient of the wartime honour.The brutal clash pushed the India-China bilateral relationship to a breaking point. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Excerpts from the citations for the wartime awards:Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, MVC (Posthumous): Deployed in Galwan Valley during Operation Snow Leopard, Babu was tasked to establish an observation post amidst the border standoff. Organising and briefing his troops about the situation with a sound plan, he successfully executed the task.While holding the position, his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked him and his soldiers with lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights. Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by the overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in the true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to push back Indian troops.Also Read: Galwan clash hero Colonel Santosh Babu awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumouslyDespite being grievously injured, Colonel Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack on his position. In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand-to-hand combat with the enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground. For conspicuous bravery in face of the enemy, exemplary leadership, astute professionalism and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, Colonel Babu is awarded the MVC.Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, VrC (Posthumous): He valiantly led his column and resisted the enemy’s attempt to push back the Indian soldiers establishing an observation post. He organised his column, countered the adversary forcefully and stopped them in their attempt to push back Indian troops.During the skirmish, he was viewed as a daunting leader and was targeted by enemy soldiers with lethal and sharp weapons. Grievously injured and asked to move back; as a true leader, he refused, in spite of being heavily outnumbered by the enemy soldiers. He stood at the forefront under hostile conditions and displayed raw courage, fighting with resolute spirit in hand-to-hand combat, before succumbing to his injuries.Also Read: China ties passing through bad patch, says JaishankarThe gallant action by the junior commissioned officer resulted in a positive response which overwhelmed the enemy by surprise. His actions powered Indian retaliation and also galvanised his own troops to continue to hold ground.Havildar K Palani, VrC (Posthumous): He fought valiantly and saved his subordinates from the aggressive action of the enemy soldiers. Suddenly, the adversaries outnumbered and encircled him. With utter disregard for his personal safety, he stood bravely and tried to defend his comrades even when the enemy attacked him with sharp weapons injuring him seriously.His act of valour inspired his fellow soldiers to fight fiercely and resist enemy aggression. In spite of his grievous injuries, he continued to hold his ground resolutely and in the finest traditions of the Indian Army, laid down his life for the motherland.Havildar Tejinder Singh, VrC: He was leading his column against the enemy resistance. Subsequently, the standoff turned violent and resulted in a hand-to-hand fight. Concomitantly, a large enemy reinforcement joined in, thereby massively tipping the numbers in their favour. Undeterred by the numerical superiority of the enemy, the non-commissioned officer took on the enemy in a hand-to-hand fight and resisted them gallantly. He also organised a group of soldiers and displayed exemplary leadership to effectively thwart the action of several enemy soldiers.This gallant act was pivotal in inspiring his own troops to effectively engage the enemy troops during the violent standoff. He kept on leading his column valiantly and fought fearlessly.Naik Deepak Singh, VrC (Posthumous): He provided treatment to casualties of the skirmish at Galwan Valley. Having assessed the battle condition, he moved up to provide immediate medical support. As the skirmish broke out and casualties increased, he moved to the frontline rendering first aid to injured soldiers.Also Read: Army to get firepower boost in mountains with more M777 guns coming by JuneIn the ensuing skirmish coupled with heavy stone-pelting, he received serious injuries, but undeterred and tirelessly, he continued to provide medical aid. The enemy outnumbered Indian troops and he was injured while carrying out his duties. In spite of grievous wounds, he continued rendering medical assistance to injured soldiers and saved many lives. He finally succumbed to his injuries. He was pivotal in rendering treatment and saving the lives of more than 30 Indian soldiers.Sepoy Gurtej Singh, VrC (Posthumous): He was performing the duties of the scout of his operational patrol and was tasked to establish an observation post. He successfully spotted the enemy troops building up against the Indian troops while establishing the observation post.The faceoff between the two sides turned into a violent skirmish in which the enemy troops attempted to push back the Indian troops. In the ensuing clash, the enemy soldiers used lethal weapons and heavily outnumbered own troops. He displayed undaunted bravery, raw courage and exceptional combat skills in resisting the enemy troops in fierce hand-to-hand combat. He was seriously injured, but with utter disregard for his personal safety, he continued to fight the enemy valiantly and also extricated injured troops, thereby saving several fellow soldiers of his patrol party before making the supreme sacrifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-galwan-braves-fought-in-remote-ladakh-valley-became-heroes-101637655172660.html
23-11-2021||India||Shots fired at Assam forest officials on Assam-Arunachal border; no one injured||Smugglers involved in illegal felling of trees in a reserve forest on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh intestate border allegedly fired at a team of Assam forest officials on Tuesday morning, officials said, adding that no one was hurt in the incident. A joint investigation by the two states has begun to nab the miscreants.The firing took place when the forest team went to stop the illegal activity at Ronga reserve forest in Lakhimpur district of Assam. “We got information about the incident around 8:30 am. Smugglers allegedly fired at the Assam forest team. In return, the forest officials also fired shots at the smugglers, following which, they fled,” said BM Rajkhowa, superintendent of police, Lakhimpur. He said there was no certainty yet on whether the miscreants were from Assam or from the neighbouring state. Rajkhowa also ruled out the possibility of the incident being related to any border dispute between the two states. Also Read: Encouraged by farm laws repeal, Assam groups plan to resume anti-CAA stir“The situation is normal at the site at present and teams of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh forest and police departments are conducting investigations in the area to nab the miscreants. Local villagers have also joined in,” he said. On Saturday, a team of Assam forest officials were detained by illegal settlers in Ronga reserve forest on the border between the two states. The settlers were allegedly building a road inside the forest. The forest officials were later rescued by a team from Assam police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-assam-forest-officials-on-assam-arunachal-border-no-one-injured-101637654452619.html
23-11-2021||India||'Congress trying to suppress Navjot Sidhu's voice': Kejriwal in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal said he is proud of the courage shown by Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has exposed the false promises made by the Charanjit Singh Channi government."Yesterday, chief minister Channi claimed his government has ended the sand mafia and reduced the price of the sand. Immediately, Mr Sidhu said this information is wrong. He highlighted that the sand mafia is still operating. I salute his courage," Kejriwal said at a press conference in Punjab on Tuesday.Sidhu himself has said that Mr Channi is lying, said the AAP chief. "He (Sidhu) is raising people-centric issues but the entire Congress party is trying to suppress his voice. First, it was Captain (Amarinder Singh), now it's Channi," he added.He then took potshots at the Punjab chief minister, saying he hasn't fulfilled his promises - like giving free electricity to the people of the state, constructing mohalla clinics etc.Sidhu has faced attacks by former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who in April this year called the cricketer-turned-politician an "opportunist" and claimed he may join the AAP ahead of the assembly elections. Singh had referred to multiple meetings Sidhu had with Kejriwal.But after he became the state Congress chief, AAP attacked Sidhu, with the party's Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha asking him to stop acting like a leader of an opposition party.The assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled to be held next year and in the run-up to the polls, the state, especially the ruling Congress, has witnessed a lot of political churning. Amarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister after a long and bitter feud with Navjot Sidhu. While Sidhu accused Amarinder Singh of being a BJP loyalist, the latter called him a "dangerous man" claiming Sidhu has close relations with Pakistan.Amarinder Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi, who promised to end the infighting within the Congress, but Sidhu targeted his government over some of the appointments. He had even resigned as Punjab Congress chief, which led intervention from the high command after which the appointees were dropped.Sidhu had quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2016. He was then a Rajya Sabha MP. He later joined the Congress and won elections in 2017 from Amritsar East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-suppress-navjot-sidhu-s-voice-kejriwal-in-punjab-101637652892589.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAXAdar Poonawalla's Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will, according to reports, soon resume its supply of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the COVAX programme. Read moreGalwan clash hero Colonel Santosh Babu awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumouslyColonel B Santosh Babu, 37, who was killed during the clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in 2020, was on Tuesday posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for extraordinary courage and leadership, by President Ram Nath Kovind. Read moreFormer Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMCFormer Congress Member of Parliament Ashok Tanwar is expected to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in New Delhi on Tuesday, people aware of the matter said. Read moreVir Das loses International Emmy to Call My Agent, shares pic of medal and ‘fantastic salad’. See photos from ceremonyActor-comedian Vir Das who got nominated for the International Emmys Awards 2021 for his Netflix comedy special, Vir Das: For India, shared his nomination medal and a picture of a salad from the awards venue in New York City. Read more'The quality hasn’t gone anywhere, only our thinking had changed': Chopra attempts to settle the Ashwin vs Chahal debateR Ashwin or Yuzvendra? This debate is never-ending, specifically over the course of the last year. Every time there is a bilateral series or an ICC event, everyone starts asking one question. Read moreVirat Kohli shares pics of ‘cool’ cat he met at practice. Anushka Sharma reacts to viral postA post shared by Virat Kohli about hanging out with a cat has left people smiling. In the share, the cricketer posted about a ‘cool’ cat he met while at practice. Read moreNick Jonas flaunts his 'arms of Poseidon' in intense workout video, don't miss Priyanka Chopra's reactionAmerican singer and Priyanka Chopra's husband, Nick Jonas, showed off his ripped physique and dedicated workout routine in the latest gym video. Watch hereMaruti Suzuki Celerio and how it achieves India's best petrol mileageThe updated 2021 Maruti Suzuki Celerio was launched in the Indian car market amid much fanfare earlier this month and while the Celerio now gets a host of changes - from its exterior styling to cabin layout, it is its ARAI-certified mileage of 26.68 kmpl that made the biggest headlines. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-serum-institute-to-resume-supply-of-covishield-to-covax-and-all-the-latest-news-101637650573007.html
23-11-2021||India||Manish Tewari book: BJP hits out at Congress over UPA govt's response to 26/11||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday slammed the Congress over the party-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government's response to the November 26, 2008, terror attacks in Mumbai. The controversy erupted over an excerpt from Tewari's latest book, titled '10 Flashpoints; 20 Years,’ published by Rupa Publications. Happy to announce that my Fourth Book will be in the market shortly - '10 Flash Points; 20 Years - National Security Situations that Impacted India'. The book objectively delves into every salient National Security Challenge India has faced in the past two decades.@Rupa_Books pic.twitter.com/3N0ef7cUad“For a state (Pakistan) that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength; it is perceived as a symbol of weakness. There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done. It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India's 9/11,” Tewari wrote in the book, which is scheduled to release on December 1.Reacting to the Anandpur Sahib MP's opinion, BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted: “After Salman Khurshid, another Congress leader throws the UPA under the bus to sell his book. Manish Tewari in his new book slams the UPA for weakness in the name of restraint post 26/11. Air Chief Marshal Fali Major is already on record saying the IAF was ready to strike but the UPA froze.” After Salman Khurshid, another Congress leader throws UPA under the bus to sell his book.Manish Tewari in his new book slams the UPA for weakness in the name of restrain post 26/11.Air Chief Marshal Fali Major is already on record saying IAF was ready to strike but UPA froze. pic.twitter.com/LOlYl77fgD“CONgress leader Manish Tewari exposes the failure of the UPA govt in its poor response after the 26/11 Mumbai Terror attack. While the IAF was ready to take revenge against Pakistan, Sonia Gandhi-led CONgress blocked it. CONgress was busy painting Hindus as Terrorists to save Pakistan,” CT Ravi, the JP Nadda-led party's national general secretary posted. CONgress leader Manish Tewari exposes the failure of UPA Govt in its poor response after 26/11 Mumbai Terror attack.While the IAF was ready to take revenge against Pakistan, Sonia Gandhi led CONgress blocked it.CONgress was busy painting Hindus as Terrorists to save Pakistan. pic.twitter.com/mPQrMfQ12XMeanwhile, newly-appointed BJP national spokesperson Shehzad Poonawalla, who was previously associated with the Congress, tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi and the Congress consistently echo the Pakistani line on every issue--Hindutva, 370 and Surgical strikes. Today, as we approach the 13th Anniversary of 26/11, the Congress must tell us what or who prevented a robust response post 26/11 like we saw post Uri and Pulwama.”
23-11-2021||India||‘Can’t deny’: Kirti Azad on quitting Congress, joining TMC||Congress leader Kirti Azad said on Tuesday he “can’t deny” reports that he was soon joining the Trinamool Congress.“Sources have come out and said this, so I cannot deny them,” Azad told HT when asked to confirm or deny speculations of him quitting the Congress to join the political outfit led by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Azad refused to answer any further questions.A person aware of the developments, however, said that Azad was likely to join the TMC on Tuesday in the presence of Mamata Banerjee, who is on a four-day visit to Delhi. Apart from Azad, Ashok Tanwar, who quit the Congress in October 2019 and launched his own party, and former Janata Dal (United) general secretary Pavan Varma were also likely to join the TMC, a news agency said.Son of former Bihar chief minister Bhagwat Jha Azad, Kirti Azad began his political career with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and was elected thrice to Lok Sabha from his birthplace of Darbhanga in Bihar. However, Azad’s stint in the BJP ended in 2015 with suspension for “anti-party” activities following his attack on the then finance minister Arun Jaitley over alleged irregularities and corruption in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), which was then headed by the minister.Also Read: Former Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMCAfter a four-year hiatus, Azad joined the Congress in February 2019 in the presence of then party president Rahul Gandhi and lost the Darbhanga Lok Sabha seat to the BJP candidate Gopal Jee Thakur in the general elections held a few months later.Prior to joining politics, Kirti Azad was a cricketer who was a member of India’s 1983 World Cup winning squad, led by Kapil Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-kirti-azad-on-quitting-congress-joining-tmc-101637651512959.html
23-11-2021||India||Former Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMC||Former Congress Member of Parliament Ashok Tanwar is expected to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in New Delhi on Tuesday, people aware of the matter said.This comes amid growing differences between the two parties that escalated following the TMC’s announcement that it will contest the Goa polls due next year and defection of Congress leaders to West Bengal’s ruling party. TMC leaders’ comments against Congress have also increased tensions. Banerjee is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other key leaders during her ongoing visit to New Delhi. Her close aides have confirmed she has no plans to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Also Read: Will resume mining in Goa, if AAP voted to power in elections: KejriwalTanwar left the Congress in 2019 and has floated Apna Bharat Morcha. He was once a close aide to Rahul Gandhi. But he fell out with the party over his rivalry with Haryana leaders including former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Tanwar, a former Youth Congress president who has represented Haryana’s Sirsa in Parliament, remains a prominent face in Haryana. His expected entry into the TMC is part of the party’s plans to expand its base beyond Bengal following its return to power with a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly polls this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-congress-mp-ashok-tanwar-expected-to-join-tmc-101637649352265.html
23-11-2021||India||Srinagar records coldest night of this winter season||Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar witnessed the coldest night of this winter season as Kashmir continued to reel under sub zero temperatures. The meteorological department said Srinagar recorded -2.3 degrees Celsius on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. This is the lowest temperature this season so far in Srinagar, a weather official said. All the weather stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero night temperatures with mercury dipping the lowest in the southern resort of Pahalgam to reach -4.4 degrees Celsius. Most part of the city was covered by fog, reducing visibility. At Khanbal, the mercury dipped to -4 degrees Celsius. The northern district of Kupwara recorded -3 degrees C while the gateway to Kashmir valley, Qazigund in the south, recorded minus 2.2 degrees Celsius temperature. The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded - 0.6 degrees C. The day temperature on Monday at most of the places hovered between 13 and 15.6 degrees Celsius except Gulmarg, which recorded 9.8 degrees C day temperature.Also Read | Jammu and Kashmir: Families of civilians killed in Hyderpora now root for justiceThe valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past 10 days. Officials said the foggy conditions were caused by sub-zero temperatures and air pollution owing to increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. On Monday , the MeT department predicted mostly dry weather till the end of the month except for some light snowfall in north Kashmir on Thursday“Weather most likely to remain cold and dry till the end of November in whole of J&K. However, there’s 40-50% chance of very light snowfall over extreme North Kashmir on the 25th. Overall, there is no forecast of any major weather for next two weeks, “ said Jammu and Kashmir’s MeT director, Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-recorded-lowest-night-temperature-so-far-this-winter-season-101637648692212.html
23-11-2021||India||Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX: Reports||Adar Poonawalla's Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will, according to reports, soon resume its supply of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the COVAX programme. Also Read | Negotiations over release of vaccine for Covax in final stageAccording to a recent report, the Union government has allowed the SII to export 5 million doses of Covishield under COVAX, which is backed by the United Nations, to Nepal, Bangladesh, Tajikistan and Mozambique. Nepal was scheduled to receive the first batch, on November 24. The delivery has, however, been delayed.“The first consignment from the main Pune facility was scheduled to leave for Nepal today. However, the delivery has been delayed by two-three days due to some reason. The exact date of the consignment dispatch is still awaited,” news agency ANI quoted a Serum Institute official as saying, on Monday.In April this year, the Centre halted the export of Covid-19 vaccines as a severe second wave hit the country. However, with the second wave now under control, the supply to COVAX was expected to restart soon.Also Read | COVAX supply likely to resume this monthCovishield is the Indian variant of Britain's Oxford University-AstraZeneca jab, and is manufactured by the SII under that name in India. It is one of the two most widely-used jabs in the country, with the other being Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. Covishield and Covaxin were the first two shots to receive emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India for the vaccination drive, which began on January 16.Also Read | Vaccine hesitancy now greatest threat in overcoming pandemic: SII's PoonawallaCOVAX, meanwhile, stands for ‘Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access.’ It is co-led by Gavi, World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). The initiative enables access to coronavirus vaccines, tests and therapies for low-to-middle income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-resume-supply-of-covishield-to-covax-reports-101637644820224.html
23-11-2021||India||Galwan hero Colonel Santosh Babu to be awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumously||Colonel Santosh Babu, who laid down his life on the observation point he was posted at while resisting a vicious attack by the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) at Ladakh's Galwan Valley last year, will be accorded the Maha Vir Chakra posthumously today. In an official citation, as reported by news agency ANI, the central government described how Colonel Babu led the defence from the front despite being grievously injured, in recognition of which he is being posthumously accorded the military decoration, which is the second-highest of its type in India after the Param Vir Chakra.The Maha Vir Chakra is awarded for acts of courage shown in the presence of the enemy, whether on land, at sea, or in the air. In its official citation, the government stated that Colonel Santosh Babu had resisted the Chinese army attack while he was establishing an observation post in the Galwan valley during ‘Operation Snow Leopard’.“Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, commanding officer of the 16 Bihar regiment deployed in Galwan Valley (Eastern Ladakh) during Operation Snow Leopard, was tasked to establish an observation post in face of the enemy,” the citation went. “While holding the position his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked using lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights. Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy's attempt to pushback Indian troops.”Mahavir Chakra citation of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life while resisting a vicious attack on his observation post by Chinese Army soldiers in the Galwan valley of Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/xY7SzhTaiZThe government document also went on to then describe how the Indian Army personnel did not back down despite being hit hard by the Chinese assault.“Despite being grievously injured, Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position,” it read. “In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand to hand combat with enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the enemy attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground.”“Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu displayed exemplary leadership and astute professionalism. He showed conspicuous bravery in the face of enemy and made supreme sacrifice for the nation,” the document added.The government is also according posthumous honours to other personnel of the Indian Army who sacrificed their lives to resist the Chinese attack at Galwan Valley. Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Havildar K Palani, Naik Deepak Singh, Sepoy Gurtej Singh – all of who have been recognised for their gallant actions during Operation Snow Leopard – will be accorded their Vir Chakras posthumously.Subedar Sanjiv Kumar, of the 4 Para Special Forces, will also be accorded the Kirti Chakra posthumously today for an operation in the Keran sector of Jammu & Kashmir in which he killed one terrorist and injured two others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-hero-colonel-santosh-babu-to-be-awarded-maha-vir-chakra-posthumously-101637644485092.html
23-11-2021||India||5 of family killed as car falls into gorge in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad||Five car passengers including a toddler and two women who all appeared to be related were killed as their vehicle fell into a deep gorge after skidding off national highway 2 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district on Tuesday, police said.The accident occurred around 6:30 am near Hind hotel under Govindpur police station area on NH-2 when the car skidded off the bridge near Kaldih More and plunged into the gorge, about 100 feet deep. All five occupants of the car died on the spot and their bodies were recovered later by the local administration, police added. Police said the deceased were residents of Ghato in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district and were headed to Asansol. Two male members who died in the accident have been identified as Wasim Akram and Shakil Akhtar. Also Read | Jharkhand Assembly Foundation Day: People are watching, Guv reminds MLAs of conduct, responsibility“In total five persons were in the car. Their family has been contacted at Ghato in Ramgarh. They are on the way to Dhanbad. Only after they reach here, the exact identities of the deceased and their relationships will be established. Besides the two men, two women and one child have been killed in the accident,” Umesh Prasad Singh, Govindpur police station in-charge, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-family-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-jharkhand-s-dhanbad-101637644552310.html
23-11-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally further down at 7,579; active cases drop by nearly 5k||India continued to see a fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. On Tuesday, it recorded 7,579 infections, which took the caseload to 34,526,480, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. Tuesday's infection count has been the lowest in 543 days; this is the second consecutive day that new cases remained below the 10,000-mark.More than 12,000 patients recovered and 236 succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the overall recoveries and death toll to 33,946,749 and 466,147 respectively.Also Read| ‘No scientific evidence…’: ICMR chief on need for booster shots of Covid-19 jabsThe active cases on Tuesday saw a major decline of 4,859 and currently stand at 113,584, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, adding that the active cases have been the lowest in 536 days. They constitute less than 1% of the caseload (at 0.34% currently). On Monday, the active cases stood at 118,443.The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, has further surged to 98.32% and has been the highest since March last year.On Monday, India registered 8,488 new cases, nearly 250 deaths and 12,510 recoveries.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 964,980 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested so far has climbed to 633,489,239, the ICMR added.India's vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.17 billion with nearly 7.2 million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that more than 1.31 billion doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far.Also Read| India's daily Covid tally below 10,000 for 2nd time in less than a weekOn Monday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a review meeting with states Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and the Union Territory of Puducherry- which have reported a low rate of vaccination.Mandaviya urged these three states and one UT to launch an aggressive campaign to increase the pace of inoculation.“We are in the last lap of Covid-19 vaccination. Let us launch aggressive campaign to ensure full vaccination by increasing the pace of vaccination and expanding the coverage,” Mandaviya said on Monday. The Union health minister also said that all stakeholders in these three states and one UT, including NGOs, religious leaders, community influencers should be roped in to motivate the eligible population towards full vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-further-down-at-7-579-active-cases-drop-by-nearly-5k-101637639196343.html
23-11-2021||India||Air India board members asked to resign ahead of takeover by Tata Sons: Sources||Air India’s board members were asked to resign last week and they are expected to do so at their last meeting next month before Tata Sons are likely to take over the airline in January, people aware of the matter said.“Seven board members have been asked to resign. These include four functional directors, two government nominee directors, chairman, and managing director (CMD). The board of directors have to resign... (before the transfer of control) takes place after the (last) board meeting of Air India,” said an airline official, requesting anonymity. He added the board members were asked to resign at a meeting on November 15.A second airline official said the last board meeting is expected to be held in the second or the third week of December after which all the seven directors will resign. “This will include the ruling party (Bharatiya Janata Party)’s Syed Zafar Islam, the non-official director of the airline,” said the second official, who did not wish to be named.The government picked up Tata Sons as the winning bidder for the debt-laden state-run Air India in October around 70 years after its nationalisation. Air India was founded in 1932 as Tata Airlines.Also Read: Full circle, after 7 decades: Tatas win back Air IndiaC S Subbaih, a former chief executive officer of Alliance Air, said the resignations are a formality and a requirement and send a positive signal to the new owner that the process is on time and they will take control as per their plans. “New board has to take over as Tata Sons are the new owner of the airline. The current board is such that there is a CMD and government directors and functional directors who all will have to quit.”Subbiah said the new board might have an independent director and will have professionals with experience at the international level. “The new owner might not have functional directors unlike the current board and might have more owners’ representatives, independent directors, and an independent chairman and managing director. Tatas will bring in professionals to avoid mistakes of the past...it might even appoint an independent finance expert...”Air India spokesperson did not respond to HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-board-members-asked-to-resign-ahead-of-takeover-by-tata-sons-sources-101637643412371.html
23-11-2021||India||Yamuna Expressway may be renamed after Vajpayee: BJP's plan ahead of UP polls||The Yogi Adityanath government may change the name of Yamuna Expressway, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The road connecting Noida near Delhi to Agra is expected to be named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, according to Livehindustan.The renaming can be announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he lays the foundation stone for Jewar airport on November 25, reported Livehindustan.The renaming exercise is being seen as a political move ahead of the elections due in Uttar Pradesh early next year. According to Livehindustan, naming the Yamuna Expressway after Vajpayee is an attempt by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - which is aiming to return to power - to woo the Brahmin voters.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inspect the site where PM Modi will visit and review the security arrangements.The Prime Minister will address a rally after the foundation laying ceremony. Preparations are on in full swing for his visit.Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the agency engaged in the preparations, has levelled 135,000 square metres of agricultural land, set up three makeshift tents for the audience, carved out seven parking lots to accommodate vehicles, and will soon complete the work on four helipads.According to political analysts, the laying of the Jewar airport’s foundation stone will be the biggest event in western Uttar Pradesh, attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior party leaders, before the state goes to polls in 2022.The airport is a key infrastructure project of the Yogi Adityanath government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yamuna-expressway-may-be-renamed-after-vajpayee-bjp-s-plan-ahead-of-up-polls-101637641219512.html
23-11-2021||India||SpiceJet flights at Tirupati may get affected by bad weather, airline issues alert||SpiceJet airline said on Tuesday that due to bad weather at Andhra Pradesh's Tirupati, all departures, arrivals, and consequential flights may get affected. Requesting passengers to keep a check on their flight status via the booking website, the airline provided the link in a tweet from its official handle on the microblogging website.“#WeatherUpdate: Due to bad weather in Tirupati (TIR), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status,” the tweet read.#WeatherUpdate: Due to bad weather in Tirupati (TIR), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status via https://t.co/VkU7yLB2ny.An alert has been issued in as many as 18 villages of Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor district, where Tirupati is located. The city is home to the famous Tirumala Venkateswara Temple and other historic shrines, but the villages in the outskirts of the city were threatened after the Rayala pond's water reached a warning level and started leaking following incessant rains in several districts.The villagers have been asked to evacuate their residences and live in a relief camp set up by the state government at Tirupati. In the meanwhile, teams from the national disaster response force (NDRF) and the state disaster response force (SDRF) have also been called in for rescue operations, if needed any.Also Read | Bengaluru, Chennai flooded as rain batters southern states; 34 dead in Andhra Pradesh | 10 pointsOver 20,000 people have been evacuated and shifted to relief camps after the heavy rains wreaked havoc in the southern Andhra Pradesh districts of Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore, and Anantapur. More than a hundred villages, most of them in Kadapa, are presently inundated. The death toll has risen to 34 and over 30 are still missing, according to government officials.The state's chief minister, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, conducted an aerial survey of affected areas and reviewed the flood situation with the district collectors on Saturday. Earlier last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the chief minister over the phone and assured him of all help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flights-at-tirupati-may-get-affected-by-bad-weather-airline-issues-alert-101637639971543.html
23-11-2021||India||5 injured while escaping half tranquillised elephant during radio collaring||Odisha forest department’s maiden attempt at radio collaring a wild tusker that had caused much destruction in villages of Khurda district was halted on Monday morning after five forest officials, including two from Karnataka, were injured when the tusker suddenly woke up from tranquillised state and charged towards them.Senior forest officials said the full-grown elephant which is at least 9 feet tall and “problematic”, suddenly charged at the team of forest officials who thought it had been sedated with a tranquilliser shot fired from a dart gun a few minutes ago.“The tusker was spotted at Gayabandha village under Jankia police station limits in Khurda district on Sunday and the team of forest officials decided to tranquillise it to be able to fit a radio collar around its neck for better monitoring of its movement. Several minutes after the tranquilliser dart was fired, the tusker did not seem to be completely sedated and suddenly charged at the officials including an Indian Forest Service officer and two from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. As everyone started running helter-skelter they received injuries as they fell in nearby ditches or tripped on hard objects,” said Bhubaneswar regional chief conservator of forest, Manoj Mohapatra.He, however, added that none of the forest officials were physically attacked by the elephant that later went into the nearby forest. Officials said the team was attempting to tranquillise the elephant for the last 3 days.Also Read: 6 inmates escape Odisha juvenile home after attacking guardThe injured included Khurda divisional forest officer (DFO) Poornima Pandian, two experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, assistant conservator of forests, Khurda and forester of Bhushandpur section in Khurda Forest Division. Everyone except the forester was discharged from hospital after initial treatment.The radio collaring being done by the state forest department in association with the Asian Nature Conservation Foundation and IISc, Bangalore entails fitting a lightweight belt around the neck of problematic elephants so that they can be tracked easily. The collar is fitted with a GPS device and it relays realtime data helping the forest department do real time monitoring of the animal.Soon after the mishap, the forest department put out a press release saying the operation will remain suspended for the time being and will be assessed at a later stage. Had Monday’s tranquillization been successful, the department would have sedated 7 more difficult elephants in Chandaka sanctuary near Bhubaneswar, four in Similipal National Park, and one in Dhenkanal district.In September, the department had decided to tranquillise Ramu, a 30-year-old male elephant in Bharatpur reserve forest of Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary, but rains prevented the attempt.This tusker was chosen for radio collaring as it caused crop damage on a daily basis and its interaction with the human habitations had led to death and injuries too.Over last decade, the human-elephant conflict has been rising steadily in Odisha with elephants ravaging ripened paddy crop in search of food. At least 204 elephants have died since April 2019 while 294 human deaths have been reported during the period.This month, there have been several cases of wild elephants damaging standing paddy crops in Sonepur, Mayurbhanj and Sundargarh districts, forcing farmers to spend sleepless nights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-injured-while-escaping-half-tranquillised-elephant-during-radio-collaring-101637641071902.html
23-11-2021||India||Cold wave conditions likely in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan||Cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, and northern Rajasthan over the next two days and are expected to abate thereafter, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.A cyclonic circulation was separately lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the southwest Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It was likely to move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka and south Tamil Nadu. A trough (line of low pressure) was running from the cyclonic circulation to the southeast Bay of Bengal, and neighbourhood to the Tamil Nadu coast. Light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall in Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal was expected during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall was likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days and in Kerala and Mahe on November 25 and 26. Isolated very heavy rainfall was also very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal on November 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-101637639631731.html
23-11-2021||India||Param Bir Singh case: A look back at other top cops on the run||The Supreme Court on Monday protected former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the officer said he was “very much in the country” and was willing to submit to probe. Singh was declared a proclaimed offender last week after he remained elusive since March this year. Here are some other accused police officers who remained elusive like Singh:• Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Mukesh Gupta, who is accused of financial irregularities, was on the run from Chhattisgarh before he obtained a regular bail from the Supreme Court after a case was registered against him in May last year.• GP Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, remained on the run for weeks before the Supreme Court granted him conditional bail in September. A case was registered against G P Singh in Chhattisgarh under the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 after preliminary probe over alleged disproportionate assets.The bail was vacated last month. G P Singh has since been issued several summonses but he continues to ignore them.• Mani Lal Patidar, an IPS officer, has been missing from Uttar Pradesh since November 2020 two months he was suspended after businessman Indramani Tripathi released a video accusing the police officer of demanding bribes. Tripathi was later found dead in his car with gunshot wounds. In a habeas corpus petition filed by advocate Mukut Nath Verma, he feared Patidar had gone missing as he might be in unlawful custody.Also Read |Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress’ plea today• Arvind Sen, a 2013 batch IPS officer, surrendered to a Lucknow court after evading police for a month in January when a reward of ₹50,000 was announced for any information leading to the arrest of suspended deputy inspector general. Sen was evading the police since his name figured in a tender scam. Sen was declared a “proclaimed offender” in December 2020.• Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini was arrested in August after evading arrest in a case pertaining to a fraudulent sale of a land. He was later granted bail.• Madhukar Tandon, an IPS officer from the Rajasthan cadre, has remained elusive since he was accused of raping a tribal woman in 1997. Police have claimed he has been untraceable but Tandon has managed to sell property worth crores in Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officers-who-evaded-arrest-101637638731531.html
23-11-2021||India||Bihar set to get its 4th expressway, will connect Gorakhpur to Siliguri||Bihar is all set to get a second expressway - which will start from Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Praesh to Siliguri in West Bengal. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, most of this proposed expressway will pass through districts in north Bihar.The report further said that the new road will prove to be a lifeline for those living in north Bihar. It will not only make commuting between Bihar and Bengal easier, but also lead to new trading route, Livehindustan reported.The central government has given in-principle approval for the expressway and the road construction ministry of Bihar will soon start its construction, according to Livehindustan.Currently, there is no road connecting Gorakhpur with Siliguri, which is why it takes nearly a day to cover the distance between the two cities. The proposed expressway will reduce the distance between Gorapkhpur and Siliguri to less than 600 kilometres. Most of it - around 416 kilometres - will pass through north Bihar, reported Livehindustan.It will enter Bihar through Gopalganj, and pass through Siwan, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Supaul, Saharsa, Purnia, Kishanganj before reaching Siliguri. This will be a greenfield expressway and won't include any of the existing roads, according to Livehindustan.Since the speed of the vehicles is very high on the expressways, the alignment will be kept in such a manner that the road will be straight.This will be the fourth expressway in Bihar. One such road is being constructed between Aurangabad and Jaynagar (in Madhubani district). A second one is being constructed between Raxaul and Patna, which will go to Kolkata. Another one is proposed between Buxar and Bhagalpur.The Gorakhpur-Siliguri expressway will be connected to Azamgarh and other cities in Uttar Pradesh via link roads, which will eventually make connectivity to Delhi easier, reported Livehindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpursiliguri-expressway-proposed-will-benefit-10-districts-of-north-bihar-101637638123343.html
23-11-2021||India||BJP, NDA leaders to meet on Sunday ahead of winter session||Ahead of the winter session of Parliament ,beginning on November 29, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentary executive committee will meet on Sunday, the day when a meeting of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) floor leaders will also be held separately, people aware of the developments said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present for both the meetings, a party functionary said. The BJP is readying to face a combative opposition in Parliament, though party leaders said that Prime Minister Modi’s decision to repeal the contentious farm laws has taken away the “biggest grouse” the opposition parties had against the government.After the three laws were passed in 2020, the opposition parties had staged walkouts, raised slogans and protested, bringing the Parliament’s functioning to a standstill.Also Read: Opposition meet on Parliament unlikely amid TMC, Congress tensionSeveral MPs from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were suspended for a week for their unruly behaviour during the house proceedings. In the forthcoming session, the government will begin the process of withdrawal of the three farm laws that were opposed by a large section of famers in Punjab, Haryana and in parts of Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, Prime Minister Modi in a televised address to the nation announced the withdrawal of the laws. He pointed out that the government had failed to communicate to the protesting farmers the benefits of the laws which were drafted with the intent to empower small and marginal farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-nda-leaders-to-meet-on-sunday-ahead-of-winter-session-101637638071551.html
23-11-2021||India||‘No scientific evidence…’: ICMR chief on need for booster shots of Covid-19 jabs||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava has said that there is no scientific evidence thus far to establish that a booster vaccine dose is needed for further protection from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all adult population, and ensuring that not only India, but the entire world gets vaccinated, is the priority of the government for now,” the ICMR director general (DG) said.Also Read | ‘Need of the hour is…’: Top expert weighs in over need for booster shots of Covid vaccine“More so, there is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against Covid-19,” Bhargava told news agency PTI on Sunday.The senior scientist’s remarks come in the backdrop of recent reports that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the Centre’s top expert panel on immunisation, is likely to meet in the last week of November to discuss key issues such as booster shots, as well as opening up the vaccination for children.Also Read | Advisory group on immunization likely to discuss booster dose in upcoming meetingIn recent days, several people, including Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, have urged the Union government to permit the boosters.Also Read | ‘Centre should decide soon on need of booster dose’: Gehlot“The Centre cannot take a direct decision in such a matter. When the ICMR says that a booster shots should be given, we will consider it then. At present, the aim is to complete full vaccination of the target population. Once that is done, a decision on boosters will be taken. We have enough stocks available,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said recently. According to official data, out of 940 million eligible adults, around 82 per cent have taken their first dose of a Covid-19 jab, while nearly 43 per cent have taken both doses, or, in other words, are fully inoculated.The nationwide vaccination drive against this viral illness began on January 16 this year. Till now, nearly 1.17 billion doses have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-scientific-evidence-icmr-chief-on-need-for-booster-shots-of-covid-19-jabs-101637636907536.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool's plea over Tripura violence today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress' plea todayThe Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which claimed that the law and order situation in Tripura is "worsening" by the day. Read moreTamil Nadu rain: IMD issues yellow, orange alerts for Nov 23-26The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert warning for Tamil Nadu for November 23 and 24, and an orange alert warning, for November 25 and 26. Read more'He isn't there I think': R Ashwin names 2 mega stars that are unlikely to be retained by Delhi Capitals for IPL 2022Veteran Indian off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin on Monday hinted that neither him nor Shreyas Iyer will be retained by Delhi Capitals ahead of the mega auction for the 2022 edition of the Indian Premier League. Read moreThe Matrix Resurrections posters give first full look at Priyanka Chopra, sis-in-law Danielle, desi friends shower loveSharing the poster on Instagram, Priyanka wrote, “And she’s here. Re-enter #TheMatrix 12.22.21.” The actor is seen in a printed jacket and loose pants paired with knee high boots and her hair braided in short buns on each side. Read moreBhumi Pednekar is the hottest Pataka Guddi in beige embroidered lehenga set for a shaadi, see picsBhumi Pednekar looks like the hottest Pataka Guddi in a stunning beige embroidered lehenga set she wore to attend a shaadi. She served wedding guest fashion goals in the ensemble. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-to-hear-trinamool-s-plea-over-tripura-violence-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101637634906001.html
23-11-2021||India||India-Bangladesh ties passing through golden phase: Rajnath||Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that the relations between India and Bangladesh were passing through a golden phase. He was speaking on the occasion of Bangladeshi Armed Forces Day during his visit to the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi. “This year is of extraordinary significance for India-Bangladesh relations as we commemorate the golden jubilee of the liberation of Bangladesh, the fifty years of India-Bangladesh diplomatic ties and the birth centenary of Banga Bandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,” Rajnath saidHe also shared photos of the event hosted by Bangladesh high commissioner Muhammad Imranand said the deepening cooperation between the two neighbours showed they were “strong” partners in the region.“India-Bangladesh bilateral ties have been passing through a ‘shonali adhyay’- golden phase. While cooperation in traditional areas like security, trade, connectivity and people to people exchanges have steadily deepened, the partnership is expanding to new and emerging areas like nuclear technology, IT, innovation and blue economy,” Singh said, and added that he believed that the two countries were “strong partners” in bringing progress and prosperity in the south Asian region through robust and ever-expanding regional cooperation.Also Read: India-US Trade Policy Forum to be revived today after four yearsSingh also paid his tributes to the Indian soldiers who stood with Bangladesh during the war of liberation. “India’s all-out support came naturally out of historical experience and deep emotional, cultural, linguistic and fraternal ties that bind together the people of India and Bangladesh. We are proud that this friendship, founded in the shared sacrifice, has prospered by leaps and bounds,” he added. Singh also announced that December 6 will be commemorated as Maitree Diwas in India and Bangladesh and also in 18 other countries around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiabangladesh-ties-passing-through-golden-phaserajnath-101637636871451.html
23-11-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh govt asks ANSU to call off 12-hour bandh in Itanagar||Bamang Felix, the home minister of Arunachal Pradesh, has urged the All Nyishi Students' Union (ANSU) to withdraw the call for Capital complex region bandh on Tuesday in the greater interest of the state and its people. Notably, the ANSU had last week called for the 12-hour bandh on November 23 over a host of demands, which include the withdrawal of FIRs registered against its leaders after an agitation. Included among the demands of the ANSU is the immediate transfer of state education commissioner Niharika Rai – who the union claims is “inefficient in delivering justice to the students”.However, in a press conference on Monday, the Arunachal Pradesh home minister said that the 14-point demands of the ANSU have already been met on part of the state government, hence the bandh call on Tuesday is “not justified”. Bamang Felix, who is also the official spokesperson of the Arunachal Pradesh government, pointed out that the state education department had presented an action report, where almost all matters were resolved, within 40 days of facing the demands from the students' union.Although education commissioner Niharika Rai has not been transferred yet as she is “performing her duty”, the Arunachal Pradesh government will be looking into the various allegations of her being incompetent to hold government posts, the home minister said. The matter is under investigation, he added, highlighting that the union should wait for the final outcome.Notably, members of the ANSU had reportedly clashed with the police last week when they tried to enter the civil secretariat in Itanagar and present their 14-point resolution. Later, the union called for the bandh on November 23 and threatened to intensify the agitation if the demands were not met.Home minister Felix, in the meanwhile, has said that the state government would like to assure the citizens of the capital region that the police and the administration would ensure safety and security of the people.“While all government offices will function normally, state transport busses will be placed for lifting and dropping of employees,” the home minister said while appealing to the business establishments to open their shops.There is an exam scheduled under the CBSE board on November 23 and considering their situation, the student body should call off the bandh, Felix said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-govt-asks-ansu-to-call-off-12-hour-bandh-in-itanagar-101637633400768.html
23-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rain: IMD issues yellow, orange alerts for Nov 23-26||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert warning for Tamil Nadu for November 23 and 24, and an orange alert warning, for November 25 and 26. The weather body has projected isolated heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu and the Union territory of Puducherry during the next five days, and isolated very heavy rainfall on November 25 and 26.“Isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next five days, and Kerala and Mahe on November 25 and 26. Isolated very heavy rainfall also very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 25 and 26," The IMD said in an official statement.“A cyclonic trough lies over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. It is vey likely move west-northwestwards towards Tamil Nadu coast during the next five days,” the IMD further noted in its statement.The forecasting agency's projections come at a time when the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala are already witnessing extremely heavy rainfall, which has led to the loss of life and property. Andhra Pradesh, with more than 30 fatalities, is the worst-hit. Around 10 people remain missing in the state due to rain-related incidents, while more than 50,000 have been rehabilitated in relief camps in Chittoor, Anantapuramu, Kadapa and SPS Nellore - the four worst-affected districts.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rain-imd-issues-yellow-orange-alerts-for-nov-2326-101637631769160.html
23-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress' plea today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which claimed that the law and order situation in Tripura is "worsening" by the day. The contempt petition was filed by the TMC on Monday, and listed for hearing by the court today.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and TMC are at loggerheads in Tripura where the latter is attempting to set its foothold challenging the ruling government.West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, who is on a four-day visit to Delhi, described the situation in Tripura under the Biplab Deb-led BJP government as "atrocious". She also wondered why the human rights commission was "not taking a note of the ongoing use of brute force" in the Northeastern state."There is no democracy in Tripura. Several murders have happened. Goons with weapons are getting inside police stations. I don't even remember how many people had to be brought to Kolkata and admitted to SSKM Hospital, having sustained injuries in Tripura," she said.Referring to a Supreme Court directive to civic poll-bound Tripura, Banerjee said the order was being violated by the Biplab Deb government, and actions must be taken accordingly."Despite the Supreme Court's verdict, parties are being stopped from holding meetings and rallies. In Tripura, mockery was being made of the election process. If the government does not allow a political party to hold a meeting, then what will be the fate of the elections, I do not know," she said.The Bengal chief minister said she plans to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raise the Tripura situation in the meeting.The TMC supremo's comment drew a sharp retort from the BJP which urged her to stop post-poll violence in West Bengal."TMC leaders should be the last persons to talk about showing courtesy and violence. BJP workers are either rendered homeless or are murdered in Bengal every day," BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said."What are they doing in Tripura too is a badly scripted drama. We have not forgotten what they did with our national president J P Nadda ji during his visit to Bengal," he added.Meanwhile, a delegation of Trinamool Congress MPs on Monday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi over the alleged police brutality in Tripura.A total of 16 TMC MPs, including Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Santanu Sen and Mala Roy, arrived at the party office in Delhi and held a protest outside the ministry of home affairs over the Tripura police incident.Tensions in Tripura increased after incidents of violence in the run-up to the elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 12 other municipal bodies slated for November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-supreme-court-to-hear-trinamool-congress-plea-today-101637632306009.html
23-11-2021||India||Bengaluru, Chennai flooded as rain batters southern states; 34 dead in Andhra Pradesh | 10 points||Several parts of southern India have been battered by extreme rainfall, which has led to loss of life and property, and flooding in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The rainfall has been triggered by frequent formations of low pressure areas in the Bay of Bengal, and cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea.In Andhra Pradesh, 34 people have died in rain-related incidents and 10 more remain missing. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹five lakh for the family of each of the deceased persons.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, has predicted more rainfall in these states till November 26.The IMD also predicted that isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 24 and 25.Here are the latest updates on flood situation in the southern states:• "Light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall over Karnataka, Kerala & Mahe and Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall over Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe during next 5 days and over Coastal Karnataka on 21st Nov," the IMD said in a tweet on Monday.• Andhra Pradesh agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said that crops in over eight lakh acres were damaged in the deluge, pushing as many as 5,33,345 farmers into distress.• Over 50,000 persons have been lodged in relief camps in Chittoor, Anantapuramu, Kadapa and SPS Nellore - the four worst-affected districts.• The Chennai-Kolkata National Highway 16 was cut-off due to heavy rain on Saturday night. It was partially restored in Monday. The railways cancelled three trains due to water-logging at the bridge in the Padugupadu-Nellore section.• Karnataka has also witnessed incessant rain, which has caused huge losses to standing crops, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said. He also toured the affected areas and instructed the officials to transfer the compensation amount for crop loss to farmers.• Bommai also said that floodwater from the Mudavadi irrigation tank has cut-off road connectivity in the area. About 790 houses have been completely or extensively damaged. Thirty four bridges too have been damaged.• The rain has caused extensive damage to Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar and Hassan districts. Around 92km of roads was damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, according to government data.• In Tamil Nadu, two central teams - comprising seven officials - inspected several regions to assess the damage caused by the recent torrential rain and flooding.• Tamil Nadu has received 61 per cent excess rainfall due to the ongoing spell of the Northeast monsoon. On Monday, a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts of Chennai resulted in water-logging in places like T-Nagar. Officials said that some parts of north Chennai, were under water since Sunday as heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh prompted excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar river in the north region of the city being released.• According to IMD, Karnataka has received 145.1mm of rain from November 1 to November 21 as against the normal of 35.5mm, Tamil Nadu 299.1mm as against a normal of 142.4mm, Kerala 331.1mm as against a normal of 134.5mm, and Andhra Pradesh 227.3mm as against a normal of 81.1 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-chennai-flooded-as-rain-batters-southern-states-34-dead-in-andhra-101637630623114.html
23-11-2021||India||Chandrababu Naidu to begin 2-day tour to flood-hit areas in Andhra from today||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president Chandrababu Naidu will on Tuesday begin his two-day tour of flood-affected areas in Andhra Pradesh, a day after he held a party meeting regarding the flood situation in the state.During the meeting, the opposition TDP hit out at the Andhra Pradesh government for failing to take up rescue and relief operations properly.Naidu, the former chief minister, on Monday accused current CM Jagan Mohan Reddy of washing his hands off relief measures by just conducting an aerial survey through a helicopter. “As per the official figures, over 34 persons died and another 10 were missing. There were reports about a greater threat,” Naidu said during the TDP meeting.The TDP has further said that it will provide all possible help to the people affected by floods.More than 20,000 people have been evacuated and moved to relief camps so far after heavy rain lashed the state’s Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Anantapur districts. And over 100 villages, the majority of them in the Kadapa district are inundated.The state government earlier reviewed the flood situation in the above districts and announced that essential commodities will be distributed to all affected families for free.Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in 18 villages of Chittoor district to evacuate people after Rayala pond’s water reached a warning level and started leaking following heavy downpours, according to news agency ANI.People in these villages have been instructed to immediately evacuate their houses and move to a relief camp set up in Tirupati.The personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have also been called in for any rescue operations in Chittoor.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-to-begin-2-day-tour-to-flood-hit-areas-in-andhra-from-today-101637626539678.html
23-11-2021||NA||Breaking News: Karnataka mandates full vaccination to waive RT-PCR need for Maharashtra returnees||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Karnataka mandates full Covid vaccination to waive RT-PCR test requirement for those returning after 2 days of stay in MaharashtraKarnataka Govt lays down conditions for waiver of RT-PCR test requirement for those returning to their homes in Karnataka within two days of their stay in Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/9tXiyYEgyLKarnataka mandates full-vaccination against Covid-19 for those returning to their home in the state after two days of visit to Maharashtra in order to get the RT-PCR negative test requirement waived off, according to a latest notification. As many as 14 days should also lapse after the administration of the second Covid-19 dose.Delhi teen held for raping, strangling woman in DwarkaDelhi Police held a 17-year-old boy for allegedly raping and killing a woman in Dwarka area on November 15, ANI reported. Police said that the accused informed them about raping the woman, and strangling her out of feat of getting caught. The accused also “set her private parts on fire to destroy evidence,” police was quoted as saying by ANI.3 liquor shops in MP to give 10% discount to full-jabbed customersAs many as three liquor shops in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur will give a 10 per cent discount to customers, who are fully-vaccinated against Covid-19, on the production of the vaccination certificate starting tomorrow, ANI reported citing the district excise officer.Govt to introduce bill to prohibit private cryptocurrencies, create framework for India's digital currency in Winter Session, reports ANIThe central government will introduce 'The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021' in winter session of Parliament, reports ANI. The bill seeks to formulate a facilitative framework for creating official digital currency to be issued by the RBI and also ban all private cryptocurrencies in India.Cabinet set to sign off on farm law repeal bill on WednesdayThe Union cabinet is set to sign off on farm laws' repeal on Wednesday, according to people familiar with the development.CBI arrests 3, including an enforcement officer, in bribery caseThe CBI has held three people, including an enforcement officer and an EPFO, in connection with a bribery case of ₹1 lakh in Yamuna Nagar.3 held in Kashmir for Nov 9 killing of salesmanKashmir Police said on Tuesday that three people, all residents of Pulwama, have been arrested for the killing of salesman, Ibrahim Ahmad, in Bohri Kadal area of Srinagar on November 9. According to ANI report, police said the trio, linked to LeT (TRF), killed the salesman on the instructions of their Pakistan-based handlers.Senior BJP leader from Himachal Kripal Singh resigns as party's state vice presidentSenior BJP leader from Himachal Pradesh Kripal Singh Parmar resigns as the party's state vice president, citing “neglect" for the last few years as the reason, ANI reported.FIR registered against Kangana Ranaut for calling farmers ‘Khalistanis’FIR registered against actor Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai for allegedly portraying the farmers' protest as Khalistani movement and calling them 'Khalistanis' on social media, reports ANI.Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool Congress in DelhiToday, former @INCIndia MP Shri Ashok Tanwar joined the Trinamool Congress family in the presence of @MamataOfficial & @abhishekaitc.As a prominent face in Haryana and an experienced politician, we are certain that together we shall ensure the welfare of all people. pic.twitter.com/lm9zWYtNtCCricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad, and former Congress leader Ashok Tanwar joined TMC in Delhi on Tuesday in presence of party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee.J&K Police head constable awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously for showing ‘exemplary courage’ in Pulwama attackJammu and Kashmir Police head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously for showing 'exemplary courage in engaging & eliminating hardcore terrorists' during an operation in Pulwama in 2019.His wife Tasleema Begum received the award from President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi.Former JD(U) leader Pavan Varma joins TMC in Delhi“Looking at the current political circumstances and the potential in Mamata Banerjee, I have today joined Trinamool Congress," says Pavan Varma on joining the Trinamool Congress in New Delhi.Delhi Legislative Assembly session to begin on November 26Delhi Legislative Assembly session is scheduled to begin on November 26.Delhi court orders FIR against BJP leader Sambit Patra over fake video of Arvind KejriwalDelhi court orders registration of FIR against BJP leader Sambit Patra for allegedly posting a doctored video of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on social media.Kerala adoption row: DNA test shows Anupama S Chandran is baby's motherDNA test proves that baby given for adoption is Anupama's. Report will be given to the family court. Happiest day in my life, said Anupama S Chandran who is on a stand in protest outside the child welfare council office in the state capital.Railways minister says Bharat Gaurav trains can be operated by private sector as well as IRCTC, reports PTIBharat Gaurav trains can be operated by both private sector and IRCTC, fare to be decided by tour operators, says Railway minister to PTI.2 dead as building collapses due to LPG explosion in Tamil NaduTwo people dead as building collapses following LPG cylinder explosion in Karungalpatti in Salem district of Tamil Nadu, police said.BS Mubarak appointed as India's Ambassador to SudanBS Mubarak, presently Ambassador of India to Guatemala, has been appointed as the next Ambassador of India to Sudan, stated MEA/India to release crude oil from emergency stock to cool global pricesThe Centre said on Tuesday that it will release 5 million barrels of crude oil from emergency stock to join attempt to cool global prices.Fears for Peng Shuai are being 'maliciously' hyped up, says ChinaDays after Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai said she is safe and well in a video call with the president of the International Olympic Committee, the government said on Monday that fears regarding her are being "maliciously" hyped up. "I think some people should stop deliberately and maliciously hyping up, let alone politicise this issue," said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian.Lijian's comment came amid international concerns mounted for Shuai's well-being following her claims of sexual assault against a top Communist Party official.After Centre decides to repeal farm laws, Sachin Pilot warns BJP of consequences Congress leader and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said on Tueday that the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) defeat in the previous bye-elections and a “looming bad performance” in the upcoming assembly elections, led to the Modi government announcing the scrapping of the three new farm laws.In an interview with news agency PTI, Pilot said there will be consequences for the BJP in the elections as farmers distrust of the Centre will not go away with one rollback.Kejriwal announces 8 guarantees for teachers in poll-bound PunjabDelhi chief minister and and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convener Arvind Kejriwal announced eight guarantees for the teachers of Punjab, months ahead of the assembly elections in the state next year. Read moreSrinagar recorded lowest night temperature so far this winter seasonJammu and Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar witnessed the coldest night of this winter season as the valley continued to reel under sub zero temperatures. Read moreTamil Nadu rains: 4 houses collapse in Salem district, 13 people rescued till nowTamil Nadu: Four houses collapsed in Salem district's Karungalpatti this morning due to heavy rain. 13 people rescued so far & sent to Salem govt hospital; 4 people still feared trapped under the debris. Fire dept officials are clearing the debris & rescue operation is underway. pic.twitter.com/cqg52eOsY4Four houses collapsed in Karungalpatti area of Tamil Nadu's Salem district on Tuesday morning with four people still feared to be trapped under the debris. Thirteen people have been rescued so far. Galwan hero Col Santosh Babu to receive Mahavir Chakra posthumously todayMahavir Chakra citation of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life while resisting a vicious attack on his observation post by Chinese Army soldiers in the Galwan valley of Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/xY7SzhTaiZLate Colonel Santosh Babu of the 16 Bihar Regiment, who was killed in the clash with Chinese troops at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, will receive the Mahavir Chakra posthumously today.PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida International Airport on November 25Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Noida International Airport on Thursday. With this, Uttar Pradesh will be the only state in India to have five international airports, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Congress leader Kirti Azad expected to join TMC todayCongress leader and former cricketer Kirti Azad is expected to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Delhi today, according to news agency ANI. India's daily Covid-19 tally further drops with 7,579 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) declined further on Tuesday after 7,579 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,526,480, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. PNB refutes claim that data of its 180 million customers breachedThe Punjab National Bank (PNB) has refuted the claims of a cyber security firm that said that vulnerability in the bank's server exposed the details of millions of customers. Read moreMizoram reports 423 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMizoram reported 423 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the caseload to 132,320. Delhi's air quality in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 315 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-India pic.twitter.com/BYDZYQwkOEAccording to SAFAR-India, the national capital's air quality index (AQI) is presently in the 'very poor' category. IMD issues yellow alert for Tamil Nadu till November 24The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert for Tamil Nadu till Wednesday and an orange alert from Thursday to Friday. "A cyclonic circulation lies over Southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards towards Tamil Nadu coast during next 4-5 days," the IMD said in an official statement. Chandrababu Naidu to begin 2-day tour to flood-hit areas in Andhra from todayTelugu Desam Party (TDP) president Chandrababu Naidu will on Tuesday begin his two-day tour of flood-affected areas in Andhra Pradesh, a day after he held a party meeting regarding the flood situation in the state. Read moreAmerican citizens told not to travel to Germany, Denmark in view of Covid-19 crisisThe State Department on Monday urged American citizens not to travel to Germany and Denmark in view of the worsening Covid-19 pandemic situation in Europe. The department issued Level 4 travel advisories -- the highest level -- for both countries.Banking system in Afghanistan on brink of collapse: UN reportA news report by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has said that the banking and financial system in Afghanistan is on the verge of collapse following the Taliban's takeover. "The bank-run problem must be resolved quickly to improve Afghanistan's limited production capacity and prevent the banking system from collapsing," the UNDP report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-23-2021-101637625779304.html
23-11-2021||India||NIA arrests J&K activist in terror funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested human rights activist Khurram Parvaz after conducting raids at his office and residence here in connection with a terror funding case, people familiar with the matter said.The raids were carried at Sonwar and Amira Kadal localities. The NIA sleuths were accompanied by local police and CRPF during these raid, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Some documents and electronic equipment were also seized during the raids.The case was registered by the NIA under sections of the IPC and the UAPA on November 6. Parvez is the programme coordinator of Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-j-k-activist-in-terror-funding-case-101637620007444.html
23-11-2021||India||SC raps Gujarat over panel for disbursal of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Gujarat government for constituting a scrutiny committee for disbursal of ex-gratia compensation to kin of Covid-19 victims, in contrary to the top court’s October 4 directives.Expressing concerns that a state government order seeking Covid-19 death certificates may delay assistance, a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said: “This court has never asked for the setting up of a scrutiny committee. It will take more than a year for genuine victims to get their claims and get a certificate from the scrutiny committee.”The bench was referring to an October 29 notification of the Gujarat Health and Family Welfare department, requiring beneficiaries to move a representation before the scrutiny committee that will issue documents certifying Covid-19 deaths. Gujarat-based lawyer Amit Panchal had moved the top court against this order.On November 18, the top court observed that a clear attempt was made to overreach its October 4 judgment that no state shall deny the ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19 solely on the ground that the death certificate does not mention the virus as the cause of death.Appearing for the state, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that an amended resolution has been issued under the court’s direction but it also needs some modification. The bench sought to know who issued the first notification and called for accountability in the case.When the bench asked which is the competent authority which gave approval in this case, Gujarat additional chief secretary Manoj Aggarwal said it is the CM.“Your chief minister may not know many things? Mr. Secretary, you are there for what? If this is your application of mind, then you don’t know anything. Do you understand our order? It appears to be a bureaucratic attempt to delay the proceedings,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-gujarat-over-panel-for-disbursal-of-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101637619732176.html
23-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: DNA samples of Anupama and Ajith taken to check parentage||Hours after the one-year-old baby at the centre of a raging adoption row landed in the Kerala capital, employees of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biology on Monday collected samples of the child, Anupama S Chandran who is claiming to be his biological mother, and her husband K Ajith to establish parenthood of the baby, officials familiar with the development said. Earlier, Chandran asked the child rights body and others to take blood samples of all three together as she suspected a foul play, but it was turned down. Samples were collected separately and Chandran’s plea to meet the baby was also declined, with officials telling her that it will be done only after the court takes a final decision. Results of the DNA tests will be available on Wednesday, officials said. “Some officials of the Child Welfare Commission are acting with a vengeance. So it is natural to suspect a foul play. My request to meet my baby was also turned down,” Chandran said. But later health minister Veena George dismissed her allegations. “We have expedited everything and whole process will be video-graphed. Since the case is before the court, we can go by its directions. The government is bound to protect the child’s rights,” George said, adding the government has no problem in handing over the baby to Chandran after the DNA test. But Chandran reiterated her charge that people who played a key role in illegal adoption row were still entrusted with the custody of the baby. “It is an inhuman attitude. They still find pleasure in hounding me. I was dying to see my child separated after three days of birth but my request to see the baby was turned down. Now all are talking about law, but these people flouted the law to give away the child when I was making rounds of several offices and leaders” she said. Chandran said though the party and government pledged support to her, it never reflected in their actions. The baby was brought back from his foster parents in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as directed by the Child Welfare Committee. It also ordered a DNA test in five days. Chandran and her husband have been on a protest outside the office of the state child welfare council seeking her baby and action against officials who allegedly colluded with her parents to give away her child for adoption. The child was given up for adoption in August this year. Chandran had complained against her parents, saying the newborn was forcibly taken and given for adoption and with the connivance of some officials. She said police refused to entertain her compliant since her father was a senior leader of CITU, the trade union wing of the ruling CPI(M). She said her parents opposed her relation with Ajith since her husband belonged to a Dalit family. Both were active workers of the party. Though the issue attracted national attention, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is yet to react.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-dna-samples-of-anupama-and-ajith-taken-to-check-parentage-101637609812213.html
23-11-2021||India||Flood toll mounts to 34 in Andhra, 10 still missing, says government||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced that the death toll in the latest heavy rains and floods in south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts has mounted to 34 and that 10 more people are still missing.Making a statement in the state legislative assembly, agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said the government had ordered payment of an ex gratia of ₹lakh to each of the families of those who had lost their lives due to heavy rains and floods.He said a financial assistance of ₹30,000 will be provided to the farmers in case of the death of livestock and ₹3,000 in case of sheep and goat. As many as eight NDRF and eight SDRF teams along with two helicopters were pressed into service for rescue and relief operations in 19 places.Kanna Babu said there were 294 relief camps in flood affected areas and 57,969 people were evacuated and kept in relief camps. Standing crops in eight lakh hectares were damaged as per preliminary estimates and crop enumeration would be done once floods receded, he said.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a video conference with the collectors and other officials concerned of the affected districts in the morning, instructed that each affected family be provided with 25 kg of rice, 1 kg of dal,1 kg of cooking oil, 1 kg of onion, 1 kg of potato and a cash assistance of ₹2,000.He asked the officials to focus on sanitation, maintenance of medical camps, restoration of roads. He directed the officials of Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration Departments to finalize the tenders for permanent restoration works in next four weeks.The chief minister instructed the officials to provide a compensation of ₹95,100 and sanction a new house to those who lost their homes and ₹5200 to those whose houses are partially damaged due to floods.He asked the officials to provide a compensation of ₹25 lakh and one government job to the families of constable in Nellore, a village secretariat employee and an RTC conductor, who lost their lives while helping others during the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-toll-mounts-to-34-in-andhra-10-still-missing-says-government-101637609811212.html
23-11-2021||India||Two minors among three arrested over cop’s murder in Tamil Nadu||Three people, including two minor boys, were arrested on Monday within 24 hours in connection with the murder of special sub-inspector S Boominathan of Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district, police said. One of the accused was identified as 19-year-old P Manikandan and the minor boys are aged 9 and 14. “The minors are accomplices of Manikandan in the murder case. They were with him and helped him,” said a senior police official of Trichy who did not wish to be named. “Enquiries are going on and we will produce the minors before the Juvenile Justice Board and they will decide on where to send them. There are two homes in Trichy for children in conflict in law. The adult will be sent to jail.” A statement from the police said that the trio have been booked under section 302 (murder) of the IPC.Boominathan, 50, was murdered while he was on patrolling duty by the thieves he was chasing in the wee hours of Sunday at 3am. Boominathan along with another police beat officer, Chitravel, saw suspected goat thieves on a motorbike. When police tried to stop them the suspects didn’t and tried to escape when Boominathan went ahead of his colleague on a two-wheeler and began chasing them. When he managed to intercept them, the suspected thieves assaulted him on his head using a machete. Boominathan bled out to death on the spot. Police have seized the weapon and the motorbike. Following the murder, four special teams were formed to investigate the crime. Police received a tip off that the main accused Manikandan was hiding in Pudukottai district and on investigating him they found the other two minors. Boominathan was an SSI in the Navalpattu police station in Trichy and is survived by his wife and son. He was cremated with state honours and gun salute. On Sunday, chief minister M K Stalin issued a solatium of ₹1 crore to Boominathan’s family and also a government job for one of his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minors-among-three-arrested-over-cop-s-murder-in-tamil-nadu-101637609809816.html
23-11-2021||India||Parts of Tamil Nadu put on alert as rains lash Chennai||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a yellow alert in several districts of Tamil Nadu after heavy rains lashed parts of the state, especially in Chennai, where it resulted in waterlogging. Chennai witnessed a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts, such as T Nagar, which got 20 mm of rain in a few hours, continuing the woes of the capital city, which has been receiving excess rainfall since November 1.After the rains, the IMD has issued a yellow alert for districts such as Salem, Villupuram, Vellore for heavy rains for the next three days. Some parts of north Chennai such as suburban Manali was already been underwater since Sunday due to the heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh, so excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar River was discharged. Though the city went back to being sunny, the sudden showers were unpredicted. Some parts of the city registered 20 mm of rainfall, while others registered 10 mm of rain, according to the government bulletin, which caused instant flooding, with the municipal authorities deploying boats to rescue people from gushing rainwater. No deaths were reported. However, the wall of a balcony in a two-storey house collapsed in Perambur in north Chennai to the rains and fire personnel rescued 11 residents from the building. Residents complained of severe waterlogging in T Nagar, and commuters were caught off guard and were stuck in a traffic log jam for more than an hour here. “This morning between 3 and 5am there was heavy rain. And again after 8am. The whole place is flooded and sewage water is also mixed in some areas so the stench is unbearable. There was no forecast so no one was prepared for these rains. Only two days ago we restored our power connection in our apartment and now again we are flooded,” said V S Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar. “Everything is a mess.”“T Nagar was looking like a beach,” said a commuter K Sridharan, who takes the route to his office every day. “What takes me 20 minutes took me more than one hour today.”“These sudden spells were caused due to a circulation in Andaman,” said N Puviarasan, deputy director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) Chennai. “This extended up to coastal Tamil Nadu,” he said.Former deputy director of IMD, YEA Raj, said that this phenomenon of certain parts of the city receiving heavy rains such as Monday is not alarming but a common phenomenon. “The rain clouds that have been over T Nagar may disperse rains and the situation may not be the same even 4 km away in Adyar,” said Raj.“In Chennai, during June-July, the rains develop due to afternoon thunderstorm activity, whereas north east monsoon activities happen between 3 am to 8 am when the temperature is colder and leads to cloud development. So some parts may receive rain while other parts of the city could be dry.”“T Nagar got isolated special spells of 20mm till 8.30 am,” said weather blogger Pradeep John in his social media accounts. A six-member central team from New Delhireached Chennai on Sundayand will be inspecting They will be inspecting Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram on Monday. A statement from the Greater Chennai Corporation said that the team already inspected six wards in the city. Tamil Nadu has sought more than ₹2000 crores as central aid to restore rain-related damages across the state. The RMC forecast heavy rains in different parts of the state in the next three days. “Thunderstorm with heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu. Moderate rain is likely to occur at many places over districts of coastal and south Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal. Light to moderate rain is likely to occur at isolated places over rest districts,” the RMC said in a bulletin. For Chennai, in the next 24 to 48 hours, RMC says light to moderate rain is likely to occur in some areas. Chennai just began picking up the pieces after being battered by two heavy spells between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 when Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively. The city and overall Tamil Nadu have received excess rainfall during this north east monsoon season that runs from October to December. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-tamil-nadu-put-on-alert-as-rains-lash-chennai-101637609808718.html
23-11-2021||India||Critical equipment, documents in JNCASR damaged by heavy rains||Heavy rains on Sunday night damaged expensive and critical equipment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), a multi-disciplinary research institute in the Jakkur locality of North Bengaluru.Videos of water in the laboratories flooded social media on Monday. The institute was helmed by eminent scientist and Bharat Ratna Professor CNR Rao in 1989. The institution is also deemed to be a university and an autonomous institution under the department of science & technology, the Government of India.“Sensitive research material has been damaged. But we can determine the extent of the damage only after the water is removed,” Jaideep Deb, an official at the JNCASR, told Hindustan Times on Monday.He added that the damages could be in crores but was worried about the research and equipment destroyed due to the waterlogging.The Centre was established in 1989 to mark the birth centenary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Researchers at the Centre are divided into six units: Chemistry and Physics of Materials, Engineering Mechanics, Evolutionary and Organismal Biology, Molecular Biology and Genetics, Theoretical Sciences, Educational Technology and Geodynamics. JNCASR has two off-campus units at the Indian Institute of Science: the Chemical Biology and Condensed Matter Theory Units.In 2021, Nature Index ranked JNCASR 23rd in materials science among the top 50 rising institutions globally. Scimago Institutions Ranking 2021 ranked JNCASR 15th across all sectors and 7th among Universities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/critical-equipment-documents-in-jncasr-damaged-by-heavy-rains-101637609151009.html
23-11-2021||India||Railways’ airport initiative fails to attract footfall||A suburban train to the Kempegowda International Airport, an alternative by South Western Railway to the expensive and long journey to the Bengaluru airport, had less than 2,500 passengers since its introduction in January this year.The average cost of travelling to Kemepgowda International Airport here ranges from ₹700 to ₹1,400. Coupled with the traffic jams, a trip to Bengaluru’s international airport could be an ordeal for most commuters. More than the passengers, however, it is the railways that should be blamed for the failure of such a promising project, say activists. The drastic reduction in the number of trains and the constant delays have made the train to the airport an unreliable mode of reaching the airport, they add.South Western Railway operated 10 trains a day to and from the halt station when it was inaugurated on January 4, 2021. However, the services were suspended from April-end to November first week following the pandemic. When the services reopened, instead of the 10, the trains halting at the airport were reduced to two.SWR officials said that between January and April, only 2,098 passengers travelled, and it earned a ticketing revenue of ₹20,830. “The reason, the number of trains have been reduced is because of the electrification tracks between Yelahanka and Devanahalli. This work will be completed before the year-end, and then we will increase the number of trains as per the demand,” said an SWR spokesperson.Experts in the city are not surprised at the low figures and SWR’s lack of interest in running the service. “Since the beginning, the trains run at odd hours and the frequency is not great either. Because the railway had shut down the service for some work shows there is a lack of consistency. It was obvious that the project would not be a success and will require more time to settle,” Srinivas Alavilli, head of civic participation of Janaagraha, a non-profit organisation working for urban governance, said.Activists claim that the work on the suburban line to the airport has been delayed due to “bureaucratic egos”. The 41.40 km suburban line connecting Bengaluru city railway station to the airport via Yeshwantpur was approved by the Union Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs in October 2020. Following this, K-RIDE (Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development Company), a joint venture between the state and Centre, announced that the airport line would be a priority and be completed in three years.However, following a meeting between the government and the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), K-RIDE changed its plan to develop the direct airport line first.“Even though the BMRCL has not received approval for their airport line, they are asking K-RIDE not to prioritise the same. They are concerned that the sub-urban rail would affect their plans to have a metro line to the airport,” Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist, said.With minimal land acquisition requirements, K-RIDE could have ensured that the train chugs to the airport terminal within the stipulated time of three years. But because of this competition, the people of Bengaluru have been denied convenient transport to the airport,” he added.Activists also pointed at the lack of coordination between authorities responsible for public transport in the city. “The smooth integration of the bus, suburban rail and metro is the solution for providing a seamless transportation network. But the fact remains that there is a lack of coordination and an urgency to prioritise the work by these agencies,” Alavilli said.Experts believe that a plan to effectively use both the sub-urban rail and metro is still not on the cards. A former Indian Railway official, on the condition of anonymity, raised flags over the current plan for the suburban rail network.“If you look at the map of the proposed railway network, it is ‘urban rail’ rather than ‘suburban rail’ as it only reaches the edge of the city. Ideally, the suburban railway should have been connected to the district in the outskirts of Bengaluru like Tumkur and Chikkabalapur while metro should have been provided for commuting within the city,” he said.Meanwhile, tickets to the train to the airport come with the warning that they would not be responsible for any delays. This careless attitude of the railways now means that except for the handful of people who take risk of using the occasional suburban train, citizens of Bengaluru will have to suffer the ordeal of travelling to the airport by road for a while.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-airport-initiative-fails-to-attract-footfall-101637609149896.html
23-11-2021||India||Over 600 flats vacated after Yelahanka lake overflows||Over 1600 residents in 604 flats in Bengaluru’s Kendriya Vihar apartments were asked to vacate their apartments after the Yelahanka Lake overflowed due to heavy rains on Sunday. Multiple agencies worked all day to pump out water in several other localities of Bengaluru after heavy rains lashed parts of India’s technology capital on Sunday night. “Due to the heavy rain in the city, in the Yelahanka zone, in the Kempegowda ward limits, Yelahanka Lake over-flowed and water flooded into Kendriya Vihar and surrounding areas,” city’s civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said in a statement on Monday. On Monday morning, around 2 am the Yelahanka zone recorded over 130 mm of rain in a few hours, leading to waterlogging recorded around 4 feet in some places. The BBMP, fire services and others had to move the residents to safer locations. Yelahanka is about 15 kms from Bengaluru city and is close to the international airport. “18 NDRF teams used boats and tractors to ferry the residents in and out from the apartment,” the BBMP added. Gaurav Gupta, BBMP chief commissioner, on Monday, said that action would be taken against officials who allowed the violations around the lake, which led to the incident. (What kind of violations?)Several other parts of the city faced similar issues, with several people posting videos and pictures of inundated localities. Manyata tech park, which houses some of the biggest global corporations, was also underwater. A picture showed people fishing on the water-logged roads of the park, located on Outer Ring Road. “Bengaluru comprises a lot of ridges and valleys. In the past, settlements had been above the valleys, whereas the valleys were prime agricultural land fed by the lakes which were constructed along these valleys. Floodwaters used to flow along these valleys, and the agricultural land acted as buffers. However, urbanisation now has been taking place along the valleys as well. The canals constructed and rerouted post urbanisation are usually insufficient to carry the amount of water that used to flow through the valleys. This has resulted in flooding along the valleys,” Raj Bhagat, a senior program manager (geo-analytics) at WRI India, told Hindustan Times on Monday. He added that there are many valleys like the ones like Sarakki - Madiwala, Hulimavu - Madiwala have completely transformed while the Bellanduru - Varthur KC Valley and the Hebbal valley are currently undergoing these transformations.On Manyata tech park, he said that it was in the middle of a valley and has faced floods many times since it came into being and is likely to continue unless more drains are available to carry higher quantities of water along the valley.The flooding in Yelahanka is a stark reminder of Bengaluru’s rapid and unplanned growth, which has allowed the mushrooming of residential and commercial buildings, which are under the constant threat of destruction during downpours. Encroachment of lakes and stormwater drains (SWD) has exacerbated the problem in Bengaluru, where civic infrastructure is crumbling, even though expenditure on new public projects never seems to end. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, too, acknowledged that there have been widespread encroachments of lakes and SWDs that was affecting the natural flow of water. The development of layouts on lake beds is not a new phenomenon in Bengaluru, which has less than 200 lakes in a city. Earlier, the city counted 1000 such water bodies that date back to the early 16th century. “The water which is clogged in the apartment has been channelized towards the kaluve (SWD). The kaluve which connects Yelahanka Lake to Jakkur lake is 8-feet, and it has been requested by the government to expand the kaluve to 33 feet. In this regard, necessary action will be taken by the officials,” Gupta said. Bengaluru has received 364% more rains between November 1 and 21 (till 5.30 pm), as it has, so far, recorded 195 mm of rains against the normal of 42 mm this month. Bengaluru’s residents have been relentlessly complaining about the bad quality of roads in the city that has become a hurdle to everyday life. Most roads in Bengaluru are laden with pot-holes, slowing down traffic and making life for commuters, especially two-wheelers and pedestrians, difficult. Rains continue to pound Karnataka and several other parts of the country as depression over the Bay of Bengal has had a disastrous impact on several regions across states. A total of 24 people have lost their lives in November alone, data shows while nearly 200 animals have also died due to the rains. Several low-lying regions of the city are badly impacted. At least 227 homes have been completely damaged and another 187 are partially damaged, according to data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. Around 92 kms of roads have been damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-600-flats-vacated-after-yelahanka-lake-overflows-101637609148697.html
23-11-2021||India||Bengaluru airport deploys firefighter simulator||Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru has become the first airport in South Asia to commission a Rosenbauer Tactical Simulator, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), operators of the airport said on Monday. With this simulator, firefighters can train in a realistic environment, master the tactical use of Rosenbauer Panther trucks as well as operate High Reach Extendable Turrets (HRET) for extreme aircraft fire emergencies. The facility will be open for firefighters from other airports (in India and abroad), said a statement from BIAL. ”The simulator provides Incident Commanders, Crew Commanders and Lead Firefighters an opportunity to gain experience in the tactical use of CFTs through turret control and application of firefighting agents, command and control, vehicle operation and basic driving and positioning skills. The simulator has a cockpit that matches every detail of the Rosenbauer fire truck, providing a realistic experience in the operation of CFTs, including all operating controls, from the steering wheel to turret control, projected through multiple 55” HD screens,” read the statement. With the latest facility, firefighters can be prepared for all kinds of aircraft-related emergencies as multiple scenarios can be customised. Simulator training increases the professional competency of firefighters as the scenarios are realistic and sessions can be replayed for effective evaluation, the BIAL said. To ensure the safety and security of all stakeholders, including passengers and airlines, BIAL has added four advanced Rosenbauer CFTs to its fleet. Two Rosenbauer Panther 6x6 trucks and two Rosenbauer Panther 8x8 trucks, including two with HRETs were commissioned recently, taking the overall number of CFTs in its fleet to eight. BLR Airport is the only airport in India to commission these hi-tech trucks with HRETs,” the statement added. “At BLR Airport, our top priority is to maintain the highest standards of safety and with the Rosenbauer CFTs, we are well-equipped to efficiently handle difficult fire emergencies. We believe in training our teams, equipping them with advanced tools and modern technology, providing them with hands-on experience and keeping them ready to contain any possible emergencies. The tactical simulator will support in strengthening our firefighting capabilities even further,” said Jayaraj Shanmugam, Chief Operating Officer, BIAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-airport-deploys-firefighter-simulator-101637609090729.html
23-11-2021||India||Heavy rains soar vegetable prices across Karnataka||The wholesale price of tomatoes in Kolar, about 60 kms from Bengaluru, has witnessed a sharp increase up to ₹140 over the last 15 days, according to dealers from the district, who have also recorded a sharp decline in supply as rain continues to pound the calamity-prone state. From a wholesale rate of around ₹5-20 per kg during the end of October, prices are now hovering around ₹80-140, dealers said on Monday. “There are two main reasons. One is that due to heavy rains in June and July, several farmers did not go in for sowing, and those who did, got only around half of their normal harvest,” Sudhakar Gowda, who runs KRS Tomato Mandi in the district, said. “I have seen extensive damage to Ragi, vegetables, horticulture and floriculture crops. Flood waters from Mudavadi irrigation tank has cut-off road connectivity in the area, About 790 houses have been completely or extensively damaged. Agri Crops in 48,333 hectares and horticulture crops in 6966 hectares have been affected, 189km length of roads and 34 bridges have been damaged according to preliminary reports,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday after visiting the district. One of Asia’s largest tomato markets, the crisis in Kolar is stark, adding to the post-Covid pandemic impact on people’s lives and livelihoods. Gowda said that the tomatoes coming into the wholesale market are from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and other regions, and Kolar is contributing just under 10% of its normal supply. In November so far, Kolar has received nearly 400% more rainfall than usual as the district has recorded 253 mm in the month as against the normal 51 mm, data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) showed. Statewide, there has been a departure of 271% more rainfall in November as Karnataka recorded an average of 129 mm against a normal of 35mm during this period due to the northeast monsoon. From around 350-450 truckloads of tomatoes per day, the number has fallen to around 50, traders said. As one of the biggest suppliers of tomatoes to Bengaluru and Chennai, prices have seen a sharp spike with retail going up to ₹150, depending on the marketplace. The prices of other vegetables, too, have risen sharply in the recent days, piling on the financial burden not just on farmers, but the consumers, who have to shell out much more for their daily needs. Ladies finger is now at ₹130 per kg from ₹70 about two weeks ago, Beans are at ₹98 per kg, Onion at ₹56 and a bunch of coriander now costs ₹50 from ₹30 a week ago, retailers said. Bommai said that there were no dearth of funds for relief operations as ₹684cr was available with the district administrations across the state. “A sum of ₹5 lakh would be paid as compensation for completely damaged houses and ₹3 lakh for partially damaged houses in three instalments. DCs had been instructed to disburse first instalment of ₹1 lakh immediately, Bommai said.He said that ₹500 crore has been released by the state government for repair of roads and bridges. According to the Karnataka government, over 347,000 hectares of crops and 30,114 hectares of horticulture crops have been damaged due to the rains in November. The worst affected districts are Kolar and neighbouring Chikkaballpura, which received 500% more rain, data showed. The opposition continued to attack the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its lackadaisical attitude in reacting to the calamity. “There are no district-in charge ministers. Since they are not there, no one has gone and surveyed the extent of crop loss. Crops have been damaged, houses have collapsed, cattle have died. There is no survey done to date and they (government) say that since it was raining, they could not do it,” Siddaramaiah said. He added that the Bommai government was prioritising election-related work like the Jana Swarajya Yatra over the problem of calamity-struck population. Bommai said that the Yatra was planned earlier and that it would not be right to relate the two separate events. Bommai had earlier said that since the model code of conduct was in effect, the government could not announce compensation. Siddaramaiah refuted this and said that the government should speak to the election commission to release compensation as farmers and others were in a lot of pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-soar-vegetable-prices-across-karnataka-101637609088649.html
23-11-2021||India||No dilution of existing election regulations for social media: ECI||Social media companies will have to follow the voluntary code of ethics that the Election Commission of India had introduced ahead of the 2019 general elections, and there will be no dilution of existing rules and regulation, the election watchdog said in a statement on Monday.The commission was responding to a report published in HT in collaboration with The Intersection, in which Facebook claimed it had negotiated with the statutory poll body to avoid “onerous” legal obligations in regard to taking down poll-related content.“ECI’s committee headed by Mr (Umesh) Sinha consisted of all important stakeholders. However, social media companies were neither members or signatories,” the commission said in its statement. “The Committee was set up by the ECI for the overall review of the provisions of section 126 of the RP Act, keeping in view the advent, advancement and multifid increase in media mode and its impact on election campaigning. It made a set of recommendations… (and) included the need for some guidelines for intermediaries operating in India and a stringent and dedicated mechanism for promptly taking down posts violating section 126.”Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, prohibits election campaigning by any means 48 hours before voting takes place.Referring to all the social media companies that agreed to sign the voluntary code of ethics, the commission said that “Facebook was only one of the attendees along with other important social media intermediaries… (such as) Twitter, Google, YouTube, Sharechat and representatives of IAMAI.” IAMAI is short for Internet and Mobile Association of India, an industry grouping.“Rather the VCE (voluntary code of ethics) was in force for not only the silence period but for the entire period of the model code of conduct for the parliamentary elections,” the statement said. The practice has been continued in all polls held since.The commission never stopped any law agency from taking against social media companies for violation of extant laws and regulations relating to social media, the statement said. “Therefore, it becomes clear that the VCE was only an additional dedicated code for grievance redressal for violative posts.”HT and The Intersection on Monday reported that internal Facebook documents state that in the run-up to the 2019 general elections, the company managed to convince the commission to scuttle its original intention of introducing stiff social media regulations and settle for a voluntary code of ethics, avoiding additional legal obligations.This included banning political advertisements in the two days preceding polling. The social media company fronted the IAMAI to push its view and achieve consensus over the rules, showed Facebook’s internal documents spirited out of the company by whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former employee and data scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dilution-of-existing-election-regulations-for-social-media-eci-101637608848523.html
23-11-2021||India||India marks 50 years of battle of Garibpur before 1971 war with Pakistan||India on Monday quietly marked the 50th anniversary of a key battle in erstwhile East Pakistan -- 11 days before India and Pakistan officially went to war in 1971 -- in which the Indian Army completely wiped out a Pakistani tank squadron, the Indian Air Force shot down three enemy fighter jets, and an estimated 300 Pakistani soldiers were killed or injured, according to military historians who have studied the battle in detail.The Battle of Garibpur, which included a fierce confrontation between rival tanks on November 21, 1971, and an air battle a day later, ended with the Indian Army creating an important launch pad for the upcoming offensive into enemy territory and set the stage for the creation of military history 24 days later with the liberation of Bangladesh.“In the run-up to the 1971 war, the Indian armed forces were focussed on creating launch pads across the border fully aware that a full-scale military confrontation was imminent. Garibpur was among the key launch pads because of its proximity to Jessore in erstwhile East Pakistan,” said Brigadier Balram Singh Mehta (retd), an armoured corps officer who fought in the Battle of Garibpur as a young captain.The C Squadron of the Indian Army’s 45 Cavalry destroyed 14 American M-24 Chaffee tanks of the Pakistan Army on November 21 at Garibpur at the expense of two Indian PT-76 tanks, with the IAF’s Gnats intercepting a detachment of Pakistan Air Force fighter jets and shooting down three F-86 Sabres in the first aerial combat with PAF in the build-up to 1971 war. IAF calls the air action Battle of Boyra.On November 22, 1971, four PAF F-86 Sabres violated Indian airspace and attempted to strafe Indian positions when they were intercepted by an equal number of IAF Gnats of the No. 22 Squadron (Swifts). All the IAF fighter jets returned to base unscathed. Flight Lieutenant Roy Andrew Massey, who led the four-aircraft package, was awarded India’s third highest wartime gallantry award, Vir Chakra, along with Flying Officer Donald Lazarus and Flight Lieutenant MA Ganapathy.The Battle of Garibpur gave India new war heroes. The Indian Army's 14 Punjab (Nabha Akal) played a leading role in the battle, and its commanding officer Lieutenant Colonel (later brigadier) RK Singh was awarded India's second-highest wartime gallantry medal Maha Vir Chakra for his heroics and outstanding leadership. Captain (later lieutenant colonel) GS Gill, also from 14 Punjab, was awarded Vir Chakra. Mehta's squadron commander Major DS Narag was posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra.The Battle of Garibpur, followed by the Battle of Boyra, was for all practical purposes the beginning of the 1971 war, said Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (retd), a military historian and the author of India’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971.“It was part of the Indian Army’s shallow thrusts into erstwhile East Paskistan to create bases for subsequent operations. The Battle of Garibpur and its outcome was significant as the army was shaping the future battlefield,” said Subramaniam. The Indira Gandhi government cleared the army to cross the international border “for self defence” in a decision taken on November 18, experts said.“In one fell swoop, the 3 (Independent) Armoured Squadron, consisting of Chaffee tanks, was completely destroyed and two infantry battalions badly mauled…The biggest attack planned by Lieutenant General AAK Niazi (Pakistani commander) to teach the Indians and the Mukti Bahini a lesson had gone up in smoke. This battle was a victory and a decisive one at that. Garibpur was held in a bold and decisive move by ground troops, one battalion beat back an enemy brigade,” Mehta wrote in his 2016 book The Burning Chaffees: A Soldier’s First-Hand Account of the 1971 War.The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the creation of a new country, Bangladesh, and the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war.Also, it was on November 21 that the Bangladesh government-in-exile under Sheikh Mujibur Rahman placed its armed forces and freedom fighters directly under the Indian Army’s Eastern Command. Bangladesh celebrates November 21 as Armed Forces Day.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who visited the Bangladesh High Commission in Delhi on Monday to attend a reception to mark the Armed Forces Day, said, “This year is of extraordinary significance for India-Bangladesh relations as we commemorate the golden jubilee of the Liberation of Bangladesh and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In this momentous time, I salute the valiant struggle of the Mukti Bahini in the Muktijuddho, the War of Liberation in 1971”.Singh described the war for the liberation of Bangladesh as an unprecedented event in the 20th century history.“It was a moral fight against injustice, atrocities and oppression. Ordinary people were brutally maimed and murdered. The barbaric atrocities of Operation Searchlight (a crackdown by the Pak army to crush the voices of self-determination) stirred the conscience of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-marks-50-years-of-battle-of-garibpur-before-1971-war-with-pakistan-101637608668870.html
23-11-2021||India||Trilateral coast guard exercise underway||The 15th edition of the biennial trilateral exercise “Dosti” by the coast guard forces of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka is underway in the Maldives during November 20-24.The Indian Coast Guard vessels, ICGS Vajra and ICGS Apoorva, and the Sri Lanka Coast Guard’s SLCGS Suraksha are in the Maldives for the exercise. This year marks 30 years since the first edition of the exercise.The aim of the trilateral exercise is to strengthen friendship, enhance mutual operational capabilities, exercise interoperability and build cooperation between the coast guards of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka, officials said. Exercises carried out over the past 10 years have focused on drills on providing assistance during maritime accidents, eliminating sea pollution, and coast guard procedures and conduct during situations such as oil spills.Exercise “Dosti” was started in 1991 between the Indian and the Maldives coast guards. Sri Lanka joined the exercise for the first time in 2012.“Much excitement & energy was packed into the main exercise & steampast of Dosti XV at Usfasgan’du Area in Male’ today. Chief Guest, Hon. Minister of Defence @MariyaDidi interacted with local students, who claimed they were thrilled to witness the dynamic drills & displays,” the defence minister of the Maldives said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trilateral-coast-guard-exercise-underway-101637608368818.html
23-11-2021||India||Amit Shah sought report on attack on TMC leaders: Party MPs||A Trinamool Congress delegation met Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday over alleged incidents of violence against their leaders in Tripura, following an unprecedented demonstration in front of the home ministry at the North Block.The protests also coincided with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Delhi visit and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee rushing to Tripura after the party’s youth wing chief Sayani Ghosh was arrested on various charges in the state.“We told him in detail how leaders were being arrested and MPs being beaten up. He told us that he had spoken to the Tripura CM on phone yesterday and assured us that he would seek a report from the state,” said a delegation of Trinamool leaders, including MP Derek O’Brien, Santanu Sen and Mala Roy, after their meeting with Shah.Former Union minister and TMC MP Saugata Ray said Shah assured he will look into the issues.The lawmakers from Bengal sat for over three hours outside the Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday morning. They got an appointment to meet Shah in the afternoon.“We primarily had three things to tell him, that the Supreme Court’s order instructing the state government to allow all opposition parties to campaign in a peaceful and orderly manner hasn’t been given to us. Second, we requested him to look into the Sayani Ghosh case, and of course we raised the issue of brutality against party leaders,” TMC MP Dola Sen said.West Bengal CM Banerjee, who was scheduled to land in Delhi in the evening, planned to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on several issues, including the Tripura situation.“During my visit to Delhi, I will be meeting the prime minister. Apart from various state-related matters, I will be raising issues concerning the enhancement of BSF jurisdiction as well as the Tripura violence,” she told reporters before leaving for Delhi.Banerjee wondered why the human rights commission was “not taking a note” of the ongoing use of brute force in the northeastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-sought-report-on-tripura-violence-tmcmps-101637608248804.html
23-11-2021||India||HTLS 2021: India’s energy growth from scarcity to justice to security||Institutions created by human beings necessarily reflect the preoccupation of their time. Like other epochal moments that have led to tectonic shifts in the geopolitical landscape, we will now look back at the world as “pre-Covid” and “post-Covid”. The COP26 summit in Glasgow confirmed what many had predicted in 2020 — the Covid-19 pandemic would comprehensively alter global affairs.India is in a unique position to define the contours of the global economy for the 21st century rather than merely being a participant in it. India’s determined and proactive interventions against Covid-19 as well as our leadership in the COP26 summit have shown the world that we are ready to anchor sustainability at the global level. Our Prime Minister’s Panchamrit action plan — India’s ambitious commitment to reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2070 — only reaffirms India’s rising graph in the emerging global order.For years, climate geopolitics was premised on the approach that developed economies must bear the lion’s share of mitigating climate crisis as they are primarily responsible for the present levels of emissions. It was considered unfeasible to impose the same burden on developing economies. India has reshaped that understanding of climate commitments fundamentally — we have shifted the global balance of power by showing that developing countries can lead the way in pledging comprehensive climate targets while also successfully meeting their socioeconomic objectives.This transition from an adhering developing nation to a leading global power has been seven years in the making under Modi’s leadership. The pandemic tipped the scales when the world looked for a “China +1” alternative in the wake of supply shortages in global economic value chains. India united under a “whole of government” approach by rolling out historic reforms under the Atmanirbhar Bharat vision. We knocked down silos, streamlined governance, and leveraged India’s innate cooperative federalism to promote greater synergies in realising our development goals in a sustainable manner.Nowhere is this truer than in the economics of energy. Despite the fact that our per capita energy demand increased by over 60% in the past two decades, India’s energy use and emissions are less than a third of the global average. India will soon become the world’s most populous country. We will need an additional energy generation capacity equivalent to that of the European Union to meet our energy demands in the next three decades, particularly for our growing urban footprint.India is aptly positioned to maximise its energy production from all available resources. We have already made concrete progress. Even as the oil and gas sector, led by many central public sector enterprises (CPSEs), continues to meet the bulk of India’s energy needs, it is also spearheading our transition towards non-fossil fuels. We will double the share of natural gas — which is much less polluting than other fossil fuels — in our energy mix with an investment of $60 billion by 2024.PM Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) is a global case study for not just energy justice but also access to clean energy. More than 91 million beneficiaries have received LPG connections under PMUY and its second iteration, PM Ujjwala Yojana 2.0. The carbon footprint of LPG is 50% lower than firewood, thus reducing our emissions significantly.On our 75th Independence Day, the PM secured India’s future energy needs by announcing the National Hydrogen Mission for the production of Green Hydrogen. Oil marketing companies (OMCs) refineries are creating an ecosystem for the production of Green Hydrogen on a “1-1-1” cost trajectory, i.e., 1 USD for 1kg of Hydrogen in 1 decade.Despite the breakout of the pandemic, India adopted BS-VI emission standards, which are equivalent to the Euro-VI norms from April 1, 2020. We have increased ethanol blending in petrol from 0.67% in 2012 to 8.5% in 2021, and will ramp it up further to 20% by 2024-25. We know that biodiesel produces up to 78% lesser emissions than diesel, while ethanol blending can reduce emissions by up to 48% compared to petrol. Thanks to our aggressive biofuels policy, we have been able to lower emissions by more than 19.2 million tons in the past seven years.The savings accrued by reducing imports of crude oil due to this substitution by biofuels are being used to subsidise and fund other renewable energy interventions, such as incentives under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME) policy; electrification of Indian Railways; development of metro rails in Tier-2 Indian cities; and the setting up of 5,000 compressed biogas (CBG) plants under the Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation (SATAT) scheme. Earlier this month, OMCs committed to installing 22,000 electric vehicle (EV) charging stations at their retail outlets (petrol pumps) across the country.In the years to come, a new chapter in the history of global energy value chains will be written. Our nation, which has progressed from energy scarcity to energy justice and is now aiming towards energy security, will lead the world’s climate efforts in the new world order.Hardeep Singh Puri is Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Housing and Urban AffairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-india-s-energy-growth-from-scarcity-to-justice-to-security-101637607948586.html
23-11-2021||India||Pakistan allows transit of India aid to Afghanistan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday his government will allow the transportation of 50,000 tonnes of wheat offered by India to Afghanistan as soon as modalities are finalised by Islamabad and New Delhi.Khan made the announcement while approving a humanitarian assistance package for Afghanistan.He visited the new Afghanistan Inter-Ministerial Coordination Cell (AICC) in Islamabad and chaired the first apex committee meeting of the cell. The meeting was also attended by foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and National Security Adviser Moeed Yousaf.Khan “announced Pakistan’s decision to allow the 50,000 MT of wheat India has offered to provide Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance to go through Pakistan as soon as modalities are finalized with the Indian side”, according to an official statement issued after the meeting.“Pakistan will also facilitate the return of Afghan patients who had gone to India for medical treatment and are stuck there, the Prime Minister announced,” the statement added.Hundreds of Afghan nationals, including patients seeking medical treatment and their relatives or attendants, have been stuck in India for months following the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan in mid-August.In recent weeks, some of them made their way back to Afghanistan via Iran on a handful of specially arranged flights. However, the fare for this route was $850 and out of the reach of many of the stranded Afghans.India offered to supply the 50,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian aid via the Wagah land border crossing with Pakistan several weeks ago. However, Pakistan did not respond positively to the move, Indian officials have said.Even a Taliban delegation that recently visited Islamabad had raised the issue of allowing the shipment of the wheat with the top Pakistani leadership.During the meeting in Islamabad, Khan instructed all Pakistani ministries to “facilitate Afghans to the maximum”. He ordered the immediate shipment of in-kind humanitarian assistance worth Pakistani ₹5 billion, including 50,000 tonnes of wheat, emergency medical supplies, winter shelters and other items. He also approved in-principle tariff and sales tax reduction on key Afghan exports to Pakistan.Khan also ordered authorities to continue providing free Covid-19 vaccination for all Afghans entering Pakistan from land borders. Pakistan started free vaccination of Afghans on November 13.NSA Moeed Yusuf, who is also convener of the cell, made a presentation on the current economic situation in Afghanistan and the progress made by the cell in coordinating Pakistani efforts for humanitarian assistance and border facilitation for Afghans.Khan instructed Yusuf to visit Afghanistan to “hold delegation level talks and agree on specific areas where immediate capacity building support shall be provided to Afghans”, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-allows-transit-of-india-aid-to-afghanistan-101637607889678.html
23-11-2021||India||₹1,000 per month aid to women if AAP wins Punjab polls: Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party will give ₹1,000 every month to all women if it is voted to power in Punjab, the party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised on Monday. All women drawing a pension will also be given the additional incentive , the Delhi chief minister told a gathering of women party volunteers in Moga. Punjab will elect a new legislative assembly in early 2022. “This scheme will be a unique initiative in India that is aimed at women empowerment. All women in a family above 18 will be eligible for the monthly grant,” Kejriwal said. “The amount may be small, but there is something being extended to the women.”Kejriwal began a two-day election campaigning in Punjab from Moga Monday afternoon. The women of Punjab made a significant contribution to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, Kejriwal said in his 15-minute speech at a resort in Moga. He urged women to become opinion makers in support of the AAP to give Punjab a new lease of life in governance and inclusive welfare. “Punjab farmers took a lead in the protest and it was the women who played an important role in building pressure on the Union government to announce a rollback of the contentious laws,” he said. “Now you (women) should motivate your family members to vote for the AAP to emulate the governance model of Delhi in Punjab.” Hitting out at the Punjab government, Kejriwal said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of the Congress party has given protection to the sand and transport mafia and not done anything to break the cartel. “Punjab has a naqli (fake) Kejriwal who simply lifts election promises made by the AAP, but fails to perform. Channi’s announcement to electricity subscribers has failed to take off,” he said. The AAP has an economic blueprint to roll out welfare schemes in Punjab through transparent governance, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1000-per-month-aid-to-women-if-aap-wins-punjab-polls-kejriwal-101637607888599.html
23-11-2021||India||No meeting between Sonia, Mamata amid tension between Congress and TMC||The simmering tension between Congress and the Trinamool Congress has led to the deferment of a key meeting of 18 opposition parties ahead of the winter session of Parliament that starts from November 29, said people aware of the development. As a result, TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is in the Capital on a three-day visit, is unlikely to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi. This was supposed to be the second such meeting after August 20. Instead, parliamentary leaders of the opposition bloc would meet to discuss floor strategies of the session. “We have now decided that the floor leaders would meet to chalk out the strategy for the Parliament session. The meeting of the opposition parties on the larger issues related to 2024 elections would be held at a later stage,” said CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, a key organiser of the last meeting. A key Banerjee aide said on Monday evening that the TMC chief hasn’t yet sought an appointment with Sonia Gandhi. “We haven’t received any invitation so far from her (Sonia Gandhi) office for a meeting of the two leaders.” Banerjee will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some other political leaders during her three-day stay in Delhi. “There is still a possibility for Sonia-Mamata meeting during her trip but as of now, nothing is scheduled,” said a second Banerjee aide. Gandhi and Banerjee have always maintained close ties even as the latter’s equations with Rahul Gandhi were often frosty. But Trinamool’s national expansion plan, the exodus of key Congress leaders to West Bengal’s ruling party, and its entry into Goa’s political arena have sparked tension between the two opposition powerhouses. Earlier this month, Banerjee had lashed out at the Congress, accusing the principal opposition party of “compromising” with the Bharatiya Janata Party at an event in Kolkata. “Has the Congress fought on any issue since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has come to power? They only make tall talks when elections come near,” Banerjee had said on November 1. She also justified Trinamool’s expansion plan saying, “We have to go to other states as well because the Congress can’t be relied upon. The Congress can compromise but we don’t do such compromises.” The Congress had hit back and party chief whip Randeep Surjewala had said, “In a democracy, any party is free to fight elections. But we hope TMC is not fighting polls in Goa to help the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-meet-on-parliament-unlikely-amid-tmc-congress-tension-101637607468917.html
23-11-2021||India||Andhra assembly passes bill to withdraw laws on creation of 3 capitals||The Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly on Monday passed a Bill to repeal laws on the creation of three capitals for the state in place of the existing one, Amaravati, even as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy saying that his government would bring a more comprehensive and fool-proof legislation “in the broader interests of the state.”The move is aimed at combating the popular and legal challenge to the two lawsThe assembly passed by voice vote a Bill seeking to repeal the two laws passed in June last year – the Andhra Pradesh Decentralization and Inclusive Development of all Regions Act, 2020 and the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act, 2020.The first legislation was aimed at establishing three capitals for the state – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati -- and the second one was aimed at abolishing the authority created by the previous TDP government in 2015 to develop Amaravati as the state capital.Making a statement in the assembly, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy made it clear that his government would stand by the creation of three capital cities for the decentralised development of all the three regions of the state – north coastal Andhra, south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema.Thousands of farmers who gave up over 34,000 acres of their fertile lands for setting up the state capital in Amaravati, challenged these two laws in the high court. More than 100 petitions were filed by the farmers in this regard.He said had the exercise on three capitals begun soon after the passage of the earlier legislations in the past, it would have yielded excellent results by now.“However, there have been several apprehensions, doubts, court cases, legal disputes and malicious campaigns against the government decision. We have seen how there were arguments about injustice meted out to some sections of people, while ignoring the overall benefit of the state,” he added.Against this backdrop, the chief minister said, his government had decided to repeal the earlier acts and bring about fresh legislations to explain the intentions of the government with more details and incorporate all answers that would remove legal and judicial hurdles.Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said various complaints were made and cases filed against the two laws stating that the stakeholders were not given an opportunity to present their side of the story.Meanwhile, state advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram informed the high court that the state government has withdrawn the earlier legislations on three capital cities and sought time to present a memorandum to the court on further decisions of the government.A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and justices M Satyanaryana Murthy and D V S S Somayajulu, which has been hearing a batch of petitions against the three capitals issue, posted the case to next Monday for further hearing.Telugu Desam Party legislator and Public Accounts Committee chairman Payyavula Kesav said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision had created further uncertainty on the state capital. “It has added further confusion to its own stand at a time when the hearing in the high court on the three capitals issue is in the final stages,” Kesav said.He said by repealing the present legislations, Jagan had indirectly admitted that they were faulty and enacted hastily. “Who is responsible for the damage caused to the state for lack of a capital city all these days?” he asked.Political analyst Sriram Karri said the Jagan government has put up a brave front both legally and politically, but in the end the indomitable will of the farmers of Amaravati has prevailed. He added that the uncertainty can’t continue and that “a new start is needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-assembly-passes-bill-to-withdraw-laws-on-creation-of-3-capitals-101637607288503.html
23-11-2021||India||Cultural nationalism key for BJP but oppn focuses on dynasty politics: Nadda||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) moves forward with cultural nationalism and democratic values, other political parties move with dynasty and vote-bank politics, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Monday, criticizing opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh. “We should be proud that we are members of a party that has democracy at its core. It is the part where an ordinary worker coming from an ordinary family becomes the chief minister of the state and a worker like me becomes the president of the party,” Nadda said, addressing a meeting of voting booth presidents of Gorakhpur in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. “We move forward with cultural nationalism and they (opposition) with vanshwad (dynastic politics). For us nationalism is important and for them vanshwad is everything.” Nadda asked the booth presidents to once again spare no effort to ensure victory of the BJP by a big margin in Uttar Pradesh, which will go to assembly elections in February-March next year. While the BJP takes everyone along with the motto sabka saath, sabka vishwas, the opposition indulge in politics of vote bank and worry about only a “particular community and family,” Nadda said. “I have neither engaged in divisive politics nor given any statement to divide the society. When an election comes, BJP starts talking about freedom fighters and nationalist leaders from Gandhi to Patel, but the opposition starts talking about Pakistan and Jinnah,” Nadda said in an apparent attack on the Samajwadi Party. “I ask you (booth level workers) to reach out to people and tell them about these people who divide society by giving such statements.” Lauding chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was present at the meeting, Nadda said he has put the state on the path of development and Prime Minister Narendra Modi also facilitated development funds for Uttar Pradesh. “This has become possible because of the double-engine government,” he said. Addressing the meeting, Adityanath said it is the same state where mafia and rioters used to dominate under previous governments, but the goons have forgotten hooliganism now. He said that Modi “is engaged in making India capable and protecting its pride and glory”, while “Jinnahwadi people were robbing people of their rights”. The BJP president said it was Yogi Adityanath who, as an MP, had raised the issue of encephalitis in Parliament, following which its vaccination, which was available in Japan in the early 60s, became available in the state during the period 2006-08. Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “The BJP and its top leaders are jittery now with the kind of support Akhilesh Yadav is getting. BJP is staring at defeat and they are making the same old allegations. This won’t work now.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-cultural-nationalism-is-key-for-bjp-but-opposition-focuses-on-dynasty-politics-says-nadda-101637606929709.html
23-11-2021||India||SC grants Param Bir Singh protection from arrest, asks him to join probe||The Supreme Court on Monday protected former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the IPS officer said he is “very much in the country” and is willing to submit to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any agency other than Maharashtra police. A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought responses from CBI and the Maharashtra government on Singh’s plea to transfer investigation of six first information reports (FIRs) from Mumbai police to the CBI, and fixed the matter for hearing next on December 6. The bench, which also comprised justice MM Sundresh, asked Singh to join the investigation by Mumbai police in the meantime, but made it clear that he would not be arrested. During the proceedings, the court noted that the matter has become “curiouser and curiouser in the battle between then home minister (Anil Deshmukh) and then Mumbai Police Commissioner (Singh)”.“A former police commissioner apprehends threat to his life...he cannot repose faith in the police force he was once heading...we wonder what would happen to a common man and what kind of faith they will have on police,” stated the bench.Singh (56), the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court on Wednesday last week after he remained elusive since March this year and did not show up before the trial court despite several notices and warrants issued against him.On Thursday, the top court directed Singh to disclose his whereabouts while making it clear that it would not entertain his petition for protection against arrest until his location is known. His lawyers sought time from the court to come back with details of his location. On Monday, senior counsel Puneet Bali, appearing for Singh, started his submissions by intimating the bench that Singh is “very much in the country” but was staying away from Maharashtra since he apprehended threats to his life from the Mumbai police. “We wonder what kind of a message you are sending? You are raising apprehensions against the same police force you were once heading. And you also don’t want to submit yourself to investigations,” responded the bench. To this, Bali said Singh is not running away from investigations but only wants a free and fair probe, which is not possible if Mumbai police continues registering the FIRs on complaints made by “bookies and extortionists” against whom Singh acted against in the past. “I am seeking protection as a whistle-blower. All hell has broken loose after I made the complaint against the then home minister (Deshmukh) collecting bribe money from pubs and bars,” argued Bali. He also adduced a transcript of Singh’s alleged conversation with Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey that purportedly recorded Pandey advising the police officer to withdraw his complaints against Deshmukh if he did not wish a spate of criminal cases to be slapped on him. “And this is what that has exactly happened. People who I acted against as a police officer have now emerged as complainants, and one after the other, six FIRs have been lodged against me. I am not running away from probe. I will appear before any officer of CBI within 48 hours. I will appear before any CBI court too. But how do I trust the state government?” Bali asked on behalf of Singh. The lawyer further faulted the Bombay high court order, contending Singh could not have gone to the central administrative tribunal (CAT) because he was not fighting a case on a service-related matter, but was seeking an independent probe. “How can CBI decide only Deshmukh’s case when all this is interlinked? They have to be investigated by the same agency,” added Bali.The bench recorded Bali’s submissions in its order while noting that the question that has to be examined is whether the investigation of cases against Singh should also be handed over to CBI ; in April, the top court paved way for a CBI probe against Deshmukh in the corruption case. “The stand of the state and CBI is also unknown because the high court decided only the preliminary issue and dismissed the petition. Prima facie, this may not be a proper course of action,” stated the court order, issuing notices on Singh’s petition.The bench was hearing a plea against a September 16 judgment of the Bombay high court which dismissed the petition filed by Singh challenging two preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government.As he remained absconding for several weeks, Mumbai’s additional chief metropolitan magistrate court declared Singh a proclaimed offender on Wednesday, allowing an application filed by Mumbai police’s crime branch. The crime branch is investigating an August 20 extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai. The FIR named Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh aka Bablu, and Riyaz Bhati for extortion.The complainant, restaurateur Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets – Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar. Once it took over the investigation, the crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel.The Param Bir Singh, Anil Deshmukh saga began with the Antilla bomb scare case, where a SUV with some gelatin sticks was found near the residence of billionaire businessman Mukesh Ambani. Singh was transferred for his mishandling of the case, and soon after wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that Sachin Vaze, the policeman who is the main accused in the Antilla case, was asked to raise ₹100 crore a month by extortion by Deshmukh. The investigation against Deshmukh was sparked by his claims and petitions based on them.On Thursday, the same bench dismissed a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking a direction to CBI to produce its inquiry reports relating to the corruption case filed against him.“Should we entertain this petition just because this person has been a minister? There has to be something extraordinary warranting an interference by this court in an ongoing investigation,” the court observed at the time. In his petition before the Supreme Court, Deshmukh also asked for constitution of a special investigation team for a “fair and independent” probe into the corruption and bribery charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-param-bir-singh-protection-from-arrest-asks-him-to-join-probe-101637606688469.html
23-11-2021||India||Rain continues to batter southern states||The two biggest cities in southern India, Bengaluru and Chennai, were flooded on Monday due to sudden bursts of heavy rain, even as the death toll in last week’s flooding in Andhra Pradesh increased to 34 with 10 people still reported missing, according to officials in the three states.Several parts of southern India have received heavy rainfall during the northeast monsoon since the first week of November due to frequent formations of low pressure areas in the Bay of Bengal, or cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) rainfall data, Karnataka has received 145.1mm of rain from November 1 to November 21 as against the normal of 35.5mm, Tamil Nadu 299.1mm as against a normal of 142.4mm, Kerala 331.1mm as against a normal of 134.5mm, and Andhra Pradesh 227.3mm as against a normal of 81.1 mm.BengaluruOver 1,600 residents in 604 apartments in Bengaluru’s Kendriya Vihar were asked to vacate their homes after heavy rains on Sunday night inundated the residential complex in the Yelahanka locality. Elsewhere in the city, at least 227 homes were damaged, and another 187 partially damaged, according to data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. Around 92km of roads was damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, data shows. “Due to the heavy rain in the city, Yelahanka Lake overflowed, and water flooded Kendriya Vihar and surrounding areas,” the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP - the city’s civic body) said in a statement on Monday. The water is being channelised towards the Kaluve (SWD), which connects Yelahanka Lake to Jakkur lake, the statement read.Yelahanka is about 15km from Bengaluru city, close to the international airport.On Monday, at around 2am, the locality recorded over 130mm of rain over a couple of hours, according to IMD, causing up to 4 feet of water-logging in some places, and prompting the BBMP, the fire services, and other agencies to launch a rescue operation to move residents. “Eighteen NDRF teams used boats and tractors to ferry the residents in and out from the apartment,” BBMP said. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of BBMP, on Monday said that action will be taken against officials who allowed violations around the lake that led to flooding.Experts said the flooding in Yelahanka was a stark reminder of Bengaluru’s rapid and unplanned growth, which has allowed the mushrooming of residential and commercial buildings that are under constant threat of facing problems during heavy downpours.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai acknowledged that there have been widespread encroachments of lakes and storm-water drains, affecting the natural flow of water. “I have instructed the officials to take action against the encroachments and provided relief in flood affected places,” the CM said.According to activists, there are now only 200 lakes in Bengaluru now as compared to over 1,000 about 30 years ago, and water alleys connecting these lakes have been taken over by construction. Weather activist Raj Bhagat P, a civil engineer by profession, tweeted an image of Hebbal valley and said, “More than lakes, the valleys are important to understand and reduce flood damages in cities. But we are building right in the middle of these valleys.”Bengaluru received 364% excess rains between November 1-21 (till 5.30pm), recording 195 mm of rain as against normal of 42mm during this period. A total of 24 people have lost their lives in November alone, disaster management department data shows, while nearly 200 animals have died due to the rains. ChennaiOn Monday, a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts of Chennai resulted in water-logging in some places including Thyagaraya Nagar, popularly known as T Nagar, which got 20mm of rain in a a couple of hours, continuing the woes of Tamil Nadu’s capital city which has received excess rainfall since November 1.Officials said that some parts of north Chennai, such as suburban Manali, were under water since Sunday as heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh prompted excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar river in the north region of the city being released. Though the weather improved by late morning, the sudden showers were not forecast by IMD. “These sudden spells were caused due to a circulation in Andaman,” said N Puviarasan, deputy director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai said later. The circulation extended up to the coastal Tamil Nadu, he added.The sudden heavy showers led to instant flooding in the area, with the municipal authorities deploying boats to rescue people.IMD has issued a yellow alert for districts in Tamil Nadu such as Salem, Villupuram and Vellore for the next three days. A six-member team from the Union government was in Tamil Nadu on Monday to assess rain-related damage. The state has estimated the damage to be over ₹2,700 crore.Andhra PradeshFour days after the rains in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh border, the latter is trying to recover from the impact of heavy rainfall.Andhra Pradesh agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said the government decided to pay an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to each the families of people who had lost their lives due to heavy rains and floods. He added that financial assistance of ₹30,000 will be provided to farmers in case of the death of livestock and ₹3,000 in case of sheep and goat. “Standing crops in eight lakh hectares were damaged as per preliminary estimates,” he said.Eight NDRF and eight SDRF teams, along with two helicopters, were pressed into service for rescue and relief operations in 19 places in the state, the minister said. He added that 57,969 evacuated people have been kept in 294 relief camps. Each affected family will be provided free ration, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy announced in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-continues-to-batter-southern-states-101637606338635.html
23-11-2021||India||Kisan mahapanchayat pushes for MSP law, Union minister Teni’s ouster||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions, held a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday, and repeated six demands made in anopen letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, including a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. The Mahapanchayat was organised days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation on November 19, announced the repeal of three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been protesting since last November.“The Prime Minister need not say sorry, rather he must assure us of a law on MSP. The government claims they have formed committee on MSP, but this is a lie. A report of a committee in 2011 recommended that the MSP must be guaranteed. We don’t want another committee, we want you to implement the recommendation of the previous committee,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait from the stage amidst a wave of applause, referring to a 2011 recommendation by a committee. The committee, Tikait claimed, was headed by then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and had recommended a law to guarantee MSP. Experts have warned that a guaranteed MSP would result in food inflation. “The arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni is our important demand,” Tikait added. He went on to warn that if Ajay Mishra Teni inaugurates a sugar mill in Lakhimpur, then farmers will take their sugarcane meant for the mill to the office of the district magistrate.Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the Tikunia violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. Ashish Mishra is currently in jail. Family members of three of the four farmers killed in the Tikunia violence also attended the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow. The Mishra’s have denied their involvement in the incident. At least 5,000 farmers from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana reached Lucknow for the mahapanchayat in trains, buses, tractors and private vehicles, according to farmer group leaders.“We are farmers, we don’t understand politics but we will not allow anyone to take over the land of our ancestors, be it the BJP or some corporation,” said Sukdeep Singh, a farmer who drove down from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand to attend the mahapanchayat.Tikait reiterated that the farmers’ protest will continue till their demands are fulfilled.“I have not announced an end to the struggle. The struggle of farmers will continue in the coming days till the government hears our demands and acts upon them,” said Tikait.People familiar with the matter said the Union cabinet is likely to sign off on the repeal of the laws this week. Speaking before Tikait, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said, “I have been saying that the farm laws are dead but we are waiting for the death certificate of these laws.” Yadav further said, “PM talks of penance but the real penance is done by farmers who laid down their lives during the protest. For those farmers, we will not end our protest till the law on MSP is passed by the government.”More than a dozen senior farm leaders from North India attended the Mahapanchayat.The six demands mentioned by the farmers in their letter to the PM are: MSP to every farmer for their entire crop, withdrawal of Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, remove penal provisions for farmer in pollution law, withdraw cases lodged against farmers, the resignation and arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni and compensation for families of 700 farmers who have lost their lives during the course of the protest.“After PM’s announcement on withdrawal of farm laws, none should have any confusion about how much this government is sensitive towards the farmers. The welfare of genuine farmers was and would always be a top priority of the Modi and Yogi governments,” BJP leader Navin Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-mahapanchayat-pushes-for-msp-law-union-minister-teni-s-ouster-101637606335046.html
23-11-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Bengal speaker to decide on disqualification plea against Roy||The Supreme Court on Monday lamented the “common practice” of assembly speakers inordinately sitting over disqualification petitions moved against sitting legislators, as it urged the West Bengal speaker to quickly decide whether Mukul Roy should be stripped off the membership of the House since he defected to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after being elected as an MLA on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket.“The power was bestowed on the speaker in the Kihoto case (1992 judgment) so that they could decide the petitions under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) independently. But the common experience is that it takes months and years for these petitions to be decided,” observed a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Hima Kohli. The bench was considering a petition filed by West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee against an order of the Calcutta high court on September 28, directing Banerjee to produce the decision taken on disqualification petition filed against Roy by BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. This order was passed on a plea moved by another BJP MLA, Ambika Roy, who wanted the high court to quash Roy’s nomination as the chairperson of the public accounts committee (PAC) by the speaker on July 9. Appearing for Banerjee, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi argued that no such directive could be issued to the speaker and that various findings recorded by the high court in its order regarding Roy’s conduct were completely unwarranted. The bench, however, commented on the most basic question – status of the disqualification petition filed against Roy by Adhikari on June 17.“What has been happening with the disqualification petition? It takes years now to decide the petitions under the Tenth Schedule. There have been so many cases where there are delays by the speaker and when such cases come to this court, we are told that you cannot pass any order till the speaker decides. This has been the common experience,” rued the court.Singhvi, on his part, tried to convince the bench that the speaker was not causing any inordinate delay and that Adhikari has sought adjournments in the disqualification proceeding in July and August due to health reasons. “But we are in November now. What happened between then and November? What is the status now? Has the speaker passed any order?” the bench asked the lawyer, who replied that the speaker has not decided yet, but a court cannot “micromanage the speaker’s calendar”. The bench remained unmoved by Singhvi’s response. “Should we ignore para 80 of the high court completely when it says the issues (decision on disqualification petition and appointment as PAC chairman) are correlated? And if we were to micromanage the speaker’s calendar, we would have passed the order by now. We have only been trying to elicit answers from you,” it retorted.The court added: “Let the speaker continue and decide under Tenth Schedule and then we will see...You (speaker) take a decision on your own without getting influenced by the observations of the high court. We need not say anything in our order but you finish the proceedings.”Singhvi further contended that Roy’s petition before the high court had not even pressed for a decision on the disqualification petition but was only asking for setting aside his appointment as the PAC chairperson.“Yes, we have seen it. In spite of which we want this direction by the high court to be implemented. We want the speaker to pass an order under the Tenth Schedule,” the bench replied. At this, senior lawyer Shekhar Naphade, representing BJP MLA Ambika Roy, complained that the entire attempt by the speaker is to delay the matter so that Roy’s appointment as the PAC chairman for one year gets over.The court, however, replied that it will hear the case in details on some other day, and in the meantime, it is making sure the disqualification petition is decided. “We want to ensure the order is passed. That’s why we are holding on to this matter,” it remarked.The court, in its order, recorded that the disqualification proceedings before the speaker is listed next on December 21. “We hope the speaker will proceed with the matter on December 21 and will decide the same in accordance with law,” stated the order, listing the petition in the third week of January.Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017, returned to the TMC on June 11. He, however, did not resign from the BJP. On June 18, Adhikari petitioned the speaker to seek Roy’s disqualification. On July 9, the speaker appointed him as chairman of the PAC, a post that has, by convention, always gone to an opposition party legislator.In a 69-page strongly-worded order on September 28, the high court faulted the speaker for appointing Roy to this position without taking a call on the petition for his disqualification, asserting that the two were connected.The high court had rejected the argument that it did not have jurisdiction over actions of the speaker, underlining that the court would have been debarred from entertaining the petition if it was a case of “procedural irregularities”. But “it is a case of blatant illegality,” held the high court, adding the speaker apparently “worked on dictates”, “was caught in the web knitted by him”, and failed to “discharge his constitutional duty coupled with established admitted constitutional conventions”. The high court had fixed the matter on October 7 awaiting the speaker’s decision, but the speaker moved the Supreme Court and sought an adjournment in the high court.In a 2020 decision in a case relating to disqualification of some MLAs in Manipur, the top court held that disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution should be decided within a reasonable timeframe, and preferably within three months. In this path-breaking ruling, the apex court had also said that Parliament should rethink whether the speaker of a House should continue to have powers to disqualify lawmakers as such a functionary “belongs to a particular political party”, adding an independent tribunal could do the job in a more effective way.In Kihoto Hollohan case (1992), the Supreme Court held that “judicial review cannot be available at a stage prior to the making of a decision by the speaker”, nor would interference be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-bengal-speaker-to-decide-on-disqualification-plea-against-roy-101637606332096.html
23-11-2021||India||CEC meets state heads, discusses key poll issues||Ahead of state assembly elections in seven states, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday organized a conference with the Chief Electoral Officers (CEOs) of all states and union territories in New Delhi.According to the press release from the ECI, the conference was organized to discuss and review various thematic issues related to Electoral Roll, Polling Stations, ongoing Special Summary Revision, IT Applications, timely resolution of grievances, EVMs/VVPATs, training & capacity building of polling staff, media & communication & extensive voter outreach program amongst others.During his address, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra stressed the significance of effectiveness and visibility of CEOs and asked them to ensure the purity of the electoral roll, availability of Assured Minimum Facilities and to ensure better facilities at all Polling Booths for all voters.He asked the CEOs for expeditious redressal of all pending applications, especially concerning voter registration. He added that the CEOs should have regular interaction with political parties to redress their grievances too.“CEC Shri Sushil Chandra during his address added that the objective of this conference is to identify the gaps and challenges to ensure instructions of the Commission are implemented uniformly in all States /UTs across the country,” the press release said.Election Commissioner (EC) Rajiv Kumar while interacting with the CEOs pointed out that even though the legal and regulatory framework of the elections is quite robust, the implementation of various instructions of the Commission at the field is very critical.He stressed that CEOs need to be innovative, more active and should learn from each other’s best practices and challenges.Adding on to Kumar’s emphasis on working on the implementation at the field level, EC Anup Chandra Pandey pointed towards the need to focus on the training and capacity building of Booth Level Officers (BLOs). He also emphasized the involvement of different stakeholders and officials in the field for outreach and Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities at the ground level throughout the year, even during the non-election period.During the conference, the Commission also released ‘Compendium of Cases on Election Law’, a Coffee Table Book “Conduct of General Elections to the Assam Legislative Assembly 2021”, and a short video titled “Call of Duty” developed by CEO Assam. The video highlighted various challenges faced by election officials in setting up polling stations in remote & difficult terrains. A voter anthem titled “Power of 18” prepared by CEO Manipur for the new voters were also released during the Conference.The conference was attended by CEOs from all the states and union territories, Senior Deputy Election Commissioners (DECs), DECs, DG and other senior officers from the Commission.The Commission said a separate one-day review meeting with all the poll going states is also scheduled at ECI on Tuesday to discuss various matters related to election management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-meets-state-heads-discusses-key-poll-issues-101637606330853.html
23-11-2021||India||IMD predicts cold wave in north India for next two days||A cold wave is likely over some parts of Punjab, Haryana and northern Rajasthan in the next two days, India Meteorological Department warned on Monday. It will be the first cold wave this season. The weather office declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature drops below 10 degrees Celsius or is 4.5 degrees lower than the season’s normal for two straight days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees in the plains. The minimum temperature in Delhi fell to 9.6 degrees on November 17, and 9.8 degrees on Sunday, 3 degrees below normal on both instances. “Minimum temperatures are likely to dip in Delhi but cold wave is not likely. Cold wave may be recorded in Haryana and Punjab,” said RK Jenamani. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees. Hisar in Haryana recorded 7.2 degrees on Monday, 4 degrees below normal.“There are two ways by which the temperature falls. One is a clear sky, which leads to the warmth radiating back quickly from the surface. It’s called radiational cooling. There are clear skies over northwest India now,” explained DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune. “The other reason for cold setting in is that northwesterly cold and dry winds are blowing over the region from the Himalayas. There is a low pressure area over Arabian Sea which also indirectly helps in incursion of northwesterly winds over the entire northwestern region. This happens during winter. Consecutive low-pressure areas have formed over the Arabian Sea,” A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood in the lower tropospheric. It is likely to move west-northwestwards towards the Tamil Nadu coast in the next 4-5 days. A trough (line of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood to the Tamil Nadu coast. In association with the cyclonic circulation, moderate to heavy rainfall is likely over Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next five days, IMD predicted.“We are expecting cold air incursion. In Delhi, there may not be a cold wave condition, but minimum temperatures will fall to about 8 to 9 degrees, around 3 to 4 degrees below normal,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD. “In rural pockets, cold wave conditions are likely to set in.” Currently, weak La Niña conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific Ocean. Latest weather forecast is indicating that La Niña conditions are likely to strengthen and peak to moderate conditions during winter. Thereafter, La Niña conditions are likely to start weakening to reach to cold ENSO neutral conditions during second quarter of the next year, according to IMD’s ENSO bulletin for November.“La Nina conditions are associated with colder winters over northwest India,” said Pai. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-cold-wave-in-north-india-for-next-two-days-101637606329772.html
23-11-2021||India||Abhinandan who shot down Pak F-16 awarded Vir Chakra||Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman, who shot down a Pakistani F-16 during a dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019, was on Monday awarded the Vir Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind at an investiture ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Vir Chakra is India’s third highest wartime gallantry award after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra.The dogfight in which Abhinandan was involved took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the Pulwama suicide terror attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed on February 14, 2019.Abhinandan’s citation for the honour said he courageously engaged the Pakistani aircraft package despite its “immense numerical and technological superiority”, and his aggressive manoeuvres “forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos”.“All the enemy aircraft thereafter turned back including the rear echelon aircraft which were yet to launch their air-to-ground weapons. Wing Commander Varthaman Abhinandan then pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft, and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16 aircraft with his onboard missile,” the citation read.Abhinandan’s Vir Chakra is the first for IAF after the 1999 Kargil war, when Squadron Leader Ajay Ahuja and Wing Commander AK Sinha were awarded the wartime gallantry medal. Ahuja was given the honour posthumously.Before the fighter pilot received his Vir Chakra on Monday, the President last awarded the wartime medal at the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s Durbar Hall in November, 2002 to Major Manoj Deshpande, Major Amitabh Roy, and Havildar Chuni Lal for special missions on the Line of Control with Pakistan, officials said. The awards given by Kovind on Monday included two Kirti Chakras, and 10 Shaurya Chakras.Sapper Prakash Jadhav was posthumously awarded a Kirti Chakra for his heroics in a counter-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir three years ago. Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal and Naib Subedar Sombir were posthumously awarded Shaurya Chakras for operations in J&K. Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra are the country’s second and third highest peacetime gallantry awards after Ashok Chakra.The President awarded the Kirti Chakra to CRPF deputy commandant Harshpal Singh. The Shaurya Chakra awardees were Colonel Ajay Singh Kushwah, Lieutenant Colonel Jyoti Lama, Major Konjengbam Bijendra Singh, Major Maheshkumar Bhure, Naib Subedar Narender Singh, Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey, Naik Naresh Kumar, and the Indian Navy’s Amit Singh Rana.Abhinandan’s citation further read: “Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft… Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat.”He was then a wing commander, and was promoted to the rank of group captain earlier this month. An IAF group captain is equivalent to an army colonel.Abhinandan, then 35, scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. Experts had hailed it as the first ever kill of an F-16 by a MiG-21 Bison, fighter jets of two different generations. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft, but Pakistan returned him to India on March 1, 2019, after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.His Vir Chakra was announced on Independence Day 2019. The citation said, “Despite being captured by the enemy, he continued to display exceptional resolve in dealing with the adversary in a stoic, brave and dignified manner till he was repatriated on March 1, 2019.”In February 2019, Abhinandan was posted with a MiG-21 Bison squadron and was on “operational readiness platform” duty at the air force station Srinagar when a large Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft package was detected heading towards LoC. The hostile jets were armed with advanced beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missiles and modern air-to-ground stand-off weapons.Abhinandan was scrambled to intercept this package five minutes after it was detected.“He then consolidated the riposte, by gathering his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani aircraft now dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. This audacious and aggressive maneuver forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos,” the citation said.It added that the wing commander then pursued a retreating enemy fighter aircraft and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory.”On February 26, IAF’s Mirages hit three targets in Balakot with five Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrater warheads that allowed them to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage.Gallantry awards were also given out by the President at a second investiture ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday evening. Those awarded Shaurya Chakra at the ceremony included Lance Naik Sandeep Singh (Posthumous), Sepoy Brajesh Kumar (Posthumous), Sepoy Hari Singh (Posthumous), Sepoy Karmdeo Oraon, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan and J&K Police sub-inspector Imran Hussain Tak (Posthumous).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhinandan-who-shot-down-pak-f-16-awarded-vir-chakra-101637606328558.html
23-11-2021||India||Farm laws on Opposition agenda at all-party meet on November 28||The Congress and other Opposition parties will demand a full-scale discussion on the consequences of the farm bills when the legislation would be brought for repeal, at the all-party meeting on November 28 that would be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Opposition leaders said on Monday. The PM’s attendance in this customary all-party meeting ahead of the session might have added significance this time in the backdrop of his announcement on Guru Purab that the three controversial farm laws would be repealed. The meeting, convened by the parliamentary affairs minister, would discuss the government’s agenda and Opposition’s demand, the list of official bills and items for lengthy debate. But the Opposition had altered its earlier plan to corner the party in power over a host of issues including Rafale and Pegasus. Now, the three bills form the centrality of the Opposition actions in the session to take on the government’s policy-making and eyeing dividend ahead of the polls. A senior Opposition leader on condition of anonymity said, “We will definitely demand a proper debate on the repeal bill. There are many questions to be answered. Why it took a year and 700 deaths for the government to repeal those flawed bills?” The PM had always addressed these all-party meetings at the end of the discussions. This time too, his speech would give the general direction of the government’s strategy for the session. The PM had on earlier occasions maintained that MPs must work for the national cause and there is room for debate on all topics. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi have signalled the fight will continue over new demands for farm sector. In her statement on Friday, Sonia Gandhi mentioned remunerative price for farmers and “the huge increase in the cost of diesel and agricultural items used in the fields”. Rahul’s letter to the farmers stated: “The struggle is not over yet. Getting remunerative MSP for agricultural produce, ending the controversial Electricity Amendment Act, reducing tax burden on everything used for farming, reducing the unexpected hike in diesel prices and the debt burden are serious issues.” Apart from the repeal bill, the government is expected to bring the data privacy bill for passage during the session. The other two important bills for the ruling dispensation are the national university for pharmaceutical and research amendment bill and the assisted reproductive bill that is pending for some time now. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will also chair meetings of their respective Houses. The winter session, starting from November 29, is important as the last session was nearly washed out over the Pegasus snooping row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-on-opposition-agenda-at-all-party-meet-on-november-28-101637606269132.html
23-11-2021||India||Data protection bill: Panel calls for strict rules for firms, leeways for govt||The joint parliamentary committee (JPC) reviewing the proposed data protection law finalised its report on Monday, suggesting stricter compliance requirements for companies while adding or tweaking clauses that provide for lighter obligations on government agencies, and recommending that State have greater say in the legal mechanism that will be set up to safeguard personal and non-personal data, according to people aware of the matter.The JPC was set up in 2019 to take up the personal data protection bill after parliamentarians were divided over several provisions of the law meant to give a legal shape to the Right to Privacy after it was made a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017.The people cited above said that the panel has suggested new provisions that will build in additional compliances: companies will need to report a data breach within 72 hours, mandatorily disclose if information relating to a data principal (person or entity that owns the data) is passed on to someone else, and appoint senior management personnel as data protection officers who will ultimately be held responsible for lapses or violations.At the same time, the rule about mandatory disclosure of third party sharing need to the data principal need not be made in case it is for State functions (such as for offering benefits, or maintaining law and order) or to comply with a court order. Government departments will also be allowed to carry out an in-house inquiry to fix responsibility in the event of a leak, a person aware of the suggestions added.The report will be tabled for discussion in the Parliament session beginning November 29, following which the government will reintroduce the bill. The recommendations are not binding.There has been pushback from several opposition party members of the panel, who have argued that the new bill gives “unbridled power” to the government. At least five have already submitted their dissent notes and one more is expected by November 24.The report, the people quoted above added, makes suggestions as well as clause-by-clause tweaks.In one of these suggestions, it has asked the government to ensure that copies of sensitive and critical personal data already in possession of foreign entities be brought back in a timebound manner – a recommendation that could hold implications for financial systems services providers like Visa and MasterCard; and, in another recommendation, it has called for a mechanism in which social media companies can be treated as publishers in some circumstances.A mechanism may be devised under which social media platforms will be held responsible for the content from unverified accounts, one of the people said, citing the report. Treating a social media company such as Facebook or Twitter as a publisher will make it liable under laws pertaining to illegal speech, such as those punishing hate and libel, thus, allowing them to prosecuted for third party content, which they are so far protected from under the IT Act.The committee has, however, listened to the demands of stakeholders on some points, such as the removal of a blanket provision treating social media companies as publishers, and in implementing the legislation in a phased manner over a period of two years.“The recommendations tighten regulatory framework for big tech companies and enhances compliance framework,” Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cybersaathi NS Nappinai said. “That stakeholders have been heard is apparent -- 24 months is something big tech has been pushing for, in as much as they have argued that they cannot be treated as publishers.”The people said that the panel has also suggested a change in a particularly contentious portion of the law: Clause 35, which deals with conditions under which the government can access personal data without consent. It has recommended that the procedure by which this exemption is claimed be “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate”. This clause is contentious because it allows the government to claim the exemption if it is satisfied that it is “necessary or expedient” to do so in the interest of purposes such as national security. The tests for “just, fair and proportionate” have been explained further as part of procedure.The committee was concerned about the possible misuse when a situation arises with privacy rights of the individual have to be subsumed for the protection of the larger interests of the State. The committee, therefore, felt that though the State has rightly been empowered, this power may be used only under exceptional circumstances and subject to conditions as laid out, one of the people cited above said, citing the report.Some of the additional powers of the State are the ability to frame policies for non-personal data, including anonymised data; define significant social media platforms based on a threshold of users; and decide penalties for data fiduciaries for failing to comply with the law.A Data Protection Authority (DPA), to be set up under the law, is meant to be regulator for deciding how personal and non-personal data will be managed in the country. The authority will be chosen by a panel shortlisted by the central government – a point that has already been a matter of contention since it raises questions about its autonomy. The panel’s report now suggests that DPA will need to follow the government’s lead on all matters and not just questions of policy.“Such a clause will further dilute the power of the data protection authority,” Nappinai said.Under clause 94, previously clause 93, which deals with granting powers to the government to make rules, the panel, the people said, recommends that the government decide the manner in which a data fiduciary can share, transfer or transmit the personal data to any person as part of any business transaction, and define the threshold of users of significant social media platforms and process of voluntary user verification.The recommendations suggest the government will decide the penalty for those failing to comply with the provisions, which was earlier defined with respect to the global turnover of the company as part of the bill.The panel says the government should take the final call on whether sensitive personal data can be shared with a foreign government or agency. The recommendations also give the government the scope to set up a future statutory body to look into the use of personal data by journalistic organisations, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-report-panel-calls-for-strict-rules-for-firms-leeways-for-govt-101637606267855.html
23-11-2021||India||Why govt failed to convince farmers about the new laws||While announcing the repeal of the three farm laws on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that while the laws were in the best interest of farmers, his government failed to convince a section of farmers about these benefits.What explains this? Both the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spent significant political capital in advocating the benefits of these farm laws. Are farmers being irrational in refusing to see the benefits of these laws, or is there more to the story? Here are three points that place this question in a larger context.Did the government underestimate support for minimum support prices?It is useful to begin answering this question by looking at the demand farmers’ groups have been making even after the government announced the repeal of the three farm laws, namely, a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farmers. What exactly do MSPs offer farmers?While the government announces MSPs for a large number of crops – 17 crops in the kharif (monsoon) season and six crops in the rabi (winter) season – effective procurement only happens for two most important cereals in India, rice and wheat. The procurement for rice and wheat, while a significant amount of the total production – more than 30% of total rice and wheat production is procured – is regionally skewed. In 2018-19, 60% of wheat and nearly 35% of rice procured was from Punjab and Haryana, although the share of these two states in wheat and rice production in the country was 30% and 14%, respectively. Even in Punjab and Haryana, the larger farmers gain disproportionately from these policies.The concentration by crop, class and region in MSP procurements is often highlighted. And, perhaps, the government thought this is exactly why a large number of farmers would be agonistic towards the demands of the small group of farmers in these states who gain from such policies.However, the government might have missed an important benefit of MSP procurements even to those who do not gain directly from the policy.This is the price stability which MSP procurements bring for cereals vis-a-vis other important crops in India. A comparison of subcategories of wholesale price index (WPI) for food items shows this clearly. It is not difficult to understand why MSP brings stability to cereal prices. With a large section of the producers assured of prices, thanks to MSP, both acreage and price speculation – these are the two biggest sources of price volatility apart from seasonal destruction of crops – are less susceptible to volatile movements.Farmers see a hypothetical situation where the government will procure a large share of other crops at predetermined prices as a source of price stability even if they do not enjoy the benefits of direct procurement. Farmers’ organisations may have made a smart move demanding a law guaranteeing MSPs after the passage of these laws, making even the non-beneficiary farmers sympathetic to the agitation.Only if the “Bihar Model” of agricultural reforms had workedThe “Gujarat Model” of development was an important plank for the BJP in the 2014 general elections. Irrespective of its merits, Narendra Modi and his party were able to convince the electorate that the economic policies followed under Modi’s chief-ministership in Gujarat had the potential to boost India’s economic performance if adopted nationwide.If the farm laws had to gain similar political traction, the government needed a similar model to sell. Bihar was a natural choice. One of the first things the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government did in Bihar after assuming power in 2005 was to repeal the monopoly of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) in the state, something which the farm laws did as well.So, why did the government not sell the Bihar Model in support of the farm laws? The short answer is there are no discernible success stories to sell from the experience of agricultural reforms in Bihar.“The aim of repealing the APMC Act in Bihar was to create new markets and attract private investment in agricultural markets and improve infrastructure. However, we find that private markets did not emerge... A priori, it is very hard to tell whether the repeal of APMC Act in Bihar is favourable for the farmer or not,” said an article published on the Ideas for India website by Avinash Kishore, a research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute and others.While researchers have struggled to find evidence of the agricultural reforms in Bihar proving to be beneficial, farmers continue to remain unimpressed. This is borne out by data from the national sample surveys on satisfaction with prices received, where Bihar is one of the worst performers.The pandemic’s shock might have revived economic stakes in farmingCounterfactuals are always difficult in politics. But there is a possibility that the decision to push for the farm laws during the pandemic actually worked against the government. Here’s why.Agriculture has been losing its importance in the Indian economy, both in terms of output and employment. The share of agriculture and allied activities in gross value added was 35% in 1990-91. It fell continuously to reach 14.8% in 2019-20. But during the pandemic’s shock to the economy, agriculture was the only sector which showed positive growth in 2020-21, which increased this share to 16.4%. Data from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) shows that the share of agricultural employment also increased during the lockdown. 2019-20 – the PLFS follows a July-June calendar so 2019-20 included the lockdown period – was an exception to this trend when agricultural employment actually increased from 42.5% in the 2018-19 PLFS to 45.6% in the 2019-20 PLFS.The cushion which India’s largely informal migrant workforce received from agriculture during the lockdown might have made it realise the importance of pushing for a revival in farm earnings. The latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) shows that the share of income from crop production fell by 10 percentage points between 2012-13 and 2018-19 in India. The farmers’ protests were able to sell the belief that the farm laws would increase earnings for big business rather than farmers.In recently published paper, Class, caste and agrarian change: the making of farmers’ protests, in the Journal of Peasant Studies, an international refereed journal, sociologist Satendra Kumar has linked the widespread support for the farmers’ protests among young Jat men in western Uttar Pradesh to the realisation that non-farm incomes have proved to be inadequate to supporting the lifestyle they aspire for in urban settings.“The participation of young rural men like Jasvinder and Anil (field survey) also highlights a major shift in today’s farmers’ protests compared to the 1980s: instead of pointing to a classical rural urban divide (‘Bharat vs India’), attention and invective is now directed at the big corporates, who are perceived as threatening their land while failing to employ them in the city, and the BJP, which is seen as supporting corporate interests over farmers. By pushing corporate capital and big agribusiness, the farm laws passed in 2020 by the BJP government created fear among the farmers of losing land that remains essential to even diversified livelihoods,” the paper said.It is this contradiction that suggests that the politics over the farm laws might be just the beginning of a widening conflict in India’s political economy landscape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-govt-failed-to-convince-farmers-about-the-new-laws-101637606207825.html
23-11-2021||India||Building ban in Delhi lifted, calls grow to reopen schools||The Delhi government on Monday said the ban on construction and demolition (C&D) activities had been lifted across the capital, citing an improvement in air quality; however, no decision was taken to resume physical classes at schools, colleges and technical institutions, with a meeting now scheduled on November 24.The move was questioned by experts who pointed out that construction is a major contributor to pollution, while keeping students out of schools after in-person classes barely resumed following a near 20-month shutdown will further the significant losses in learning for children.“In view of the improvement in the air quality and inconvenience caused to workers, we have decided to lift the ban on construction and demolition activities... the government will continue to monitor dust control measures,” state environment minister Gopal Rai said. The ban on trucks carrying goods not considered essential supply will continue.Shutting schools is listed under the “severe plus” or “emergency” category of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) -- air quality in Delhi was in the lower end of “very poor” category on Monday.Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), said the notion that keeping children at home will reduce exposure was not rooted in science. “If the idea is to reduce exposure, you could say the exposure is similar, or perhaps even higher, at homes. If one has to spend public money, then instead of using it on large smog towers, air purifiers can be installed at schools by the government. Physical classes are important for the learning process,” he said, stating if construction activities were being allowed, there was a clear argument to resume classes too.Experts also called for more proactive decisions that are based on real-time air quality and forecasting mechanisms.Delhi’s air remained between the higher end of the “very poor” category and the “severe” category beginning November 2, with the air quality index touching a season’s high of 471 (severe) on November 12.The next day, directions were issued by the Supreme Court, asking the Centre to hold an emergency meeting by November 16 and for states to look at extreme measures such as a two-day lockdown to bring down pollution.When directions to shut schools and stop construction activities across NCR were finally issued on November 16 by the Centre-led Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), the AQI began dropping. Delhi’s average AQI has since remained below the 400 mark, dropping down to 311 (very poor) at 4pm on Monday – the lowest recorded since the 4pm bulletin on November 2, when the AQI was 303. By 10pm, the 24-hour average AQI slipped further to 288 (poor).Conditions are forecast to improve further on Tuesday as strong surface winds continue to blow across the region, agencies said.Meenakshi Kuhar, president of Naya Samaj parents association, said that while parents were concerned about the impact of pollution on children’s health, they were also concerned about the loss of studies due to frequent closure of schools.“Whenever schools are closed on account of some reason or the other, there is loss of studies. Parents are definitely concerned about studies since online classes are not as good as regular in-person classes. Health of children is also an important factor due to which parents are compelled to wait till the situation improves. Pollution needs to be controlled so that children can safely resume school,” said Kuhar.A second expert said authorities must be think ahead when it comes to tackling pollution, and that shutting schools cannot be among the first responses.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said closure of schools is listed in the highest category of Grap in order to reduce exposure to “severe plus” or “emergency” air levels, but with air quality fluctuating based on meteorological conditions, it is more important to rely on forecasting mechanisms.“We need to rely on a system that can forecast possible severe or severe plus air days ahead and then there can be a one or a two day break from physical classes, but it does not make sense to stop classes when air quality is improving. There is a need to rely on forecasting more for future decision making,” she said.Roychowdhury’s comments tie in with the problem in the pollution response plan that has persisted for years: the core of the efforts is largely reactive, instead of being proactive. Every year, predictable meteorological conditions and the practice of burning farm residue by farmers in neighbouring states makes the air in the National Capital Region hazardously polluted.Experts said, in such situations, the indoor air quality could at times be even worse than outdoor conditions, and holding online classes was not a guarantee of reduced exposure.“In winters, the practice to shut down doors and windows to prevent polluted air from coming inside can over time trap pollutants inside. There are different sources of pollution indoors too and so the argument that the exposure is being reduced is not always valid,” said Priyanka Kulshreshtha from the Society from Indoor Environment (SIE).The government on Monday said while the ban on construction activities had been lifted, sites violating dust suppression norms will be shut down immediately with a penalty imposed on the spot.“We will not even wait to issue a notice, but issue a penalty and shut down the site first. A decision on other measures such as resumption of classes, government offices and on possibly allowing CNG trucks into Delhi, will be taken in a meeting on November 24, which will involve different stakeholders and government departments,” Rai said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/building-ban-in-delhi-lifted-calls-grow-to-reopen-schools-101637606151371.html
23-11-2021||India||Not a hegemon, won’t bully smaller nations: Xi to Asean||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday told the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ (ASEAN) leaders that Beijing would not “bully” its smaller regional neighbours, as he announced the establishment of a “comprehensive strategic partnership” with the 10-country bloc.China would never seek hegemony nor take advantage of its size to coerce smaller countries, and would work with ASEAN to eliminate “interference”, Xi, was quoted by Chinese official media as saying amid rising tension with a number of littoral ASEAN states over the South China Sea.“China was, is, and will always be a good neighbour, good friend, and good partner of ASEAN,” Xi said.Xi was chairing the Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of China-ASEAN Dialogue Relations via video link on Monday morning.The group comprises Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte struck an angry note at the regional summit when he said that he “abhors” a recent altercation with Chinese ships in the South China Sea and said the rule of law was the only way out of problems.“We abhor the recent event. This does not speak well of the relations between our nations,” Duterte said.Duterte was referring to the actions of three Chinese coast guard vessels that blocked and used water cannon on resupply boats headed towards a Philippine-occupied atoll in the sea.The United States called the Chinese actions “dangerous, provocative and unjustified” and warned that an armed attack on Philippine vessels would invoke US mutual defence commitments, a Reuters report said.Speaking at the summit, Xi said: “We need to pursue dialogue instead of confrontation, build partnerships instead of alliances. China firmly opposes hegemonism and power politics. China will never seek hegemony, still less bully smaller countries”.China’s sweeping claims of sovereignty over the SCS has set it against ASEAN members Vietnam and the Philippines while Brunei, Malaysia and Taiwan, which Beijing claims as a breakaway region, are also part of the ongoing dispute.Announcing the “comprehensive strategic partnership”, Xi said it was “...a new milestone in the history of our relations and will inject new impetus into peace, stability, prosperity and development of our region and the world”.“China supports ASEAN’s efforts to build a nuclear weapons-free zone and is prepared to sign the Protocol to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone as soon as possible,” Xi said.China is ready to provide ASEAN with another $1.5 billion in development assistance in the next three years to support ASEAN countries’ fight against Covid-19 and economic recovery, Xi said.The summit was held without a representative from Myanmar, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-hegemon-won-t-bully-smaller-nations-xi-to-asean-101637606087820.html
23-11-2021||India||Centre launches first-ever survey of domestic help to shape employment policy||Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday rolled out the country’s first survey of domestic workers, the latest of a set of five national jobs enumeration campaigns aimed at collecting data on the country’s vast informal workforce that will, in turn, feed a forthcoming national employment policy in Asia’s third-largest economy.Domestic workers are believed to be at least 4 million strong, according to a 2017 International Labour Organization study, but there is little official information on their actual number; and little is known about their work conditions and average pay.The absence of such data leaves them out of any formal policy governing the country’s informal workers, who make up a majority of the total workforce. India lacks updated data on economy-wide number of workers in the informal sector, but estimates suggest their numbers to be between 350-400 million.The survey is designed to fill this gap and offer “time-series data on domestic workers”, the minister said.The survey for domestic workers is among five national jobs surveys that will be conducted periodically and provide crucial data for an upcoming national employment policy being planned by the Narendra Modi government, an official said, requesting anonymity.In September, the government released the results of the first All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey (AQEES) for the April-June quarter.The other four surveys are the All-India Survey of Migrant Workers, All-India Survey of Domestic Workers (launched Monday), All-India Survey of Employment Generated by Professionals and All-India Survey of Employment Generated in the Transport Sector.The survey launched Monday will provide, for the first time, a headcount of domestic workers and their employers through a nationwide household-based survey.According to the manual of the survey, specific features of domestic work, such as living conditions and employment relationships, will be extensively covered; these are usually not covered in the traditional labour force surveys.“The numbers will improve the availability of official data on DW (domestic workers) and would provide a basis for meaningful social dialogue,” the manual stated.Parameters the survey aim to capture the number and proportion of household workers by major states, with separate rural and urban break-ups, their percentage distribution, households that employ them and socio-demographic characteristics.The labour bureau’s AQEES in September showed a 29% increase in employment in nine sectors during the peak Covid-19 months of April-June over a base of 2013-14. The survey showed a jump in jobs in sectors such as IT, business process outsourcing and manufacturing.India lacks official short-term, high-frequency jobs data and the AQEES is meant to fill the critical gap. Economists usually depend on the Periodic Labour Force Survey, a government jobs survey, or data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private data firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-india-s-first-ever-survey-of-domestic-help-to-shape-employment-policy-101637606027887.html
23-11-2021||India||Create extra seat for Dalit student, SC directs IIT-B||Stating that it would be a “great travesty of justice” to deny opportunities to a meritorious Dalit boy, the Supreme Court on Monday directed the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay to create an extra seat for the 17-year-old candidate, who lost his berth at the prestigious institute for failing to make online fee payment in time because of a technical glitch. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna directed IIT Bombay to create a supernumerary seat for Prince Jaibir Singh and complete the process of his admission by Wednesday. Issuing its directive under Article 142 of the Constitution (authority to issue orders to do complete justice), the top court made it clear that no other student shall be displaced while accommodating Singh and that his admission shall be regularised in future in the event of some other student leaving the Bachelor of Technology (BTech) course midway.“This court has before it a Dalit student who is on verge of losing a valued seat allocated to him at IIT Bombay. The travails of the appellant have taken him from Allahabad, where he is presently studying, to Kharagpur and then to Bombay and eventually to the national capital...Having regard to the facts of the case, it will be travesty of justice for a young Dalit student who has finally come to this court to be turned away,” the court stated in its order.During the proceedings, the bench also urged the IIT management to have a “more robust system” so that students hailing from rural areas do not miss out on opportunities just because they may not have a superior banking facility or multiple debit or credit cards. “What about students from small villages, small towns where there may not be such banking facilities available with the child? Not everybody would have multiple credit cards! There may be instances of the bank not responding. Some modality is needed to deal with such cases. Students spend years and years preparing. There has to be some buffer for students facing insurmountable hurdles! Otherwise, only children from metropolitan cities would go to IIT,” the bench told advocate Sonal Jain, who appeared for IIT. The bench noted that Singh, who secured the 864th rank in the scheduled caste category and was being allotted a seat at the prestigious IIT Bombay for a BTech course in civil engineering, would not forego the opportunity had it not been for some genuine difficulties in arranging the acceptance fees.“It is elementary common sense. Which student would get into IIT Bombay and not pay ₹50,000 fee? It is obvious that he had some financial problems. You have to look at what the reality on the ground is – the reality of our social life...Look at his background. This is a different case. You cannot be wooden like this,” commented the bench.On Thursday, the bench observed that a young Dalit boy like Singh can be a leader of the nation in the future, imploring the IIT management to locate a seat for him at any one of the seven IITs. It took note that Singh, who is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, completed all other formalities on the admission portal on October 29, but could not deposit the seat acceptance fees as he was short of money. After his sister transferred the money into his account on October 30, he made several attempts to make the payment online, but failed to do so till 12 noon on October 31, which was the deadline, due to technical errors.When the proceedings resumed on Monday, Jain said there was no seat available in any of the IITs and the apex court may instead pass an order under Article 142 for the creation of a supernumerary position for Singh. Irked by this submission, the bench retorted: “You cannot throw up your hands like this. Deal with him with a humanitarian approach. You can do everything if it fits you. This is only bureaucracy. Speak to your chairperson and find a way out.”Later, Jain returned to the court but reiterated the IIT’s inability to accommodate Singh.Resolute to give relief to the boy, the top court invoked its extraordinary power under Article 142 and ordered for the creation of an extra seat at IIT Bombay for Singh. Singh initially moved the Bombay high court, contending that he secured an all-India rank of 25,894 and scheduled caste rank of 864 in the JEE Advanced and was allotted the seat at IIT Bombay. He said after failing to clear the seat acceptance fees by the deadline, he went to the authorities concerned on November 1, and requested them to allow him to make the payment. But IIT officials expressed their inability to help him.The high court on November 12 declined to give him any relief. It held that Singh “has entailed the consequence of rejection” because he failed to register his grievances before the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-extra-seat-for-dalit-student-sc-directs-iitb-101637605967818.html
23-11-2021||India||After outrage from seers, Indian Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress code||After seers from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain demanded that the dress code of the staff aboard the Ramayan Express must be changed, the Indian Railways on Monday withdrew their uniform, news agency PTI reported.They threatened to stop the Ramayan Express at Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station if the staff continued to wear their saffron uniform while serving on the train, saying that it was an insult to the Hindu religion.“It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” the Indian Railways said in a statement, according to PTI.The Indian Railways said that the staff will now wear normal shirts and trousers and traditional headgear. They will, however, continue, to wear saffron masks and gloves. The staff on board the Ramayan Express used to wear saffron unfirm with rudraksha beads and traditional headgear to which the seers of Ujjain objected.Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri told PTI that the seers wrote to the railway minister earlier this week expressing their disapproval over the staff’s uniform.“We wrote a letter to the railway minister two days ago, lodging our protest against waiters serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express in saffron. Donning a saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas (necklaces) of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers,” Avdeshpuri was quoted as saying by the news agency.He said that the demand for the change in attire was necessary for protecting the Hindu religion. “We will sit on the railway tracks. This is necessary for protecting the Hindu religion,” Avdeshpuri said.The Ramayan Express, which kicked off its first trip earlier this month, takes people to 15 places associated with the life of Lord Ram. It covers a distance of more than 7,500km and takes pilgrims to Ayodhya, Prayag, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nasik, Hampi and Rameshwaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-outrage-from-seers-indian-railways-withdraws-ramayan-express-staff-dress-code-101637599726045.html
23-11-2021||India||Indian Army conducts major drills in Gujarat’s Creek area||The India Army’s Pune-based Southern Command on Monday concluded high-intensity combat manoeuvres in Kutch’s Creek sector, with the multi-agency drills involving the army, air force, navy, coast guard, Border Security Force, Gujarat state police and the fisheries department, officials familiar with the development said.Sir Creek is a 96-km maritime strip disputed between India and Pakistan in the Rann of Kutch. It divides the Kutch region of Gujarat and the Sindh province of Pakistan. The four-day exercise, codenamed Dakshin Shakti, was conducted in training areas scattered across Gujarat and Rajasthan.“The exercise involved the insertion of troops and manoeuvres by forces in all three dimensions simultaneously in an integrated manner. It involved comprehensive coordination for effective response in a multi-domain environment, real-time communication, and sharing of operational data to overcome emerging threats,” the army said in a statement. Top officials from the organisations taking part in the exercise witnessed the joint drills.The exercise saw India’s marine commandos being dropped from IAF’s Mi-17 helicopters into boats to simulate an attack on an enemy target, the officials said. Hovercraft from the coast guard also landed army reinforcements at the shore to neutralise an enemy post, they added.The exercise validated future concepts of warfighting in a tri-service battlefield environment, the Southern Command said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-conducts-major-drills-in-gujarat-s-creek-area-101637599069062.html
23-11-2021||India||‘Indian economy will face crisis if…’ Here's what SC-appointed panel member said||A member of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on agricultural laws cautioned on Monday that the Indian economy will face crisis if a legislation is brought for ensuring the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.Anil Ghanwat's remarks came close on the heels farmers' unions making fresh demands for a legislation on MSP even as they lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent announcement of Union government repealing the three contentious farm laws.On Monday, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait pressed for legal guarantee for MSP, and said the movement of the farmers would continue till their demands were met. The president of Shetkari Sangathana, Ghanwat opined the demand for MSP is not sustainable and said if the government agrees to the proposal for extending MSPs to 23 crops, it would drive the country to bankruptcy."If there is going to be a law (on MSP), we (India) will face a crisis. With the law, if the (procurement) process goes down someday, no one will be able to buy the produce as procuring it at a price lower than the MSP will be illegal and they (traders) will be put in jails for it," Ghanwat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, are set such that they offer 50% returns over cost but mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities.ALSO READ | MSP law bigger battle for farmers, govt, say analystsHe outlined that both the Centre and the farmer leaders should think of some other way to boost farm income and remarked that a legislation on MSP is not the solution.Ghanwat cautioned that not only will the “crisis” affect the traders but it will also harm the stockists and everybody else related to it.  "Even the commodity market will be disturbed. It will be distorted," Ghanwat said, adding, “We are not against MSP, but the open-ended procurement is a problem. We require 41 lakh tonnes of grains for buffer stock but procured 110 lakh tonnes. If MSP law is made, all farmers will demand MSP for their crops and no one will be in a position to earn anything out of that.”Ghanwat went a step ahead to call the repeal of the farm laws “unfortunate” and said existing system of agriculture is “not enough”. "Even if the new laws which were introduced were not very perfect, there were some flaws which needed to be corrected. I think this government had the will to reform agriculture as the earlier governments didn't have the political will. I hope another committee will be formed comprising of opposition leaders and farm leaders from all states and then new farm laws are discussed in the parliament and should be introduced," Ghanwat told ANI.Ghanwat suggested the farmers to diversify their produce and go for high-value crops which will give them more returns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-msp-supreme-court-panel-on-agriculture-legislations-parliament-101637592246140.html
23-11-2021||India||Seers threaten to stop Ramayan Express if waiters’ dress code not changed||Seers from Ujjain on Monday threatened to stop the Ramayan Express if servers continue to wear their saffron uniform while serving in the train, saying that it is an insult to the Hindu religion.After outrage from seers, Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress codeThe Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri said that he wrote to the railways minister expressing their disapproval of the servers’ dress code. He said that the seers will stop the train in Delhi on December 12 if the dress code is not withdrawn.“We have written a letter two days back to the railways minister lodging our protest against waiters serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express in saffron. Donning saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas (necklaces) of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers,” Avdeshpuri was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Avdeshpuri also said that the seers will sit on the railway tracks and block the train at Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station if the demands are not met. “This is necessary for protecting the Hindu religion. We have taken a strong view of this issue in Ujjain,” Avdeshpuri added.India’s first Ramayan circuit train chugged off on a 17-day journey from the Safdarjung railway station on November 7. The Ramayan Express takes devotees on a trip to 15 different destinations all of which are associated with the life of Lord Ram.The Ramayan Express train covers a distance of more than 7,500km and takes pilgrims to places such as Ayodhya, Prayag, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nasik, Hampi and Rameshwaram. The train is equipped with first-class restaurants, a library and shower cubicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seers-threaten-to-stop-ramayan-express-if-waiters-dress-code-not-changed-101637575954489.html
