24-11-2021||India||Tomato prices in Tamil Nadu soar past ₹100, govt steps in with subsidised variety||With tomato prices soaring due to the northeast monsoon induced downpour earlier this month, the Tamil Nadu government has started the process of selling tomatoes in the price range of ₹85 and ₹100 per kg through state-run farm fresh outlets in 12 districts including Chennai from Wednesday. The state cooperatives department said in a statement that they are procuring 15 metric tonnes of the vegetable every day for this purpose.“The government is making efforts to supply tomatoes at a lower price to the public. Until this afternoon, 8 MTs of tomatoes were sold in these markets,” minister for cooperatives I Periyasamy said in a statement. “Until Tuesday, a kg of tomatoes in the open market was ₹140, and due to this move by the government, on Wednesday it is around ₹90-100 per kg. Similarly, the prices of other vegetables have also come down,” he said.On Wednesday, Chennai’s main wholesale market saw tomatoes selling for ₹120 per kg while in other markets it had touched ₹140. Tamil Nadu primarily receives its tomatoes from two regions in Karnataka and three regions in Andhra Pradesh, says advisor to the Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetable Traders, V R Soundararajan. “Usually, during the northeast monsoon, there is a gap in the rainfall in various parts of Tamil Nadu. But this time, there was heavy rain in all the southern districts at the same time. We have not experienced a situation like this in 30 years,” says Soundararajan. He said that it was not just tomatoes that were affected. “Tomatoes, brinjal, ladies finger reach Koyambedu from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and because of the rainfall, the crops are damaged, transport is affected so our supply has dwindled,” he said. After tomatoes, the vegetables that cost the highest per kg in the retail market are ladies finger ( ₹80), beans ( ₹71), brinjal ( ₹72).K Pushparaj, a small vendor who supplies fruits and vegetables door-to-door said that he has stopped purchasing tomatoes from the wholesale market. “Tomatoes have become a luxury for some so a few residents have stopped buying it,” he said.The prices have been steadily increasing since the arrival of the northeast monsoon in the state in October and have skyrocketed since heavy spells of rain caused severe damage in Chennai, delta districts and southern districts. Between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm of rainfall respectively. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomato-prices-in-tamil-nadu-soar-past-rs-100-govt-steps-in-with-subsidised-variety-101637775984674.html
24-11-2021||India||Truck drives into wedding procession in Odisha’s Malkangiri, 3 killed: Police||Bhubaneswar: A speeding truck on Wednesday drove into a wedding procession in Odisha’s Malkangiri killing two people including the groom’s father on the spot. A third person died in the district hospital later.Police said the truck driver, who appeared to be under the influence of liquor, was beaten by the survivors and other villagers.The accident took place on National Highway 326 which passes through Malkangiri district’s Pandripani village where the groom lived.Malkangiri superintendent of police Prahallad Meena said the dead include Shiba Khemudu, father of the groom and sarpanch of Pandripani panchayat. The other two have been identified as Subash Khara and Santosh Kumar Sahu.“Three others who are critically injured have been admitted to the district hospital,” the police officer said.Witnesses said the wedding procession was on its way to the bride’s house when a rice-laden truck from Jeypore appeared to come out of nowhere and mowed down the procession. “The truck driver appeared to be drunk. After the mishap, he was apprehended by locals and thrashed,” said Prahallad Meena.According to the National Crime Records Bureau, road accident deaths in Odisha have gone up from 3,931 in 2014 to 4,738 in 2020.Last month, four people were killed and over 15 seriously injured when a speeding car ploughed into a procession going to immerse a Durga idol in the Pathalgaon area of Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-drives-into-wedding-procession-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-3-killed-police-101637775864678.html
24-11-2021||India||Meghalaya: 12 Cong MLAs join Trinamool making it main opposition||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday claimed that 12 of 18 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya joined the Trinamool Congress making it the main opposition party in the state in a sudden and overnight development, delivering a major blow to the Congress. Former chief minister Mukul Sangma is one of them, reports said.The development comes as Trinamool supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met PM Modi on Wednesday on her New Delhi trip. On being asked about her plans to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Mamata said it is not mandatory to meet Sonia Gandhi every time she visits New Delhi. The Congress is busy with the Punjab election, Mamata said.While the exodus of Sangma and his followers was not beyond speculation, the sudden development in Meghalaya, which will go to the polls in 2023, at a time when Congress is experiencing exodus in other states too is significant. Mukul Sangma has been expressing his resentment with the Congress for quite some time. However, every time it was speculated that Sangma would cross over to the Trinamool, he dismissed those speculations. On Wednesday too, Sangma reportedly denied to comment and said he would address a press meet on Thursday. Kirti Azad has been the latest name to make the switchover from the Congress to the TMC following former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and former Mahila Congress national president Sushmita Dev.Before the major development in the northeastern state on Wednesday, Congress leader KC Venugopal said the crossing over of some of the leaders to Trinamool is a drama which will not be able to weaken the Congress. "We are not bothered about all these... If somebody is taking people from our party, it will not matter at all. If somebody is thinking that they can destroy the Congress one day, it will not happen. Many people have tried these kinds of things earlier also," Venugopal said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-12-cong-mlas-join-trinamool-making-it-main-opposition-claims-tmc-101637775285388.html
24-11-2021||India||Navy to commission INS Vela, fourth Scorpene-class submarine, tomorrow in Mumbai||Indian Navy will commission for INS Vela, the fourth stealth Scorpene class submarine, in Mumbai on Thursday. The submarine was constructed at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) Mumbai in collaboration with M/s Naval Group, France, and was delivered to the Indian Navy on November 9, 2021. A total of six submarines are to be built under the project.“It's a proud moment for all of us. It has an indigenous set of batteries and has an advanced communication suite of indigenous make so it has taken the concept of 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat' further,” Captain Anish Mathew, Commanding Officer of INS Vela, told news agency ANI.Launched in May 2019, INS Vela has completed all major harbour and sea trials including weapon and sensor trials since then despite Covid-induced restrictions. Pointing to the intricate activity of submarine construction, the ministry of defence had earlier said the difficulty is compounded when all types of equipment are required to be miniaturised.The Scorpene-class submarines are meant to undertake multifarious tasks typically including anti-surface as well as anti-submarine warfare.MDL is one of India’s leading shipyards with a capacity to meet the requirements of the Indian Navy. According to the defence ministry, MDL is ready for undertaking the construction of future submarines by leveraging the experience and the transfer of technology of the Scorpene project.Last week, INS Visakhapatnam, the first stealth-guided missile destroyer ship of Project 15B, was commissioned at the naval dock in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh. In a step towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the commissioning reaffirmed India's presence amongst an elite group of nations with the capability to design and build advanced warships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-to-commission-ins-vela-fourth-scorpene-class-submarine-tomorrow-in-mumbai-101637770555984.html
24-11-2021||India||Not this year, says Pramod Sawant as he nixes Goa’s Sunburn music fest||PANAJI: The Goa government has refused permission to hold the Sunburn festival scheduled to be held next month, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday.The electronic dance music festival was tentatively scheduled for December 27-29 at a location in Vagator, a coastal village in north Goa. The organisers, who hosted a virtual music festival ‘Sunburn for Goa’ last year to raise funds for Covid-19, recently started accepting bookings for this year’s festival in anticipation of government approval.Sawant did not elaborate on why he decided to reject permission for the festival.“We have not given permission for Sunburn this year… This time, we have not given permission to Sunburn. My office has already processed the file,” Pramod Sawant told reporters after a cabinet meeting.Goa tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said he was in favour of holding the festival, but will respect the chief minister’s decision.“I felt that it should be held. I wanted it to happen. What people want should happen,” Ajgaonkar said but underlined that it was the chief minister’s call to make, not his.“The chief minister has taken a decision after studying the matter. I cannot take any decision, without final approval from the chief minister. CM has not informed me about rejecting the file yet,” he said, adding that the chief minister’s office was better informed about the ground situation in so far as the Covid-19 pandemic was considered.”The file had come to us, we had sent it to (chief minister’s office) for a decision. The final decision is taken by the CM,” Ajgaonkar saidThe Sunburn festival that draws thousands of music lovers was not held last year on account of the pandemic after initial attempts by the organisers to hold the festival. The festival was first organised in Goa in 2007. According to its website, over 2 million people from 51 countries have flown to Goa over the years to attend the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-this-year-says-pramod-sawant-as-he-nixes-goa-s-sunburn-music-fest-101637772684524.html
24-11-2021||India||Akhilesh announces ₹25 lakh for kin of farmers who died during protests if SP wins polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday announced financial assistance of ₹25 lakh to the kin of those farmers who lost their lives in the agitation against the three new agricultural laws in the past one year.The sum of ₹25 lakh will be given soon after formation of the SP government if it comes to power, a party spokesperson said.“SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has promised to give a sum of ₹25 lakh as Kisan Shahadat Samman Rashi to the family of every farmer who died in the agitation against the three farm laws,” SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said in a statement issued on Wednesday.Chaudhary said former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has always been sensitive towards the issues of farmers. He said the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP government (2012-17) had implemented a number of welfare schemes for farmers.He also said policies about remunerative prices, cheaper power to farmers, free irrigation and availability of fertilisers for farmers were the result of the policies of the earlier SP government.He said under Akhilesh Yadav’s leadership, the SP was always with the farmers. The party strongly opposed the three farm laws and was aware that farmers had been framed in different cases by the BJP government, Chaudhary said. He said a large number of farmers, too, went to jail during the period.Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and senior cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh reacted sharply to the SP chief’s move and described it as “fake” concern for the farmers. Singh said the farmers understood this was another gimmick of the Samajwadi Party ahead of the crucial 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-announces-rs-25-lakh-for-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-protests-if-sp-wins-polls-101637771544654.html
24-11-2021||India||How much have you invested in crypto? Priyanka Chaturvedi replies to ‘trolls’||As Shiv Sen leader Priyanka Chaturvedi has been voicing her concern against the government's proposed ban on cryptocurrency, Chaturvedi was trolled on Twitter as several users pointed out to her earlier tweet where she rued the fact that there is no regulatory framework or roadmap on crypto in India. While the Shiv Sena leader was asked whether she has put all her savings in crypto, Priyanka Chaturvedi made it clear that she has not invested a single rupee. "But unlike you, I do speak for lakhs of investors and not for the Government of India." Asking for regulation or regulatory framework is not similar to asking for a ban, Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote. Repeat: Not a single rupee. But unlike you, I do speak for lakhs of investors, & not be a bhopu for the GoI https://t.co/R4mewWtUYnThe government will introduce 'The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021' in the upcoming winter session of Parliament. The bill, as it has been reported, seeks to create a facilitative framework for the creation of an official digital currency that the Reserve Bank of India has been intending to do. Effectively, as experts said, all private cryptocurrencies will be banned in India."If true, this is a recipe for disaster India doesn't need. Banning all private cryptocurrencies is basically killing the space -- robbing India of creating an ecosystem for new age FinTech. Anyway, expecting any better from GOI was wishful thinking," the Sena leader tweeted on Tuesday. Quoting an opinion piece by former RBI governor D Subbarao, the Shiv Sena leader said that teh ex-RBI governor is also in favour o regulating the currency, not banning. "...do not recognise it as a legal tender but asset class - like Japan, Singapore and Britain. But no, the GOI is allergic to sound advice," she wrote.Following this, she was attacked on social media to which she replied that her concern is not personal as she has not invested any money into crypto.The news of a possible ban triggered heavy selling following which the cryptocurrency industry urged the government to take a nuanced approach towards regulating crypto assets in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-much-have-you-invested-in-crypto-priyanka-chaturvedi-replies-to-trolls-101637770241789.html
24-11-2021||India||Amarinder Singh's wife accused of anti-party activities, given 7 days to explain||The Congress on Wednesday accused former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's wife Preneet Kaur of indulging in anti-Congress activities and gave seven days to explain her stand on the issue of Amarinder Singh's exit from the party and her future plans. "From the last many days, we are continuously receiving reports from Congress workers, MLAs, leaders from Patiala and the media about your anti-party activities. This information and news has been coming ever since your husband Captain Amarinder Singh ji resigned from the party and floated his own party: Punjab Lok Congress. We are also made aware of your open announcements in the media about siding with your husband's party," party in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh Harish Choudhary wrote to the Lok Sabha MP."Kindly explain your stand on this issue within a period of seven days. Otherwise, the party will be forced to take necessary disciplinary action," the notice said.After Amarinder Singh resigned from the chief minister's post after months of dissidence inside the party and hinted that he would quit the Congress, Preneet Kaur who represents the Patiala constituency in the Lok Sabha said she had no intention to quit the Congress at that time.However, recently she has hinted that she might join Amarinder Singh's party as she spoke at an event in Samana. "Captain Amarinder Singh has always stood by the commitment he makes. Main apne parivaar de naal haan (I am with my family)," Preneet said without giving out details of whether she has already decided to join the Punjab Lok Congress or not.In the upcoming assembly election, the fight for which has been hotting up with the AAP emerging as a bigger threat to the Congress and Amarinder Singh's party keeping the question of alliance with the BJP open, Amarinder Singh has already announced that he will be fighting the elections from Patiala, which he represented in 2002, 2007, 2012 and 2017.The tussle between Amarinder and Navjot Sidhu resulted in Amarinder renouncing the chief minister's post facing heat from the party. Amarinder decided to burn all the bridges with the Congress as he said he felt humiliated by the way the party treated him. He would not join the BJP, he had made it clear. After days of speculations, he floated his own party and kept the option of tying up with the BJP open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-s-wife-accused-of-anti-party-activities-given-7-days-to-explain-101637768025881.html
24-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: UAE keen on swift restoration of air services with India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UAE keen on speedy restoration of air services with India, says envoyThe United Arab Emirates (UAE) is keen on speedy restoration of normal air services with India as the lack of adequate flights is posing difficulties for travellers and has led to a spike in air fares, UAE ambassador Ahmed AlBanna said on Wednesday. Read more…Indian, French navies achieve ‘plug and fight’ capabilityFollowing the naval drills between FNS Chevalier Paul and Indian Navy Ship Kolkata, French envoy to India Emmanuel Lenain said the exercise demonstrated top performance levels in air defence, anti-submarine and anti-ship warfare. Read more…Congress MLAs urge Thackeray to commit ₹1 lakh ex gratia for Covid victims to force Centre pay its shareMaharashtra Congress Legislature Party on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to commit ₹1 lakh for families of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victims as per the norms of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) so that the central government is forced to announce its share of ₹3 lakh for each Covid death. Read more…Watch what happened in PM Modi's meet with ministers to repeal 3 farm lawsThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 – a draft legislation to repeal the three controversial farm laws which triggered extensive protests around the borders of the national capital for nearly a year. Watch this reportVIDEO: Rahul Dravid rolls his arms in nets; bowls off-spin ahead of 1st India-New Zealand TestTeam India's head coach Rahul Dravid rolled over his arms in the nets ahead of the first Test between India and New Zealand in Kanpur. The newly-appointed coach will take part in his first Test since taking over the role, with Ajinkya Rahane being the stand-in captain of the side in the absence of Virat Kohli. Read more…Abhishek Bachchan says Ranveer Singh can be given contracts for wedding clothes, reason leaves everyone in splitsActor Abhishek Bachchan has jokingly suggested that actor Ranveer Singh should get a contract for being in charge of wedding attires. In a new promo shared by Sony Entertainment Television on Wednesday, Abhishek and Chitrangda Singh appeared on The Kapil Sharma Show. The duo came as guests for the promotion of their film Bob Biswas. Read more…Why diabetes is deadlier for women than men; tips to manageDiabetes may be more common in men than women but it can lead to more serious complications in case of women and a greater risk of death. Diabetes is capable of affecting a woman's overall well-being by putting her at risk of heart disease, kidney disease, blindness, depression, UTIs and infertility problem. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uae-keen-on-swift-restoration-of-air-services-with-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101637765318648.html
24-11-2021||India||Indian, French navies achieve ‘plug and fight’ capability||Following the naval drills between FNS Chevalier Paul and Indian Navy Ship Kolkata, French envoy to India Emmanuel Lenain said the exercise demonstrated top performance levels in air defence, anti-submarine and anti-ship warfare. Lenain who was present during the event said in a tweet that both nations are proud that their respective armies are proud of the ‘plug and fight’ capability achieved by both navies.“Training in tandem! The 2-day naval drills between FNS Chevalier Paul and INS Kolkata off India's coast demonstrated top performance levels in air defence, anti-submarine and anti-ship warfare. Proud of the "plug and fight" capability achieved by our two Navies,” Lenain said in a tweet.The two-day drill involved air defence, anti-submarine warfare (hunting a target with the help of a P 8 patrol aircraft) and anti-ship warfare (live firing of shots against a floating target and simulation of coordinating anti-ship missile firing), French officials who attended the event told news agency PTI.“The two sides also shared a very positive assessment of the results, which confirmed the plug and fight capacity achieved by the two navies,” the French officials said after completion of the exercise.French air defence frigate Chevalier Paul reached the Mumbai coast after completing various anti-piracy and anti-smuggling operations. The advanced air defence frigate in the French Navy is based in Toulon in southern France and was carrying out operations in the Indian Ocean Region. The ship initially arrived for a three-day goodwill visit.The Indian Navy also later hosted the visitors for a number of leisure and sports activities which included a friendly football match, a dinner hosted by the Western Fleet, a cultural tour of Mumbai and an Indian food festival. The visitors hosted a reception onboard for Indian Navy personnel and local civilian dignitaries on the first day of its arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-french-navies-achieve-plug-and-fight-capability-101637766867375.html
24-11-2021||India||Sputnik Light Covid vaccine to be launched in India by December, says RDIF CEO||The Russian-made one-shot Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine will be launched in India by December, news agency ANI quoted Kirill Dmitriev, the CEO of Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) as saying.Sputnik Light vaccine is based on human adenovirus serotype 26, which is the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine. The vaccine is considered a highly effective vaccine when used both on a standalone basis and applied as a booster, according to reports.Dr. Reddy's Laboratories recently said it was in talks with India's drug regulator to sell Russia's Sputnik Light as a booster dose. India, however, at the moment is not considering authorising booster Covid-19 doses as many in the country have been naturally infected and the government believes two doses of a vaccine offers sufficient protection for now.It is not clear at the moment whether Russia's Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine will be administered as a booster or used on a standalone basis. India is currently administering Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccine doses to its population.Sputnik light COVID vaccine to be launched in India by December: Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund pic.twitter.com/Ybjmsi6yfSMeanwhile, according to the latest findings by the Gamaleya Center based on data from 28,000 subjects in Moscow, Sputnik Light vaccine has shown 70% efficacy against infection from the Delta variant of coronavirus when administered standalone.Efficacy of one-shot Sputnik Light as a booster against Delta variant for other vaccines will be close to the efficacy against the Delta variant of the Sputnik V vaccine: over 83% against infection and over 94% against hospitalization.A one-shot vaccination regimen of Sputnik Light has a number of key advantages, including ease of administering the vaccine, monitoring and more flexible re-vaccination schedule when used as a booster.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-light-covid-vaccine-to-be-launched-in-india-by-december-says-rdif-ceo-101637764058806.html
24-11-2021||India||Assam to form panel to study encroachments in Vaishnavite monasteries||The Assam cabinet on Wednesday decided to form a high-level committee to study complaints of encroachments in Vaishnavite monasteries in the state. The meeting held in Bongaigaon (the second such meeting held outside the capital since the new government formed in May) also decided to form a youth commission to prepare young men for competitive exams, jobs and also set conditions to discourage outsiders from taking part in state civil service exams. “There have been complaints and news reports about encroachment of land belonging to ‘satras’ (Vaishnavite monasteries). But till now no government has done any survey on this issue. Now we have decided to constitute a committee to look into all aspects of the problem,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after the meeting. The committee headed by former minister Pradip Hazarika will also have ruling BJP MLAs Mrinal Saikia and Rupak Sarma as members. While Hazarika will be accorded the rank of cabinet minister, Saikia and Sarma will enjoy privileges of ministers of state. The committee will have support of senior officials of revenue and land records department and submit a report within one year of formation on status of encroachments in ‘satras’. Earlier a similar committee was formed to find out about encroachment at Garukhuti in Darrang district. This followed two rounds of eviction of settlers in the area in September this year which led to clashes between police and residents resulting in deaths of two civilians and injury to 18 others. The cabinet decided to set up a youth commission to impart skills to educated youths from the state to become engineers, doctors and other skilled professionals. The aim would be to prepare youths who can compete and succeed in securing central government and defence jobs as well. “This is being done as we noticed that many students who studied in Assamese medium schools were not able to succeed in medical and engineering entrance exams or secure jobs in central government agencies. The commission will provide coaching to these students with help of reputed institutes,” said Sarma. The cabinet decided to do away with a paper on languages in the Assam Public Service Commission (APSC) exam to select candidates for various state government services. “But there will be three new conditions. All candidates will have to be residents of Assam, should have their name registered in state employment exchanges and mandatorily be able to speak Assamese, or any other language spoken in the state including Hindi, fluently. These conditions would make it difficult for prospective candidates from other states to take part in this exam,” said Sarma. In another move, the cabinet decided to allow state government employees including senior IAS and IPS officers (and event ministers) 4 days leave from January 6 to January 9 next year to spend time with their parents or in-laws. Sarma informed that Assam will remodel state education system in accordance with National Education Policy. From April 2023, schools will follow a pattern of 5+3+3+4 years of school education from kindergarten to senior secondary level. The state government has decided to commemorate the 400th birth centenary celebration of Ahom general Lachit Borphukan, which falls on November 24 next year, with yearlong celebrations and events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-form-panel-to-study-encroachments-in-vaishnavite-monasteries-101637766929571.html
24-11-2021||India||Terrorist slain in J-K encounter killed two teachers, civilians in October||Police officials on Wednesday said that one of the terrorists who was gunned down by the terrorists earlier was responsible for the gruesome killings of two teachers and other civilians in Srinagar.Earlier in the day, security personnel gunned down three terrorists in Srinagar’s Rambagh.“One of the three terrorists killed in the encounter in Srinagar's Rambagh has been identified as Mehran, a top TRF commander who was involved in the killing of two teachers and other civilians in the city. Identification of others is being ascertained,” Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The Resistance Front (TRF) is a terror group backed by the Lashkar-e-Taiba.In October, terrorists killed Supinder Kour, a resident of Alochi Bagh area and Deepak Chand, a resident of Jammu, at Sangam Eidgah. These attacks came as the Valley saw an uptick in the number of terrorist attacks on civilians and on non-local people, including a renowned pharmacy owner, a bhel puri seller and taxi stand worker in Srinagar.Security personnel earlier this week gunned down a district commander of terrorist outfit Hizbul Mujahideen in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. The police last week gunned down two top leaders of the TRF, including Shakir Najar, a top commander of the TRF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-slain-in-j-k-encounter-killed-two-teachers-civilians-in-october-101637766213932.html
24-11-2021||India||Congress MLAs urge Thackeray to commit ₹1 lakh ex gratia for Covid victims to force Centre pay its share||Maharashtra Congress Legislature Party on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to commit ₹1 lakh for families of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victims as per the norms of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) so that the central government is forced to announce its share of ₹3 lakh for each Covid death. The letter stated that the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) norms require 75% of ₹4 lakh to be paid by the central government and the remaining 25% by the state government.“We request that you commit to upholding the state government's share of ₹4 lakh as ex gratia payment so that it pressurizes the Central government to fulfil its commitment to the affected citizens,” the letter read.In September, the central government informed the Supreme Court after the repeated extension of the deadline that families of those who died of Covid-19 will receive an ex gratia of ₹ ₹50,000 from the SDRF. The compensation will be paid for future Covid-related deaths as well.Referring to the Centre’s submission to the Supreme Court, the Maharashtra CLP said the “meagre amount” is insufficient. It further stressed that the central government should implement its earlier order notified by the ministry of home affairs in March 2020 in which it “committed disbursement of ex gratia payment” of ₹4 lakh for each Covid-related fatality.The Maharashtra CLP criticised the Centre’s argument for not providing ₹4 lakh as compensation in which it had said that it would leave the government with insufficient capital to deal with Covid-19 itself.“We cannot understand how the Central government continues to collect taxes through rising fuel prices on one hand and provide discal reliefs to big corporates on the other hand and it continues to deny much-needed relief to the citizens,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mlas-urge-thackeray-to-commit-1-lakh-ex-gratia-for-covid-victims-to-force-centre-pay-its-share-101637764382578.html
24-11-2021||India||India scanning options on trade, investment with China to ensure security: Shringla||The government is carefully assessing all options to ensure that India’s trade and investment ties with China do not leave the country vulnerable in any way, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Wednesday against the backdrop of the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Normal ties in areas such as trade and technology are based on peace and tranquillity being maintained in the border areas, but the two sides have been unable to “conduct normal relations” since China adopted an “aggressive posture and attempted multiple transgressions” along the border in eastern Ladakh, Shringla said. “Trade continues, there are investment ties that continue but all of this has to be examined very carefully and the government is examining all these options very, very carefully to ensure that our integrity and security remain intact,” he said at an online interaction on the theme “Bharat@75: Empowering India” organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Shringla was responding to a question from the moderator for the event, who described China as India’s biggest foreign policy challenge and asked what could be done to address the issue. The foreign secretary said India will have to ensure it is not vulnerable in any way because of its economic and trade ties with China. “Last year...we saw that China maintained an aggressive posture and attempted multiple transgressions along our border in eastern Ladakh. That obviously was not conducive to peace and security, and as a result, we are not able to conduct normal relations,” he said. “Having said that, of course trade continues, import and export continues, China continues to be an economic partner. But obviously we need to today evaluate whether we are over-extended in terms of our supply chains, in terms of our investment tie-ups, in terms of the technology that we get,” he added. All these issues need to be carefully examined to see “that it is in keeping with our larger strategic and security interests and that obviously, as we move forward, our own economy grows, our own interactions grow”, he said. “We need to ensure that we are not vulnerable in any way. On the contrary, our growth and development can be faster and better ensured,” Shringla said. India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector since May last year and a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020 that killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops has taken relations to an all-time low. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said last week ties are passing through a “particularly bad patch” and China still hasn’t given a credible explanation for massing tens of thousands of troops on the LAC. The two sides pulled back frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Soon after the standoff began, India imposed a ban on more than 200 apps owned by some of the biggest Chinese internet firms and restricted foreign direct investment from China, especially in critical sectors such as telecommunications. Shringla pointed out that India had restarted ties with China in 1988 with the objective of allowing “normal business to be conducted without the border issue coming in the way of that relationship”. “In other words, we would have trade, commercial ties, scientific and technological ties, people-to-people contacts but we would isolate the border issues that would be discussed separately through the special representatives of both countries. But of course, that was predicated on peace and tranquillity being maintained in the border areas,” he said. The rapid rise of China, both as a military and an economic power, is an issue the world is grappling with, and India is in the process of protecting its own strategic and security interests, Shringla said. “We have had several rounds of talks with China. We have resolved some of the issues but there are still some outstanding issues and until we can resolve those issues, obviously we will not be in a normal relationship mode,” he added. At their latest round of diplomatic talks on the standoff on November 18, India and China agreed to hold the next discussions between senior military commanders at an early date but were unable to make headway on the bigger issues. The meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held against the backdrop of growing evidence of China building infrastructure and villages in disputed sections of the border with both India and Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scanning-options-on-trade-investment-with-china-to-ensure-security-shringla-101637762183907.html
24-11-2021||India||Cinema halls can’t sell movie tickets under new Andhra law, only govt can||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Wednesday passed a bill to make it mandatory for cinema halls to sell their movie tickets through a government-run online platform -- the first state in the country to take over sale of movie tickets to minimise tax evasion.The government has decided to introduce a seamless online movie booking system, on the lines of Indian Railways online ticketing system, minister for information and public relations Perni Venkatramaiah alias Nani told the assembly as he introduced the legislation on behalf of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The assembly later unanimously passed the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2021 by a voice vote. It will be introduced in the state’s legislative council for passage on Thursday before seeking the governor’s assent.The online booking system will be run by Andhra’s state film and theatre development corporation.Perni Venkatramaiah said the government will not allow theatres to screen more than four shows a day for any film. “All these days, the exhibitors have been screening the films for six or even seven shows a day to make big money. Besides, they are collecting ₹500 to ₹1,000 on each ticket in the name of benefit shows, caring a damn for the rules and regulations,” he said.The online ticketing system run by the government will end all such activities, the minister said. The exhibitors will only screen the films on the prescribed timings and ticket prices will be completely under government control.He added that there were instances where there was no connection between a theatre’s collections and the Goods and Services Tax accruing to the state government.“Now, they producers and distributors cannot avoid payment of taxes to the government. Since the portal is managed by the state-run corporation, payment would be made to the theatres through Reserve Bank of India gateway on a day-to-day basis,” the minister added.Perni Venkatramaiah also underlined that the government-controlled ticketing system will benefit moviegoers as well. People will be able to book tickets of for their choice at any theatre by making a phone call, surfing the Internet, by sending SMS etc.The minister said it will help people get tickets without standing in long queues. “The proposed online movie booking system reduces traffic problems and pollution and helps in checking black-marketing,” the minister said.Popular Telugu film producer DVV Danaiah, whose multi-crore budget film “RRR” directed by SS Rajamouli of “Bahubali” fame, is up for release shortly, said the film industry doesn’t have any objections on the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to take over online cinema ticketing system.“In fact, we welcome it, as it will lead to transparency in ticket sales. It will benefit both the industry as well as the government,” he said.Danayya, however, refused to comment on the government’s decision to control the number of shows to be screened in the theatres and restricting the number of the benefit shows.“We have to wait and see how the government is going to do that,” he said.Noted Telugu film critic Venkat Arikatla said the online ticketing system was going to be a complicated affair.“No doubt, it will definitely result in a transparency in the system and plug the holes in the revenue generation from films, but it is not so easy to operate the system,” he said.“The government says the portal will be operated and maintained by the AP Film and Theatre Development Corporation, but it requires huge investment, apart from technical manpower to run it. Instead, the government could have entered into a tie-up with already existing online cinema ticketing platforms line Bookmyshow.com by paying them certain fee,” Arikatla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinema-halls-can-t-sell-movie-tickets-under-new-andhra-law-only-govt-can-101637761163871.html
24-11-2021||India||Govt wants to ‘ban’ crypto because…: Congress leader's sarcastic explanation||Amid reports that the Centre might introduce a new bill that would bar many private cryptocurrencies, which triggered heavy selling in the country's digital currency markets, Congress leader and national spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi on Wednesday said the government has decided to ban it as it could not see some of its citizens making money through crypto trading. "After competently overseeing the rise of fuel, oils, fruits, vegetables and nearly all essentials, this government could not see some of its citizens making money through crypto trading. Therefore they are deciding to ban it," the Congress leader said in a sarcastic comment.
24-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Anupama reunited with her child||A Kerala court reunited Anupama S Chandran with her child on Wednesday setting an end to the adoption row. The DNA test result on Tuesday showed that Anupama is the biological mother of the child. Anupama walked out with the baby boy in her arms along with her partner Ajith surrounded by activists.Anupama alleged that her parents forcibly took away her child and gave it up for adoption as he did not approve of the inter-caste couple. She said that the police showed reluctance in filing a complaint against her father. The student leader ran pillar to post trying to get her child back, who was taken away from her when it was three days old. A family court last month put a stay on the adoption process and ordered the DNA test. The test was conducted at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB).Anupama, however, said that she will continue to fight against the officials who allegedly colluded with her parents, especially her father, who is a CPI(M) leader.The baby was in the custody of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) at the Nirmala Sishu Bhavan before being presented to the court. The court posted the matter for November 30 but the hearing was preponed as the government sought to reunite the mother with the child at the earliest.Anupama alleged that the government did not want to take action against her parents despite her going to several senior leaders. The police filed a complaint against her father, S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, for taking away her child and handing it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (SCCW)-run orphanage in Thiruvananthapuram in 2020.The foster parents from Andhra Pradesh who initially had the custody of the child will get top priority during the next round of adoption, officials of the CWC familiar with the developments told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-anupama-reunited-with-her-child-101637760298808.html
24-11-2021||India||Gautam Gambhir receives another threat mail hours after security tightened at his Delhi home||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir has allegedly received a second death threat from 'ISIS Kashmir', hours after he received the first threat from the terrorist group, following which the Delhi police enhanced the security outside his residence in Rajendra Nagar area.According to news agency ANI which quoted the Delhi police, Gambhir received the second death threat along with a video containing footage from outside his residence attached with it.The police have already tightened the security outside his residence and are currently investigating the matter.BJP MP & former Cricketer Gautam Gambhir has allegedly received a second death threat from 'ISIS Kashmir'. A video containing footage from outside his residence is also attached with the threat e-mail: Delhi PolicePeople familiar with the development said the former cricketer approached police on Wednesday morning regarding the threat mail from ‘ISIS Kashmir’.In a letter to the deputy police commissioner (central) Shweta Chauhan, the MP said he received a threat mail, which read, “We’re going to kill you and your family.” He also urged police to register a First Information Report on the matter apart from providing him enhanced security.Speaking to news agency PTI, deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said a complaint was received from Gaurav Arora, personal secretary to Gambhir, at Rajendra Nagar police station. "The complaint alleged that an unidentified person had sent an email on Tuesday on the email ID of Gautam Gambhir threatening to kill him and his family members," she said."On receiving the complaint, the district police increased (Gambhir’s) personal security as well as the security of his residence in Rajendra Nagar area. The police are currently enquiring into the source of the complaint," the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-gambhir-receives-another-threat-mail-hours-after-security-tightened-at-his-delhi-home-101637756546743.html
24-11-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee calls on PM Modi, demands withdrawal of BSF jurisdiction extension||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. After the meeting, the Trinamool Congress chief said that she took up a number of state-related issues with the prime minister, including the controversial extension of Border Security Forces (BSF) jurisdiction. She also spoke to the prime minister on the Tripura violence, Banerjee told the reporters.“I met Prime Minister Narendra Modi today over a number of state-related issues. We also spoke on the BSF's jurisdiction extension issue and demanded that this decision be withdrawn,” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.The West Bengal chief minister is on a four-day visit to New Delhi ahead of the Winter Session of the Parliament. During her visit, she met several politicians, including BJP's Subramanian Swamy who has been critical of the party leadership on various issues. She also inducted former Congress leaders Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar in an attempt to increase Trinamool's national footprint.On TMC's involvement in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Banerjee said that her party is ready to extend help to Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav if he needs it.“If Akhilesh needs our help, then we are ready to extend help,” she said as the SP chief is moving swiftly to stitch pre-poll alliances to make a comeback in the state.The Trinamool chief will be visiting Mumbai later this month where she will meet Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) head Sharad Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-meets-pm-modi-demands-withdrawal-of-bsf-jurisdiction-extension-101637756223985.html
24-11-2021||India||'Until Kangana is behind bars': Sikh body on legal battle over ‘Khalistani’ jibe||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday said they will fight the battle against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for her recent 'derogatory' remarks on Sikhs and farmers until the actor is put behind the bars. "We will fight this battle until she is put behind bars for spreading hatred against Farmers and Sikhs," he tweeted a day after registering an FIR against the actor.The complainant of this particular FIR was Amarjeet Singh Sandhu, a Mumbai-based businessman who was part of the delegation of the Sikh body that submitted the complaint on Monday. The actor has been booked under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code. We will fight this battle until she is put behind bars for spreading hatred against Farmers and Sikhs pic.twitter.com/cKi0zQZncgThe Bollywood actor is facing a volley of complaints against her for her recent comments on India's freedom movement where she said India attained real freedom in 2014 and what was given to the country in 1947 was 'bheek (alms). Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress was the latest to have filed a formal complaint against Kangana over her comment.While the storm over her 'bheek' comments which the actor has been defending unwaveringly is yet to die down, she stirred a fresh controversy while reacting to the announcement of the repeal of the farm laws. "Khalistani terrorists may be arm twisting the government today.... But let's not forget one woman.... The only woman prime minister ne inn ko apni jooti ke neeche crush kiya tha (the only woman PM who crushed them under her shoes)...... No matter how much suffering she caused to this nation... she crushed them like mosquitoes at the cost of her own life.... Lekin desh k tukde nahi hone diye...even after decades of her death... aaj bhi uske naam se kampte hain yeh.... Inko vaisa he guru chahiye... (they shiver from her name even today...they need such a guru," the actor wrote.The back-to-back complaints, however, failed to stop the actor from commenting. With a photo where she is seen in a sultry dress, holding a glass of wine, the actor wrote, "Another day another FIR... just in case they come to arrest me... mood at home."Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday said Kangana can't escape the ambit of law because of the Y plus security that the Centre provided her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/until-kangana-is-behind-bars-sikh-body-on-legal-battle-over-khalistani-jibe-101637755642018.html
24-11-2021||India||Burglars break into three Odisha temples, run away with gold ornaments and cash||Gold ornaments and cash worth more than ₹4 lakh were looted from three temples in Odisha’s coastal district of Balasore late on Tuesday night.Police said unidentified miscreants broke into Jagannath, Laxmi and Shiva temples in Baliapati village and carried out the burglaries. “On Wednesday morning, some devotees noticed the locks of the temples had been broken. The gold ornaments on the deities were missing and cash kept in the donation boxes was also missing. They then reported the matter to police,” said Prashant Jena, officer-in-charge of Singla police station. Jena said a case has been lodged over the three burglaries.Also Read: Odisha man says 63 chickens died due to ‘loud music’; complaint filedBurglaries at temples are not new in Odisha, with several instances reported across the state in the last couple of years.In June this year, the donation box of a temple located at the west gate of Jagannath temple in Puri was looted. In March, miscreants broke into a 14th century temple in Puri town and ran away with ₹4,000. In January, robbers broke into the 13th century Gopinathdev temple in Kakudia and stole metallic idols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burglars-break-into-three-odisha-temples-run-away-with-gold-ornaments-and-cash-101637753363654.html
24-11-2021||India||Andhra seeks ₹1,000 crore for immediate post-rain relief||The heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh last week damaged properties, infrastructure and standing crops and caused a loss of ₹6,054 crores, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said in a letter to the Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday. At least 40 people died and another 25 were still missing, Reddy added and requested the Centre to release ₹1,000 crore for immediate relief and restoration work.Reddy said Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore, Kurnool, Anantapur, Kadapa and Chittoor received an average rainfall of 11.1 cm. The normal rainfall for this time of the year is 3.2 cm between November 13 and 20, he added. “In a single day on November 19, the highest rainfall of 20 cm was recorded at Peddamandyam block in Chittoor district, followed by 19.3 cm in Galiveedu block of Kadapa district and 17.8 cm in Nallacheruvu block of Ananthapuram district,” wrote Reddy.Heavy rains lashed the temple town of Tirupati, Tirumala, Nellore, Madanapalli and Rajampet town and caused inundation of low-lying areas. As many as 17 national and state disaster relief force teams and two helicopters were deployed for search and rescue operations.“About 1,402 villages in 196 mandals and four towns were affected. ...324 relief camps accommodating about 69,616 have been arranged...” wrote Reddy. He added several highways, irrigation tanks, and canals got breached and damaged. Reddy wrote the Somasila reservoir in the Pennar basin received heavy inflows of over five lakh cusecs of water over 48 hours and inundated low-lying areas in Nellore and Kovvur.Also Read: Widespread and heavy rain likely over many parts of peninsular India“The Annamayya reservoir in Kadapa district got breached and thus a railway track between Nandaluru and Hastavaram was badly damaged causing traffic disruption on national highways. In the Nellore district, Swarnamukhi has been in the spate with heavy inflows and thus the road between Kovvur and Nellore town was submerged...”Reddy wrote farmers were the worst affected as the crops were ready for harvest. He said the loss to infrastructure was estimated at ₹6054.29 crores. He requested the Centre to depute the Inter-Ministerial Central Team at the earliest to assess the damage caused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-seeks-rs-1-000-crore-for-immediate-post-rain-relief-101637753063501.html
24-11-2021||India||Calcutta HC stays single bench order on CBI probe into school recruitment||A division bench of the Calcutta high court on Wednesday ordered a three-week stay on the single bench order that had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into alleged irregularities in the appointment of 25 group ‘D’ employees in schools run by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE). The CBI probe was ordered on Monday by Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay after he heard a petition filed by some unsuccessful applicants. The judge said that a CBI officer of the rank of deputy inspector general has to complete the preliminary probe and submit a report before the court by December 21. The West Bengal government moved the division bench of Justice Harish Tandon and Justice Rabindranath Samanta challenging the order. The division bench, while passing a stay on the CBI probe for three weeks, asked the WBBSE and the West Bengal School Service Commission (WBSSC) to submit all documents in a sealed cover to the registrar general of the Calcutta high court. The division bench said the matter will be heard again on November 29. The process to recruit around 13000 group ‘D’ staff began in 2016. The WBSSC interviewed the applicants and drew up a panel of prospective employees. The panel was valid till March 2019. The petitioners alleged that genuine applicants were deprived as ineligible people got jobs in state-run schools during the recruitment drive. They also alleged that the number of ineligible people recruited could be around 500 and many of them were inducted after the validity of the panel expired in 2019. During a hearing on November 18, the WBSSC told the single bench through an affidavit that the 50 recruitments under scanner were illegal as it did not clear these candidates or issue recommendation letters to them. The commission also sought an inquiry by a retired judge of the Calcutta high court, indirectly implying that ineligible people were recruited by the board of secondary education. The court asked the WBBSEE to file an affidavit. On Monday, Justice Gangopadhyay turned down the WBSSC’s suggestion to have an inquiry conducted by a retired judge or a panel of three retired judges of the Calcutta high court. In his order, Justice Gangopadhyay said, “CBI should also enquire a very important part of this serious illegality and irregularity as to whether there is any money trail in issuance of such recommendation letters and subsequent issuance of appointments letters.”While ordering a stay on the CBI probe, the division asked senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, who represented the petitioners, whether he would prefer an investigation by a retired judge of the court. Bhattacharya said the petitioners would want it. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of indulging in widespread corruption and depriving jobless youths of the state. After the division bench passed its order on Wednesday, the student and youth fronts of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), staged a massive demonstration outside the office of the WBSSC in Salt Lake demanding resignation of education minister Bratya Basu and top officials of the WBBSE and WBSSC. The youth activists blocked roads and broke through police barricades. Several of them were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-stays-single-bench-order-on-cbi-probe-into-school-recruitment-101637752763561.html
24-11-2021||India||Centre extends PMGKAY, beneficiaries to get free-of-cost foodgrains till March 2022||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for another four months as a part of the government’s economic response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. All beneficiaries covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) will continue to receive free-of-cost five kilograms of food grains per person every month till March 2022.Phase-I of the scheme was operational from April to June last year during the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. The scheme was further extended till November 2020 as the economy was still reeling in the aftermath of lockdowns and several virus-related curbs. The third phase of the scheme was operational from May to June 2021 during the devastating second Covid wave and was extended again till November.The government said that the fifth phase of the PMGKAY scheme would entail an estimated additional food subsidy of ₹ 53344.52 crore, with a total outgo of about 163 lakh metric tons. Taking to Twitter, Union minister of agriculture and farmers' welfare Narendra Singh Tomar said that the decision will benefit more than 80 crore people.“The Union government, led by Prime Minister, Shri @narendramodi ji, has expanded the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. With this important decision to extend the scheme from December 2021 to March 2022, more than 80 crore people of the country will continue to get free food grains every month,” Tomar said in a tweet in Hindi.प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में केंद्र सरकार ने प्रधानमंत्री गरीब कल्याण अन्न योजना का विस्तार किया।दिसम्बर 2021 से मार्च 2022 तक योजना को बढ़ाने के इस महत्वपूर्ण फैसले से देश के 80 करोड़ से अधिक लोगों को हर महीने मिलता रहेगा मुफ्त खाद्यान।#HarGharAnn pic.twitter.com/EIDAdX7EL1Under the PMGKAY scheme, the Centre has so far allocated a total of almost 600 lakh metric tons of food grains to the States and Union territories, which, the government said, is equivalent to about ₹2.07 Lakh Crore in food subsidy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-pmgkay-beneficiaries-to-get-free-of-cost-foodgrains-till-march-2022-101637750765784.html
24-11-2021||India||'Road as smooth as Katrina Kaif's cheeks,' says Rajasthan minister; people clap and laugh||New Rajasthan minister Rajendra Gudha visited his constituency for the first time after becoming a Cabinet minister in the latest expansion of Ashok Gehlot Cabinet. Confronted by the public over the issue of bad roads, the new minister promised roads as smooth as the cheeks of Bollywood actor Katrina Kaif. People listening to the minister clap and burst into laughter. Reports said the minister was addressing officers and first referred to Hema Malini, BJP MP. Then he reportedly commented that Hema Malini has become old now and then chose Katrina Kaif's cheeks instead to be the standard for roads.Watch video #WATCH | "Roads should be made like Katrina Kaif's cheeks", said Rajasthan Minister Rajendra Singh Gudha while addressing a public gathering in Jhunjhunu district (23.11) pic.twitter.com/87JfD5cJxVWhile such a sexist and controversial comment coming from a politician is nothing new, there have been exactly similar instances of politicians aspiring for roads as smooth as Hema Malini's cheeks. Years ago, Lalu Prasad Yadav had made a similar comment involving Hema Malini, which was emulated by a UP minister of Akhilesh Yadav Cabinet, Rajaram Pandey. Of later, in 2019, Congress leader PC Sharma invited criticism when he had said the Congress government will make Madhya Pradesh roads as smooth as Hema Malini's cheeks. Going a step further, Sharma said the condition of the roads at that time was like the cheeks of BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya.According to reports, Hema Malini too, in past, reacted to her cheeks being brought into political discourse so often. “It so happened that I was travelling from Patna to Nalanda for a show. The roads were so bad that I got delayed in reaching the venue. When I expressed my displeasure about the road conditions Laluji promised to make the roads as smooth as my cheeks. Why my cheeks? If politicians continue to bring in my cheeks as references to roads, my cheeks may soon begin to resemble those bumpy roads that are never smooth in spite of the promises," Hema Malini had commented earlier summarising what made Lalu comment on her cheeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-as-smooth-as-katrina-kaif-s-cheeks-says-rajasthan-minister-people-clap-and-laugh-101637751007455.html
24-11-2021||India||States, UTs still have over 210 million unutilised Covid vaccines: Centre||More than 210 million doses of balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccines are still available with the states and Union territories (UTs) to be administered to eligible beneficiaries, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Wednesday.“More than 1,310 million vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far through Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category,” a statement by the health ministry read.The central government kickstarted the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country on January 16, 2021. Initially, the vaccination was for healthcare and frontline workers, but was extended to various other beneficiaries over the next few months. Starting May 1, Covid-19 vaccination was made available to all adults aged 18 and above in the country and from June 21 onwards, the Centre launched a “new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination.”Also Read | Third dose of vaccine not needed in India yet: AIIMS chief on booster shots“In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs,” the health ministry statement added.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination surpassed 1,180 million as of Wednesday.Meanwhile, the country on Wednesday witnessed a major surge in the new fatalities with 437 people succumbing to the infection. The death toll now stands at 466,584. What can be deemed as concerning for Kerala is that of these 437 fatalities, the state accounted for 370 deaths.As far as fresh cases are concerned, with 9,283 new infections, India’s overall toll stands at 34,535,763. As many as 10,949 new recoveries have helped the total number of recovered patients in India to reach 33,957,698.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-still-have-over-210-million-unutilised-covid-vaccines-centre-101637749963909.html
24-11-2021||India||Court sets aside acquisition of Jayalalithaa’s house for memorial||The Madras high court on Wednesday set aside the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government’s acquisition of late former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s residence “Veda Nilayam” for converting it into a memorial. Justice N Seshasayee passed the order on writ petitions filed by Jayalalithaa’s niece and nephew, J Deepa and J Deepak, against the acquisition.The AIADMK government enacted legislation in 2020 establishing a foundation for the bungalow’s upkeep and turning it into a memorial. It maintained the property was acquired for ₹67.9 crore.Jayalalithaa lived in the house purchased in the 1960s until her death in December 2016.On January 27, in an interim order, the court allowed the government to proceed with the inauguration of the memorial but did not allow entry of the public until further hearings. The court observed that it was constrained to allow the opening so that it does not cause difficulties to the government, which has made arrangements for a function. It said the main gates of the house can be opened but not the building. The court also prevented the use of flex boards and banners. It directed once the function is over, the keys of the property have to be handed over to the court’s registrar general. The court later allowed the state to retain the keys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-sets-aside-acquisition-of-jayalalithaa-s-house-for-memorial-101637750723208.html
24-11-2021||India||Goa ropes in SBI for fresh auctions of mining leases before assembly polls||The Goa government has roped in State Bank of India to help it auction leases for “six to eight” mining blocksvia its newly created mineral development corporation, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Wednesday after a meeting of the state cabinet. Sawant said the auctions were likely to take place in December and besides the State Bank of India, the Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited (MECL) was helping in identifying the leases to be auctioned. “The cabinet has given approval to MECL for assessment of mineral ore for phase one of the auction. We are auctioning around six to eight blocks. ...they are exploring which blocks will be eventually selected. After that auctioning will be conducted by the State Bank of India,” Sawant told reporters.Iron Ore mining in Goa has remained suspended since March 16, 2018 after 88 mining leases renewed by the Goa government across 2014-15 were rendered defunct and cancelled by a Supreme Court order in February 2018. The mining industry was a major revenue and employment generator for the state and at its peak contributed close to 15% of the state’s GDP. The state is now eager to restart mining ahead of the upcoming assembly polls by holding fresh auction process (that includes obtaining fresh environmental clearances) as per the directions of the apex court after its several attempts to challenge or circumvent court order did not yield desired results.Also Read: PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Jewar airport as BJP sets tone for UP pollsSawant didn’t specify which leases will be auctioned and whether they were fresh or among those operational before the Supreme Court order in February 2018 invalidatedmining leases. “The MEPL has already started exploration of mining leases to deduce the quantum of below-surface mineral deposits. Our auctioning procedure will be completed before December 15. Auction will be carried out through the corporation (Goa Mineral Development Corporation), but we will take SBI on board too,” Sawant added.Goa government had earlier considered undoing the Supreme Court order through an act of Parliament but the idea was rejected by the Central government. Finally, when the state government’s review appeal was rejected by the top court earlier this year, CM Sawant announced the setting up of a mining corporation to restart mining. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-ropes-in-sbi-for-fresh-auctions-of-mining-leases-before-assembly-polls-101637750483234.html
24-11-2021||India||Centre has adopted ways to misuse power and harass states, alleges Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said that the BJP-led government at the Centre has adopted a policy of misusing power and troubling state governments from non-BJP ruled states. Maharashtra too has been facing the same issue, he said. The NCP chief alleged that the BJP government had set an example on how to misuse power before the country. He said that he would be meeting West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the next three-four days as she is likely to visit Mumbai soon.“It is not new for us (opposition parties). Around six to seven ministers from Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet were facing investigations by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The BJP-led central government has adopted a policy to trouble the governments of non-BJP ruled states and misuse power. The same is happening here in Maharashtra but there is no need to worry about it. Let them carry out all their probes; they will not get anything. However, they have set an example on how to misuse power before the country,” Pawar said attacking the Narendra Modi led BJP government. Opposition parties have been calling the investigations by central agencies such as Enforcement Directorate and CBI into various allegations of corruption as political vendetta. Pawar was responding to the allegations by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders that they were being targeted by the central investigation agencies.“I will be meeting Mamata Banerjee in the next three-four days as she is expected to visit Mumbai,” he added.Pawar said that the MVA government can be re-elected if all the three parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — decide to contest the polls together in 2024. “This (MVA) government will complete its tenure of five years and if all the three parties decide to contest the 2024 assembly polls together then it will again be re-elected,” he said.Commenting on the Prime Minister’s announcement that the Centre would repeal all the three contentious farm laws, Pawar said they would not have taken the decision if there were no assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other neighbouring states. “The ruling (BJP) leaders faced a different sort of welcome in recent days when they visited Haryana, some parts of UP and Punjab. This has become a cause for concern as assembly polls are scheduled in these states. The Central government would not have taken the decision if there were no assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states,” he reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-adopted-ways-to-misuse-power-and-harass-states-alleges-sharad-pawar-101637750183297.html
24-11-2021||India||Centre’s security cover can’t save her: Nawab Malik on FIR against Kangana over ‘Khalistanis’ remark||Slamming Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her ‘Khalistanis’ remark, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday said that the Y plus security provided to her by the Centre cannot keep her from the ambit of law.His statements refer to the First Information Report (FIR) filed against Kangana by the Sikh community for her “disrespectful, contemptuous and insulting” post on Instagram last week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three farm laws.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut replies to man demanding withdrawal of her Y-plus security cover, says it ‘is not given based on what you or I think’“The Sikh community has filed an FIR against Kangana Ranaut, which is very relevant as she is habitual of insulting the great leaders. No one is above law, the…security provided to her from the Centre cannot help her anyone,” Malik told news agency ANI.On Tuesday, the Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee (DGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Supreme Council Navi Mumbai Gurudwara Jaspalsingh Siddhu, and Amarjeet Singh Sandhu of Dadar’s Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara filed the FIR against Kangana.With Sangat’s support, DSGMC succeeds in getting FIR registered at Khar Police Station u/s 295A against Kangana Ranaut for her hateful content on social mediaThe day is not far when she will be behind the bars for misusing freedom of speech pic.twitter.com/Axa89WwfiyLast week, the actor took to Instagram to share a picture of the former prime minister of India Indira Gandhi and said that she “crushed Khalistanis like mosquitoes” even at the “cost of her life” while praising her for taking a “decisive action.”“The day is not far when she will be behind the bars for misusing freedom of speech,” Sirsa tweeted on Tuesday with a photo of the FIR issued against Kangana.Malik, who has been at loggerheads with the Mumbai zonal director of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Sameer Wankhede over the Aryan Khan drugs’ case, criticised Kangana earlier as well for her ‘India got real freedom in 2014’ remark.Demanding the return of her Padma Shri, Malik had said that it seems the actor is on a heavy dose of Malana cream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-security-cover-can-t-save-her-nawab-malik-on-fir-against-kangana-101637749270160.html
24-11-2021||India||International flights to return to normal by year end: Civil aviation secretary||International flights are expected to return to normal by the end of the year, India’s civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said on Wednesday. “Normalisation of international operations is expected to resume by the end of the calendar year,” Bansal said.All international passenger flights to and from India were suspended in March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Indians are currently flying under bilateral air bubble arrangements that allow passengers of two countries to fly with restrictions in place. India has air bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, Britain, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Minister of civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia last week said the ministry was evaluating the process of restarting international flights with passenger traffic returning towards normalcy. Also Read: Air India board members asked to resign ahead of takeover by Tata Sons: Sources“We want to resume international operations, but in a safe environment. Despite vaccinations [against Covid-19], countries such as Russia and parts of Europe are fighting the fourth wave of the pandemic. Hence, we cannot let our guard down,” Scindia had said last week. On the domestic front, passenger traffic for flights in February 2020 - which was during pre-pandemic times - was around 400,000 per day. Bansal said the country has already started seeing daily passenger traffic of nearly 400,000 for domestic flights. “The current daily domestic passengers are between 380,000 and 398,000. By April next year, we can say that we have arrived [at normal levels],” Bansal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-to-return-to-normal-by-year-end-civil-aviation-secretary-101637749763221.html
24-11-2021||India||Amitabh Bachchan sends legal notice to pan masala brand for featuring him in commercials despite contract termination||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan has sent a legal notice to pan masala brand Kamla Pasand as the company continues to air commercials featuring him despite termination of the contract.Big B had withdrawn from the advertising campaign of the pan masala brand on his 79th birthday in October; weeks after the national anti-tobacco organisation had reportedly requested him to refrain from endorsing pan masala as it could help prevent youngsters from getting addicted to tobacco.Sources from Big B's office have confirmed to ANI that a legal notice has been sent to Kamla Pasand by the veteran actor's team."Came to know from the office of Mr Bachchan, that legal notice has been sent to Kamla Pasand, to stop broadcasting the TV commercials with Bachchan immediately.. as it was noticed that despite termination of the endorsement agreement, Kamla Pasand has ignored the same and is seen to continue airing the TV commercials," the sources told.For the unversed, the 'Don' star himself revealed that he stepped down as the face of a paan masala brand, in a blog post shared on the occasion of his birthday.The statement shared on his blog, which said "From the office of Amitabh Bachchan", read, "Kamla Pasand ... a few days after the commercial was aired, Bachchan contacted the brand and stepped out of it last week.""Upon checking why this sudden move - it was revealed that when Bachchan became associated with the brand, he wasn't aware that it falls under surrogate advertising Bachchan has terminated the contract with the Brand, has written to them his termination and has returned the money received for the promotion," the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amitabh-bachchan-sends-legal-notice-to-pan-masala-brand-101637748474967.html
24-11-2021||India||'Deaths of 700 farmers could’ve been prevented had...': BJP leader slams Centre||Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government will repeal the three controversial farm laws, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Iqbal Singh criticised his own party's central leadership. Singh said that the deaths of 700 farmers could have been prevented had the farm laws been withdrawn by the Union government within a month since the farmers launched their agitation."Over 700 farmers would not have died if the three agricultural laws were withdrawn within 30 days of the farmers' agitation. This decision to repeal the laws is a sign of happiness on one hand and 'late latifi' (a late act) on the other," news agency PTI quoted Singh as telling reporters on Tuesday evening.Singh further demanded that the government pay a compensation of at least ₹50 lakh to the next of kin of farmers who lost their lives during the protest, alongside providing employment to a member of their families."In case the dependents of the deceased farmers are illiterate, the Centre should grant such families a monthly honorarium of ₹20,000," PTI further quoted him as saying.In case of a minor dependent, the government should bear their education expenses, the BJP leader suggested, adding that dependent widows of deceased farmers be paid a monthly pension of ₹25,000.Notably, this is not the first time the BJP leader spoke in favour of the farmers. Earlier, the leader urged the government to bring a law guaranteeing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers' produce. He also said that the farmers' agitation would not have taken place had the government consulted them before the laws were enacted.Singh, who is also an executive committee member of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, took a jibe at Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, calling her "manchali" (crazy) for her remarks on the country's Independence. Kangana Ranaut stoked a controversy recently after she said India's Independence in 1947 was "bheek" (alms) and that real freedom was attained in 2014."The government should invoke the National Security Act against her," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-of-700-farmers-could-ve-been-prevented-had-bjp-leader-slams-centre-101637747582116.html
24-11-2021||India||PM Modi's promise kept within 5 days: Anurag Thakur on Cabinet clearing rollback of farm laws||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said the Cabinet has completed the formality to repeal the three farm laws, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19. The Cabinet has also decided to extend the government's foodgrain scheme, introduced during the pandemic, till March 2022. "In the upcoming Winter Session, the priority will be to take up these bills," the minister said on farm laws. The process will commence from the very first day of the winter session of Parliament, the minister said adding that Prime Minister's promise on November 19 has been fulfilled within five days of the announcement. “Many journalists were saying that the issue was not even on today's agenda. But the cabinet has already initiated the process,” the Union minister said. Following a year-long agitation of the farmers against the three farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced that the government will take back the laws. Though the laws were introduced for the benefit of the farmers, the government failed to explain these benefits to them, the PM admitted.Wednesday's Cabinet meeting was the first following the announcement of PM Modi and it approved the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 to repeal the three laws.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 seeks to repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 has been listed for introduction and passage. It is among 26 new bills on the agenda of the government.The Prime Minister had also announced that the government will constitute a committee to work on a new framework for Minimum Support Price (MSP). As Anurag Thakur briefed about the Cabinet decisions, the Union minister did not divulge anything about the new committee and said everything will happen as the process mandates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-promise-kept-within-5-days-anurag-thakur-on-cabinet-clearing-rollback-101637746845589.html
24-11-2021||India||AAP's Sanjay Singh meets Akhilesh, hints at alliance with Samajwadi Party||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh’s Wednesday meeting with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has triggered fresh speculations of a possible alliance between the two parties ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh told news agency ANI that the two leaders held strategic discussions on common issues of Uttar Pradesh in a bid to get rid of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.While Singh didn’t give explicit confirmation on the alliance, he hinted that the two parties are heading towards the same. After an hour-long meeting with Akhilesh Yadav at the Lohia Trust office in Lucknow, the AAP leader said there has not been any discussion on the seat-sharing formula and they will provide information if there they arrive at any decision regarding the alliance.“I met Akhilesh Yadav. Strategic discussion took place on common issues to free Uttar Pradesh from BJP. If the talks regarding the alliance are decided then the information will be given. No talk about seats yet,” news agency ANI quoted Sanjay Singh as saying.UP polls: SP, RLD strike pact, discuss seat-sharing formulaSamajwadi Party is swiftly moving ahead to stitch an alliance with other smaller regional parties to make a comeback in the state after five years. On Tuesday, SP sealed an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) for the Assembly polls and also discussed a seat-sharing formula, according to people familiar with the development.While neither Akhilesh Yadav nor RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary gave any official confirmation, both tweeted photographs of them together with captions indicating they were moving ahead for an alliance.“Towards the change with Shri Jayant Chaudhary,” Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi. “Badhtey kadam (taking steps forward),” wrote Jayant.RLD national secretary and spokesperson Anil Dubey later said that the alliance is likely to be declared formally within a day or two.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-sanjay-singh-meets-akhilesh-yadav-hints-at-alliance-with-samajwadi-party-101637745917101.html
24-11-2021||India||Regular international flights to resume by 2021-end: Govt||The civil aviation ministry on Wednesday said that India will resume regular international flights, which have remained suspended owing to the Covid pandemic, towards the end of the year. The government has been allowing commercial international flights on a case-to-case basis.Recently, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said the government is keen to resume normal international travel operations and is evaluating the process. “We are evaluating the process. We are coming back to normalcy. First, we allowed 100% passenger capacity in our domestic flights and now we allowed in-flight meals in those flights," Scindia said at the Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII’s) Global Economy Policy Summit.The announcement comes as a major relief to the aviation industry as well as the tourism industry both of which have seen major losses due to Covid-19 and still continue to face challenges as infections continue to rise rapidly in some parts of the world. The recent rise of cases in Europe will also adversely affect the tourism industry as governments impose restrictions.Earlier, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) extended the ban on scheduled international commercial passenger flights until November 30 allowing only international scheduled flights on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis and allowing cargo flights.Experts still feel that India’s aviation industry is not yet out of the woods as tourism is yet to regain its pre-pandemic levels. Air Vistara earlier this month said the prolonged suspension of scheduled international flights to and from India is hurting the financial prospects of most airlines.“A prolonged suspension of scheduled international operations is definitely impacting the financial health of most airlines, thereby adding to the pressure (on the revenue),” Vistara CEO-designate Vinod Kannan was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He said the situation is still unpredictable and dynamic.Following the fall in the number of cases, domestic passenger traffic has risen and airports across India’s major cities also saw a rise in footfall. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a four-fold growth in passenger traffic in August. Civil aviation secretary Rajeev Bansal says that the government is expecting domestic passenger traffic to go back to pre-Covid levels starting April 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regular-international-flights-to-resume-by-2021-end-govt-101637745804531.html
24-11-2021||India||Release correct data on Covid deaths, give ₹4 lakh as compensation: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked the government to release correct figures of Covid-related deaths and provide ₹4 lakh compensation to the families, who lost their loved ones to the pandemic. He tweeted saying if there is a government, the suffering of people should be removed and compensation should be given.Gandhi also tweeted a video attacking the “Gujarat model”, which the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has projected as the benchmark for other states. “When you had to help them in hospitals, you were not there, and when they lost ₹10-15 lakh in hospitals and also their family members, you were still not there to provide compensation. What type of government is this?” he asked.Also Read: Third dose of vaccine not needed in India yet: AIIMS chief on booster shotsBJP spokesman Tom Vadakkan said the government has done everything possible for Covid-19 patients. “...whether state or central initiatives, compensations have been announced. The Centre has done more than any other government could have possibly imagined,” Vadakkan said. “Now that Congress’s farmers protest narrative is over, he (Gandhi) is trying to create more narratives such as this to help him attract his target audience.”The Centre in September announced ₹50,000 compensation for the kin of those who died from Covid-19. Congress at that time demanded that ₹5 lakh should be given and called the ₹50,000 compensation a joke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-correct-data-on-covid-deaths-give-4-lakh-as-compensation-rahul-gandhi-101637745142957.html
24-11-2021||India||Stalin signs MoUs with 59 companies with investment potential of ₹35,000 cr||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday signed multiple Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with 59 companies at an investors’ conclave in Coimbatore with the potential to generate investments worth ₹35,208 crore and employment for over 70 thousand people in the state, as per an estimate by the state government.The pacts include one with Adani Enterprises for a data centre in Chennai and Shell India markets for retail outlets and tank farms. The deals also include seven MoUs signed in the aerospace and defence sector with an estimated investment potential of ₹485 crores and employment to 1,960 people, the government said.Stalin also laid the foundation stone for 13 projects and launched 10 projects with an investment commitment of ₹13,413 crores and ₹3,928 crores; and with the employment potential of over 11,000 and nearly 4,000 people respectively. These projects are coming up in 22 districts including Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Thiruvallur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Salem, Trichy, Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari. The chief minister also released Financial Technology policy 2021 for the state to develop into a global financial hub and to augment investment in the sector. The policy envisages a FinTech City in Chennai and Neo - TIDEL Parks in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities across the state. TIDEL Park Ltd, is a joint venture of TIDCO and ELCOT, who set up one of the largest Information Technology parks in Asia in Chennai in 2000.Also Read: PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Jewar airport as BJP sets tone for UP pollsThis is the third such industrial conference since the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) formed the government in May. Speaking at the conference, Stalin said that Tamil Nadu was on the right path to become a trillion-dollar economy as per the target he set in the first industrial conference in July after becoming the chief minister. “Everyone is confident [that] we can achieve the goal of becoming a one trillion-dollar economy,” Stalin said. A day ago, Stalin launched a few projects in Coimbatore calling it an industrial city with a focus on exports and added that his government wanted to make it one of the best major industrial destinations in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-signs-mous-with-59-companies-with-investment-potential-of-rs-35-000-cr-101637744242771.html
24-11-2021||India||'Scared of an Italian': BJP on Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah 'leaked' conversation over Sardar Patel's photo||A purported video of a conversation between Karnataka former chief minister Siddaramaiah and state Congress chief DK Shivakumar has gone viral on social media as Siddramaiah seems to persuade Shivakumar to get a portrait of Sardar Vallabhai Patel, the first deputy prime minister of India, on his birth anniversary, which was on October 31. The conversation took place at an event to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. As it seems from the conversation, Shivakumar said though Indira Gandhi's death anniversary and Sardar Patel's birth anniversary fall on the same day, the Congress never puts up a portrait of Patel. As Siddaramaiah cautions that this will become a controversial and an advantage point for the BJP, Shivakumar orders a staff to get a photo of Sardar Patel. If anyone had doubt how much the Nehru Dynasty hated Sardar Patel, this video clears it.CONgress leaders @siddaramaiah & @DKShivakumar agree to place photo of Sardar Patel along with that of Indira Gandhi fearing BJP.It is a shame that Slaves are so much scared of an Italian. pic.twitter.com/ZiO3pUegGuCong leaders caught on tape ‘linking Shivakumar to graft’Sharing the video, in which the two Congress leaders can be seen engaged in a conversation over Sardar Patel's photo being missing, BJP leader CT Ravi wrote, "If anyone had doubt how much the Nehru Dynasty hated Sardar Patel, this video clears it. Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar agree to place photo of Sardar Patel along with that of Indira Gandhi fearing BJP. It is a shame that Slaves are so much scared of an Italian." The authenticity of the purported video has not been independently verified by HT.What is the conversation about? As reported by news agency ANI, Siddaramaiah raises the point that there is no photo of Sardar Patel. He also says that the BJP will criticise this and "will take advantage" if Sardar Patel's photograph is not put up."We never keep Patel's picture on the day," Shivakumar says. However, Sardar Patel's photo is put up on Shivakumar's instruction.This is not the first time that a video faux pas has taken place in Karnataka Congress. In October, two Karnataka Congress leaders were caught on tape purportedly linking Shivakumar to allegations of corruption, being unaware that the microphones were on and they were audible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scared-of-an-italian-bjp-on-shivakumar-siddaramaiah-leaked-conversation-over-sardar-patel-s-photo-101637743428084.html
24-11-2021||India||Centre should speak to farmers if it brings back farm laws: Adhir Chowdhury||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Wednesday that the Centre should hold a discussion with farmers before it brings back the farm laws or introduces them in a new format.Speaking to news agency ANI, Chowdhury said that the laws were withdrawn without discussing with the farmers, and added that the cultivators will feel dejected if they are brought back again. “If the Centre brings back the laws or introduces them in a new format, they should speak to the farmers,” the Congress leader further said.Also Read| Union Cabinet approves bill to repeal three contentious farm lawsThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to withdraw the farm laws, which triggered nationwide protests across the country since November last year.The laws that will be repealed are Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.किसानों से बिना चर्चा किए 3 कृषि क़ानून वापस लिए गए लेकिन ये बिल दोबारा लाए जाएंगे तो किसान दोबारा से नाखुश होंगे। सरकार अगर बिल वापस करती है या नए तरीके से बिलों को वापस लाती है तो किसानों से वार्ता के बाद ही कोई निर्णय लें: कांग्रेस नेता अधीर रंजन चौधरी pic.twitter.com/eMgtgoOxD5The cabinet's approval comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that the laws will be scrapped, adding that the constitutional process to remove them will be completed during the winter session of Parliament. PM Modi also said that the Centre will form a committee to work on a new framework for Minimum Support Price (MSP).Also Read| 60 tractors, 1,000 people will head to Parliament on Nov 29: Rakesh TikaitThe repeal bill is expected to be taken up during the winer session of Parliament.On November 19, Prime Minister Modi also said that the Centre will form a committee to work on a new framework for Minimum Support Price (MSP).The protesting farmers have been demanding a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce along with rollback of Power Bill 2020 and Air Quality Ordinance. They have said that the agitation will continue till these three demands are met by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-speak-to-farmers-if-it-brings-back-farm-laws-adhir-chowdhury-101637739925235.html
24-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet approves bill to repeal three contentious farm laws||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 –  a draft legislation to repeal the three controversial farm laws which triggered extensive protests around the borders of the national capital for nearly a year. According to those familiar with the development, the official brief for the Cabinet meeting will be provided by Union minister Anurag Thakur at the National Media Centre in New Delhi later on in the day.The official nod to the proposal to withdraw the farm laws, which were passed by Parliament in September last year, comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to scrap the contentious pieces of legislation. In a televised address on Gurpurab, the Prime Minister had said that his government will be repealing the agriculture laws; he had also personally apologised to the people of the country and acknowledged that there was a “deficiency” in attempts to convince the farmers.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, will now be introduced in the Lok Sabha for passage in the upcoming winter session of Parliament beginning on November 29. The agriculture ministry is deliberating on the exact dates to discuss the three laws in the forthcoming Parliament session, informed Union minister Prahlad Joshi a day ago.The bill – which has been listed for introduction and passage among the 26 new bills on the agenda of the government – seeks to repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act provides for setting up a mechanism allowing the farmers to sell their farm produce outside the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Any license-holder trader can buy the produce from the farmers at mutually agreed prices. This trade of farm produces will be free of mandi tax imposed by the state governments.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act allows farmers to do contract farming and market their produces freely.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act is an amendment to the existing Essential Commodities Act.The repeal of these three legislations has been one of the key demands of around 40 farmer unions protesting against these reforms for nearly a year now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-approves-bill-to-repeal-three-contentious-farm-laws-101637741446277.html
24-11-2021||India||CBI files fresh charge sheet in naval leak case, say sources||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a fresh charge sheet in the naval leak case against two serving and two retired officials of the Indian Navy, people familiar with the development said.Those named in the latest charge sheet filed on Saturday, the third in the case so far, include serving Commanders Jagdish, Ajit Pandey, retired Commander SJ Singh and retired Commodore Randeep Singh. They are accused of leaking confidential information related to submarines project of the Navy, people cited above said.Earlier this month, two charge sheets were filed in the case against six accused.Also Read: HC seeks Centre’s response on PIL against Indian Navy recruitment processRandeep Singh and SJ Singh were arrested on September 3 when the alleged espionage racket came to the light. The agency said it recovered ₹2 crore cash from Randeep Singh. It was initially alleged that confidential information about the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo-class submarines was leaked by the accused. However, the CBI probe found that information related to at least three more projects may have been compromised.The CBI probe found retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”.The agency has questioned several persons in the case and further investigation into the leak of information on other projects is going on.Officials, who did not want to be named, said all accused persons were granted bail last week by a court in Delhi.The CBI has approached the Centre for its approval for invoking stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) against the accused as the probe has found that classified information was leaked. The OSA provides for imprisonment of up to 14 years, where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military or air force establishment or station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-charge-sheet-in-naval-leak-case-say-sources-101637741002562.html
24-11-2021||India||PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Jewar airport in Noida as BJP sets tone for UP polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of Noida International Airport (NIA) in Gautam Buddha Nagar's Jewar on Thursday. According to Uttar Pradesh government, the ceremony will take place at 1pm.The airport is being developed by Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), a 100 per cent subsidiary of the project's Swiss concessionaire Zurich International Airport AG. The airport is being developed under the PPP model in close partnership with the government of Uttar Pradesh and the government of India.The UP government has touted the airport to be the logistics gateway for North India. Owing to its scale and capacity, the Noida International Airport will prove to be a game-changer for the state, the government said.It is among the significant promises made by the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, which is eyeing a return to power in Uttar Pradesh in next year's assembly elections. The chief minister announced on Tuesday that it will be completed by 2024 - before the next General Elections are held."We are going to lay the foundation stone for this project that will benefit entire UP, particularly Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hapur and other adjoining areas," he said on Tuesday. The chief minister is personally monitoring the arrangements for PM Modi's visit.“Noida international airport will be completed as per the scheduled deadline of 2024 and create huge employment opportunities in the state, thereby changing the business dynamics of this region,” he added.The airport is spread over more than 1300 hectares of land, and the completed first phase of the airport will have a capacity to serve around 1.2 crore passengers a year.Though the elections will be held in five states next year, Uttar Pradesh is being considered as politically most significant for the BJP. The poll schedule is likely to be announced by the Election Commission in January.The ministers of the Narendra Modi government are regularly visiting the state and interacting with the people through the foundation stone laying ceremonies and inauguration of various projects.Earlier this month, PM Modi visited Sultanpur where he inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway. Later, he visited Mahoba and Jhansi for the event. He also participated in the DGPs' conference in Lucknow.The BJP has already appointed the election in-charge and election co-in-charge. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Anurag Thakur, and four other members have been assigned the responsibilities. Arjun Ram Meghwal, Shobha Karandlaje, Annapurna Devi, and party General Secretary Saroj Pandey, former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu, and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Thakur have been made co-incharge.The BJP is facing challenge from the opposition parties, especially the Samajwadi Party (SP), which claims the Adityanath government is taking credit for schemes launched by the previous dispensations.A former minister in the previous SP government, Abhishek Mishra has said that the BJP has known that they are not going to form the government in the elections. He further claimed that his party will form the government with the full majority.In fact, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that his party will win 400 of the 403 seats in UP Assembly.The leaders of Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) claim that its voters are silent and will show the magic during voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-perform-bhoomi-pujan-of-jewar-airport-as-bjp-sets-tone-for-up-polls-101637739738711.html
24-11-2021||India||'We will not close this matter': Supreme Court to Centre on Delhi air pollution||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the Centre regarding the air pollution levels in the national capital and said it will not close the air pollution case and give final orders. “The problem is that there are a lot of expectations that the court is doing and the government is not doing anything,” the top court said, adding that due to the seriousness of the issue it will continue to hear this matter.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Justices DY Chandrachud, and Surya Kant suggested that the government relies upon a statistical-based model on wind patterns to take advance measures to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR before the situation deteriorates further.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, activist Aditya Dubey, told the Supreme Court that as per a media report this year due to elections in Punjab, fines were not being imposed to please farmers.The bench replied saying it is not concerned about elections. "We can’t micromanage what each state is doing. You said the situation will improve. Please tell us what steps you have taken," the Supreme Court asserted.The apex court also asked Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments about any study to show how much stubble has been removed from these states and what emission control methods have been adopted.The Supreme Court will hear the case next on November 29.“In the meantime, if the pollution level becomes 100, then some restrictions can be lifted,” it said.Delhi's air quality slipped into the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday morning once again, after improving marginally, as low temperatures and slow surface winds allowed accumulation of pollutants. The capital city's air quality index (AQI) read 357 at 9am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-not-close-this-matter-supreme-court-to-centre-on-delhi-air-pollution-101637739110815.html
24-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: Voting on remaining 222 seats on Thursday||Elections for more than 200 seats in the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and other municipal bodies will be held on Thursday. Voters will decide the fate of 785 candidates as they will exercise their franchise amidst tight security arrangements in Tripura.Earlier this month, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 112 out of the total 334 seats uncontested across 20 urban local bodies, including the AMC.Elections on Thursday are for the remaining 222 seats. The last day for campaigning was on Tuesday and the counting will take place on November 28.The civic polls were earlier scheduled to be held in December last year but got postponed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also Read| Tripura: SC refuses to delay municipal polls, asks for report on unrestA total of 644 polling stations have been set up for Thursday's elections. Of these, 370 have been identified as ‘ A’ category and the rest 274 as ‘B’ category.Four Tripura State Rifles and armed police personnel each would be deployed in ‘A’ and ‘B’ category polling stations, Hindustan Times earlier reported.Apart from the above, two sections of the Central Reserve Police Force ( CRPF) had been deployed at strong room and government press.The top contenders for the remaining seats are the BJP, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress party.Earlier, the TMC released its manifesto for the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), making nine major promises aimed to improve the standard of living in the city.TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said on November 16 that if his party is voted to power in the AMC, it will ensure residents receive better amenities, better markets equipped with fire and disaster management facilities, tax rebates, etc.In the run-up to Thursday's elections, clashes have been reported in Tripura between the BJP and opposition parties for the last week.On November 19, clashes broke out between the BJP and the TMC, injuring 19 people including two police personnel. Four people were arrested in connection with the incident and have been sent to judicial custody till November 30.Also Read| A day after arrest in Tripura, TMC leader Saayoni Ghosh released on bailWhile on November 21, TMC leader Saayoni Ghosh was arrested on charges of attempt to murder after she allegedly disrupted a meeting of Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb by shouting “Khela hobe” (We will play) on November 20.Ghosh, the actor turned politician, was granted bail by a local court in Tripura on Monday.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Tuesday declined the plea of the TMC to postpone Thursday's elections in Tripura and ordered the Police to increase the security arrangements for conducting free and fair polls and the declaration of results.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-voting-on-remaining-222-seats-on-thursday-101637732107913.html
24-11-2021||India||Action ordered against ‘conversion’ of tribals in Madhya Pradesh’s Jhabua||Authorities in Madhya Pradesh’s Jhabua district have directed action against the alleged conversion of tribals to Christianity at prayer meetings without permission from the administration after Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) demanded a ban on such gatherings.This comes even as Christian organisations have accused the administration of supporting VHP, harassing the community and forcing many of them to cancel Sunday prayer meetings for a month now under pressure from groups allied with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).In an order, sub-divisional magistrate Anil Bhana cited demand number two of VHP functionary Kamal Maharaj’s memorandum and added there is a complete ban on “mass conversion” of tribals to Christianity without permission of the district magistrate in the scheduled area. “...so if any such event takes place under your jurisdiction, then take necessary action immediately,” he said. Maharaj submitted the memorandum to the district collector over a week back.VHP, an affiliate of BJP’s ideological fountainhead Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, has been campaigning in Jhabua against the alleged “illegal conversion” of tribals.Maharaj said earlier they did not have any way to check the “illegal conversion.” He added after the anti-conversion law was passed this year in Madhya Pradesh, they were confident of a ban on them. “We are holding a campaign and also seeking the support of district administration to stop the illegal conversion.”Madhya Pradesh is among the BJP-ruled states that have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target minorities.Also Read: Court says oral sex not ‘aggravated sexual assault’, cuts jail term of accusedBhana maintained his order is just a reminder of the rules and it has nothing to do with VHP.Father Maria Stephen, the public relations officer of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Bhopal, accused the administration and VHP of harassing members of the Christian community. “For the past one month, many have cancelled Sunday prayer meets as the members of the saffron organisation (VHP) are creating a ruckus by levelling false charges of conversion,” he said. “Our members are facing atrocities but instead of providing protection, the administration is supporting the organisation.”Jhabua district collector Somesh Mishra said the order has been issued against illegal conversion as per the anti-conversion law. “There is no ban on organising prayer meetings. If someone has any issue or members of the Christian community are feeling unsafe, they can file a complaint. As of now, we have not received any complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-ordered-against-conversion-of-tribals-in-mp-christian-groups-allege-harassment-101637739142375.html
24-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: States with high case positivity asked to ramp up testing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Health min asks states with increasing case positivity to ramp up Covid testingThe Union health ministry has cited a decline in weekly Covid-19 testing rates and directed 11 states and two Union territories to increase tests to avoid missing infections. Read moreMamata Banerjee to meet PM Modi at 5pm today, here's what's on agendaTrinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is currently in Delhi, will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 5pm on Wednesday. Read moreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan says ‘sorry miss’ as contestant scolds him, applauds her for recreating Bhoothnath sceneAmitabh Bachchan is getting to meet all kinds of school children in the Students Special Week on his quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. Read more1st Test Preview: All eyes on Ajinkya Rahane as "second string" India take on gutsy New ZealandA captain battling existential crisis, a veteran pacer about to be phased out and a white-ball maverick trying to earn his red-ball stripes makes for a heady combination as Ajinkya Rahane's second-string India aim to size up a gritty New Zealand in first Test starting Thursday. Read moreSania Mirza shares how she is giving her legs ‘a bit of a break’ in interesting postIf you follow the official Instagram page of Sania Mirza, then you may be aware of the various kinds of posts she often shares. Read moreAlia Bhatt's red floral saree for an ad with Ranbir Kapoor costs ₹27k, brides-to-be take notesActor Alia Bhatt's taste in ethnic fashion has created quite the buzz online in the last week. The star attended her best friend Akansha Ranjan's sister Anushka Ranjan's wedding wearing gorgeous lehengas, sarees, and coordinated bralette-sharara sets by Manish Malhotra. Read moreSuzuki unveils 2022 Katana motorcycle at EICMA 2022Suzuki has unveiled the new 2022 Katana motorcycle during the ongoing 78th International Motorcycle and Accessories Exhibition (EICMA). Read moreUS embarrasses China, excludes it from 'democracy summit'; Taiwan, India invitedUS President Joe Biden invited around 110 countries to a virtual summit on democracy in December excluding China. Major Western allies and Iraq, India & Pakistan have been invited to the virtual summit. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-states-with-high-case-positivity-asked-to-ramp-up-testing-and-all-the-latest-news-101637734717531.html
24-11-2021||India||Four get 5 yr jail term 18 yrs after lynching youth in Assam||18 years after a youth in Assam was lynched in Cachar district, a local court on Wednesday sentenced four accused to five years of rigorous imprisonment. On March 2, 2003, a youth named Dipak Deb was assaulted with wooden clubs and sharp objects at Bhuvan Hill in Cachar district after he intervened in a brawl between two groups at Pani Chawki while returning from Bhuban mela at Sonai. Badly injured, he was first rushed to Silchar Medical College and Hospital, which referred him to a Guwahati hospital, where he died a day later. His family filed a police complaint on March 4, 2003. Additional sessions judge, Cachar, AJ Borah in his order passed on November 22 noted that thepolice visited the crime spot and spoke to witnesses before arresting the accused, who were put through identification parade before a charge-sheet was filed against four accused,namely, Ajoy Das, Satya Ranjan Das, Anup Das and Subhash Das. Also Read | Mamata Banerjee to meet PM Modi at 5pm today, here’s what’s on agendaThe four convicts have also been ordered to pay a fine of ₹3,000 each, failing which their jail stay will be extended by three months.“Convicts Ajoy Das, Satya Ranjan Das, Anup Das (aka Anu Das) and Subhash Das are remanded to Central Jail, Cachar, Silchar to serve out the sentence. Convicts are entitled to the benefit of Section 428 CrPc for the period already undergone,” AJ Borah ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-get-5-yrs-jail-term-18-yrs-after-lynching-youth-in-assam-101637738122219.html
24-11-2021||India||Third dose of vaccine not needed in India yet: AIIMS chief on booster shots||Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi, said on Tuesday said that no booster dose for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is required in the country right now. Hailing the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive against the infectious disease, Guleria also acknowledged how India has come a long way in vaccine manufacturing – from importing shots to now taking the lead in exporting doses to other countries.“There is no surge of Covid-19 cases as of now,” the ANI news agency quoted Guleria, who was speaking at a book launch event. “So, there is no need for a booster dose in India for now.”The book, titled ‘Going Viral’, has been authored by Professor Balram Bhargava, and it captures the first-hand experiences of scientists who developed Covaxin, India's first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine.Guleria, who was present at the book launch event as a special guest, said, “When H1N1 had hit India, vaccines were imported from foreign countries. From importing vaccines to manufacturing our own indigenous vaccine, we have come a long way. Today, our Covid-19 vaccines are being exported to other countries.” VK Paul, a member of NITI Aayog also present at the book launch event, added that a decision on the ‘third dose' (booster shot), if necessary, will be decided based on science and studies are currently ongoing on this matter.“There are studies being done,” he was quoted as saying. “We are going through the data and research work is in progress.”One should understand, for many countries, booster doses are provided when the country vaccinates citizens with both doses to their fullest. First, let us focus on finishing the task of vaccinating people with both doses. I believe that booster doses should be administered when the studies based on science say so," he added.Speaking on the current situation of Covid-19 in the country, Paul warned that the pandemic is not over yet and will not likely be over in the near future. “It might become an endemic instead of a pandemic, or could be a pandemic in a pandemic,” he said. “The virus might take a different shape but India is ready to deal with the situation. We are in a better situation now.” (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-dose-of-vaccine-not-needed-in-india-yet-aiims-chief-on-booster-shots-101637732796195.html
24-11-2021||India||Karnataka Legislative Council poll: Congress candidate Yusuf Sharif declares assets worth ₹1,743 cr||The upcoming Karnataka Vidhan Parishad election has turning out to be the battle of billionaires. And it is led by Congress candidate Yusuf Sharif, who has declared assets worth ₹1,743 crore before the state election commission on Tuesday.The 54-year-old is the owner of Umrah Developers and is known to flaunt his wealth.He used to work as a scarp dealer, and rose to riches in the years that followed. Sharif owns two Rolls Royce cars. His name recently came to limelight after one of his cars was seized over suspicion that taxes were not paid.One of the Rolls Royce cars was bought from actor Amitabh Bachchan.Known as 'Gujari Babu' or 'Scrap Babu', Sharif has faced cheating cases in the past.The Congress on Monday announced the names of 20 candidates for the biennial elections.The election to 25 Legislative Council seats will be held on December 10, according to schedule announced by the Election Commission earlier this month. Their term is ending on January 5, 2022. The results will be declared on December 14.The polling body said that legislative council polls will also be held in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra on the same date.The model code of conduct came into effect in the constituencies concerned immediately after the announcement by the poll panel.The last date for withdrawal of candidature is November 26.The chief secretaries of all the states where elections are scheduled to be held have also been directed to depute a senior officer to ensure that the extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections, the election commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-legislative-council-poll-cong-candidate-has-assets-worth-rs-1-743-cr-101637737308821.html
24-11-2021||India||Court says oral sex not ‘aggravated sexual assault’, cuts jail term of accused||In judgement that is likely to raise eyebrows, the Allahabad high court has reduced the jail term of an accused from 10 to seven years, citing that oral sex with a minor does not fall under the category of “aggravated sexual assault” under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.According to the order passed by the high court, the accused performed oral sex on the minor victim and such an offence is not punishable either under Section 5/6 or Section 9(M) of the POCSO Act. The order added the offence falls under the category of “penetrative sexual assault” and is punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act.
24-11-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to meet PM Modi at 5pm today, here's what's on agenda||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is currently in Delhi, will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 5pm on Wednesday. Before that, she will meet Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Subramanian Swamy; the meeting is at 3.30pm.This is Banerjee’s second visit to the national capital following her party’s thumping victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections 2021 and helped her become the chief minister of the eastern state for the third time in a row. It is also her first visit to Delhi after she swept the Bhabanipur bypolls held on September 30 defeating closest rival BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal to retain her chief ministerial position.Her trip to the capital comes at a time when the Bengal CM is at a political high with a string of political leaders from various parties, including Congress and BJP, have joined the TMC. Most of the induction happened in Bengal wherein many prominent saffron party leaders, including former national vice-president Mukul Roy and Union cabinet minister Babul Supriyo joined the TMC camp. Furthermore, the TMC also made a landslide victory in the recently concluded bypolls by wresting control in Dinhata and Santipur constituencies that were earlier won by the BJP, and retained the other two in Khardaha and Gosaba. With this, the saffron party’s strength in the West Bengal Assembly went down to 70 from its original 77, while Banerjee’s camp rose to 217 from 215.Banerjee has lately been ramping up efforts to strengthen her party’s presence in Tripura and Goa – both poll-bound states.The Bengal CM’s visit to Delhi is seen as her continued efforts to assemble the Opposition to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.However, what remains to be noted regarding the meeting between PM Modi and Banerjee is their discussion about the Border Security Force (BSF) jurisdiction issue, which has heated up the tension between Bengal’s ruling party and the Centre.Also Read | No meeting between Sonia, Mamata amid tension between Congress and TMCPrior to her visit to Delhi, Banerjee on Monday told media persons that the issue will comprise the discussions between her and PM Modi. “I…have an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi…regarding the BSF issue and other development issues of Bengal,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The West Bengal legislative assembly on November 16 passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF jurisdiction from 15km to 50km on the international border of the state. It became the second border state after Punjab to pass such a resolution.The central government-led by the BJP amended the BSF Act to increase the central force’s jurisdiction to 50km in West Bengal, Punjab and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-meet-pm-modi-at-5pm-today-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101637735395411.html
24-11-2021||India||HTLS 2021: Order or disorder in new world?||It has been said that two dangers constantly threaten the world order: order and disorder. We are at the cusp of rapid global transformation. The new world order will not be an act of choice, but an inevitable fait accompli.Consider four dominant transformational changes: The pandemic; the multiple dimensions of the climate crisis; far reaching technological challenges; and geopolitical conflicts that threaten the whole world. While the first three are not acts of choice but inevitable consequences of both anthropogenic behaviours and technological breakthroughs, the fourth, of recent origin, is the result of behavioural changes contrary to expectations.It is now increasingly evident that this is not the first pandemic that mankind has faced. It would be naive to believe it would be the last. While the origins of the pandemic remain opaque, there is now increasing evidence based on declassified US intelligence reports on Covid-19 that while both natural transmission and lab leak theories remain plausible, it may have also involved the handling of animals that could be coronavirus carriers. The debate on the issue of did the virus jump from bats arises because “75% of new infectious diseases over time have come to us from animals”.Apart from this, the recently concluded COP26 has accepted that anthropogenic behaviour is an important contributor to multiple aspects of climate change. The sceptics have either accepted defeat or receded in the background. Prime Minister Narendra Modi presented a laudable five-point agenda for the climate crisis entitled “panchamrit” at the conference. These are to raise India’s non-fossil fuel-based energy capacity to 500 GW by 2030, to meet 50% of power requirements using renewable energy, and to reduce the carbon intensity to less than 45%, with India achieving net-zero emissions by 2070.What is undoubtedly extraordinary is the speed with which the global scientific community responded to the pandemic in harnessing technology for the production of vaccines in record time. Innovation driven by scientific excellence that mankind has achieved is a harbinger of the new global order.Institutions of global governance were created in good faith. Over time, the virus of dominance by the few creators corroded their credibility. What is worse is that the entry of China promoted and fostered by the developed powers in the belief of a peaceful rise has impaired the objectivity of many of these institutions. However, the global society cannot overlook these developments.What binds these four aspects overriding change is to reinvent a new architecture of global governance. It entails a fundamental restructuring of the institutions of global governance that is contemporary.Consider the following. First and foremost, the most overarching institution of global governance is the United Nations. The UN has undoubtedly undergone phases of reforms since its foundation in 1945. It has sought to respond to peacekeeping measures and developmental challenges, even as the organisation in the post-decolonisation era has become more broad-based.The existential question of empowering the UN remains divided between those who recognise that this is no more than a high-level interactive forum and others who would like to make this into a full-fledged world body.One of the under-addressed challenges is Asia’s inadequate representation in the UN Security Council, which many have argued seriously threatens its legitimacies. The only way it can play an increasingly important role is to recognise that both political and economic power structures have undergone fundamental changes since its inception. To this end, Jeffrey Sachs suggested to add four Asian seats, namely, one permanent seat for India, one shared by Japan and South Korea, one for the Asean countries, and the fourth to rotate among other Asian countries. It is somewhat ironic that India, which would soon become the world’s most populous country, does not have a permanent seat in this key decision-making body. Whatever be the decision, the current situation is untenable by permitting veto rights to the new dominant power in Asia.While going beyond COP26, we certainly need a new entity like the UN Environmental Organisation (UNEO), which was suggested in the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change as early as February 2007. We also need an international convention on technology, its opportunities and minimizing misuse by aberrant member states.Secondly, the Bretton-Woods institutions created in 1944 – the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund – need reinvigoration and a new focus based on current needs. These inter alia would include a review of quotas based on financial contribution through obscurantist practices like Single Country Borrower Limit or the limited use of Article IV Consultation with the IMF both in anticipating and addressing international crises as they emerge. These institutions as well as other regional banks must mainstream the need for climate finance in innovative ways both by way of direct lending and mitigating risks to incentivise and garner necessary capital flows. It seems to me that a new Bretton-Woods conference could also be convened with a new nomenclature to review the intellectual basis of these institutions through fundamental reforms of institutional governance.Third, the IMF itself as the principal arbitrator in the management of global monetary systems must have a coherent response to the emerging challenges of cryptocurrency. Many believe this would create multiplicity of banking systems and security exchanges as well as uncertainties for nations to manage their monetary and fiscal policy with coherence. The possibility of misusing the inevitable technological changes arising from cryptocurrencies needs to be addressed in a responsible manner.The fourth issue is the emergence of newer technologies, particularly 5G and artificial intelligence. The recent details on what AI can do by way of allowing nations to use hypersonic means to assert their technological prowess is only one example. How do we harness unthinkable changes in technology and equally rein them in? We must respect the sovereignty of nations, privacy to individual rights and the nature of international arrangements.Finally, the Old World Order through which we are transiting accommodated the aspirations of Asia and dealt with the period of decolonisation but remained a cosy compact of North Atlantic powers of the US and Europe. The emergence of China has serious geopolitical implications, not only for Asia, but, given its technological and financial prowess, for the stability of the overall system of social order.The New World Order will not be based on philanthropy. Enlightened self-interest is difficult to harness, but modalities not only of consensus in which there would be, hopefully, a willing relinquishment of individual and national sovereignties for overall global good. The task is daunting but inescapable.(NK Singh is chairman of the 15th finance commission and president of the Institute of Economic Growth)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/htls/htls-2021-order-or-disorder-in-new-world-101637734101791.html
24-11-2021||India||Health min asks states with increasing case positivity to ramp up Covid testing||The Union health ministry has cited a decline in weekly Covid-19 testing rates and directed 11 states and two Union territories to increase tests to avoid missing infections.“While there has been a significant decline in the new cases with 10,195, average daily cases reported in the week ending 22nd November, it has been observed that there has also been a decline in weekly testing rates,” wrote Union health and family welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday to these states and territories.The states and territories directed to increase the testing are Nagaland, Sikkim, Maharashtra, Kerala, Goa, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, and LadakhThe letter said in the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing, it is very difficult to determine the true level of infection spread. “With a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in Covid cases in recent times and a few developed countries facing even fourth and fifth wave despite high levels of Covid vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil given the unpredictable and contagious nature of the disease…”The ministry sought all efforts to preserve the gains made so far and to prevent deterioration of the Covid-19 scenario across the country as the pandemic was not yet over.Also Read: India sees spike in daily Covid toll with 437 new deaths; Kerala adds the mostIn a letter to Nagaland, which HT has accessed, the ministry warned against rising case positivity in certain districts, attributing it to, among other things, fall in Covid-19 testing. “Nagaland has reported 342 average daily tests as on week ending 22nd November. This is in stark contrast to a high of 1,250 average daily tests conducted in the week of 23- 29th August. It is also worrying to note that the state has recorded a positivity of 1.5% in the week ending 22nd November, having stagnated over the past 4 weeks, with an abysmally low share of RT-PCR tests. i.e.,8.2%,” it said. “Further, worrying trends with regards to tests, tests per million, positivity rate and higher dependence on Rapid Antigen tests have been observed in various districts of the State… The positivity in districts such as Mokukchong and Peren has been above 2.5%, with RT-PCR share falling below a decent proportion of the total tests.”The Centre has asked states to maintain high testing considering the increase in travelling due to weddings, festivals, and vacations. It added a decrease in testing would make it difficult to know the actual infection spread.The ministry has also directed the states to closely monitor the prevalence of respiratory distress symptoms, influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection with the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states. It added tests should be conducted regularly for timely identifying actual Covid-19 cases. The ministry asked the states to keep a watch on the clustering of cases for early identification and containment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-asks-states-with-increasing-case-positivity-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-101637734282005.html
24-11-2021||India||60 tractors, 1,000 people will head to Parliament on Nov 29: Rakesh Tikait||As many as 60 tractors will head to Parliament in the national capital as part of a tractor march, which will be organised by farmer unions on November 29 (to conincide with the beginning of the winter session of Parliament), to press for their demand for a statutory guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for crops, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait announced on Tuesday."The tractors will go through the roads, which have been opened by the government. We were accused of keeping the roads blocked. We did not block the road. Blocking the roads is not our movement. Perhaps, our movement is to talk to the government. We will straight go to the Parliament," Tikait told news agency ANI.The statement comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised that the Centre will repeal the three contentious farm laws that triggered nationwide farmers' protest. The Union cabinet is expected to take up the farm law repeal bill for clearance today and it is likely to be tabled in the winter session of Parliament.Meanwhile, Tikait also announced that at least a thousand people will head to the Parliament to press for the MSP law among other issues."We are awaiting the government's response on MSP. Moreover, the incidents that happened in the past one year, in which 750 farmers died, the government should take responsibility for that," the BKU leader told ANI.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, that have been at the forefront of the year-long protests, in an official statement said that tractor rallies will also be organised in state capitals distant from Delhi."Preparations are underway for marking November 26, 2021, on the completion of 12 long and continuous months of struggle by lakhs of farmers in India - Thousands of farmers are expected to come to the morcha sites on that day around Delhi," SKM noted, adding that the day will also be celebrated as a “partial victory” of their movement."Solidarity events" are also being planned across the world by the Indian diaspora as well as international farmers' organisations, SKM informed.Parliament's winter session will commence on November 29 and is expected to continue till December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-tractors-1-000-people-will-head-to-parliament-on-november-29-rakesh-tikait-101637729292851.html
24-11-2021||India||India’s 24-hour Covid toll goes up to 437; Kerala leading contributor with 370 fatalities||India on Wednesday saw a major rise in its daily Covid-19 toll after 437 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministery's update at 8am. This took the total number of deaths to 466,584.The country recorded 9,283 new cases and 10,949 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and total recoveries to 34,535,763 and 33,957,698, respectively. The active cases have further declined to 111,481, and have been the lowest in 537 days, according to the Union health ministry.Also Read| Covaxin 50% effective against Delta variant: Real-world studyOf Wednesday's death count in India, 370 deaths were reported from Kerala alone. According to the state health department's bulletin, of these 370 deaths, 57 were recorded over the last few days and the remaining 313 were designated as virus deaths after receiving appeals based on new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court.Kerala on Tuesday clocked nearly 5,000 cases and 5,978 recoveries. The total cases in the southern state have climbed to 5,097,845 including 38,045 deaths, 52,710 active cases and 5,018,279 recoveries.Last month too, Kerala added a backlog of Covid-19 deaths (on October 27), which pushed India's 24-hour fatality count to 585.Also Read| Over 70 school, medical students test positive for Covid-19 in OdishaMeanwhile, over 634 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the country so far, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday, adding 1,157,697 samples were tested in the last 24 hoursOn the vaccination front, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday that the cumulative coverage has exceeded 1.18 billion with 7,658,203 doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. Of the total vaccination count, 413,430,633 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease and the remaining 770,992,940 have only received the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-spike-in-daily-covid-toll-with-437-new-deaths-kerala-adds-the-most-101637726520575.html
24-11-2021||India||Loan waiver schemes for small farmers are tools of economic, social justice: SC||The purpose of waiver of agricultural loans is to uplift distressed farmers and bring about just social order, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday as it approved Tamil Nadu’s loan waiver scheme of 2016 for small and marginal farmers.“The purpose of providing a waiver of agricultural loans is to uplift the distressed farmers, who have been facing the brunt of the erratic weather conditions, low produce, and fall in the prices because of the market conditions,” noted a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna. The bench highlighted that a loan waiver scheme is also in pursuance of the Directive Principles of State Policy.“The impugned loan waiver scheme is, in essence, a social policy in pursuance of the Directive Principles of State Policy, introduced with an object to eliminate inequality in status, income, and facilities... The objective of promoting the welfare of the farmers as a class to secure economic and social justice is well recognised by Article 38,” said the court.Article 38 says the state shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic, and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life.Also Read: Farm laws repeal: Cabinet approval likely today, bill listed for winter sessionApproving the Tamil Nadu government’s scheme, the bench noted the 2016 loan waiver scheme for farmers owning land up to five acres was introduced with an endeavour to bring substantive equality in society by using affirmative action to uplift the socially and economically weaker sections.“Due to the distinct degree of harm suffered by the small and marginal farmers as compared to other farmers, it is justifiable that the benefit of the scheme is only provided to a specified class as small and marginal farmers constitute a class in themselves,” said the court.It held the classification based on the extent of landholding had a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved through the scheme which kept farmers with big landholdings out of its purview. “The classification based on the extent of landholding is not arbitrary since owing to the inherent disadvantaged status of the small and marginal farmers, the impact of climate change or other external forces is unequal.”The court set aside the 2017 Madras high court’s judgment, which directed the state government to extend the benefit of the scheme also to the big farmers.Allowing a petition by the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturists Association, the high court held the grant of loan waivers only to small and marginal farmers to be arbitrary and directed the state government to grant the same benefit to all farmers irrespective of the extent of landholding.The top court overturned this judgment, finding substance in the state’s policy of drawing a distinction between classes of farmers based on their landholdings.“Small and marginal farmers are resource deficient; they do not have borewells to overcome the drought. These farmers are usually dependent on large farms to access land, water, inputs, credit, technology, and markets,” said the bench.It referred to a 2019 report of the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation that showed that households having lands less than 0.01 hectare use 93.1% of the agricultural loans for non-agricultural purposes. “In sharp contrast, a household that owns 10 hectares of land only uses 17.1 percentage of the agricultural loan for non-agricultural purposes. This depicts the poverty that envelops the class of small and marginal farmers,” said the bench.It also cited statistics on the percentage distribution of the indebted agricultural households which depicted that 27% of the households that hold between 0.01- 040 hectares of land; 34% of those who hold between 0.40-1 hectare and 20% of those who hold between 1-2 acres are indebted. “On the other hand, only 4.5% of those who hold 4-10 hectares and 0.6% of those who hold 10 plus hectares are indebted,” said the bench.It also quashed the high court’s observation that the loan waiver scheme was constitutionally suspect also because it was in pursuance of an electoral promise made by All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam before the 2016 assembly polls.“It is settled law that a scheme cannot be held to be constitutionally suspect merely because it was based on an electoral promise. A scheme can be held suspect only within the contours of the Constitution, irrespective of the intent with which the scheme was introduced. The scheme propounded by the state of Tamil Nadu passes muster against the constitutional challenge,” said the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loan-waiver-schemes-for-small-farmers-are-tools-of-economic-social-justice-sc-101637727261222.html
24-11-2021||India||35% of Uttar Pradesh assembly members face criminal cases||As many as 35% of the Uttar Pradesh assembly members have criminal cases pending against them, an Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) analysis has found ahead of the elections in the state due next year. Twenty-seven per cent of them face serious cases.The ADR analysed declarations of 369 lawmakers and found seven of them have murder cases pending against them, 36 attempts to murder, and two crimes against women. “106 (35%) out of 304 MLAs (members of legislative assembly) from (ruling) BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party), 18 (37%) out of 49 MLAs from SP (Samajwadi Party), 5 (31%) out of 16 MLAs from BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) and 1 (14%) out of 7 MLAs from INC (Congress) have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits,” said ADR’s report based on the analysis.BSP’s Mukhtar Ansari and Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal’s Vijay Kumar face 16 criminal cases.ADR said there has been a decrease in the percentage of MLAs facing criminal cases. In 2012, ADR found that out of 403 MLAs, 47% faced them.Also Read | Aadhaar has made a major difference in lives of Indians: VaishnawAs many as 313 of the current lawmakers are crorepatis. The BJP has 304 MLAs and 235 of them are crorepatis. The SP has 42 crorepatis among the 49 MLAs. The BSP has 15 crorepatis and the Congress five. BSP’s richest MLAs are Guddu Jamali and Vinay Tiwari. Two BJP MLAs and ministers Nand Gopal Nandi and Siddhartha Nath Singh have pending loans.Ajay Kumar Lallu (Congress) and Dhananjay and Vijay Rajbhar (BJP) have the lowest assets. At least 95 lawmakers are school dropouts, four are just literate and five are diploma holders. At least 206 of the lawmakers are in the 25-50 age group while 190 are aged between 51 and 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-members-face-criminal-cases-101637725881098.html
24-11-2021||India||Aadhaar has made a major difference in lives of Indians: Vaishnaw||Union electronics and information technology ministry Ashwini Vaishnaw has said that the introduction of Aadhaar has made a major difference in the lives of Indians.Addressing the inaugural session of a three-day workshop titled “Aadhaar 2.0- Ushering the Next Era of Digital Identity and Smart Governance” after inaugurating it on Tuesday, Vaishnaw said that Aadhaar has made the difference especially for those at the bottom of the pyramid.Information technology secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said Aadhaar has also given people an identity that they previously lacked. He added it has helped create a digital identity rather than a physical one. “Aadhaar has been used in different services in bringing financial inclusion, broadband and telecom services, direct benefit transfers to the bank account of citizens in a transparent manner.”Also Read: Private players can operate Bharat Gaurav trains on tourism circuitThe Unique Identification Authority of India said the workshop will focus on strategies of Aadhaar that can strengthen and simplify delivery and provide an opportunity to focus on rebuilding more inclusive systems that will allow society to become more resilient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-has-made-a-major-difference-in-lives-of-indians-vaishnaw-101637725400841.html
24-11-2021||India||Private players can operate Bharat Gaurav trains on tourism circuit||Indian Railways has announced introduction of theme based, tourist circuit trains named ‘Bharat Gaurav’ to showcase India’s rich cultural heritage and history to the world. 190 such trains, to be operated on lease by private players and state entities such as tourism departments and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), have been approved. The ministry has identified 3,033 coaches for Bharat Gaurav trains, railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday. “We have allocated trains for ‘Bharat Gaurav’ and 3033 coaches have been identified. We will start taking applications from today. We have received good response. Stakeholders will modify and run the trains and the Railways will help in its maintenance, parking and other facilities,” Vaishnaw said.Each pair of Bharat Gaurav trains will have 14 to 16 coaches including two guard vans. The minister also said that states like Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have shown interest in operating these trains.Describing it as the third segment in services offered by the national transporter after the freight and passenger segments, Vaishnaw said private players running Bharat Gaurav trains will have the freedom to fix fares and amenities. He added that these will not be regular trains that will be run on timetables.Also Read | ‘Learned from it’: Ashwini Vaishnaw after Ramayana Express staff uniform row“As of now, ICF coaches have been earmarked for the Bharat Gaurav scheme. But in the future even Vande Bharat, Vista Dome and LHB coaches can be included based on demand,” PTI quoted him as saying.He stated that anyone, from individuals to societies, trusts, consortia, tour operators and even state governments can apply to take these trains and run them on special tourism circuits based on a theme.The IRCTC is already running the Ramayana train circuit and plans are underway to start the gurdwara train circuit connecting prominent gurdwaras across the country. These trains will be called Gurukripa. More such trains are expected to hit the tracks soon, the agency added, quoting officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-players-can-operate-bharat-gaurav-trains-on-tourism-circuit-101637724920778.html
24-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union cabinet likely to approve repeal of farm laws today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm laws repeal: Cabinet approval likely today, bill listed for winter sessionThe Union Cabinet is expected to approve as early as Wednesday the matter of repealing the three controversial farm laws, which triggered extensive protests around the borders of the national capital for nearly a year. Read more.'India has become slave of US', says Manishankar Aiyar at Indo-Russian eventCongress leader Manishankar Aiyar attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government by saying that India has become a slave of the United States of America since 2014. Read more.Delhi HC to hear plea seeking to ban Salman Khurshid's controversial new bookThe Delhi high court is set to hear today a plea seeking to ban the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation of ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’ – the new book by Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid which triggered extensive outbursts. Read more.IND vs NZ: New Zealand aim to break 33-year-old streak in Kanpur as Williamson's men eye maiden Test series win in IndiaNew Zealand may have been the World Test Champions in the inaugural season, their win implying diversification of the format of the sport, however, the Blackcaps are yet to conquer one part of world cricket, one of the most important of all. Read more.Priyanka Chopra wore this green bodycon dress to promote The Matrix Resurrections, it costs ₹50kAfter tickling her fans' funny bones with her bit on the Netflix special Jonas Brothers Family Roast, actor Priyanka Chopra travelled to London to promote Keanu Reeves' upcoming film The Matrix Resurrections. Read more.Watch: Jyotiraditya Scindia flies on SpiceJet’s 737 Max plane with top officialsCivil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia & senior officials flew on Spicejet’s special flight. Scindia and other ministers were on board the Delhi-Gwalior Flight Using Boeing’s 737 Max plane. Watch here.Vir Das gets a shoutout from Priyanka Chopra for International Emmy nominationVir Das has received a shoutout from Priyanka Chopra who congratuled the actor-comedian for his nomination at the Internatonal Emmy Awards. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-cabinet-likely-to-approve-repeal-of-farm-laws-today-101637722303942.html
24-11-2021||India||Opposition played with sentiments of farmers: BJP’s Dushyant Gautam on farm laws||The three farm laws that are now being repealed had encapsulated all the demands and proposals made over the past two decades in order to improve the lives of the country’s farmers, Dushyant Gautam, the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) insisted on Tuesday. He blamed the Opposition parties for creating unrest among farmers and politicising the laws, saying they would have ushered in long-pending reforms. “They played with the sentiments of farmers, they spoilt the amity between communities, and they used this as an opportunity to play politics. Whatever had been said by the Congress in their manifesto and about contract farming was included in these laws. Yet, they indulged in khilwad (messing things up) and rajneeti (politics),” Gautam told HT. Also Read: Farm laws repeal: Cabinet approval likely today, bill listed for winter sessionThe union government had been under pressure from a section of farmers to withdraw the three contentious laws that were passed in Parliament last year. Ensuing protests by farmers against the three laws threatened to cast a shadow on the BJP’s electoral fortunes in the forthcoming assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Gautam, who is also in charge of Punjab, said the government was mindful of not letting a situation emerge that would allow the issue to snowball into a fight between Sikhs and other communities. “Whenever we went to talk to the people and explain the bills, we were told that the bills are good but they (protesters) should be removed from the border (protest sites). It seems we could not deal with the strictness with which we should have dealt with the protests,” he said. Gautam said strict action was not taken by the government because it didn’t want to see any untoward incident that the Opposition could then take advantage of. “We did not want to break them. We wanted to keep society together,” he said. While the Opposition dubbed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to repeal the farm laws as a victory for the protesting farmers, the BJP claims the farmers were instigated to oppose what the party saw were beneficial laws enacted in good faith. “The Opposition tried to present events in different light… They tried to discredit the government. We thought this decision was the only solution to escape this, especially since those for whom these laws were drafted were not with us. It was important to save the country,” Gautam said. On the Opposition’s allegations that the union government was reluctant to send the farm bills to select committees for scrutiny, Gautam said, “They only know how to divert from the issues at hand… had they wanted solutions, they wouldn’t have waited so long to punish the accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh pogrom, or for the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor, or taking the names of the blacklist (comprising names of Sikhs and foreign nationals listed for alleged anti-India activities who were barred from seeking visas).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-played-with-sentiments-of-farmers-bjp-s-dushyant-gautam-on-farm-laws-101637724380975.html
24-11-2021||India||Widespread and heavy rain likely over many parts of peninsular India||A wet spell is likely over several parts of peninsular India which is already affected by widespread and heavy rain, resulting in flooding in many parts, as per a weather department forecast.A cyclonic circulation is lying over central parts of south Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over southwest Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours and it is likely to move west-northwestwards towards Sri Lanka & south Tamil Nadu coast, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin said. A trough or line of low pressure is running from the cyclonic circulation over central parts of south Bay of Bengal to south Tamil Nadu across southwest Bay of Bengal in lower levels, it added.Under the influence of above systems, light to moderate but fairly widespread rainfall is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam, south interior Karnataka, Kerala & Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal during next 5 days, the bulletin said.Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe during next 5 days and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and Rayalaseema during 25th-27th November, 2021.Also Read: A day later, flood-hit Kendriya Vihar limps back to normalcyIsolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal between 25th and 27th November and over south coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam and Rayalaseema on 27th November, 2021.There is likely to be a gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4°C over most parts of east, west & central India and gradual rise by 2-3°C over northwest India during next 3-4 days, IMD’s bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-and-heavy-rain-likely-over-many-parts-of-peninsular-india-101637722940674.html
24-11-2021||India||Mamata likely to meet Modi today; BSF issue, developmental talks on charts||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. It is expected that issues pertaining to the Border Security Force (BSF) and the development of the state will come up during discussions during Mamata's visit to Delhi.Briefing the media in Kolkata on Monday, Banerjee said, “I am going to Delhi today as I have an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi the day after tomorrow, regarding the BSF issue and other development issues of Bengal.”Mamata Banerjee will stay in the national capital till November 25.Banerjee's visit to the capital is taking place days ahead of the winter session of Parliament which is scheduled to begin on November 29.Former JD(U) Rajya Sabha MP Pavan Varma and Congress leader Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar joined Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday.The BSF, which was only empowered to take action up to fifteen kilometers in the states of Punjab, West Bengal, and Assam, has now been authorised to extend its jurisdiction up to 50km without any hurdle or permission either from central or state governments.Banerjee opposed the move as in October she said that the West Bengal government, like the Punjab government, is also protesting against the Centre's decision to increase search and arrest jurisdiction of BSF in border states.She said law and order is a state subject and West Bengal's borders with Bangladesh were completely peaceful. The chief minister also said her government will go by the “state laws”.BJP MP Saumitra Khan from West Bengal said, “TMC was carved out of the Congress and now they are killing Congress workers in the state. The Congress is preparing for its end by joining hands with the TMC ahead of general elections. Here they will meet PM Narendra Modi, while in the state, set our BJP workers on fire. If she becomes the face of opposition parties, then the unity of the country will be in danger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-likely-to-meet-modi-today-bsf-issue-developmental-talks-on-charts-101637721403133.html
24-11-2021||India||'India has become slave of US', says Manishankar Aiyar at Indo-Russian event||Congress leader Manishankar Aiyar attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government by saying that India has become a slave of the United States of America since 2014. He was speaking during an Indo-Russia friendship society on Tuesday."In the last seven years, we've seen that there is no talk of non-alignment and peace. We behave like we are slaves of Americans, begging for protection from China," said Aiyar."Our relation with Russia suffered a massive blow after 2014," he added. Aiyar further said the Congress is not in favour of whatever policy decisions the current dispensation is taking.The Congress leader made an appeal to the government to mend ties with Russia."Russia (erstwhile USSR) was India's closest ally when Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister. In fact, Indira became a Russia name. Many girls have been named after her, especially in Uzbekistan," said Aiyar.He carried forward the attacks lodged by the Congress party, especially its former president Rahul Gandhi, by accusing the Centre of ceding Indian territory to China during the ongoing standoff in Ladakh. The Centre has denied these allegations and many leaders of the ruling BJP have launched counter-attacks, saying that "India knows how to give befitting reply to China, Pakistan or anti-national elements”.Aiyar's comments come weeks before Russian President Vladimir Putin arrives in India. He shares a very close relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and is making an exception during the Covid-19 time to visit a foreign country. Ahead of Putin's visit on December 6, the defence ministry has cleared over ₹5,000 crore deal with Russia to manufacture 7.5 lakh AK-203 assault rifles in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi.India has also received Russia-made two S-400 air defence system, which will be deployed on north and east borders of India beginning 2022 to balance the tactical disadvantage faced by the military after Chinese military's surprise May 2020 transgressions on 1,597-km Ladakh Line of Control (LAC).India has been engaged in a border standoff with China in Ladakh since last year. The armies of both the countries engaged in a skirmish in June 2020 in which India lost 20 soldiers and the PLA too suffered an unknown number of casualties.A number of talks between the two countries have taken place to end the standoff, but tension still continues in some areas along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-become-slave-of-us-says-manishankar-aiyar-at-indo-russian-event-101637720288807.html
24-11-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear plea seeking to ban Salman Khurshid's controversial new book||The Delhi high court is set to hear today a plea seeking to ban the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation of ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’ – the new book by Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid which triggered extensive outbursts from certain political quarters, particularly over the fact that the author had compared a “robust version” of Hindutva to the jihadist Islam of terror groups such as the Islamic State (IS) and the Boko Haram.Also Read | Salman Khurshid says Hindutva and ISIS not same, but similar amid book controversyThe plea in Delhi high court, filed by advocate Vineet Jindal, calls out Khushid's book for violating “the fundamental right guaranteed under articles 19 and 21” of the Indian Constitution. Other than seeking a ban on the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation, the petition also strives to ensure that the book is not published henceforth in any form – neither print nor digital.Khurshid, although went on to say that Hinduism is a “beautiful religion” that he is proud of, unwittingly sparked a nationwide row with the views presented in his book. Even within the ranks of his own party, leaders differ on the debate over religious views. Khurshid's party colleague, Ghulam Nabi Azad, has publicly said that he did not agree with the former on the matter. “The comparison is factually incorrect and an exaggeration,” the PTI news agency quoted Azad as saying.Also Read | Godse preached Hindutva, says Congress amid row over Salman Khurshid's bookKhurshid's new book on the Ayodhya verdict was released last week. It explored the Supreme Court's landmark judgment on the Babri Masjid land dispute and made comments on the ideology of the Hindutva.The controversy heightened to the point that it spawned attempts to vandalise Salman Khurshid's house at Uttarakhand's Nainital last week. Although no one was hurt in the house where only caretakers stay, the unidentified assaulters damaged windowpanes and set fire to a door at the house, according to the police. Khurshid later posted video clips on social media, in which some people appeared to be burning down his effigy and shouting derogatory slogans against him and the Muslim community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-seeking-to-ban-salman-khurshid-s-controversial-new-book-101637714352655.html
24-11-2021||NA||12 Meghalaya Cong leaders led by former CM Sangma join TMC||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Congress leader Mukul Sangma, 11 others join TMCKC Venugopal demands more compensation for kin of Covid deceasedVenugopal says that kin of those who died from Covid should get ₹3 lakh compensation. Harish Chaudhary sends notice to Preneet KaurThe Punjab Congress-in-charge sent a notice to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's wife Preneet Kaur, alleging anti-party activities. Sputnik light Covid vaccine to be launched in India by December, reports ANI citing RDIF CEOSputnik light Covid vaccine to be launched in India by December, reports ANI citing RDIF CEOGerman coalition parties reach agreement#BREAKING Centre-left-led alliance announces deal to form new German govt: coalition pact pic.twitter.com/czXk58MSVtCentre-left-led alliance set to form German govtSoldiers gun down militant who killed several civiliansOne of the three terrorists killed in the encounter in Srinagar's Rambagh has been identified as Mehran, a top TRF commander who was involved in killing of two teachers & other civilians in the city. Identification of others is being ascertained: Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar to ANI pic.twitter.com/ZY9A19uMTuThe terrorist, Mehran, was responsible for killing two teachers and other civilians in Srinagar last month. US jobless claims drop#BREAKING New US jobless aid claims drop below pre-pandemic level: govt pic.twitter.com/wcUhCTPg9DUS govt said that new jobless aid claims dropped below pre-pandemic levels, reports AFP. 3 terrorists gunned down in J-K3 terrorists were gunned down by security personnel in Srinagar's RambaghPM Modi personally monitoring Jewar airport project: BansalUttar Pradesh govt is spending ₹4,326 crores on the acquisition of land and rehabilitation and resettlement of people. Prime Minister Modi is personally monitoring the Noida Jewar airport project, civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Kerala adoption row: Court reunites baby with motherThe court handed over the baby to parents. Activists celebrate with Anupama. Pakistan formally informs India will allow shipment of aid to Afghanistan Pak allows humanitarian aid from India to reach AfghanistanAAP leader meets AkhileshAAP MP Sanjay Singh met SP president Akhilesh Yadav. Singh told ANI that there was no talk of alliance during today's meeting. Regular international flights to resume by year-end, civil aviation ministry saysRegular international flights to resume by year-end, civil aviation ministry saysSchools, colleges to reopen in Delhi from November 29Air quality in Delhi is improving now. Schools, colleges, educational institutes to re-open from 29th November in Delhi: Environment minister Gopal Rai pic.twitter.com/2qXPgbKBJbDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced on Wednesday that all schools and colleges in the national capital will reopen on November 29 as the air quality is improving. Union cabinet approves bill to repeal three farm lawsThe Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the bill to repeal the three farm laws, against whom farmers have been protesting since November 2020. Series of 3 earthquakes reported in Himachal's Mandi, Shimla districtsA series of three earthquakes jolted Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi and Shimla districts on Tuesday night and early on Wednesday. Read moreNasa mission to smash spacecraft into asteroid blasts offA NASA mission to deliberately smash a spacecraft into an asteroid to see if its course can be altered blasted off Tuesday from California, according to news agency AFPAnother PFI office bearer arrested in RSS worker's murder in KeralaKerala Police have made a second arrest in connection with the murder of an RSS worker in the Palakkad district on November 15. “Another office-bearer of Popular Front India (PFI) has been arrested,” the Police said on Wednesday. Malegaon blast case: BJP MP Sadhvi Pragya to appear before NIA court todayBJP MP Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case to appear before a special NIA trial court in Mumbai today. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/UbOlJ44CPbBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Sadhvi Pragya, who is an accused in the 2018 Malegaon blast case, will appear before a special NIA trial court in Mumbai on Wednesday. 'Being neglected for the past few years': BJP leader from Himachal resigns from post of state unit vice-prezHimachal Pradesh: Senior BJP leader Kripal Singh Parmar resigns from the posts of Sirmaur District in-charge and state executive committee member. "I am being harassed in the party for the last 6 months," he said in a statementSenior BJP leader from Himachal Pradesh Kripal Singh Parmar on Wednesday resigned from the post of the state party-unit's vice president, claiming that he was being neglected in the BJP for the past few years. Gautam Gambhir claims he is receiving death threats from ISIS KashmirBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir said on Wednesday that he has been receiving death threats from the ISIS Kashmir, adding he has approached the Delhi Police.  Read moreIndia records 9,283 new Covid-19 cases, 437 more deathsIndia on Wednesday saw an increase in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 9,283 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,535,763, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Nearly 11,000 patients recovered and 437 died due to the viral disease, taking the total recoveries and death toll to 33,957,698 and 437 respectively. Covid-19: K'taka issues new RT-PCR test norms for people coming from MaharashtraThe Karnataka government has released fresh guidelines waiving the requirement of carrying RT-PCR test for people who are returning to the state from neighbouring Maharashtra. The new rules, however, will be applicable for a short stay - of just two days. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane records 68 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsThane district reported 68 new cases and two more deaths due to Covid-19, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 568,615 and 11,576 respectively. ‘Looking forward to early formation of govt in Iraq’: India at UNSC briefingThe ministry of external affairs (MEA) said on Tuesday that it looks forward to an early formation of the government in Iraq and hoped that the successful completion of the recently held elections will mark the beginning of a new phase towards stability in the Middle Eastern country. Read moreDelhi's AQI in 'poor' quality todayDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 280 (overall) in the 'poor' category, as per SAFAR-India pic.twitter.com/p8fHUuuvhGAccording to data shared by SAFAR-India, the national capital's air quality on Wednesday is in the poor category. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee likely to meet PM Modi todayWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Wednesday. “I am going to Delhi today as I have an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi the day after tomorrow, regarding the BSF issue and other development issues of Bengal,” Banerjee said on Monday. She will stay in Delhi till Thursday. JD(U) to celebrate 15 years of CM Nitish Kumar’s governance in Bihar todayThe ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar will on Wednesday hold celebrations at 40 locations in the state to mark chief minister Nitish Kumar’s 15 years of governance. Kumar and the JD(U)’s report card for these past years will be presented on all platforms on the occasion. Read moreAustralia lists Hezbollah as terrorist organisationThe Australian government has listed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-24-2021-101637714402498.html
24-11-2021||India||10% discount on liquor to fully vaccinated in MP town; not a govt move, says MLA||The authorities in a town in Madhya Pradesh have announced a 10 per cent discount on country liquor to those who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The Mandsaur district excise department said the decision has been taken to boost the ongoing vaccination drive.Mandsaur's district excise officer Anil Sachan said a 10 per cent discount will be provided to anyone who produces proof (in the form of certificate) of having taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The discount will be applicable at liquor shops in Sitamau Phatak, Bhuniakhedi and Old Bus Stand."Also, special care will be taken to ensure that there is no misuse in the said work," he added. If the experiment proves successful, it will be implemented in other parts of the district as well, said Sachan.However, the move drew criticism from an MLA of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who said it will encourage people to consume liquor."This is not a decision taken by the state government, and it will encourage people to consume liquor," BJP MLA from Mandsaur Yashpal Singh Sisodiya said on Twitter in Hindi.जिला आबकारी अधिकारी ने प्रेस नोट जारी कर शराब पीने वालों को वैक्सीनेशन के दुसरे डोज लगाने पर ठेकेदार द्वारा मंदसौर की तीन दुकानों पर 10% भाव में छुट देने की बात कही है, यह नवाचार है जो उचित नहीं है और ना ही यह शासन का निर्णय है इससे पीने वालों का आकर्षण बढ़ेगा।Meanwhile, the Madhya Pradesh government will organise a mega campaign on Wednesday to cover more population under its vaccination programme. The state government has set a deadline of December-end to complete vaccination of all eligible people.The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed the 1.17 billion mark, the central government informed on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-discount-on-liquor-to-fully-vaccinated-in-mp-town-not-a-govt-move-says-mla-101637713919083.html
24-11-2021||India||Union minister Nitin Gadkari to lay foundation stone for 25 'strategic' highway projects in Jammu||Union minister Nitin Gadkari will lay the foundation stone of 25 projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Jammu on Wednesday. The projects are 257 kilometres in length and are being constructed with an investment of ₹11,721 crore.The projects for which the foundation stone will be laid by the Union highways minister involve rehabilitation and upgradation of some sections and construction of viaduct and tunnels.According to a government statement, these roads will help in providing all-weather connectivity between Jammu and the Kashmir valley. They thus become strategically important for the swift movement of the defence forces, the statement added.The projects will also provide employment, as the proposed roads will connect all other major roads leading to various district headquarters.A number of highways have either come up or been given the go-ahead in various parts of the country, which show the speed with which the NHAI has been working.According to a report by the ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH), the construction of National Highways touched 37 kilometres per day in the year 2020-21.It further said that over the last seven years, the length of National Highways has gone up by 50 per cent from 91,287 km as of April 2014 to 1,37,625 km as on March 20, 2021.The government is also planning to add one lakh kilometres of road network to the existing national highways in the next four years. The mega plan was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he inaugurated the Gati Shakti project in October.The PM Gati Shakti project, which is pegged at a cost of ₹100 lakh crore, aims to set up a multi-nodal connectivity to various economic zones, a centralised portal to unite the infrastructural initiatives planned and initiated by as many as 16 central ministries and departments.At least 5,500 kilometres of four- and six-lane highways will be constructed across the coastal belt of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-25-strategic-highway-projects-in-jammu-101637712506654.html
24-11-2021||India||Farm laws repeal: Cabinet approval likely today, bill listed for winter session||The Union Cabinet is expected to approve as early as Wednesday the matter of repealing the three controversial farm laws, which triggered extensive protests around the borders of the national capital for nearly a year. According to reports citing officials familiar with the matter, the Union Cabinet will be meeting today, when it is likely to take up ‘The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021’ for approval and give its official nod to the proposal to withdraw the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, which was passed by Parliament in September last year.Also Read | Why govt failed to convince farmers about the new lawsThe Cabinet approval, if it is at all granted on Wednesday, will come days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to scrap the contentious agriculture laws. In a televised address on Gurpurab, the Prime Minister had said that his government will be repealing the three pieces of legislation; he had also personally apologised to the people of the country and acknowledged that there was a “deficiency” in attempts to convince the farmers.The central government has now listed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in its agenda for the winter session of the Parliament beginning on November 29. The agriculture ministry is deliberating on the exact dates to discuss the three laws in the forthcoming Parliament session, informed Union minister Prahlad Joshi a day ago.Also Read | Farm laws to be repealed, but what's next for farmers?The bill – which has been listed for introduction and passage among the 26 new bills on the agenda of the government – seeks to repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act provides for setting up a mechanism allowing the farmers to sell their farm produce outside the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Any license-holder trader can buy the produce from the farmers at mutually agreed prices. This trade of farm produces will be free of mandi tax imposed by the state governments.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act allows farmers to do contract farming and market their produces freely.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act is an amendment to the existing Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-cabinet-approval-likely-today-bill-listed-for-winter-session-101637710863351.html
24-11-2021||India||Shimla tops sustainable growth goals’ list||Shimla topped the first Sustainable Development Goals Urban Index released by NITI Aayog on Tuesday.The Centre’s public policy think tank assessed urban local bodies (ULBs) across 56 cities on 77 SDG indicators; the exercise was aimed at localising SDGs and ensuring their efficient monitoring at city level, .As per the SDGs Urban Index, Dhanbad, Jharkhand, was at the bottom of the list, while the national capital stood 20th along with Raipur (Chhattisgarh).Nagpur, Pune, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Coimbatore are among the top 10 urban centres in terms of implementation of SDGs. While Chennai and Bengaluru were ranked 11th and 13th respectively, Mumbai was 33rd position and Kolkata was among the bottom 10 cities at 48th position.“Cities are fast becoming engines of growth. The SDG Urban index and dashboard, a product of innovative partnership between NITI Aayog and GIZ, will go a long way in instituting a robust SDG monitoring system in our cities, and is a milestone step in our SDG localisation journey,” Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog said during the launch of SDG urban Index dashboard. A detailed report on the same will be released next month, said a NITI Aayog official.The 56 ULBs have been assessed on 77 indicators covering parameters such as poverty reduction, health, education, women empowerment, water and sanitation, clean energy, and economic growth.Out of 56 urban units, 44 have a population of above one million and the remaining 12 are capital cities with a population less than a million.The sustainable development goals per SDGs are 17 goals aimed to “achieve a better and more sustainable future for all” that were created by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015. The aim is to achieve them by 2030.The index has been prepared by NITI Aayog-GIZ and BMZ , under the umbrella of Indo-German Development Cooperation, said NITI Aayog officials.NITI Aayog officials said this is an attempt to push cities towards data-driven decision making.Sanyukta Samaddar, Nodal Officer (SDG) at NITI Aayog said: “NITI Aayog seeks to empower local administrations to adopt a measurement-based approach to decision making. Only if the SDG agenda is adopted by last-mile stakeholders can we hope to achieve the global 2030 Agenda. The SDG is one more step towards localising SDGs further.”According to the index, 55 out of 56 urban areas assessed under SDG 2 (Zero hunger) have 25% anaemia prevalence among women aged 15-49 years and 96.4% of urban areas have pupil-teacher ratio at the secondary level of less than 30 in the assessed cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shimla-tops-sustainable-growth-goals-list-101637707030970.html
24-11-2021||India||DAC clears ₹2k cr to boost military communications||The defence acquisition council (DAC) on Tuesday gave its go-ahead to a ₹2,236-crore air force proposal to buy GSAT-7C satellite and ground hubs for improved real-time communication, the defence ministry said in a statement.“It will enhance the ability of our armed forces to communicate beyond the Line of sight,” it said.The DAC — India’s apex military procurement body headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh — gave its acceptance of necessity for the project under the Make in India category.“The project envisages complete design, development and launching of the satellite in India. The induction of GSAT-7C Satellite and ground hubs for software defined radios will enhance the ability of our armed forces to communicate beyond line of sight in all circumstances in a secure mode,” the statement added.The government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence sector through several policy decisions including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware.India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in the last two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dac-clears-2k-cr-to-boost-military-communications-101637702404956.html
24-11-2021||India||PM Modi calls CM Bommai, discusses Karnataka’s flood situation||: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to enquire about the floods – caused by heavy downpour – that inundated the Bengaluru and several other parts of the state. “Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodiji spoke to me on the flood situation caused by heavy rains in the state. PM expressed grief over the loss of lives and deep concern over the crop damages. PM assured all possible support from the Centre,” Bommai said in a post on Twitter. The telephone call between Modi and Bommai came a day after several images and videos of Bengaluru’s flooded residential localities and tech parks were all over social media. The residents of Kendriya Vihar, an apartment complex with 600 homes and over 1600 residents, were moved to other locations as rain water damaged the entire basement. Yelahanka Zone of Bengaluru was flooded as over four-feet of water caused disruption the everyday life. People were moved with the help of tractors and large SUVs. Bommai visited the affected area on Tuesday. “There are two Raja Kaluves (storm water drains) and the sizes of these are small and the outflow is significantly large,” Bommai said, adding he has instructed BBMP and other officials to take action. The chief minister also visited the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) where flooding damaged expensive and sensitive research equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-calls-cm-bommai-discusses-karnataka-s-flood-situation-101637696396523.html
24-11-2021||India||Another Gowda set to join politics as dynasts dominate Karnataka MLC polls||Suraj Revanna, the grandson of former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and son of HD Revanna – a former minister and legislator from Holenarsipura in Hassan district, was among the seven candidates that the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) nominated on Tuesday for the upcoming Karnataka legislative council polls scheduled on December 10.Suraj would be the eighth member of Gowda’s family in active politics, cementing JD(S) as a family-run outfit. JD (S) may not be the only ones trying to bring their kin to the Karnataka legislative council – the upper house. Several relatives of senior leaders of the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too have found name in the lists for the upcoming legislative council polls.Taking to Twitter, BJP was sharp in its criticism that the Congress practices “family politics” from the national leadership to the MLC polls. “In the JD (S) party, eight people from the same family are in power. But the Congress party is a bit generous in this regard! The Congress has approved family politics from the AICC national president’s post to MLC candidates,” the BJP said in a post on Twitter.The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Monday announced the names of the candidates for the upcoming MLC polls. The list included some candidates who are closely related to the senior leadership of the state Congress. Sunilgouda Patil, a Congress MLC from Vijayapura who is looking to be re-elected to the upper house, is the brother of former minister and legislator M B Patil. Similarly, Bheemanagouda Patil is the son of former minister Basavaraj Patil. Bheemanagouda’s brother Rajshekar Patil is an MLA and the other brother Chandrashekar Patil is an MLC. Channaraj Hattiholi, the candidate from Belagavi, is the brother of Congress legislator Lakshmi Hebbalkar; S Ravi is the relative of state Congress president DK Shivakumar.Shivakumar on Tuesday hit back at the BJP. “Let them (BJP) take out the list (of candidates). Who have they given (tickets) to in Coorg, Dharwad and other places? Let them hold a mirror to their own list,” Shivakumar said on Tuesday.The BJP has also nominated candidates closely related to active politicians. Pradeep Shettar, a sitting MLC from Dharwad is the younger brother of former chief minister and legislator Jagadish Shettar; Hanumant Nirani is the brother of Murugesh Nirani, Karnataka’s Minister for Large and Medium-scale Industries; Suja Kushalappa is the brother of Madikeri legislator Appachu Ranjan, who is a BJP parliamentarian. Recently, the BJP decided to replace Sunil Subramani who was a sitting MLC and the other brother of Ranjan. Political analysts said the concept of political families have the same kind of acceptance as business families where party workers accept leaders introducing their children or kin into the electoral battlefield.“Assembly elections are more a public election. But one can function in MLC elections through a friend’s network. That is why several independents make it to the upper house,” Narendar Pani, faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) and political analyst said.Trying to push for kin in the assembly elections have a greater impact on the probability of power whereas the MLC elections are easier in terms of managing expectations and do not have a very wide ranging impact, analysts added. The decision to take the “back-door” entry – an expression used for entering the upper house – is a safer bet as it is easier to manage expectations and any fallout or disgruntlement may have very minimal impact on the probability of securing power like in the case of assembly seats, analysts said.“Deve Gowda has brought family into politics which inturn has brought politics into the family,” said a Bengaluru-based analyst, who wished not to be named. He referred to the battle between Gowda’s two sons –HD Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna – who have both fought hard for dominance within the JD (s) that has led to a widening rift within the party.Senior leaders such as BS Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and Mallikarjuna Kharge are also among others who have their sons as legislators or parliamentarians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-gowda-set-to-join-politics-as-dynasts-dominate-karnataka-mlc-polls-101637696395256.html
24-11-2021||India||A day later, flood-hit Kendriya Vihar limps back to normalcy||For 56 -year-old Sudheer Dhar, the harrowing experience of floods in Kendriya Vihar apartments in Yelahanka continues even as disaster management teams try to pump out water from the premises.The entire complex with over 600 homes was flooded after a heavy downpour on Sunday night that led to the overflowing of the nearby lake, inundating the entire residential locality. Over 130 mm of rainfall was recorded in the Yelahanka zone on Sunday night alone.“For the last four days, there is no power or water,” said Dhar, who had just managed to charge his phone for two hours in a shop nearby on Tuesday evening.He said though the people of the apartment complex and disaster relief were doing all they can to help the stranded residents, people were “suffering”.The residents were provided with food and bottled water by volunteers on Monday. But on Tuesday, volunteers dropped off large water cans at the ground floor, forcing the likes of Dhar to walk down from his eighth-floor apartment and carry it back up as the lifts are down and power is yet to be restored.“We are very worried about the pandemic as there is (stagnant) water. Dengue and malaria are increasing and there are many elderly people residing here,” he added.Dhar’s 78-year-old mother is living with him and he has sent his son to a relative’s residence as he has to work from home.Several others shared the plight even as relief workers continue to toil and restore some semblance of normalcy after the recent downpour in Bengaluru.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the complex on Tuesday.From November 1-21 (till 5.30 pm), Bengaluru has received over 195 mm of rains as against the average of 42 mm in the month, registering an excess of 364%, data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KDMA) shows.Almost every single district of Karnataka has received excess rainfall with 21 out of 31 receiving over 200% more rains this year.At least 24 people have died and lakhs of hectares of crops have been lost, thousands of homes have been damaged in the rains which has left a trail of destruction across the southern state and several other parts of the country.Bommai on Tuesday said the overflow from the lakes and inadequate size of the Raja Kaluve or storm water drain (SWD) were the main reasons for the floods.Residents said there was a similar incident in 2017 and around ₹4 crore were allocated to “fix” the problem, which apparently was not.Much of Bengaluru, which contributes over half of the state’s revenues and is known globally for its prowess in technology, has remained one of the most poor in terms of public infrastructure, planning and regulations, leading to such incidents.It would not be wrong to say that there isn’t a single road in all of Bengaluru that does not have a pothole in it or in some cases no road at all as motorists and pedestrians risk nothing short of their lives each time they tread these streets.Bengaluru has had 18 deaths due to civic apathy in 2020, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, that is more than all other major cities combined many times over.“About 138mm of rains lashed the city in just 2 hours recently. All the lakes in and around Yelahanka are overflowing. The situation is the same in many parts of the city. The existing Rajakaluves with a width of 8 to 10 feet are proving to be inadequate to carry the heavy flow,” Bommai said. He has instructed officials to fix the problem--an assurance the likes of Dhar have heard before.Rapid and unplanned expansion with the complicit approval of civic bodies has led to encroachment of natural canals, lakes and drains, leaving little or no space for rain water to flow.“BBMP had identified 714 illegal structures on Rajakaluves. Houses and buildings which have come up on Rajakaluves would be evicted. However he assured that care would be taken to ensure that the poor are not affected by providing them alternative facilities. Houses and residential complexes on the Buffer Zones would be shifted after giving them adequate time to move,” Bommai added.The chief minister has retained the Bengaluru development portfolio.But successive governments claim to spend, at least on paper, several thousand crores to improve the infrastructure under the guise of development which has little or no impact. The city continues to crumble, forcing its over 12 million residents who live and migrate to the city in the hope for a better life.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) on Tuesday held a meeting on how to prevent such incidents in the “future”.The BBMP administrator and additional chief secretary to the government of Karnataka Rakesh Singh held a meeting with officials to take precautionary measures during the rains and said that precautionary measures should be taken and see to it that no damages occur.“During the rainy season, in the Kaluves, Drains on either sides of the road and in the shoulder drains all the waste should be cleaned and ensure that water flows smoothly. Due to the digging of the roads,” he said, according to a statement by the civic body.“After the rain stops in the city, in all zones immediately the road work and filling of potholes to be taken. Also, with the roads which are damaged immediate repair work should be taken. The road repair work should be done in a quality manner,” said Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP.Meanwhile, Dhar sits in a dark room with his immobile mother hoping that at least this time, things would be different.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-later-flood-hit-kendriya-vihar-limps-back-to-normalcy-101637696337774.html
24-11-2021||India||Delay in SII’s first shipment to Nepal under Covax||The first shipment of Covishield vaccines to Nepal under the Covax programme has been delayed temporarily, people familiar with the development said, although the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the maker of Covishield, will resume shipping doses to other countries in a week or so under the global initiative.“Nepal was the first country to begin Covax shipments with, and the consignment was supposed to leave for Nepal on Monday (November 22). Everything was ready, but then there was a request from their side to halt the shipment for a couple of days,” a person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “We have been made to understand that it had got nothing to do with the company but something from the side of the Nepal government related to preparations.”India halted export of Covid-19 vaccines in April after a severe second wave hit the country that impacted the Covid-19 vaccines global access, or Covax programme, which has been established to deliver Covid-19 vaccines equitably to all countries. Last week, the central government allowed the company to ship five million doses under the Covax facility after the export restrictions were lifted.“The Nepal order has been put on hold and not cancelled. The company will send the doses as soon as there is a go ahead from their side,” the person said. “In a day or two, there should be more clarity in terms of countries and doses from the Covax facility and doses to other countries should begin in next six-seven days.”Supplies under Covax are directly shipped by the manufacturer to the country that needs the doses, said a person familiar with the process.“It is not like there is a Covax warehouse somewhere and the manufacturer will send the doses there. Imagine the amount of time wasted and the extra cost incurred if it was done that way. Covax shares details of the delivery and the manufacturer sends it,” the person said, but declined to be named. “As of now 5 million doses have been approved by the government of India (under the programme).”India’s requirement for doses increased from April 1 as it started vaccinating everyone above 45 years of age. The move was aimed at curbing transmission as the country battled a devastating second wave of the pandemic. Serum Institute may ship 20-30 million doses of Covishield by the end of the year, the company has said in the past, but it would depend on India’s Covid-19 situation as many countries in the world are reporting another Covid wave. India wants to inoculate its eligible population as soon as possible.Currently, 38.3% of the country’s adult population is partially vaccinated, while another 43.3% is fully vaccinated. The government has started a special drive — Har Ghar Dastak (knock on every door) — to ensure all eligible people are vaccinated. In October, the central government permitted Serum Institute to export one million doses each to Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vaccine maitri (friendship) initiative.Another Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer, Hyderabad-headquartered Bharat Biotech, was also allowed to ship one million doses of Covaxin to Iran.“The health minister publicly announced that India will resume Covid-19 vaccine export in the last quarter and the promise has been kept,” a central government official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delay-in-sii-s-first-shipment-to-nepal-under-covax-101637696336492.html
24-11-2021||India||Forced oral sex with child ‘lesser offence’: Allahabad HC reduces jail term||The Allahabad high court has reduced the jail term of a Jhansi man convicted for forcing a 10-year-old child to have oral sex with him in 2016, ruling that such an act amounts to “penetrative sexual assault” under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and not in the category of “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” defined under Section 6 of the Act.Justice Anil Kumar Ojha accordingly reduced the sentence of the convict to seven years from 10 years of rigorous imprisonment awarded by the trial court. “After going through the records and provisions of POCSO Act, I am of the considered opinion that the appellant should be punished under Section 4 of POCSO Act because the act done by appellant falls in the category of penetrative sexual assault. Penetrative sexual assault being lesser offence from aggravated penetrative sexual assault is legally permissible to convict the appellant therein,” justice Ojha ruled.The high court reasoned that the trial judge sentenced the man to the minimum sentence of 10 years provided under Section 6, and retained this principle even as it sentenced the Jhansi man under Section 4 which is punishable by a minimum jail of 7 years. The maximum punishment under Section 4 is imprisonment for life.According to the boy’s father, the convict Sonu Kushwaha went to the complainant’s house in March 2016 and took out his son telling him that they were going to a temple. Once there, the man gave the child ₹20 for oral sex. When the child returned with the money, his family asked him about the money. The child told them about the abuse. Based on the FIR filed four days after the incident, a case was registered under Section 377 (carnal intercourse against the order of nature) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 and 4 of the Pocso Act. The court, after hearing parties concerned, said that the offence committed by the appellant does not fall under Section 5 and 6 of the Pocso Act because there was penetrative sexual assault as the appellant had forced the victim to have oral sex with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-oral-sex-with-child-lesser-offence-allahabad-high-court-reduces-jail-term-101637696276533.html
24-11-2021||India||2003 Marad riots case: Kerala court hands double life term to 2 accused||A special court in Kozhikode on Tuesday awarded double life sentence to Koyamon alias Hyderkutty and M Nizamuddin, the two accused in the Marad riot case of 2003 in which eight persons were stabbed to death, officials said. After the riot, one of the accused fled to a middle-east country and the other jumped the bail and absconded during the trial.Both were found guilty by the special court judge K S Ambika on November 20 and the quantum of punishment announced was on Tuesday. The trial of the duo was held separately as they were absconding and were later arrested by police in 2011. Koyamon was found guilty under the explosives act for manufacturing country-made bombs and Nizamuddin for murder, rioting and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.In 2009, the special court had sentenced 63 of the 139 accused who faced trial in the case. As many as 148 persons, including nine juveniles, were named in the case. In August 2012, the High Court had awarded life sentence to 24 more accused, setting aside their acquittal by the lower court.The riot took place in May 2003 in Marad, a communally-sensitive beach village in Kozhikode, in which eight persons were killed, many were injured and some houses were damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2003-marad-riots-case-kerala-court-hands-double-life-term-to-2-accused-101637696216441.html
24-11-2021||India||Five killed, 13 injured in Tamil Nadu cylinder blast||Five persons died and 13 others were injured in a LPG gas cylinder blast in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district on Tuesday, police said.Rescue operation with heavy police deployment worked for several hours as the accident occurred in a two-storey residential house in Shevapet. A total of four families were residing in the building and the homes were completely destroyed. Several victims had been trapped under the debris, which made rescue operations harder and longer, officials said.“We reduced a 10-year girl who was crushed under the debris but she was alive. We recovered four other people from the debris in the afternoon, but they had died,” said Najmul Hoda, commissioner of police, Salem.The injured have been admitted to Salem Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. One of the survivors has more than 80% burns and is battling for life, police said. The accident occurred when one of the residents, an 80-year-old Rajalakshmi, ignited a gas stove in the morning to make tea and the cylinder exploded. The impact led to the building collapsing. Rajalakshmi succumbed to her injuries on the way to her hospital.Chief minister M K Stalin announced a relief of ₹5-lakh each to the families of the deceased and a solatium of ₹50,000 for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-13-injured-in-tamil-nadu-cylinder-blast-101637696156701.html
24-11-2021||India||Kerala high court seeks Centre, state replies on plea against PM’s photo on Covid jab certificate||The Kerala high court on Tuesday admitted a plea challenging Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on vaccination certificate and directed the Centre and state governments to file counter-affidavits. Justice N Nagaresh issued notice to the Centre and the Kerala government seeking their stand on the petition by a senior citizen who has contended that the PM’s photo on his vaccination certificate was a violation of fundamental rights.The court directed the Centre and the state to file their reply affidavits before the next date of hearing.The petitioner, Peter Myaliparampil, has contended that he had paid for the two doses of vaccine and therefore, the certificate was his “private space” with his personal details on record and therefore, it was inappropriate to intrude into the privacy of an individual.The petition reads, “Petitioner had received the paid COVID-19 vaccination from a private hospital and thereafter received a vaccination certificate. The certificate had the Prime Minister’s colour photograph and the message: “medicine and strict controls (in Malayalam), together India will defeat COVID-19 (in English)” with attribution to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”“The national campaign against COVID-19 is being converted into a media campaign for the Prime Minister. The petitioner also addressed a representation to the Central government for a vaccine certificate without the PM’s photograph but did not receive any response,” the petition further read.“Government messaging and campaigns, especially when it uses government funds, should not personify any leader of the political party. This affects the petitioner’s independent choice of voting, which has been recognised as the essence of the electoral system in People’s Union for Civil Liberties vs Union of India,” it added.“Moreover, according to the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court for campaigns using public money in Common Cause vs Union of India, no individual can be credited for the launch of an initiative or be celebrated for achievements of a certain policy of the State on government expense,” the petition reads. Peter had filed a similar petition two months ago, which was heard by Justice PB Suresh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-seeks-centre-state-replies-on-plea-against-pm-s-photo-on-covid-jab-certificate-101637696155378.html
24-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh passes resolution to keep legislative council||A day after repealing the legislations to create three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government on Tuesday withdrew its decision to abolish the state legislative council on the grounds of “putting an end to the uncertainty and ambiguity in the state legislature.” A resolution seeking to continue the existing state legislative council was introduced in the state assembly by the minister for legislative affairs and finance, Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, and adopted by the state assembly voice vote in the afternoon. The fresh resolution proposes to withdraw the statutory resolution adopted by the state assembly on January 27, 2020, under Article 169 of the Constitution of India, requesting the Centre to abolish the state legislative council. A fresh resolution will be sent to the Union home ministry for approval soon. The Jagan government had decided to abolish the legislative council last year after his government failed to get the bills on the formation of three capitals in the Upper House due to a lack of majority for the ruling YSR Congress party. Out of the total number of 58 members in the council, the YSRCP had only nine members, while the TDP had 33 members. Making a statement at the time of adopting the resolution for the abolition of the council on January 27, 2020, the chief minister said the Upper House had become a stumbling block for his government in taking important policy decisions and getting legislative approval. He also asserted that the legislative council did not serve any purpose, as there were more educated and intellectual members in the assembly. He even reasoned that the council was causing a huge burden on the state exchequer to the extent of ₹60 crores every year, which the cash-strapped state could not afford to continue. The resolution was sent to the Union home ministry, which has not taken any action on the proposal since then. Initially, the Jagan government made a couple of representations to the Centre, asking for early abolition of the legislative council. It stopped pursuing the matter later as ruling YSRCP’s strength increased due to elections periodically. Now, the strength of the YSRCP in the state council has gone up to 21 with the election of three more MLCs under the MLA’s quota. Elections to 11 other MLC seats under local bodies’ quota are underway, and since the YSRCP has captured 90 per cent of the local body seats in the recent elections, it is expected to win all 11 seats unopposed, taking the YSRCP’s council strength to 32. The legislative affairs minister told the state assembly that the state government took the decision in the wake of the failure of the Centre in deciding on the same despite constant persuasion of the matter at various levels and lapse of a considerable period of 19 months. “So, we have decided to continue the council to put an end to the prevailing situation of uncertainty and ambiguity, which is affecting the dignity and decorum, always associated with the council and its members,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-passes-resolution-to-keep-legislative-council-101637696096533.html
24-11-2021||India||Vanniyar Sangam moves court against makers of Jai Bhim film||The Vanniyar Sangam Tuesday moved district court Tuesday against Tamil film Jai Bhim alleging that certain scenes in the movie show the community in poor light. T Arulmozhi, president of the Sangam, parent body of political party Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), filed a private complaint before the second judicial magistrate in Tamil Nadu’s Chidambaram district against actor Suriya, who also produced the movie along with his wife Jyothika under the banner 2D Entertainment, director TJ Gnanavel and OTT platform Amazon Prime Video, which released it. The complaint seeks the court to proceed against the accused of their offending movie scenes and punish them for the offences under sections 153(provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (1) (promoting enmity between different groups), 499 (defamation), 500 (punishment for defamation), 503 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to breach peace) and 505 (statements conducing public mischief) of Indian Penal Code. The case was filed after the makers didn’t tender an unconditional apology as demanded. “The accused person’s reckless depiction of the Vanniyar Community in poor light with villainy and criminal bent of mind has delivered an irreparable dent in the hitherto earned high reputation of the community with one deadly blow in accused film wiping out all goodwill the Vanniyar community has enjoyed so far from all other communities,” their petition filed on Tuesday said. “Now Accused persons have created communal issues, criminal intimidation between the people and also provokes the breach of peace by inciting violence among the people in the state of Tamil Nadu.”The petition also states that they had earlier filed criminal complaints at a Chidambaram police station but had refused to register the complaint, and thereafter, the complaint was filed in Cuddalore, but no action was taken to date.Jai Bhim fictionalises a real-life case of a tribal man, Rajakannu, who was falsely implicated in a theft case and died in custody due to police torture in 1993 and the film shows how his wife and retired high court justice K Chandru fight for his justice. The case Rajakannu Versus State of Tamil Nadu and others resulted in three policemen being sentenced to 14 years rigorous imprisonment for the murder of Rajakannu.Among the contentions raised, the petition states that the movie has retained the real names of all the characters but deliberately changed the name of the sub-inspector of police (who had tortured the victim in the police custody) from his real name Anthonysamy to Gurumurthy and “repeatedly referred to him as Guru” which they said was related to the community’s prominent late leader J Guru. “The accused have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer as if he belonged to vanniyar community thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things while in real life said Sub Inspector does not belong to Vanniyar Community,” the petition states.Further, the petition states that the symbol Agni Gundam (meaning raging flame from the holy pot) has been a sacred symbol of the Vanniyar community for many centuries, which has been used in a movie scene in a calendar that is behind sub-inspector. “The accused have deliberately got printed a calendar of the year 1995 with the symbol of Agni Kundam with the caption of Kshatriya Kula Manadu, Villupuram,” the petition states. “Accused have made several symbolic representations through various scenes and dialogue in the movie insinuating that vanniyar community people are oppressing the underprivileged people in the movie,” the petition said. They added that it cannot be considered as a “casual, innocent, inadvertent mistake” in the movie which has now been viewed by millions of cine lovers across the globe which was released on November 2 on the OTT platform. The complainant states that freedom of expression cannot be used to defame the particular community and earn substantial revenue by “distorting facts”. They also pointed out that the dialogue writer of the movie, Kanmani Gunasekaran returned his remuneration saying that original facts have been suppressed and the real life-widow Parvathy that her consent was not obtained. In an interview with HT, last week, retired Justice Chandru had said that among those alive from the case only his name and the police officer I Periyasamy’s names have been retained besides the deceased Rajakannu.The controversy started when PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss wrote a letter to actor Suriya demanding answers. Suriya clarified that it was intended to show the real-life struggle of Justice Chandru and that the mistakes pointed out were immediately corrected. The film’s director, Gnanavel released a statement recently, stating that it was not intended to target or shame a particular person or community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vanniyar-sangam-moves-court-against-makers-of-jai-bhim-film-101637696095235.html
24-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: DNA report confirms parentage||Former Left student leader Anupama S Chandran and her husband Ajith Kumar are the biological parents of a one-year-old baby whose controversial adoption sparked a row in Kerala, a genetic test confirmed on Tuesday.Chandran and Kumar say that her father, a leader of the state’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), forcibly took away their child and put him up for adoption because he didn’t approve of the intercaste couple. Last month, a family court stayed the adoption process and ordered the DNA test.“This is the happiest day in my life. It is the victory of a mother,” Chandran told reporters with tears in her eyes. The couple was holding a sit-in protest outside a children’s home where the baby was kept by the authorities a week ago.Minutes after the DNA (genetic identification test) result from the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram was issued , Child Welfare Committee (CWC) authorities allowed the mother and father to see the baby. There were joyous scenes outside the venue with the parents and activists distributing sweets.“I thank the people who stood with me. I hope I will get custody of my baby soon,” said Chandran after meeting her child. She said she will continue her struggle till officials who allegedly colluded with her parents to give away the baby in a hurry were punished and reiterated her charge that “it was child trafficking.”An official of the CWC said it will inform the family court about the test and request it to take an early decision. The baby was brought from Andhra Pradesh on Sunday and DNA samples of all three (mother, father and baby) was taken on Monday.“It is a slap on the face of the government. It should take immediate action against officials who supported the adoption flouting all rules,” said K K Rema MLA, Revolutionary Socialist Party leader, who supported the young mother.“It is a great victory for the mother. Sad, not even a single woman leader from the ruling CPI(M) met her. How can they take up women issues in the future?” asked Congress leader Bindu Krishna.CPI(M) leaders didn’t comment on the development.Health minister Veena George said the government will approach the court to expedite the transfer of the baby and denied any delay on the part of the government. “We are with Anupama and we will be happy to see child’s union with his parents,” she said.In the second week of October, Chandran told reporters that her new-born baby was forcibly taken by her parents and given up for adoption, ignoring her protests. With her family being members of the ruling CPI(M), Chandran said that she took up the matter with senior leaders but was ignored.On October 20, the police filed a complaint against six people, including her parents. In her complaint, she alleged that her father, S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, took away her newborn child on the third day of delivery and handed it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (SCCW)-run orphanage in the state capital last year. The child was later given up for adoption in a hurry, flouting rules, she claimed in her complaint.But her father maintained that the baby was born out of wedlock and hence shifted to a government-run children’s home with the consent of Chandran. He said she signed on stamp paper but Chandran later said she signed under duress. She said her parents opposed her relations with her husband Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family.The issue kicked up a row cornering the ruling Left Democratic Front and the state government. Many writers and left intellectuals appealed to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to intervene, but the CM said that it was a “family affair”.However, state fisheries minister Saji Cherian criticised Chandran and backed her parents. “Her parents have done only what everyone will do in the society,” he said.Later, Chandran filed a defamation compliant against the minister and said she approached many senior leaders but failed to get justice. Party insiders admitted that the issue was denting the image of the ruling CPI(M), and their poll plank of women’s rights.The Central Adoption Resource Authority instructed the SCCW to give due weightage to the foster parents from Andhra Pradesh who were forced to hand over the baby to officials from Kerala on Sunday. A senior official of the CWC who did not want to be identified said top priority will be given to them during the next round of adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-dna-report-confirms-parentage-101637696035827.html
24-11-2021||India||UP polls: SP, RLD strike pact, discuss seat-sharing formula||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Tuesday sealed an alliance for the 2022 UP Assembly polls and also discussed a seat-sharing formula, according to people aware of the development in both parties.An RLD leader who asked not to be named said the alliance was finalised after RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the latter’s residence. Soon after, both tweeted photographs of the two of them together, with comments that indicated that a an alliance was on.In a tweet in Hindi, Akhilesh said: “Towards the change with Shri Jayant Chaudhary.” Jayant tweeted: “Badhtey kadam (taking steps forward).”“The alliance is likely to be declared formally within a day or two,” said Anil Dubey, RLD national secretary and spokesperson.The alliance between the two long-standing partners in UP has been on the cards for some time. Yadav and Chaudhary have both said several times that an alliance has almost been finalised and would be announced formally before the end of November.The RLD is likely to contest 30-40 seats (mostly in western UP, its stronghold) . Chaudhary is the grandson of former Prime Minister Charan Singh and the son of former union minister Ajit Singh.The SP has already announced an alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar’s eastern UP based Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SPSP) and a few smaller parties, including the Mahan Dal. Alliances with more small parties are in the offing including one with Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L).Since the loss in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Samajwadi Party had been reiterating that it will not ally with any big party because of its experiences with such partnerships(with Congress in 2017 UP Assembly polls and with Bahujan Samaj Party in 2019 Lok Sabha polls).The RLD enjoys support among farmers of western UP and is on the same page with the SP on the issue of opposing the Centre’s three farm laws, which the government said last week that it would repeal.The RLD and the SP have been constant companions since the 2017 UP assembly elections and contested all the assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls together since then.“This alliance seems mature with their long-standing partnership and no discord ever surfacing between the two. Both the leaders also exude the same wavelength and both parties are likely to gain in 2022 polls,” said professor SK Dwivedi, political analyst and former HoD, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-sp-rld-strike-pact-discuss-seat-sharing-formula-101637695495348.html
24-11-2021||India||Rectify injustice meted out to NEET aspirant: Supreme Court to NTA||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the National Testing Agency (NTA) to rectify the injustice meted out to a disabled medical aspirant who was denied an additional one hour at the NEET-UG 2021 and directed that in future, the rights and entitlements of students with disability appearing in the competitive examinations should be listed out clearly in the information bulletin.The petitioner, Avni Prakash, who hails from Maharashtra, suffered from dysgraphia, commonly referred to as ‘writer’s cramp’ and had a certificate of disability issued by a recognised hospital. Dysgraphia causes impaired handwriting and demonstrates inconsistent handwriting, poor spelling and spacing, transcription difficulties, and incoherence.Due to the action of NTA, she had slipped in the overall merit list prepared for persons with disabilities and demanded for an opportunity to give the examination again. The top court refused this prayer, realising that such an order will set a wrong precedent for an examination such as NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) taken by nearly 1.6 million candidates across the country.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, however, directed NTA to consider steps to be taken to rectify the injustice done to the candidate within a week and convey the same to the Registry of the Supreme Court within two weeks. The option of what is to be done was left to NTA even as the bench suggested extrapolation of marks awarded to the candidate, compensatory marks, or by adopting a “no negative marks” policy.The top court was convinced that the suffering caused to the petitioner was a consequence of inadequate knowledge at the designated examination centre with regard to facilities available to persons with disability (PwD) students coupled by an element of ambiguity in the instructions framed in the NEET Bulletin 2021.“In the future, the first respondent (NTA) shall ensure that provisions which are made at the NEET in terms of the rights and entitlements available under the right to persons with disabilities (RPwD) Act 2016 are clarified in the NEET Bulletin by removing ambiguity, as noticed in the present case,” the bench held.In the present case, the apex court left it open for NTA to relax the upper age criteria applicable to persons with benchmark disability.Holding NTA accountable for its mistake, the bench said, “Responsibility and power without accountability are an anathema to our Constitution…It is no answer for an authority bound by the dicta of law and the Constitution to throw up its hands in despair, instead of attempting to remedy the injustice which is caused to a student. A judge cannot ignore that behind the statistics is a human face, reflecting the aspirations, joy and tears of a student and her family.”The order noted August 2018 guidelines issued by the ministry of social justice and empowerment that states that every policy should have flexibility to accommodate the specific needs of PwD on a case-to-case basis. Even the NEET Bulletin 2021 provided for compensatory time of an additional hour for such candidates. Yet, the candidate’s paper was forcibly taken away at the completion of three hours and when she protested, the invigilators sought production of certificate of disability, which the court said was a requirement at the time of getting admission. The petitioner did possess a certificate of disability issued by the LTMG Sion Hospital, Paediatric Neurodevelopment Centre.The court said, “For effective participation of the students with disabilities in the society, which undoubtedly is the salutary object of the legislation, the safeguards which are provided by the law must be duly enforced and any breach of entitlement must be answerable at law.”The petitioner secured an All India Rank of 1,721 out of 2,684 candidates who qualified in the PwD category. In relation to Maharashtra, she secured rank of 249 out of 390 candidates in the same category.The bench observed, “Individual injustices originating in a wrongful denial of rights and entitlements prescribed under the law cannot be sent into oblivion on the ground that these are a necessary consequence of a competitive examination… The number of cases where such injustices take place maybe a few or more than that, but it cannot be ignored that for a student who is made to suffer, the consequence is indeed serious.”Before approaching the top court, the petitioner had appealed to the Bombay high court, which dismissed her petition on October 29. She approached the top court on November 10 in appeal against this order. The petitioner had cleared her Class XII this year with an aggregate of 87.4% marks. The NTA, during the course of the proceedings in the case, informed the bench that the petitioner had attempted 84 out of 180 questions in her NEET entrance and was awarded 166 out of 720 marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rectify-injustice-meted-out-to-neet-aspirant-supreme-court-to-nta-101637695196260.html
24-11-2021||India||Fodder case: CBI court exempts Lalu from physical hearings||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Tuesday exempted Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad from personal appearance before it during the next hearing in connection with a case relating to the fodder scam.Prasad on Tuesday was present at the special court of Prajesh Kumar, who had on November 16 summoned the former Bihar chief minister to personally appear before the court.Prasad’s counsel Sudhir Sinha pleaded for a reprieve from physical appearances, citing his client’s ailing health. “The special judge granted him the reprieve, saying that his counsel could represent him from the next hearing fixed on November 30. On the next date, the court will examine over 200 witnesses,” said Sinha.The 73-year-old leader suffers from a number of ailments, including diabetes, cardiac and renal problems. Out on bail, Prasad has been under medical supervision in Delhi while staying with his eldest daughter Misa.The fodder scam case pertains to excess withdrawals worth ₹47 lakh from the treasury of Banka and Bhagalpur districts. The CBI registered a case in the fodder scam on March 27, 1996. It filed a charge sheet naming 44 accused, including Prasad, former Bihar chief minister Jagannath Mishra, who died two years ago, and former animal husbandry minister Vidya Sagar Nishad, who died last year.In March 2012, the special CBI court framed charges against 28 accused as 16 others had died during the trial period. At present, only 22 accused are alive. Prasad has been convicted in similar cases pertaining to a number of districts in Jharkhand, which was part of undivided Bihar when he ruled the state in the 1990s.On Tuesday, the RJD chief was the only one to physically appear before the court while 21 others appeared through their lawyers, Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fodder-case-cbi-exempts-lalu-from-attending-hearing-in-court-101637695195218.html
24-11-2021||India||Congress’s Kirti Azad among three new TMC entrants||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee barely stepped out of her home in New Delhi on Tuesday. Yet, she created ripples with three leaders from other parties joining the Trinamool Congress (TMC) that is on an expansion mode to gain national prominence.Former diplomat turned ex-Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Varma, former cricketer Kirti Azad who had been in both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, and former Congress Lok Sabha MP Ashok Tanwar joined Bengal’s ruling party, marking the TMC’s biggest single-day haul in the national capital.Tanwar, who was once a close aide of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, quit the party in 2019 to float Apna Bharat Morcha. After his induction, Banerjee maintained that the TMC family is “now complete”.“I have told Tanwar to work in Haryana, and whenever he calls me, I will go there to campaign,” Banerjee said. She added that Tanwar will also be asked to campaign in Goa elections next year.Tanwar, a former president of the Congress’s youth arm Indian Youth Congress, was known for his organisational skills. He fell out with the dominant section of the Haryana Congress unit and quit the party.“Glad to be part of @AITCofficia. Indian politics is at a rare crossroads today - on one hand we’re witnessing triumph of optics, on other, tragedies of the marginalized and poor continue. The real issues are getting buried - we need a new politics to turn the tide!” Tanwar tweeted.Varma and Azad can serve as important national voices for the TMC that appears to no longer be content as Bengal’s top party. With 2024 elections due in less than three years, it wants to gain prominence at the national level and sees a scope for expansion with the Congress is on decline.“I’ll work under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee and I’ll work at the ground level. India today needs a political personality like her at the Centre,” said Azad.“TMC has the potential to become a principal challenge to the BJP,” Varma told news channel India Today.A few months ago, the TMC inducted two senior Congress leaders, Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, leading to uneasiness at the top level of the Congress party.This is the first time the TMC is aggressively inducting national-level leaders. Its third consecutive victory in the Bengal assembly election in May put the party in a prominent position nationally and its leaders say that the outfit is the only one capable of taking on the BJP effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congresss-kirti-azad-among-three-new-tmc-entrants-101637695015253.html
24-11-2021||India||Member of SC-appointed panel writes to CJI over report on farm laws||Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee on the three contentious farm laws, on Tuesday appealed to the top court to make public the report at the earliest or authorise the committee to do so.The panel, after studying the laws and consultation with stakeholders, had submitted its report to the apex court on March 19.In a letter to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, Ghanwat said: “After the government’s decision to repeal the farm laws in the coming Winter Session of the Parliament, the committee’s report is no longer relevant with regard to those laws but there are suggestions in the report on farmers’ issues that are of great public interest.”“The report can also play an educational role and ease the misapprehensions of many farmers who have, in my opinion, have been misguided by some leaders who do not seem to appreciate how a minimally regulated free market can allocate national resources to their most productive use,” he added. Ghanwat also requested the top court to direct the Union government to implement a consultative robust policy process for infusing reforms in the agricultural sector. Earlier too, in a letter dated September 1, Ghanwat had requested the CJI to release the report in public domain, saying its “recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation.”On January 12 this year, the Supreme Court, while staying the implementation of the three farm laws amid continuous protests, had constituted a three-member committee to look into these laws and suggest reforms.Ashok Gulati (agri economist and former chairman of Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices) and Pramod Kumar Joshi (agri economist and Director for South Asia at International Food Policy Research Institute) are the remaining two members of the committee. Meanwhile, Ghanwat, who is a senior leader of Maharashtra-based farmers’ union Shetkari Sanghatana, told reporters on Tuesday that he would be soon travelling across the country to unite farmers in support of reforms in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/member-of-sc-appointed-panel-writes-to-cji-over-report-on-farm-laws-101637694775156.html
24-11-2021||India||In Punjab twist, AAP chief praises Sidhu: ‘Congress stifling him’||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday praised Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for the “courage shown by him” in exposing false promises made by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government.“Yesterday, chief minister Channi claimed his government has ended the sand mafia and reduced the price of the sand. Immediately, Mr Sidhu said this information is wrong and he (Channi) is lying. He highlighted that the sand mafia is still operating and it is being sold on old prices. I salute his courage,” Kejriwal said on the second day of his two-day visit to poll-bound Punjab.He was replying to a question on the dissenting voice of the Punjab Congress chief at a press conference, where he was accompanied by AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann, in-charge of party state unit affairs Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha.Sidhu himself has said that the promises or announcements being made by Channi are lies, said Kejriwal. “Sidhu Sahib is raising people-centric issues but the entire Congress party is indulging in suppressing his voice. First it was Captain (Amarinder Singh), now it’s Channi who has indulged in suppressing him. However, he (Sidhu) is rightly raising this voice,” Kejriwal added.He also took potshots at Channi, saying the Punjab CM has not fulfilled his promises of giving free electricity to the people of the state, constructing mohalla clinics etc. “Corruption is still rampant in the state,” he said.Congress was not available for any comment.Punjab will go to assembly polls in February-March next year.Replying to a question on AAP MLAs leaving the party and joining other parties, Kejriwal said, “Ahead of elections, MLAs from all parties switch sides. Party-hopping is common everywhere. If there is completion over MLAs switching sides and joining rival parties, then I can assure there are a minimum of 25 MLAs and two MPs from the Congress party who are in touch with AAP. But we don’t want their ‘kachra’ (garbage).”Kejriwal also announced an eight-point guarantee to transform the education sector Punjab, including regularising the services of contract teachers. “Today, I am here to discuss issues pertaining to teachers. I met a few teachers yesterday. They told me that they are earning ₹10,000 per month. This is way below the minimum wage in Delhi. I promise the services of the teachers would be regularised immediately after the AAP forms government in the state.”The eight guarantees include creating a Delhi-like environment in the education sector in Punjab, regularising outsourcing and contractual teachers, implementing a transparent transfer policy, banning non-teaching work from teachers, permanent recruitment on vacant posts, sending teachers abroad for training, bringing in a transparent policy for new promotions and providing cashless medical facilities for teachers and their family members.He added, “Teachers are made to do anything but teaching. This is the condition of the entire nation. I want to promise that the teachers will be made to teach students. They won’t be allowed to carry out Census, data entry work at government offices, etc.”Meanwhile, when a journalist asked him about the party’s CM face in the state, many party workers started shouting Mann’s name. “Every party usually declares its CM candidate a few weeks before the day of polling. We will also do this. However, we will declare the face before other parties”.“I make it clear that Kejriwal is not a CM candidate,” the AAP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-punjab-twist-aap-chief-praises-sidhu-congress-stifling-him-101637694595092.html
24-11-2021||India||Japan likely to host second in-person Quad summit in January 2022||The second in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, could be hosted by Japan as early as January 2022 against the backdrop of pledges by the leadership of India, Australia, Japan and the US to forge ahead with efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.India and Japan are also exploring the possibility of holding their second 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the planned Quad Summit, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The first in-person Quad Summit was hosted by the US in Washington in September and the upcoming meeting will be the first for Japan’s new Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. Japan’s Kyodo news agency recently reported that preparations are underway to hold the next Quad Summit in Tokyo.The summit could be held as early as January and the members of the Quad have reached an understanding that the next three in-person summits should be hosted by Japan in 2022, India in 2023 and Australia in 2024, the people cited above said.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Japanese counterpart Yoshimasa Hayashi agreed during a phone conversation on Monday the two sides will work together for the “early realisation of...Kishida’s visit to India” and coordinate to hold the next 2+2 ministerial dialogue, according to a readout from Japan’s foreign ministry.The first India-Japan 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi in November 2019 and the two sides had explored the possibility of holding the second meeting in April this year. The two countries signed the Agreement on Reciprocal Provision of Supplies and Services in September 2020 to allow their militaries to access each other’s bases for logistics support, and the second 2+2 dialogue is expected to build on security cooperation across the Indo-Pacific.The next Quad Summit is set to have a packed agenda, with the key deliverable being the donation of more than 1.2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific by the end of 2022. These doses will be US-developed vaccines manufactured at India’s Biological E with financial support from the US and Japan, while Australia will back last-mile vaccine rollouts and lead in coordinating last-mile delivery efforts.Countering China’s aggressive actions across the Indo-Pacific and framing standards for critical technologies such as 5G and AI are also expected to be on the agenda, the people said.The US National Security Council coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, Kurt Campbell, said at an event organised by the United States Institute of Peace on Friday that all members of the Quad “recognise that the critical, crucial member in the Quad is India”, and Washington and New Delhi have a “desire and dynamism” to tackle problems together.Over the next year, the Quad will work on rolling out Covid-19 vaccines, creating infrastructure in Southeast Asia, investing in education and technology, including 5G, and cooperating in cyber, space and maritime domain awareness, he said.Campbell also said the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the death of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley clash in June 2020 had resulted in a “real sense of heightened tensions” between China and India. He added that it “would be difficult to exaggerate the strategic significance that has had in Delhi”, and there is a “new strategic paradigm which has forced or encouraged India to reach out and to build stronger bonds” with the US and other countries.At the same time, American participation in the Quad signals “that the US is here to stay in the Indo-Pacific and we’re going to defend and support the operating system that has been so good for so many of us for many years”, Campbell said. He also acknowledged that Chinese President Xi Jinping indicated during his recent virtual summit with US President Joe Biden that a number of things the US is doing, including Quad and AUKUS, are causing China “some heartburn”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-likely-to-host-second-in-person-quad-summit-in-january-2022-101637694297118.html
24-11-2021||India||Don’t inflame passions over CAA, Yogi warns ‘abba jaan’||The Uttar Pradesh government will initiate strict action against all those who incite passion over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The state, which used to witness violence on every third or fourth day under the previous regime, will also “not protect rioters but run bulldozers on their chest”, he added. The chief minister was addressing a convention of polling booth-level BJP leaders in Kanpur when he warned “the person who is once again trying to incite feelings in the name of CAA”. While the chief minister did not make any reference, his remark appeared to target AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi who recently demanded the withdrawal of CAA. “I am asking followers of ‘chacha jaan’ (uncle) and ‘abba jaan’ to listen carefully that if attempts are made to vitiate the atmosphere of the state by inciting feelings, the state government will deal with it strictly,” he said.In September, the chief minister had sparked a row by using the Urdu term for ‘father’, saying that rations distributed by the previous state government went to those who say “abba jaan”.In a direct attack later, Adityanath called the Hyderabad-based leader, whose party is contesting the coming UP assembly elections, an agent of the Samajwadi Party.“Everyone knows that Owaisi is inciting feelings as an agent of the SP. But now UP is not known for riots but as a riot-free state,” he said.Assuring stern action against rioters, Adityanath said: “Our government does not protect rioters but run bulldozers on their chest.” Taking a swipe at the chief minister for his remarks, Owaisi tweeted: “Not a bulldozer, they mowed down with ‘Thar’. Those who were mowed down were not rioters or mafia. They were farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri.”The AIMIM chief was referring to the October 5 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives after a vehicle belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ ran over cultivators protesting against the agricultural laws. Farmers alleged that the minister’s son, Ashish, was present inside the vehicle.“And the father (of the main accused) is still a minister. ‘Thonk dengey waley Baba, I am the agent of those who got India freedom and those who kept citizenship of Indian away from religion,” Owaisi added. Meanwhile, BJP president J P Nadda, who paid obeisance at Namdev gurdwara in Kanpur, asserted that no other leader has done the kind of work that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done for the Sikh community.He also credited Modi with ensuring that copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib reached India from Afghanistan.“Being a soldier of the BJP, I bow my head at the feet of Guru Namdev ji and say with pride that no one else has done the work that our Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done for the Sikh community and the Sikh brothers,” he told people at the gurdwara.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a lot of work for the Sikh community and has fulfilled their old demands. The prime minister has sent those involved in the 1984 riots to jail, no matter how influential they were,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-inflame-passions-over-caa-yogi-warns-abba-jaan-101637694175449.html
24-11-2021||India||Ahead of winter session, Congress calls internal meeting to plan House strategy||The renewed importance of the winter session of Parliament, one that will see repeal of the three contentious farm laws, has prompted the Congress party to call an internal, brainstorming meeting on November 25 to strategise for the session.The meeting, to be attended by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi, and party’s floor leaders, among others, will finalize the Congress’s list of demands related to the repeal bill of the three laws. The party is not in favour of continuous disruptions in the session and doesn’t want a repeat of the washed out monsoon session, senior Congress leaders insisted.The meeting is also expected to take a holistic view on other key issues, opportunities of floor coordination and the general direction of the party in both Houses of Parliament.The meeting assumes significance as the winter session would be the last full session available to the parties ahead of assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, as many of the leaders would be invariably out campaigning during the budget session.The session might also test the complex camaraderie between the Congress and the Trinamool Congress — the two parties accounting for 120 MPs in Parliament. The outfits had acted together in the previous (monsoon) session, resulting in its near washout. But this winter, the gaps between an aspirational Trinamool and a struggling Congress is widening.The uneasiness has even crept in an otherwise excellent equation of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The Trinamool chief has been camping in Delhi since Monday, but according to her aides, she has not sought any appointment with Gandhi.Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said in an interview to HT that the House must run in the session. “Let us have a well-informed debate to revisit why those acts were made. I would certainly like this session to function normally. I do not want a repeat of the monsoon session. The washout was forced upon us by the government,” he said.The Congress will support the proposal to form a committee to look into farm issues, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19. But it also wants to debate the situation in Afghanistan and India’s neighbourhood scenario, the border situation in the light of the India-China conflict and a debate on environmental issues in the light of the Modi’s promises in the Glasgow climate summit.Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will call an all-party meeting for their respective Houses. The government has called an all-party meeting on November 28, to be attended by the Prime Minister, to discuss the farm repeal bills and the proposed committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-winter-session-congress-calls-internal-meeting-to-plan-house-agenda-101637693997027.html
24-11-2021||India||Chinese cemetery of 1962 war, Galwan clashes to serve as ‘education base’||A high-altitude, wind-swept military cemetery in Xinjiang which houses the tombs of more than 100 Chinese soldiers who died fighting Indian troops during the 1962 war and in the Galwan Valley clash last year is being renovated to serve as a base for patriotic education.The desolate cemetery was designated a Communist Party of China (CPC) “education base” in September, and large-scale renovation work is currently ongoing, a report published by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) portal said last weekend.The designation of the Kangxiwar Martyrs’ Cemetery as a patriotic education base and its renovation was hastened after a Chinese travel blogger managed to enter the site in July and click smiling selfies, triggering an online furore in the country.On November 15, the blogger was jailed for seven months for dishonouring dead soldiers.The cemetery is likely the first such “patriotic education base” in connection with Sino-India military history.“Patriotic education” or “demonstration” bases are a strategic part of the ruling CPC’s efforts to spread party propaganda in the country, especially this year, the CPC’s 100th anniversary.As of 2019 September, there were more than 470 such bases in China.The Kangxiwar Martyrs’ Cemetery, located 4,280 metres, or more than 14,000 feet, above sea level in the Karakorum mountains in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR), is China’s highest cemetery.Located some 100km from a stretch of the disputed Sino-India border, it was built in 1965 to commemorate dozens of PLA soldiers killed in the 1962 India-China war.Currently, it houses gravestones in memory of 108 Chinese troops, including four who China acknowledged were killed in Galwan Valley in June 2020 during the border clash with Indian soldiers. The remains of many have also been moved to the deceased’s home towns.In September, the cemetery was designated as a patriotic education base by the Xinjiang government following the launch of the renovation project in August.“In August this year, the renovation project of the cemetery with the theme of ‘Heroes of Border Defence, Monument of the Plateau’ was officially launched and is expected to be completed in November next year. It is a great consolation to the (deceased) heroes and their families,” the official PLA portal said in a report last weekend.Chinese travel blogger Li Qixian triggered an online storm after posting photos of himself stepping on a stone engraved with the name of the cemetery.Li then posed next to the tomb of Chen Xiangrong, one of the four PLA soldiers killed at Galwan Valley, with a smile on his face and pointing his fingers at the tomb in a pistol-like gesture.Li is now in jail for “infringing upon the reputation and honour of the martyrs.”He has been blacklisted by China’s tourism authors and is expected to make a televised public confession this week.At least nine persons have so far been arrested, detained or have had proceedings initiated against them for insulting the “PLA heroes and martyrs” online.China passed a law in 2018 that criminalised the act of insulting or slandering “heroes and martyrs”.Those found guilty face up to three years’ in jail under an amendment to the law that took effect this March, just weeks after China acknowledged its Galwan Valley casualty figures for the first time, though the number is disputed by security officials in India.During investigation into how Li could access the cemetery, military and civilian authorities found that the cemetery had fallen into disrepair. Investigators, according to the online report, found that the memorial facilities were broken and inscriptions on tombs had blurred.“The overall facility was outdated and in disrepair, and there was no special place for displaying historical materials of heroes and martyrs,” the report said.Interestingly, the remains of more PLA soldiers were found in the area, the report said, adding that authorities were conducting DNA tests to identify them.Indian and Chinese militaries have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border.Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-cemetery-of-1962-war-galwan-clashes-to-serve-as-education-base-101637693995740.html
24-11-2021||India||Cabinet may clear draft legislation to repeal farm laws today||The Union cabinet is likely to approve a draft bill on Wednesday to set in motion a legislative process to repeal three contentious farm laws at the heart of a massive year-long farmers’ agitation.An official familiar with the development said the draft bill has been vetted by the law department.The Cabinet’s nod will allow the government to table the “repeal bill” in Parliament to revoke three separate laws enacted by the government in Sept 2020 to liberalise trade in farm produce.A bulletin from the Lok Sabha on Tuesday evening listed the The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 as one of the 26 pieces of legislation to be introduced in the winter session of Parliament, which begins on November 29.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Nov 19 announced that his government will revoke the laws during the winter session of Parliament. The laws had drawn out tens of thousands of farmers in protests.Under Article 245, Parliament is vested with powers to both pass and annul laws. If Parliament is in recess, the government can repeal or enact laws by bringing an ordinance, which needs to be ratified by Parliament later.The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping a legislation is largely the same, experts said. A fresh repealing bill needs to be approved by Parliament in case of junking an existing law.“A bill to repeal an existing law and its passage is all that is needed. It has to be passed by a majority like any other law,” said GC Malhotra, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha.The three farm laws that will be repealed are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.These laws were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement.Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power.The decision to scrap the laws comes ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-may-clear-draft-legislation-to-repeal-farm-laws-today-101637693816835.html
24-11-2021||India||Tripura: SC refuses to delay municipal polls, asks for report on unrest||Municipal elections will not be postponed in Tripura but police will have to submit within two days an action-taken report on incidents of violence in the state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Supreme Court said on Tuesday.“Postponing elections is a matter of last and extreme resort,” a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Vikram Nath said. “While we are not inclined to accede to the prayer for postponing polls, we are equally of the view that it is the duty of the director general of police (DGP), the inspector general of police (IGP – law and order) and the home secretary of the state of Tripura to assuage any misgivings about the fairness of the law enforcement machinery in supporting the electoral process.”The top court was hearing a petition by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) alleging contempt against the Tripura administration and police for failing to ensure a safe environment for campaigning to take place ahead of the municipal polls for 334 seats in urban local bodies. This includes 13 municipal councils, six nagar panchayats, and 51 wards of Agartala municipal corporation.The last date for campaigning ended on Tuesday. Voting is to take place on Thursday, followed by counting of votes on Monday.Hours after the apex court judgment, the Tripura police said that measures were taken to ensure free and peaceful civic polls on November 25 in over 200 seats. The ruling BJP has already won uncontested 112 out of the total 334 seats earlier.A total of 644 polling stations have been set up of which 370 have been identified as ‘ A’ category and rest 274 as ‘B’ category. Four Tripura State Rifles and armed police personnel each would be deployed in ‘A’ and ‘B’ category polling stations. Additionally, two sections of Central Reserve Police Force ( CRPF) were deployed at strong room and government press. All returning officers and observers were provided personal security officers.“After the directions of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, additional 15 sections of CRPF are also being provided for the Agartala municipal elections and outside,” said a statement from the assistant inspector general of police.Police said it registered 57 cases, launched a special drive to execute total 161 pending warrants and made 433 preventive arrests after announcement of the civic polls. “DGP Tripura calls upon all the eligible voters to exercise their franchise fearlessly and freely. Tripura police has made elaborate arrangements to ensure free and fair elections,” said the statement quoted above.Earlier in the day, the TMC, represented by lawyers Jaideep Gupta and Gopal Sankaranarayanan, painted a grim picture of the situation in the state, saying that violence against their candidates and party functionaries continued unabated even as police remained a mute spectator. The party earlier secured an order on November 11, when the top court directed police and state authorities to secure a free and unhindered environment for the petitioner to exercise their political rights.“It is a complete terror state,” Sankaranarayanan said, pointing out how the court’s order was flouted as he listed out 17 complaints where no arrests were made. Gupta informed the judges that several opposition candidates have withdrawn their candidatures fearing a threat to life. He referred to a news report to show that the BJP is set to win 112 seats even prior to the elections, as their candidates are unopposed. Both lawyers requested the court to postpone the polls by a week to restore confidence of political parties and the electorate.Concerned over these allegations, the bench called for a report on the deployment of security forces in the state. In addition to the three battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), two more CRPF battalions are being drafted at Agartala, said advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the state.These were in addition to the Tripura Rifles and local police, he said. On the allegation of inaction on first information reports (FIRs), Jethmalani accused the petitioners of making a mountain out of a molehill as the allegations pertained to scuffles and minor offences for which arrests were not necessary.The bench issued a slew of directions, asking the DGP and IGP to hold an emergency meeting with the state election commission on the eve of the polls and assess requirement of further deployment of central paramilitary troops in critical areas. In view of the additional requirement, the court said that upon such a request being made to the Union home ministry, the same shall be duly considered.With a direction already issued by the apex court on November 11 asking police to submit an action-taken report detailing steps taken to ensure free and fair polls, the bench supplemented it with an order asking the state to provide a chart showing each complaint received, registration of FIR, action taken pursuant to it, and arrests made.Requiring the information by the next date of hearing on Thursday, the bench said, “The law enforcement agencies must discharge their duties in an evenhanded and non-partisan manner to obviate the grievance which has been urged before this court that candidates and supporters of the AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) are being unfairly targeted by contesting political groups.”The affidavit to be filed by the state will have to contain detailed steps taken on multiple fronts – preserve law and order, ensure security for political workers, voters and contesting candidates, protect the electoral process leading up to the counting of votes and the declaration of the results, and to deal with criminal offenders.The direction came with a subtle warning by the judges. “The DGP and state home secretary shall observe these directions scrupulously so as to obviate the need for the court to adopt coercive steps in the event that a breach of its directions comes to light,” the judges said.The BJP criticised the TMC over the issue.“The Supreme Court rejected the petitions filed by the All India Trinamool Congress to postpone the civic polls. The verdict of the apex court is victory of democracy and Tripura people. We have been observing the conspiracy that was hatched to mar the polls that came to light now,” said state law minister Ratan Lal Nath.Another BJP leader, Sudip Roy Barman, appeared to criticise the party’s leadership. “The childish leadership of the parachuted leader failed to identify the main political opponents. I don’t have any personal quarrel but some activities going on here are marring the name of party and the party leadership, “ he said.TMC leader Kunal Ghosh said, “We welcome Sudip Roy Barman that he unveiled the mask of the BJP hooligans. The TMC has gained mass acceptance in the state and that’s why, the BJP is taking attempts to obstruct the polling. Instead of attacking the oppositions and harassing common people, the ruling BJP should show us if they can drop him from the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-in-tripura-supreme-court-refuses-to-delay-municipal-polls-asks-for-report-on-unrest-101637693696463.html
24-11-2021||India||‘Jaganmohan has damaged the brand that was Andhra’: Chandrababu Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Chandrababu Naidu broke down in the Andhra Pradesh assembly on Friday, vowing not to re-enter the House till he becomes chief minister again. He spoke about his plans and the outburst that surprised many. Edited excerpts: You broke down in the state assembly the other day and resolved not return to the House till you’re chief minister again. What caused the emotional outpouring that’s unusual for a leader of your experience and standing?I have fought many opponents in the 40 years of my public life. But what we’re facing today is unprecedented, be it corruption, misuse of power and victimisation of the people and the political class opposed to Jaganmohan Reddy. As chief minister, he tolerates no dissent. The police under him are one-sided in their approach. False cases have been registered against me and my party leaders and workers. Rowdy elements were sent to attack my residence. When my party (Telugu Desam) workers turned up in my defence, they were booked by police. They claimed the troublemakers came to discuss issues with me. I want to ask what issues do rowdy elements have to discuss with the leader of opposition who is an NSG (national security guard) protectee on account of the naxal threat? You talked about unpleasant references to your wife during the assembly proceedings.Andhra has become a hub for drugs. They’re commercially cultivating ganja worth ₹20,000 crore per annum on 25,000 acres of land. We raised the issue in the media and on the streets. That led to an attack on the Telugu Desam party headquarters. In the assembly session that followed, they character assassinated my wife, who is not in politics.Was she attacked because she’s from a political family, being the late NTR’s daughter and your wife? Yes. By singling us out, Jaganmohan is signalling to others that he’d brook no opposition. He wants to muzzle dissent to silence people into submission. Isn’t your image of a strong leader compromised by the way you broke down, deciding not to show up during the tenure of the current assembly?I’m strong but at the same time, I’m human and sentimental. That’s my self-image and that of the political class and public servants we need.Elections in Andhra are due in April 2024. In the long interregnum, how would you fulfil the mandate to be the opposition? Will all 23 Telugu Desam MLAs boycott the assembly?We’ll decide on our MLAs’ role before the next assembly session. We respect the fact that we were voted to sit in the opposition. Our task is to raise questions the government has to answer. But they’re not allowing us to speak, leave alone responding to our arguments. Instead of handing us the mike, they abuse us, using filthy language. I’ll go to the people to tell them that the chief minister is subverting the role they willed for us. He wants to destroy all opposition. I’m targeted personally because I’m an obstacle to his nefarious designs. But I’d keep fighting to restore Andhra’s prestige and that of its people, especially women. You also faced Jaganmohan’s father YS Rajasekhara Reddy when he was chief minister. How’s it different now?Rajasekhara was a political opponent with whom one could fight on issues. Even he couldn’t control his son, who always relied on strong-arm, unlawful tactics. He’s a threat to the political and social life of Andhra, which we had turned into a global brand. He has damaged the attributes that made the state the destination of world leaders such as Bill Clinton, Tony Blair and Mahathir Mohamad. Be it the legislature, the executive or the judiciary, our entire democratic ecosystem is in peril on account of his shenanigans. Hasn’t Jaganmohan shown sensitivity to public opinion by withdrawing the legislations he brought to set up three state capitals?He reversed the laws to pre-empt an adverse court decision. He didn’t repeal them out of respect for popular sentiment. He has no regard for what people think or want. He told the assembly that he’d reintroduce the bills after changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaganmohan-has-damaged-the-brand-that-was-andhra-he-wants-to-muzzle-dissent-eliminate-all-opposition-chandrababu-naidu-101637693455019.html
24-11-2021||India||India, Russia close to sealing AK-203 deal||India is working towards concluding a ₹5,100-crore deal with Russia to jointly manufacture AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India next month for an annual summit, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The defence ministry on Tuesday gave its final clearance to the proposed deal, HT has learnt.The joint venture between Kalashnikov and a new weapons manufacturing division carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) seeks to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign).The project envisages the production of up to 700,000 AK-203 assault rifles. All outstanding issues relating to cost and indigenous content in the weapons have been ironed out and India’s defence ministry is looking at an early conclusion of the deal, one of the officials cited above said.“There are no pending issues and the Amethi facility is ready to kick off production next year after the deal is signed,” said another official. Both officials declined to be named.In August 2020, the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted some key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 assault rifles to be made in India with transfer of technology from Russia.The government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the past two years. These include raising foreign direct investment in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying 209 defence items, including assault rifles, which cannot be imported.India set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent more than ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation seven new defence companies carved out of OFB. He said these entities will play a critical role in helping the country cut down military imports in line with the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. One of those units, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited, will be involved in manufacturing the AK-203 rifles.Putin’s two-day visit to India for the annual summit, expected to be held on December 6, will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is expected to coincide with Putin’s visit.India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit, people familiar with planning for the meeting said on condition of anonymity. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.India is also looking at the acquisition of additional Su 30-MKI and MiG-29 combat jets and 400 more T-90 tanks from Russia.The maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, which was earlier to be held during November, is now expected to be held around the same time as the annual summit. The developments in Afghanistan and related challenges such as terrorism and drug trafficking are expected to figure in the 2+2 dialogue.India currently has 2+2 dialogues only with the US, Australia and Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-close-to-sealing-ak-203-deal-101637692974392.html
24-11-2021||India||Mahant Giri was living in mental trauma, being threatened by disciple: CBI||Mahant Narendra Giri, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of all Hindu monastic orders, was living in such grave mental trauma due to the threat and fear created by Anand Giri, Adhya Prasad Tiwari and Sandeep Tiwari that he was compelled to die by suicide on September 20 at Baghambari Math in Prayagraj, according to the charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on November 20. Although Mahant Narendra Giri was under psychological pressure for months, a threat by Anand Giri to circulate purported objectionable videos and audios of the Mahant and a woman triggered him to take the extreme step that day “to avoid defamation and insult in the eyes of society, his followers and devotees”, added the charge sheet, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. The threat was first issued by Anand Giri on May 23 during a call between him, Mahant Ravinder Puri of Niranjani Akhara (Haridwar) and Narendra Giri. The call was supposed to iron out differences between Anand Giri and the Mahant over his expulsion from Baghambari Gaddi and Bade Hanuman Temple for alleged misappropriation of funds and continuing to maintain close ties with his family, which is against the tradition of a sanyasi. The Mahant had also removed Adhya Prasad Tiwari and his elder son Dilip Tiwari as priests of the Bade Hanuman temple and took back a flower shop inside the premises, run by Tiwari’s younger son, Sandeep Tiwari. “During the said conversation, accused Anand Giri threatened Mahant Narendra Giri that he is in possession of many objectionable audio and videos. The wordings of Anand Giri were – ‘Mai aapko bhejunga to apke pairo ki zameen khisak jayegi aise aise video, audio mere pass hai (you will be shocked to know the kind of videos and audio I have on you)’,” stated the charge sheet.CBI says Narendra Giri was under so much duress following the threat that he asked from a few people whether videos/photos of one person can be edited showing face of other person with the help of computer.“On September 20, he (the Mahant) also told Manish Kumar Shukla and Abhishek Mishra (his disciples) that he was very disturbed as he had received reliable information that Anand Giri was going to release edited videos showing him with some woman,” according to the charge sheet. Narendra Giri also spoke to Mahant Santosh Dass alias Satuaa Baba in Varanasi about this. Santosh Das is the chief of the Satuaa Baba ashram near Manikarnika Ghat in Varanasi.In the run up to the suicide, between September 10 and 12, Narendra Giri also indirectly enquired from a couple of his disciples about Celphos (a fumigant) and the time it takes someone to die after consuming it, the agency has claimed. And a day before dying by suicide, he asked his disciple Sarvesh Dwivedi to bring a nylon rope from the market to fix it on the roof for drying clothes.He was found hanging in mysterious circumstances inside the Math on September 20; he left behind a seven-page suicide note blaming the accused. CBI filed the charge sheet in the case on Saturday in the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Allahabad charging the three accused of abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy. Describing the motive behind the crime, the agency said that the accused hatched a criminal conspiracy to compel/force Mahant Narendra Giri to revoke Anand Giri’s expulsion as well as return the flower shop to the Tiwaris, It adds that their objective was to get “their position in the Baghambari Gaddi and Bade Hanuman Mandir back” and that “ in pursuance thereof (they) humiliated and harassed (Narendra Giri) mentally and psychologically”. All three accused are currently in judicial custody. Advocate Sunil Pandey, one of the lawyers appearing for Anand Giri and the other accused, said, “Narendra Giri and Anand Giri were ‘Guru and Shishya’, the dispute between the two was a misunderstanding due to formation of one ‘Ganga Sena’ by Anand Giri as Narendra Giri wanted that Anand Giri must concentrate on the Baghambari Gaddi and not on creating any such outfit or body . However, the misunderstanding was cleared but some people surrounding Narendra Giri tried to take advantage of the situation.”“CBI has filed a voluminous document and at present we are going through the charge sheet. Once done, we will file a bail application before the high court,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-giri-was-living-in-mental-trauma-being-threatened-by-disciple-cbi-charge-sheet-101637692914372.html
24-11-2021||India||Bill to ban cryptocurrency part of govt’s Parliament agenda||A bill that “seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India” is among 26 pieces of legislation planned to be brought to Parliament in the session beginning next week, according to a Lok Sabha release on Tuesday -- the clearest sign yet that the Union government is moving to ban instruments such as Bitcoin for transactions in the country.India at present has no regulation for cryptocurrencies – a set of decentralised digital currencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum that are not regulated by any sovereign banking regulator. No official data is available but industry estimates suggest there are 15 million to 20 million crypto investors in India, with total crypto holdings of around ₹40,000 crore ($5.39 billion), Reuters reported, although some exchanges peg this value as high as $10 billion. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 seeks “to create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The Bill also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses,” said the bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha. On November 13, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to discuss the future of cryptocurrencies, amid concerns that unregulated crypto markets could become avenues for money laundering and terror financing, a person aware of the matter said, asking not to be named. The RBI had in 2018 banned the banking system from cryptocurrency transactions, which was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2020.It is unclear as of now the nature of options the government may or may not give for people who hold cryptocurrencies, although people aware of the matter have said in the past that people could be allowed a window to liquidate their holdings and pay taxes on gains.“After the meeting, it was agreed that various unscrupulous elements are trying to mislead Indian youth by positioning cryptocurrency as the shortest, quickest and surest way to become rich. Similarly, several people are indulging in non-transparent advertising, risking gullible people, which the government wants to be stopped,” said the person quoted above. The meeting was held after consultations with experts in government agencies and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), after which the government concluded that these should be banned. Independent stakeholders, including the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) urged the government to put in regulation instead of an outright ban.A senior leader from an opposition party, who asked not to be named, said they will ask for “the bill to be referred to a parliamentary panel”.The government, however, intends to move ahead with a plan to authorise the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to float its own digital currency. Technically known as a central bank digital currency (CBDC), these are distinct from cryptocurrencies in the manner that they are regulated by a centralised authority – the central bank. In India’s case, people aware of the matter said previously that this domestic digital currency could be initially pegged at a 1:1 ratio with the rupee. The bill could also allow for the use of technologies known as blockchain and distributed ledgers, which underpin the cryptocurrency mechanism but have been used also to create secure records and identity management.Countries are at present divided on how to approach the regulation of cryptocurrencies. According to an October 2021 note by Fitch Ratings, the exposure of American corporate and financial institutions to cryptocurrencies is predicted to grow – several companies, such as Tesla, have accepted Bitcoin for payments, and plan to resume doing so if concerns over their environmental impacts are addressed.On September 24, China banned cryptocurrencies and rolled out its own digital currency, known as the e-CNY.A Fitch report on CBDCs from May 2021 said such digital currencies have the potential to boost cashless payments and wider digitalisation of economies. “For central banks in some emerging markets, a key driver for researching CBDCs is the opportunity to bring underbanked communities into the financial system, and improve the cost, speed and resilience of payments.”“The world’s biggest economies and their central banks have announced they are working on CBDCs: the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the European Central Bank are trailing behind the People’s Bank of China, which already is testing its CBDC with more than 50,000 citizens. The Bahamas issued its central bank digital currency – the “sand dollar” – in October,” it added.The difference between a decentralised and centralised currency is at the heart of the arguments for and against both kinds of digital currencies. While cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin offer anonymity of the nature of cash bills and draw their value from its demand and supply, they do not carry any sovereign guarantees making collapses in value immitigable. On the other hand, CBDCs do not carry such risks but they do not offer the anonymity of cash. Additionally, experts have raised concerns over the impact on banking institutions that currently act as intermediaries in the financial system.“This is a big moment for India. From a banking ban in 2018 to listing the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 in the Parliament’s winter session. Our nation has come a long way in these 3 years! It speaks volumes about how India is determined to dominate the web 3.0 era,” said Nischal Shetty, founder of Wazirx, a cryptocurrency exchange. “While the description of the draft bill appears to be the same as in January 2021, several noteworthy events have occurred since January. First, the Parliamentary Standing Committee invited a public consultation, and then our Prime Minister himself came forward to call for crypto regulations in India. That being said, let’s respectfully wait to find out more about the draft bill to be tabled in the Parliament,” Shetty added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-ban-crypto-part-of-govt-s-parl-agenda-101637692855736.html
24-11-2021||India||Odisha man says 63 chickens died due to ‘loud music’; complaint filed||The queer case of a wedding and 63 funerals is playing out at Kandagaradi village in Odisha’s Balasore district, leaving local police bemused.The wedding was that of Ramachandra Parida’s daughter. At 11 pm on Sunday night, the wedding procession entered the village. As is the norm these days, even in villages, there was a DJ, loud music, even fireworks.The deaths (not funerals), were of 63 chickens in a poultry farm belonging to Ranjit Parida, Ramachandra Parida’s neighbour, who claims his birds died of shock from the loud music. He also claims that he argued with the wedding party about the loudness of their music, but to no avail. The roughly 2000 birds in his poultry farm were agitated by the music, he adds. And 63 died. On Monday, he filed a complaint at the Nilagiri police station alleging that the birds died of shock from the loud music and the fireworks.Ramchandra Parida claims that the allegation is frivolous. “So many broiler chickens are transported on the road every day amid blaring horns. How is it possible that the birds in his farm died due to DJ music? In any case we lowered the volume of the music.”Nilagiri police station inspector-in-charge Droupadi Das said she has called both Paridas for a discussion on the complaint. “Such a case is completely new for me. We are yet to register the case and may to have consult a veterinarian.”Parida, 22, an engineering graduate who in 2019 borrowed ₹200,000 from a local cooperative to start his farm said he tried to revive the chickens after they collapsed. He adds that he checked with a veterinary doctor who said that it was the loud noise that killed the birds.He initially sought compensation from his neighbour, but after it was refused, filed the complaint.Prof Suryakanta Mishra, a zoology professor who had authored a book on animal behaviour, said that loud noise does increase the risk of cardiovascular disease in birds. “Chickens are governed by a circadian rhythm that is controlled by the natural light/dark cycle of day and night. As such, chickens mostly rest and are inactive at night, especially when it is dark. Sudden excitement or stress due to loud music could disrupt their biological clock.”No details are available on what music the DJ was playing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-says-63-chickens-died-due-to-loud-music-complaint-filed-101637692374357.html
24-11-2021||India||Third wave of pandemic won’t be as severe as previous ones: AIIMS director||The third wave of the coronavirus pandemic may not have the same severity as the first two as fewer Covid-19 cases in India indicate that the vaccines have been effective in providing protection against the viral disease, All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria said on Tuesday.“It is unlikely that the third wave of Covid-19 of a magnitude comparable to the first and second will hit India. With time, the pandemic will take an endemic form. We'll continue to get cases but the severity will be highly reduced,” Guleria was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.India has been witnessing a fall in its daily tally of Covid-19 cases for a week now. On Tuesday, the country logged 7,579 infections—the lowest in 543 days and also the second consecutive day that new cases remained below the 10,000-mark.Guleria also said that there is no need for booster doses right now since there is no surge in Covid-19 cases but the government should focus on inoculating those who still have not taken a single dose and also on those whose second jab is overdue.The AIIMS director, however, asked people to exercise caution. “We have to be watchful and careful of all the viruses in the world in this world of quick mobility,” he said.Guleria was speaking at the book launch of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava’s ‘Going Viral: Making of Covaxin - The Inside Story’.ICMR’s Bhargava also said that there is currently no scientific evidence to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against Covid-19.On Monday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a meeting with officials to discuss low vaccination rates in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry. These states and Union Territories are yet to inoculate at least 70 per cent of their population with the first dose.The government has also launched the month-long ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign for inoculating those who are yet to get their first dose and also vaccinating those who are overdue on their second dose.India is aiming to vaccinate its entire population by the end of this year but low vaccination rates in certain states coupled with people delaying their second dose could be a cause of concern, according to some medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-pandemic-won-t-be-as-severe-as-previous-ones-aiims-director-101637686974345.html
24-11-2021||India||A mother daughter duo and a news podcast||Stuck inside all summer during the nasty old COVID-19 pandemic, all Leela Sivasankar Prickitt and her mother Lyndee Prickitt could do to feel connected to the world was report on it. And so Newsy Pooloozi, a podcast was born!In a candid chat, they spill the beans on their initiative to connect to the world via a podcast. What inspired you to do a children’s news podcast which is a very rare thing?Leela: Both my parents are journalists so if I wanted a say in the conversation, I needed to know the news. Since the lockdown we were stuck in our Delhi apartment which is kind of boring and mamma over here was sick of baking, believe it or not. I started baking by myself too but that`s not anything compared to Newsy Pooloozi. I was a podcast nerd. I listened to podcasts at breakfast, lunch, dinner, and every time in between. We decided why don’t we start a podcast because even mamma liked podcasts but we also thought about what kind of podcast. A news podcast I had never heard of so I said why not a world news podcast. There are a few world news podcasts out there.Lyndee: Actually there are a few children’s news podcasts but none of them are world news. Basically, it started as a lockdown project because being stuck in a hot Delhi apartment and being sick of baking what else could we do with our time and since Leela was such a podcast fanatic, when I mentioned would you like to start your own podcast, she was so excited that she literally jumped on the sofa.Why did you name the podcast Newsy Jacuzzi?Leela: We didn’t. Our family did, my dad actually recommended the name.Lyndee: Because we wanted something fun the kids would like and boy they had fun saying it, Leela and all the other kids. All the kids correspondents and Leela especially love saying it and it fits because Jacuzzi is like a bubbling, whirling, swirling pool and that`s kind of what news can be too. It’s like all this news is bubbling around you. But we have changed and when we rebranded we wanted something equally fun to say.Did you face any hardships in re-branding the podcast? Lyndee: Well, when we found out the news it was pretty stressful. Yes, there were some tears but no blood thankfully, but there were some tears. We weren’t that emotional but it was stressful. It had become like a part of the family. It was something we created together and it was pretty emotional and also happened around the time of Leela’s birthday. It was pretty rotten. But you know, we just roll with the punches and now we are just figuring out how to get around it and so it made us tougher. It kind of showed us some life lessons, toughened us up a bit.Leela: We banged our heads against the wall, kidding. I loved the name Newsy Jacuzzi. It also happened around my birthday and sort of came like a present, a horrible surprise. It made me tougher, I don’t know how exactly but it just did because I have gone through a hard experience so I think that if another hard experience comes any day now, I will be pretty okay with it, not thoroughly okay but I would know how to handle it. What kind of news do you cover in the podcast? Lyndee: We always start with the big news story of the week, which can be politics or whatever is current in the news around the world but sometimes its science because science is absolutely underplayed in the mainstream media and is absolutely fascinating especially to kids so we always love to have science stories, we call them the World of Wow. We also have ace stories that are arts, culture, and entertainment and in culture, we like to feature a lot of different cultural events, festivals. We do festivals whether it’s religious or secular festivals from around the world so Halloween, Diwali, Eid, the hungry ghost festival, you name it. If it is happening in the world we want to bring it to kids’ attention and that’s how we like to spread knowledge and information. We also do text stories and we also like to end with an oddball to keep you smiling. Yes, we also have a silly story at the endLeela: It’s not silly, it`s educationalLyndee: Yeah, it’s an educational story that’s a bit silly to make sure you end the podcast with a smile.How has this affected your relationship with your daughter?Lyndee: It is interesting because this happened during the lockdown when I also had to be her virtual assistant teacher so I was her mom, her producer, and her assistant teacher and at a certain point it became too much. I said to Leela I can be your mom, I can be your producer, your assistant teacher but I cannot be all three. One of them has got to go and I don’t want to not be your mother and out of these, she said the assistant teacher is out of the window. So, she prefers me as her producer rather than an assistant teacher because that was really becoming stressful. So, you know we had to find a new way of working and in some ways, it was interesting because as her parent I had to rely a lot on her. Usually, as a parent of a young kid, you are the one that`s always relied upon so there’s been a change in the dynamic where we have to work well together and you know what they say doesn’t work with animals and children now I know why. No, I am just kidding. In some parts, I am really tense but for most parts, it’s really fun and it`s for sure made us closer.What are the future plans for the podcast?Lyndee: Well, first of all, we are going to get some really cool merchandise. We are already getting it together. Some business cards, some pencils, some stickers, t-shirts because we are now Newsy Pooloozi so we thought why don’t we celebrate and maybe also add mugs and water bottles. We have two other bits of information we would like to share. We have just signed some contracts with some really interesting and totally different companies. One is ‘DIY.org’, they produce educational training videos for kids and we are about to be doing their ‘How to make a podcast’ video series for them and that’s exciting. The second thing is that our content every week is going to be licensed and going to be taken for a program that helps children learn how to read called `Listen wise’. They are based in America and work with 1000 of schools and they want some of our content so that they can help the kids be interested in world events, so those are some exciting things coming on the horizon for us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-mother-daughter-duo-and-a-news-podcast-101637668013417.html
24-11-2021||India||Manish Tewari’s views on UPA action after 26/11 attacks trigger controversy||Congress’ Member of Parliament Manish Tewari’s announcement of his upcoming book created a controversy when its excerpts seemed to suggest that the former union minister was in favour of a tougher response to the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks or 26/11 attacks as they’ve come to be known. The attack, orchestrated by handlers from Pakistan, saw 10 Lashkare-Taiba terrorists come in from the sea and take hostages at the Taj mahal Palace Hotel and the Oberoi Hotel for 60 hours. By the end of the attack, 172 people were dead.The contentious passage of the book 10 Flashpoints; 20 Years as released by Rupa publications reads: ``For a state that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength; it is perceived as a symbol of weakness. There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done. It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India’s 9/11.’’Tewari didn’t respond to HT’s queriesAt that time, Tewari was an official spokesperson of the Congress party and in UPA 2, he became the Information and Broadcasting minister. The Bhartiya Janata party lost no time in using the excerpt to attack the Congress. Party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said that the book proved how ``useless’ the UPA government was and how it was ``soft on Pakistan’’. ``Instead of focussing on countering Pakistan, they were busy with “saffron terror”,’’ said Bhatia, referring to what the BJP and some right wing groups see as an attempt by the then government to foist fake cases against Hindu organisations. Other senior BJP leaders including CT Ravi and Union Minister Pralhad Joshi also attacked the opposition party.Lok Sabha floor leader of the Congress Adhir Chowdhury said, “Tewari should focus more on China that has captured many of our areas in Ladakh and built villages in Arunachal Pradesh. He is regaining consciousness now. Why had he not talked about it that time?”Tewari only response to the controversy was to tweet: “I am rather amused at @BJP4India reaction to one excerpt from a 304 Page book that tries to dissect responses to National Security Situations that Impacted India.I wonder would they react similarly to some “hard analysis’ about their handling of the National Security Remit also?’’. Tewari is one of the group of 23 Congress leaders that have been campaigning for internal reform and democracy by holding elections to every party post.The Maharashtra government set up a high level inquiry commission after the attacks and Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving terrorist was hanged post a high profile trial. India ended peace talks with Pakistan and built international pressure for it to act against Lashkar and its terror activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excerpts-from-new-book-suggest-tewari-wanted-tougher-response-to-26-11-attacks-101637665253167.html
24-11-2021||India||Galwan clash hero Colonel Santosh Babu awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumously||Colonel B Santosh Babu, 37, who was killed during the clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in 2020, was on Tuesday posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for extraordinary courage and leadership, by President Ram Nath Kovind at an investiture ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. Babu’s widow, B Santoshi, and mother, B Manjula, received the award.The President also awarded Vir Chakra (VrC) to five other Galwan braves who fought off numerically superior Chinese troops on June 15, 2020. Four of them were awarded the VrC posthumously. The MVC is India’s second-highest wartime gallantry award followed by the VrC.The posthumous VrC awardees are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar), Havildar K Palani (81 Field) Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab). Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium) was the only living recipient of the wartime honour. The brutal clash pushed the India-China bilateral relationship to a breaking point.The wartime honours given on Tuesday were announced by the government on Republic Day 2021.Babu’s citation said: “Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to pushback Indian troops. Despite being grievously injured, Colonel Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position.”Also Read: China ties passing through bad patch, says JaishankarTwenty Indian soldiers were killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point (PP) 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Apart from 16 Bihar; soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in what was the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades.The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to cool border tensions.The squad, however, found that a few tents and an observation post were still intact and the Chinese soldiers had not retreated from PP-14. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.Reversing the trust deficit created by the Galwan clash has proved to be enormously hard. India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector for over 18 months, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border.India has deployed 50,000 to 60,000 troops and advanced weaponry in the Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese military buildup and the possibility of any misadventure by neighbour whose belligerent actions triggered the border standoff in early May 2020.The PLA did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of talks on October 10. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving the outstanding problems on LAC but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals. China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement.Military talks are unlikely to result in a breakthrough and only higher intervention can show the way to resolving the 18-month border crisis, experts have said. There is no end in sight to the standoff, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stating on October 9 that if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-clash-hero-colonel-santosh-babu-awarded-maha-vir-chakra-posthumously-101637651092783.html
