25-11-2021||India||Time to invest in NE, boost growth: Amit Shah at ICC meet||New Delhi: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday called upon businesses to invest in the country’s northeast and boost development in the region that was witnessing peace and political stability for the first time. He said that in just seven years, the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has created an atmosphere in the northeast that is ideal for investments. Shah made the appeal while virtually addressing a session themed “Bharat at 75: Empowering Northeast India” at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC). He urged ICC to look at the positive change in the region and set up a chapter there. “I would like to tell the ICC that everything required for investments is now there in the northeast. It is time to invest in the region, empower it and boost its development,” Shah said. “There was a time when there were problems like violence, extremism, disputes, floods, corruption and drugs. Manipur was known only for bandhs, blockades and strikes. Assam was known only for terrorism and conflicts between ethnic groups. But today the North East remains in the news for increasing connectivity, development, tourism, employment, electricity and forests as well as ending floods. If industrial investment is to be made in any region, then it is very important to have peace, end disputes, create an environment of political stability and create a good environment for economic development. The task of creating such an environment has been done by the Narendra Modi government in the last 7 years. Today the North East is ready to be a big contributor to the development of the country,” he added. Shah further said that the connectivity problem in the northeast was being resolved by signing a land border agreement with Bangladesh. “The northeast will be connected to the ports of Bangladesh in two years and this will open up a huge avenue for setting up industry in the northeast and for connectivity to the rest of the world.” Shah pointed out that the government was focusing on a new approach in its development boost in the region that revolved around “three Es” — empathy, empowerment and enabler. The home minister said PM Modi’s target of turning India into a $5 trillion economy in the coming years could not be possible if the northeast region is not developed properly. “The northeast is very important for us and we have to connect it with the rest of the country in all sense,” Shah said. “The Modi government has focused on the northeast region since it came to power. Today, the region is ready to play the role of contributor in the development of the country,” he added. Talking about development initiates taken by the Modi government during its seven years, Shah said the northeast is clearly the main focus for the PM, who has made at least 50 trips to the region since coming to the power in 2014. “Today, there is rail and road connectivity to every capital city in northeastern states. Tourism is booming and national highways have been built in all the states. All governments in the northeast are now working in majority and peacefully. Conflicts have been resolved and insurgency is finished,” said Shah. The minister said that in the last seven years, the government has identified four major objectives for the northeast region. First, to end the instability by establishing political stability; secondly, to end all the disputes in the northeast and turn it into a peaceful area; third, to preserve its dialects, languages, dance, music, food and, culture, and to create an attraction for it in the world; and fourth, to make the northeast a developed region and make efforts to bring the northeast’s contribution to the GDP back to the level before independence. He said that before 2014, about 385 civilians were killed in the northeast every year in incidents of violence from 2007 to 2014 and now from 2019 to 2021, an average of two civilians have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-invest-in-ne-boost-growth-amit-shah-at-iccmeet-101637864614076.html
25-11-2021||India||BJP issues whip to Rajya Sabha MPs, tells them to attend day 1 of Winter Session||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has issued a three-line whip to its Rajya Sabha members, directing them to be present in the House on November 29, in a signal that the government could possibly introduce the bill to repeal the contentious farms law on the first day of the Winter Session.As per the whip issued by Shiv Pratap Shukla, chief whip-BJP of Rajya Sabha, the legislators have been asked to attend the session for “some very important business”.“All BJP members in Rajya Sabha are hereby informed that some very important business will be taken up for discussion and passing in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, the 29 November 2021. All Members of BJP in Rajya Sabha are, therefore, requested to be positively present in the House throughout the day on Monday, the 29 November 2021 and support the Government’s stand,” the notice issued on Thursday. A party functionary, on condition of anonymity, said the presence of the MPs is also required to prevent the opposition from disrupting the House on the first day of the meet.Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that his government has decided to repeal the three farm laws against which the farmers have been protesting for more than a year. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, to be taken up in the upcoming Parliament session to roll back the laws.The passage of the bills during the Monsoon Session of Parliament last year witnessed strong protests in both Houses and suspension of several opposition leaders for creating ruckus, tearing documents, breaking microphones and jostling with the ward staff.In the last session, at least two security staff complained about getting injured when they tried to restrain the opposition MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-issues-whip-to-rajya-sabha-mps-tells-them-to-attend-day-1-of-winter-session-101637863833029.html
25-11-2021||India||National security comes before privacy, says data protection panel chief||Privacy cannot supersede national security, sovereignty, and integrity, PP Chaudhary, the head of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) that reviewed the proposed data protection law and finalised its report on Monday said, days after the panel’s opposition party members argued the new bill gives the government “unbridled power”. At least five members of the panel have submitted dissent notes.The JPC has suggested stricter compliance requirements for companies; added or tweaked clauses that provide for lighter obligations on government agencies; and recommended a greater say for the state in the legal mechanism that will be set up to safeguard personal and non-personal data.“Sufficient safeguards have been provided in the bill to ensure that data is only accessed through a fair and proportionate procedure,” Chaudhary, a Bharatiya Janata Party member of parliament representing Pali in Rajasthan (CHECK) said in an interview. He added that the only exemptions are the ones already provided for in the Constitution while referring to the contentious Clause 35 of the bill, which deals with exemptions for government agencies.The panel has recommended that the procedure by which this exemption is claimed be “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate”. The clause allows the government to claim the exemption if it is satisfied that it is “necessary or expedient” to do so in the interest of purposes such as national security . The tests for just, fair and proportionate have been explained further as part of the procedure.Chaudhary said the procedures built into the bill provide for a framework even more detailed than the Constitution. “We have removed the provisions of public order and morality from the clause. But one must understand that national security cannot be compromised in lieu of individual privacy,” he said. “When the central government is satisfied that is necessary and expedient, it may grant exemptions, say to the army or to Intelligence Agencies, but under only the conditions provided for.”Chaudhary referred to Clause 12, which empowers the government to access data without consent. He added the intent of the bill is clear and that such action should only be taken in exceptional cases when it is required to provide benefits and services. “Is the government using data to provide ration through the public distribution system or provide funds under the MGNREGS (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) not beneficial to people?” he asked. “We need to understand the limitation of people’s ability to provide consent. How can we obtain consent from the poor when the data is being processed centrally?”Chaudhary said consent is paramount, but the aim is to prevent misuse of data and not hinder its use for beneficial schemes. “If a service is being provided, then consent is not necessarily required,” he said defending section 12 of the new bill. The panel’s report will be tabled in Parliament during the Winter Session beginning November 29 for discussion, following which the government will re-introduce the bill, with amendments if needed as the recommendations are not binding.The BJP MP highlighted that the inclusion of non-personal in the bill was done since one cannot segregate personal data from non-personal. “If the ministry needs to mine data for the growth of the digital economy, it becomes important that provisions for the same are provided,” Chaudhary said. “Non-personal and anonymized data can’t be separated from personal data. There are many overlaps.”Referring to the provision to treat social media companies as publishers, he added that the panel made a recommendation based on its deliberations. “The government will have the ability to frame detailed rules and provisions under the bill in order to bring about the change. There will be a transition period of nearly 24 months wherein the requisite infrastructure will be created. That is reasonable amount time to make the change.” Chaudhary attacked the opposition parties for opposing the bill and said their opposition is driven by an ideology of dissent. “We have to strike a fine balance,” he added. “Parliament will enact the law, so it can look into it whenever it wants but to have it evaluate it on a day-to-day basis is untenable. The IT (information technology) parliamentary committee can also take it up and provide further recommendations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-security-comes-before-privacy-says-data-protection-panel-chief-101637863651248.html
25-11-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu’s threat to Punjab govt: Will fast over drugs, sacrilege cases||Moga Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu on Thursday threatened his own government that he will fast unto death if the report of the special task force (STF) on the drug issue is not opened and justice is not delivered in sacrilege cases.Miffed over the delay in opening of the report, Sidhu upped the ante on the drug issue which is slated to come up in the high court on December 6. Contrary to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s stand that the report is a court document, Sidhu said there is nothing stopping the government from making the report public and taking action against those named therein.Sidhu was addressing a rally at a grain market in Baghapurana town.Sidhu said, “Lakhs of mothers were devastated. Lakhs of youth died by taking injections of drugs. Today I am saying to you, if the Punjab government does not open this report, I will fast unto death.”“Open this report to find out why the former CM and home minister slept on it. Court is saying to open the report. Why is the report not being opened? Who is stopping you from opening the report. Open the report and put the culprits behind bars. I am the party president. I have no administrative powers. CM Channi said that he follows the instructions of the party. Therefore, I am saying that if the report is not opened, I will fast unto death,” said Sidhu.He also attacked his government on the sacrilege issue.“I am again demanding justice for the sacrilege of my Guru (Guru Granth Sahib). One government has gone, the other one has been formed. One chief minister has gone and another one has taken over the office. And I am saying if justice on sacrilege is not given, I will sacrifice my body. Mark my words.“Those who did (sacrilege) are roaming freely. What kind of government it is if culprits are not brought to justice and it cannot take a step forward to bring justice?” he asked.Channi left the venue a few minutes before Sidhu’s address. The chief minister announced the setting up of a nursing college in Baghapurana along with constructing a stadium in the name of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. He also announced the upgrading of two existing hospitals in Baghapurana along with grants for a Guru Nanak College and Sports Academy. Sidhu said, “Four years ago such promises were also made by the then CM. But these were not fulfilled because the state government has no money. I will bring ₹2,000 crore into the state exchequer from sand mining and ₹20,000 crore from liquor. I will not form a government by lying.”Meanwhile, AAP MLA from Raikot Jagtar Singh Jagga joined the Congress party. Both CM Channi and Sidhu welcomed him into the party fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-s-threat-to-punjab-govt-will-fast-over-drugs-sacrilege-cases-101637863412480.html
25-11-2021||India||Red alert for 5 Tamil Nadu districts as heavy rain lashes southern regions, Chennai||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a red alert for five districts in Tamil Nadu--Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam with the Thoothukudi observatory recording extremely heavy rainfall of 25 cm. throughout the day. The heavy downpour inundated railway stations and the famous Arulmigu Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi. Schools and colleges which were closed in the district will continue to be shut on November 26 as well, said Thoothukudi’s collector K Senthilraj. In Thoothukudi, nearly 500 people who were living along low lying areas were evacuated and moved to state-run relief camps. Train services to and from Thoothukudi were cancelled. Significant rainfall on Thursday from 8.30 am up to 5.30 pm was recorded in Thiruchendur – 18 cm, Thoothukudi port – 25 cm and Palayamkottai- 10 cm. Heavy rain also lashed Chennai since late evening. During this northeast monsoon season, Tamil Nadu has received 61% excess rainfall from October 1 till November 25. “Most of the districts except Madurai and Virudhunagar have received excess rain (between 20% to of 59%) to huge excess (more than 60%) rainfall,” the IMD said in a statement on Thursday. The excessive rainfall has caused havoc across the state including in Chennai since the first week of November. A six-member central team concluded a four-day visit to Tamil Nadu on Wednesday to assess rain-related damages as the state has sought central aid to the tune of ₹4,000 crore for restoration work. For November 26, the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) has forecast heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. Heavy rain has been predicted at isolated places over Thoothukudi, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Theni, Madurai, Pudukkottai and the Union Territory of Puducherry. “A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over south Andaman Sea around November 29. It is likely to become more marked and move west¬ north westwards during the subsequent 48 hours,” said RMC’s deputy director, N Puviarasan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-for-5-tamil-nadu-districts-as-heavy-rain-lashes-southern-regions-chennai-101637862991039.html
25-11-2021||India||Four months after violent border clashes, Assam and Mizoram CMs meet in Delhi||Four months after clashes between security forces on the interstate border claimed the lives of 6 Assam policemen, the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram met in New Delhi on Thursday to discuss the contentious boundary dispute between the two neighbouring states. Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga held discussions late on Thursday evening on the insistence of Union home minister Amit Shah who urged both leaders to try and sort out the boundary dispute through talks. “Cordial discussions on various developmental topics for the welfare of northeast India were discussed. Looking forward to many more progressive meetings,” Zoramthanga tweeted after the discussions. The meeting, which took place at the Assam House in Delhi, was also attended by Assam agriculture minister Atul Bora, who is the president of Asom Gana Parishad, a partner in the BJP-led coalition in the state. No immediate reaction was available from either Assam or Mizoram on details of the meeting. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km long inter-state border and there has been a long-standing dispute between the two states. On Mizoram’s side the border districts are Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit, while on Assam’s side, the border sharing districts are Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. After the firing between the police of both the states at Cachar’s Lailapur on July 26 this year, there were several rounds of talks between both states under the Central government’s intervention. On August 5, following a ministerial-level meeting between the two states at Aizawl, Assam and Mizoram declared that the disputed areas will be looked after by neutral forces from central security agencies. But even after the agreement to maintain status quo on the disputed border there were allegations and counter-allegations from both sides about constructions going on along the boundary. On November 5, the Union home ministry issued advisories to both states to maintain status quo on the disputed areas along the inter-state border. But stating that Assam hasn’t stopped construction, Mizoram asked officials in the border districts of the state to continue with ongoing work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-months-after-violent-border-clashes-assam-and-mizoram-cms-meet-in-delhi-101637861490761.html
25-11-2021||India||What is Delhi's Peace and Harmony Committee which has summoned Kangana Ranaut?||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has been summoned by Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony Committee on December 6 over her recent Instagram posts that the actor tweeted after PM Modi announced the decision of repealing the three contentious farm laws. This committee is headed by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha. Recently this committee summoned a Facebook India executive and grilled him for the social media's alleged role in failing to curb the hateful content that led to the riots in the Capital in 2020.What is the committee all about? The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi had constituted the committee in 2020 March. The object of the committee is to recommend suitable measures to restore harmony among religious communities, social groups etc. When teh committee was formed, it was reported that a fact-checking agency would be hired to assist the committee in checking the authenticity of the content. The committee also has the assistance of a team of lawyers and a team of IT experts. The power of the committee is not uncontested as Facebook had moved the Supreme Court challenging the summons of the committee. In its verdict this year, the Supreme Court said the committee has the power to compel the attendance of members and outsiders on grounds of its privilege. “Although law and order and police do not fall under the legislative domain of Delhi Assembly, in the larger context, the concept of peace and harmony goes much beyond that," the Supreme Court said.How is Kangana's case related to this committee? In the notice sent to the actor, the committee said that it has received numerous complaints against the Instagram post of Kangana where the actor labelled the Sikh community as 'Khalistani terrorists'. The comments have caused distress among the people from the Sikh community, thus potentially leading to a situation of disruption of peace and harmony in the NCT of Delhi, the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-delhi-s-peace-and-harmony-committee-which-has-summoned-kangana-ranaut-101637859880436.html
25-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 26, 1949 — Mysore also accedes to India||Bangalore- Mysore State has acceded to the Indian Union, according to a proclamation issued by the Maharaja of Mysore today.The proclamation provides that the Indian Constitution shortly to be adopted by the Indian Constituent Assembly shall be the constitution of the State of Mysore as for other parts of India and shall be enforced in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. The proclamation further states: That provisions of the said Constitution shall, as from the date of its commencement, supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith which are at present in force in the State. That both the House of Legislature of Mysore (Legislative Council and the Representative Assembly) as at present constituted shall be dissolved on December 15, 1949. That hereafter and until such time as the House or Houses of legislature of Mysore have been duly constituted and summoned to meet for the first session under the provisions of the Indian Constitution there shall be only one house of legislature to be known as the Legislative Assembly of Mysore. That the Constitution of the said Legislative Assembly of Mysore shall in all respects be the same as the Constitution of the Constituent Assembly of Mysore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-26-1949-mysore-also-accedes-to-india-101637859090962.html
25-11-2021||India||In veiled jibe at Owaisi, Tikait asks farmers in Hyderabad to tie down ‘unbridled bull’||Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday took a veiled jibe at All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi, accusing him of helping the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In an apparent reference to Owaisi, Tikait warned a farmers’ gathering in Hyderabad about an “unbridled bull” who “helps BJP the most”. He asked the farmers to tie down the “bull” in Hyderabad and don’t let him out of Telangana."You have an unbridled bull here who's helping BJP. Tie him down here itself. He helps BJP the most. Don't let him out of here. He says something else but has some other goal. Don't let him go out of Hyderabad & Telangana," Tikait said.Tikait has emerged as one of the prominent faces of the year-long farmers’ protest that forced the Central government to take back the three controversial farm laws. The BKU spokesperson, however, has also been critical of Owaisi’s role as AIMIM seeks to expand its base in Uttar Pradesh. The AIMIM chief’s ambition to emerge as an alternative for Muslim voters outside Telangana is often criticised by detractors as a move to help the BJP by damaging the prospects of regional parties.Taking about Owaisi’s plan in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Tikait said, "If he goes there, he will help the BJP. The whole country knows this. Keep him tied. He is an unbridled bull...He is both the A and B team (of BJP). All the people of the country know.”Tikait recently termed BJP-AIMIM dynamics as 'chacha-bhatija' (uncle-nephew) bond after Owaisi repeated his demand to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019.“Owaisi and BJP share a bond of 'chacha-bhatija' (uncle-nephew). He should not talk about this on TV, he can just ask directly,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tie-him-down-here-tikait-s-veiled-jibe-in-hyderabad-at-unbridled-bull-owaisi-101637857332780.html
25-11-2021||India||In swipe at Pakistan, Jaishankar condemns repeated bids to bring bilateral issues into SCO||In a tacit swipe at Pakistan, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday condemned repeated attempts to bring bilateral issues into the agenda of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and said such efforts violate the grouping’s charter. Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing the meeting of the SCO council of heads of government that was held virtually under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan. He also spoke on the need for reformed and invigorated multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities. “It is unfortunate to note that there have been repeated attempts to deliberately bring bilateral issues into SCO. This violates the well-established principles and norms of SCO Charter,” he said. “Such acts are counterproductive to the spirit of consensus and cooperation that define this organisation and should be condemned,” he added. India, Jaishankar said, considers the SCO an important regional group to promote cooperation in different fields on the basis of “universally recognised international norms, good governance, rule of law, openness, transparency and equality”. Indian officials have accused Pakistan in recent years of repeatedly attempting to raise bilateral issues such as Kashmir at meetings of different SCO bodies. During a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO states in September 2020, NSA Ajit Doval walked out after his Pakistani counterpart, Moeed Yusuf, projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries and included several Indian regions within Pakistan. Jaishankar, who represented India at Thursday’s meeting, said SCO is observing its 20th anniversary in a rapidly changing global and regional environment. SCO continues to play a significant role in promoting peace and stability in the region in times of unprecedented upheaval, and India is committed to constructively contributing to implementing the mandate of the grouping, he said. The socio-political impact of Covid-19 is “far from over and has exposed the weakness of global institutions”, he noted. “This is the time to bring in much needed reforms to our global institutions, including the WHO, and rework our development strategies to face a post-Covid-19 world,” he said. “For this, we need a reformed and reinvigorated multilateralism that reflects today’s realities, which gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges and puts human beings at the centre of our thought and policies,” he added. India believes greater connectivity is an economic force multiplier that has acquired greater importance in the post-Covid era, though “any serious connectivity initiative must be consultative, transparent and participatory”, Jaishankar said. Such initiatives “must conform to the most basic principle of international law – respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity”, he pointed out. In this context, Jaishankar spoke about India’s efforts to operationalise Chabahar port in Iran in order to provide secure and commercially viable access to the sea for Central Asian state. “We have also proposed to include the Chabahar port in the framework of International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC). I would like to reaffirm India’s commitment to cooperate, plan, invest and build physical and digital connectivity in the SCO region,” he said. Jaishankar also referred to climate change being the “biggest existential threat” for many developing countries and said: “As we move towards practical implementation of the trade and economic agenda of SCO, we must simultaneously pay heed to the climate change impact of our joint activities.” India now ranks fourth in the world in installed renewable energy capacity, and its non-fossil fuel energy has increased by more than 25% in the past seven years. It co-initiated the International Solar Alliance that now has more than 100 member states and is ready to share its experience in climate change mitigation and adaptation in the SCO format, he said. The meeting was attended by leaders of SCO member states, observer states, the SCO secretary general, and the executive director of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-swipe-at-pakistan-jaishankar-condemns-repeated-bids-to-bring-bilateral-issues-into-sco-101637858370404.html
25-11-2021||India||India’s nominee elected to executive committee of Interpol||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special director Praveen Sinha was on Thursday elected the delegate for Asia in the executive committee of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) following a tough contest involving China. The Indian candidate was pitted against four others from China, Singapore, South Korea and Jordan for two posts in the election, and Indian diplomats were engaged in a sustained campaign in New Delhi and capitals around the world to get the backing of a large number of countries, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The election was held in the Turkish city of Istanbul during the 89th Interpol general assembly. CBI represents India’s interests in Interpol, which comprises 194 member countries that have agreed to ensure the widest possible assistance between criminal police authorities to prevent crimes. Ahmed Nasser Al Raisi of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was elected the organisation’s new president at the same general assembly. He was elected following three rounds of voting as he could not attain the mandated two-thirds majority in the first two rounds. One of the people cited above described the Indian candidate’s election to the executive committee as the “result of an intense and well-coordinated election campaign across the world”. India sought the support of friendly countries at different levels during recent bilateral engagements. The country’s missions around the world also regularly followed up the matter with host governments. At the same time, the Indian side also reached out to ambassadors and high commissioners of numerous countries in New Delhi, the people said. The National Central Bureau (NCB-India) also reached out to its counterparts around the world to campaign for the election, and India’s ambassador to Turkey, Sanjay Panda, camped in Istanbul for the past few days to hold bilateral meetings with delegations from around the world as part of a final effort to gain support for the Indian candidate, the people said. The people said Interpol plays a vital role in tackling the trans-national organised crimes, terrorism and cyber-crimes. India will continue to actively contribute to Interpol’s aims and objectives and to enhance its effectiveness, they added. PC Sharma, the then director of CBI and head of NCB-India was elected Interpol’s vice-president for Asia for 2003-06.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-nominee-elected-to-executive-committee-of-interpol-101637855430167.html
25-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cong MPs plan Parliament strategy ahead of Winter Session, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers, inflation & Oppn unity: At Sonia's residence, Cong MPs plan Parl strategyThe Congress, as the main opposition party, would raise a range of issues, including inflation, prices of petrol and diesel, Chinese aggression and matters concerning Jammu & Kashmir, during the winter session of Parliament starting November 29. Read more…China lodges protest over CDS Rawat calling it India’s biggest security threatChina on Thursday accused India’s chief of defence staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat of instigating a “geopolitical confrontation” and violating strategic guidelines after he said China is India’s biggest security threat earlier this month. Read more…J&K DGP's 'talking nonsense' criticism as Mufti raises doubt over Srinagar encounterAfter the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti raised doubts over the encounter in Srinagar’s Rambagh area, the director-general of police for Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday said that some people have “started looking at killers as innocents”. On Wednesday, the Jammu and Kashmir police neutralised three terrorists, one of them identified as Mehran Yaseen Shalla, a top commander of The Resistance Force (TRF). Read more…JioPhone Next goes on sale without registration: Know where to buyJioPhone Next goes on open sale! If you have been waiting to get your hands on the JioPhone Next, you can head over to the Reliance Digital online store and directly buy the JioPhone Next. Read more…Samantha Ruth Prabhu, after split from Naga Chaitanya, reveals 2021 has been ‘rough’; fans say ‘more power to you’Samantha Ruth Prabhu has said that this year has been ‘rough’ for her. In a new interview, Samantha was asked to describe the year 2021 in a single word. In a video for Film Companion, Samantha gave the question a quick thought and then shared the answer with her signature smile. Read more…‘There can be one captain on field’: Clarke advices Smith to remain ‘careful’ as captaincy debate intensifiesWith the Ashes approaching and Cricket Australia yet to appoint a captain for the much-awaited Test series, former skipper Michael Clarke had a word of advice for veteran cricketer Steve Smith. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cong-mps-plan-parliament-strategy-ahead-of-winter-session-and-all-the-latest-news-101637853208260.html
25-11-2021||India||Piyush Goyal calls Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code ‘gamechanger reform’||Union minister of commerce andd industry Piyush Goyal on Thursday called the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016, a “gamechanger reform” that has been the most successful law in insolvency resolution in the country. Addressing the 5th foundation day function of the Indian Institute of Insolvency Professionals of ICAI in New Delhi earlier in the day, Goyal hoped the faster insolvency resolution enabled by the IBC will eventually pave the way for banks to bring down the ‘cost of credit’.“Since the enactment of IBC, India’s rank in ‘resolving insolvency’ indicator in World Bank’s ‘Ease of Doing Business Report’ has seen a meteoric rise of 84 places. Our recovery rate has also dramatically improved from 26 (cents on dollar) to 71.6 (cents on dollar),” he said.The Union minister said the IBC has brought about a marked shift in attitudes of lenders and borrowers, acting as an effective deterrent against unscrupulous borrowers and imparted banks the tool to follow due diligence and confidence about recovery.ALSO READ | FM Sitharaman tables bankruptcy code bill aimed at small firmsGoyal said the Centre suspended the IBC for a year – from March 2020 till March 2021 — in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “This helped India bounce back much faster. The economy is doing well and five years down the line the outlook looks very, very bright,” Goyal said.Goyal added that the IIIPI members are serving the nation’s interest by saving businesses and entrepreneurship in the country. “This has a big impact on ‘saving jobs and eviving companies’ and by creating new banking opportunities," he said.ALSO READ | Bankruptcy code reforms must be handled with special cautionStating that the IIIPI being the largest body of such professionals in the country, it has a fiduciary duty cast on its members and has a three-pronged roles to play — legislative, executive and quasi-judicial. Goyal listed out five guiding principles for insolvency professionals — integrity, objectivity, competency, confidentiality and transparency. He called upon the Chartered Accountants to use technology in resolution of bad loans, look at new innovative ideas and set benchmarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyals-calls-insolvency-and-bankruptcy-code-gamechanger-reform-101637853120828.html
25-11-2021||India||Will review ‘error’ in Hindi NEET paper, NTA to SC on plea seeking new merit list||NEW DELHI: The National Testing Agency (NTA) will revisit the Hindi translation of one question of NEET (UG), the national entrance exam for admission to undergraduate medical courses, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Thursday.Mehta’s assurance to a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud came on a petition by 22 aspirants who asked the Supreme Court to order the NTA to delete the erroneous question and declare their results afresh.NTA, a government-run testing agency mandated to conduct entrance examinations for higher education institutions, told the Supreme Court that a committee of three experts examined the alleged error flagged by the aspirants but concluded that there was nothing wrong in the Hindi translation.But lawyer Archana Pathak Dave persisted, pointing out that the words “amplitude of current” appearing in the English translation was absent in the Hindi translation thus leading to a different answer altogether.In their petition, the students said the discrepancy in question 2 of Section A-15 (physics) in the question paper bearing code P-2 put Hindi-speaking students/states in a disadvantageous position. This would push them back by thousands of ranks and jeopardise their future, thereby breaching the fundamental rights of these students as enshrined under the Constitution.To allay the concerns, Mehta said the committee of neutral experts will be asked to evaluate the question again. The bench recorded this statement in its order and said, “After this process is done, an affidavit would be filed before this Court setting out the result of the evaluation of the solutions.” The court posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday.Out of the 15 lakh students who appeared for NEET-UG 2021, nearly 2 lakh students opted to attempt the examination in Hindi.The examination was conducted on 12 September.The NTA announced the results of NEET-UG early this month and an answer key was released on the basis of the English translation, thereby putting the Hindi-speaking candidates at a disadvantageous position, the petition said.The NTA treats only the English version of the questions as final and for this reason, the petitioners had approached the top court, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-review-error-in-hindi-neet-paper-nta-to-sc-on-plea-seeking-new-merit-list-101637853150015.html
25-11-2021||India||Centre cautions states on new Covid variant found in South Africa||The Centre on Thursday warned all states and Union territories to be extra cautious regarding international passengers travelling from or through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong after South African scientists detected a new Covid variant (B.1.1529). "It is imperative that all international travellers travelling from and transiting through these countries and also including all other 'at risk' countries are subjected to rigorous screening and testing. The contacts of these international travellers must also be closely tracked and tested," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to states and UTs at a time when the Covid-19 situation in the country is improving.In its letter to the states, the Centre said multiple cases of this new variant have been reported in Botswana (3 cases), South Africa (6 cases) and Hong Kong (1 case)."This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations and thus has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel," the Centre said.According to reports, South African scientists have identified the new variant as concerning as it has unusual mutations which could help it evade the body's immune response and make it more transmissible. This new variant, according to a statement by Francois Balloux, director of the UCL Genetics Institute, possibly evolved during chronic infection of an immuno-compromised, likely in an untreated HIV/AIDS patient.Officials of the World Health Organization took note of the new variant and held a meeting to discuss B.1.1529."Early analysis shows that this variant has a large number of mutations that require and will undergo further study," the WHO said.South African health minister Joe Phaahla said the variant was of "serious concern" and behind an "exponential" increase in reported cases, making it "a major threat". Scientists said the new B.1.1.529 variant has at least 10 mutations, compared to two for Delta or three for Beta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-warning-about-international-passengers-as-new-covid-variant-found-in-south-africa-101637852377485.html
25-11-2021||India||What is Kerala's 'halal' food controversy? Explained||The halal food controversy in Kerala which has taken the form of full-fledged campaigning on social media started when it was reported that halal jaggery was being used to prepare 'aravana' and 'appam' in the Sabarimala temple. Now that there are campaigns against halal food, here is all you need to know about the present controversy.What is halal food?Halal means permissible in Arabic. Halal food refers to food prepared adhering to Islamic law. For example, halal meat refers to meant procured in a specific way of killing an animal that involves slaughtering it through a cut to the jugular vein, carotid artery and windpipe.What is the controversy over halal food in Kerala?> SJR Kumar, a former president of Vishva Hindu Parishad Kerala, approached the high court seeking direction to stop the distribution of Aravana and appam made of halal jaggery in Sabarimala. 'Aravana' is a payasam made out of jaggery and rice, and 'appam' is a sweet rice- and jaggery-based fritter. Both are distributed as prasadam at Sabarimala.> The Travancore Devaswom Board which runs the temple told the court that the quality of the jaggery used for making prasadam was being tested in the laboratory at Pampa. They also told the court that the quality of the two sweet dishes were being tested in the laboratory at Sannidhanam, before distributing the same to the devotees.Campaign against ‘halal’ food in Kerala triggers concerns> Why is there a halal stamp on the packet of jaggery? The Board said that the Maharashtra firm from where they got the packets export them in bulk to Arab countries.> Dismissing the controversy as motivated, the Board said it was a calculated attempt to attack the reputation of Sabarimala and to hurt the religious feelings of the pilgrims and thereby destroying the communal harmony through various posts published and circulated in social media.> The Board also said that this particular firm has been supplying jaggery to the temple since 2019.> As the food controversy is taking a political shape in Kerala, the youth wing of the CPM organised a food street programme in response where various types of dishes, including beef, pork, chicken and biryani were prepared. The party accused the BJP and the Sangh Parivar outfits of mixing religion with food.> BJP state president K Surendran said there is no check on the rise of Islamic extremism and terror in Kerala and the entire state is flooded with halal meat shops. "...Kerala coming near to becoming Syria, that is the general feeling of the common man," he had said.> What is spit-free food? In the ongoing campaigning against halal food, people are asking for spit-free food. The petition of SRJ Kumar may have an answer to this. "The religious scholars of the Muslim community have been proclaiming publicly that saliva is a necessary ingredient for certifying Halal in the preparation of food materials...however, different views were also expressed by a section of religious leaders," the plea of the petitioner said. This might have given birth to the 'spit-free' food campaign on social media.> The Kerala high court asked the petitioner whether he understands the concept of the word halal. The high court clarified its understanding of the word halal. "The concept of halal says that certain things are prohibited. All other things are halal. This certification only says that those prohibited materials are not included in a particular product," the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-kerala-s-halal-food-controversy-explained-101637850903350.html
25-11-2021||India||Existing multilateral system has no answers for contemporary challenges: Venkaiah Naidu||The existing multilateral system has fallen short in providing an effective response to economic, technological and security challenges the world is currently grappling with, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu said on Thursday. India is pursuing reformed multilateralism as a key driving principle for the purposeful reform of existing global institutional structures, Naidu said in a virtual address at the Asia–Europe Meeting (ASEM) Summit. The theme for the two-day summit is “Strengthening multilateralism for shared growth” and the event witnessed the participation of all 51 member countries, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and the European Union (EU). The ASEM Summit is a biennial event and part of the process that sets priorities for cooperation between Asia and Europe on political, economic, financial, social, cultural and educational issues. Naidu, who led the Indian delegation at the summit, emphasised the need for reforming the UN Security Council and other key global organisations to make them reflective of contemporary realities and capable of dealing with challenges. The multitude of challenges in today’s dynamic and interdependent world cannot be addressed by out-dated systems designed to deal with challenges of the past, Naidu said. Pointing to the urgent need to re-imagine international cooperation, he said: “It is the lack of a coordinated global response that has exposed the vulnerabilities and weaknesses of the multilateral system as it stands today.” Naidu also said development suffers without peace and that the lack of development and stifled economic progress create fertile ground for violence and instability. He backed efforts to promote economic activity and enhance livelihood security and suggested this will go a long way in the recovery of countries affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic has also exposed fault-lines ranging from unreliable global supply chains to inequitable vaccine distribution, and this underlines the need for strengthened multilateralism, he said. Noting that the re-imagined post-pandemic world will make very different demands from the multilateral system, he highlighted four areas for international economic cooperation – resilient and reliable supply chains, health security, digital for development, and green and sustainable recovery. Naidu also stressed the need to mitigate the causes of persistent insecurity at a global level and the need for reforms in the international structure for maintaining peace and security. The countries in ASEM represent 65% of global GDP, 60% of global population, 75% of global tourism and 55% of international trade. Besides the opening ceremony and the first plenary session of the summit, Naidu will join the retreat session and exchange views on areas such as reformed multilateralism, countering Covid-19, post-pandemic recovery, mitigating global climate change, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and maritime security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/existing-multilateral-system-has-no-answers-for-contemporary-challenges-venkaiah-naidu-101637851649811.html
25-11-2021||India||J&K DGP's 'talking nonsense' criticism as Mufti raises doubt over Srinagar encounter||After the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti raised doubts over the encounter in Srinagar’s Rambagh area, the director-general of police for Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday said that some people have “started looking at killers as innocents”. On Wednesday, the Jammu and Kashmir police neutralised three terrorists, one of them identified as Mehran Yaseen Shalla, a top commander of The Resistance Force (TRF).Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, however, alleged that the official version was “far from truth” and not in line with “ground realities”. Referring to the controversial Hyderpora encounter in which two civilians were killed, Mufti said that “legitimate doubts” are looming over the authenticity of the Rambagh encounter as well.“After yesterday’s alleged encounter at Rambagh legitimate doubts are looming over its authenticity. As per reports & witnesses it seems that the firing was one sided. Again the official version far from truth is not in line with ground realities as seen in Shopian, HMT & Hyderpora,” she tweeted.Police said that Mehran was involved in the recent killings of two teachers and other civilians in the Valley which prompted security forces to intensify counter-terrorism operations. The other two terrorists killed in the encounter were identified as Manzoor Ahmad Mir and Arafat Ahmad Sheikh, both residents of Pulwama.When asked about the PDP leader’s doubt over the legitimacy of the encounter, Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbagh Singh said that some people understand the ground reality but try to say something different.In a strong response, Singh said this is high time people look at reality “without mixing it up with their imagination”. He added that the “encounter has brought relief to the people who lost their dear ones, therefore anybody talking nonsense is absolutely not justified,”“There are people who understand the reality but try to say something which is away from the reality…Unfortunately, there are people who have started looking at killers as innocent people.." Singh said.#WATCH |"There are people who understand the reality but try to say something which is away from reality. There are people who have started looking at killers as innocent people..,"says J&K DGP Dilbag Singh when asked that Mehbooba Mufti is casting aspersions on y'day's encounter pic.twitter.com/Dk9Jozhm2rSingh informed that all but one terrorist involved in the recent civilians is still alive as search remains on.“After the (civilian) killings, dozens of successful operations took place, over 20 terrorists have been gunned down. All terrorists, who were involved in the recent civilian killings, have been killed in these encounters. Only one terrorist, Basit remains. Search is on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-are-people-jammu-and-kashmir-dgp-retorts-after-mufti-raises-doubt-over-srinagar-encounter-101637849888019.html
25-11-2021||India||Farmers, inflation & Oppn unity: At Sonia's residence, Cong MPs plan Parl strategy||The Congress, as the main opposition party, would raise a range of issues, including inflation, prices of petrol and diesel, Chinese aggression and matters concerning Jammu & Kashmir, during the winter session of Parliament starting November 29.The Congress leadership would also reach out to senior functionaries of other parties to bring the Opposition together in Parliament.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Parliament Strategy Group held at Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi's residence on Thursday evening.Parliamentarians AK Antony, Anand Sharma, Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal, K Suresh, Ravneet Bittu and Jairam Ramesh were among party leaders who attended the meeting at 10 Janpath, Gandhi’s official residence.Later, Kharge, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said on the first day of winter session of Parliament, the Congress will raise the farmers' issues, including MSP (minimum support price) and removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra from the Cabinet over his involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.“We will call up leaders of various parties as part of our efforts to bring Opposition parties together on these issues in the Parliament,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Sharma said the Congress is the principal opposition party. “We'll try to do our duty in all sincerity so that opposition parties speak together on these matters,” he said.“There are important issues, including the farmers' demand -- the MSP -- the resignation of the minister whose son was involved in the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, and price rise. All these issues will be raised,” he added.The multiple statements on opposition unity came amid a string of exits from the Congress most of whom moved over to the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress that is eyeing a larger national role ever since its thumping win of the West Bengal assembly election earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-inflation-oppn-unity-cong-mps-strategise-at-sonia-s-residence-101637850454686.html
25-11-2021||India||Kejriwal says 'vote for Congress in Punjab if...' in a Twitter war with Pargat Singh||In a Twitter war with Punjab education minister Pargat Singh, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged people to vote for the Congress. But there is a catch. The chief minister wrote, "Those who are happy with Punjab's schools and the current education system, vote for the Congress. Vote for AAP if you want a brilliant education system like Delhi in your state."This was in reply to Punjab education minister Pargat Singh's tweets in which he said that the Delhi chief minister might have missed the developed picture of Punjab's education system as he is a Delhiite and gets interested in Punjab issues only around elections. पंजाब शिक्षा मंत्री का कहना है कि पंजाब के स्कूल देश में सबसे अच्छे हैं, टीचर बहुत ख़ुश हैंजो लोग पंजाब के स्कूलों और मौजूदा शिक्षा व्यवस्था से ख़ुश हैं, वो कांग्रेस को वोट दे दें। जो पंजाब में भी दिल्ली जैसी शानदार शिक्षा व्यवस्था चाहते हैं, वो हमें वोट दे दें https://t.co/shsduSwDMx"Arvind Kejriwal ji, there is already a revolution going in education in Punjab. It is another matter that you missed it. It is understandable for a Delhiite whose interest in Punjab is aroused only around elections. Punjab topped the country in school education in National Performance Grade Index (NPGI) in the most recent survey. Delhi came 6th. Punjab was above Delhi on all 5 parametres -learning outcomes, Access, Infrastructure & Facilities, Equity and Governance in the survey," Punjab education minister said adding that the pupil to teacher ratio in Punjab government schools is 24.5:1 compared to 35:1 in Delhi."Since your information about the state is so patchy, I will like to tell you that we are already in the process of recruiting more than 20k teachers by December end. This is in addition to 8,886 who have been regularised already. 1,117 staff members have been promoted and more are on the way," the minister tweeted urging Kejriwal not to worry about the transfer policy of teachers in Punjab.The exchange comes at a time when the war of words between the Congress and the AAP has got intensified ahead of the assembly elections. Accusing Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of copying his policies, Kejriwal recently said that Channi is a 'nakli Kejriwal'. "Beware of him. Don't go by his words. I keep all my promises made to the people," Kejriwal recently said.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu on Wednesday took a jibe at AAP's 'populism' and tweeted that people won't fall prey to populist schemes that lack budget allocation and a proper framework. "Schemes are just made to take credit, a fast-paced reaction to popular demands, without thought of governance and economy. History tells populist measures only hurt people in long run. True leaders will not give lollipops but will focus to build the foundations of society and economy. Credit games don't last, they put more baggage of debt and depressed economic growth onto society. Punjab needs a policy-based redemption and soon every Punjabi will be wealthy and prosperous as we were in earlier times. Punjab model is the only way forward!!" Sidhu wrote without naming AAP or Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-vote-for-congress-in-punjab-if-in-a-twitter-war-with-pargat-singh-101637847268412.html
25-11-2021||India||Kharge says Congress high command will look into Meghalaya ‘conspiracy’||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday termed the exit of 12 party legislators in Meghalaya and moving on to the Trinamool Congress as a conspiracy. The Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said the party leadership, including Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, were looking into the matter.“This is happening like a conspiracy. People of our party, especially our party president, Rahul Gandhi and others in the high command, are looking into it. They will take a decision,” Kharge was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.As many as 12 Congress MLAs, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, switched over to the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday making it the main opposition party in the hill state.However, Kharge said despite all latest developments the Opposition would try and fight unitedly in Parliament against the Narendra Modi-led government.“Fights have always taken place. No use commenting now. It is important to fight together in the arena of Parliament as Rahul Gandhi, in a core committee meeting of floor leaders, had said that parties may have different ideologies but our common goal is to fight the BJP,” the senior Congress functionary said.“I'd like to say that we'll try to come together to defeat BJP in Parliament and fight against their ideology, regardless of the party or ideology we may belong to. We will continue to fight (against BJP) by meeting the people who have always been with us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharge-says-congress-high-command-will-look-into-meghalaya-conspiracy-101637844379507.html
25-11-2021||India||Campaign against ‘halal’ food in Kerala triggers concerns||On Tuesday, a popular restaurant in Thiruvananthapuram received an unusual call. After ordering a Thalassery (north Kerala) biryani and another dish, the caller said: “Hope you will ensure spit-free food.” It took some time for a restaurant employee to understand that the caller was perhaps influenced by a campaign of far-right groups against halal food. Many Muslim-owned hotels have complained that they get many similar inquiries. Social media are also abuzz with a campaign against halal food with some calling popular dishes “thuppal shawarma”, “thuappl mandi”, and “thuppal biryani”. Thuppal means spit in Malayalam.Hotel owners allege some Christian outfits have also joined the hate campaign and there are many WhatsApp groups identifying “spit-free” hotels in particular areas. Many fake videos have also surfaced to boost the campaign.Also Read: BCCI’s ‘halal’ meat recommendation for Indian cricketers raises eyebrowsThe latest campaign against halal food began after S J R Kumar, the convener of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-backed Sabarimala Karma Samiti, filed a petition in Kerala high court last week questioning halal stamp on jaggery packets supplied to the Sabarimala Temple. He wrongly claimed Muslim scholars have said “saliva is a necessary ingredient for certifying halal preparations.” Kumar called it an insult to devotees who take prasad made of this jaggery.The temple board said the Maharashtra-based supplier of the jaggery also exports it to West Asian countries and the halal specification came up inadvertently. The plea is pending in court.It later came to light that the supplier--a Maharashtra-based sugar firm--is owned by a Shiv Sena leader from Pune.The petition prompted the social media campaign against halal food. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is finding it hard to get a foothold in Kerala, jumped on the bandwagon. “We have not raked up the issue. Many eating joints are showing halal boards prominently these days, especially in north Kerala. Some fundamentalist outfits are setting a communal agenda like the way they popularised the veil in the state,” said BJP state president K Surendran.BJP spokesman Sandeep Warrier, who wrote a post over the issue, was forced to withdraw it. “Hindus and Muslims cannot survive by boycotting each other in a state like Kerala,” he wrote.On Sunday, BJP leader P Sudheer sought a ban on public display of halal boards saying “it was unfit in a secular society”.The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association has requested chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state police chief Anil Kant to rein in elements campaigning against halal food. “It will vitiate the atmosphere and affect our businesses that are coming out of the pandemic shock slowly. Halal supporters and haters are camping vigorously. It is really bad for the hotel industry,” said G Jayapalan, the association secretary.l V P Suhaib Moulavi, the prayers leader at Thiruvanthamouram’s Palayam mosque, said halal simply means something that is permissible. “Certain foods are not permissible. Blowing at food is against the preaching of the Prophet,” he said.Kerala Muslim Jammat secretary A Saifuddin Haji said halal was only a symbolic gesture of seeking blessing and no spitting or blowing were involved.Muslim thinker Prof M N Karassery called the controversy unwarranted. “Some groups from both sides are fanning trouble over a non-issue. Problems start when you impose your customs and beliefs on others. I feel Kerala society is mature enough to see designs of these forces,” he said. He added it was also wrong to display halal boards.Some Christian organisations have also pledged support to the anti-Halal campaign. “An Arab food culture invaded the state in a decade or so. We are not against it but many traditional cuisines are disappearing in the process. And many hotels display halal boards prominently provoking others. We are against invasion of particular food culture,” said Church Auxiliary for Social Action, a Christian organisation supporting the campaign against halal food.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) came down heavily on RSS affiliates saying their ploy to polarise society will not succeed in Kerala. “Debate on halal was unnecessary and uncalled for and it is aimed at destroying communal amity of the state. Progressive society of Kerala will reject it with condemnation it deserves,” said CPI (M) Politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.He asked the party’s youth wing to expose elements trying to create a rift in society.Activist Rahul Eswar, a grandson of Sabarimala chief priest, said one cannot see politics everywhere. “In Sabarimala, there is a small shrine of a Muslim saint Vavar Swami. Pilgrims first offer prayers there before scaling 18 holy steps of the temple.”Muslims account for 27% of Kerala’s population and are politically, socially, and economically much better off than Muslims in the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/campaign-against-halal-food-in-kerala-triggers-concerns-101637840908105.html
25-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Stalin seeks temporary air bubble with Singapore, Malaysia and all the latest news||Stalin seeks temporary air transport bubble with Singapore, Malaysia for Tamil diasporaTamil Nadu chief MK Stalin on Thursday wrote to civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia urging him to make a temporary air transport bubble agreement with Singapore and Malaysia to facilitate the movement of the Tamil diaspora with permanent residence of these countries. Read morePM Modi lays foundation stone of Noida airport: Know about the air transit hubPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of Noida International Airport in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district near Jewar. Read moreSatyameva Jayate 2 movie review: John Abraham's triple role is three headaches rolled up in one filmThere's not even a single person that's talking in this film. Everyone is shouting, screaming and yelling at the top of their lungs, leaving your eardrums craving for some calm. Read more'I feel that this guy will go on to have a really good career': Pathan names 'vital' cog for India in overseas TestsOver the last couple of years, the Indian cricket team has not only succeeded in overseas conditions but have set a benchmark for other teams to follow. Read moreAmazon Prime subscription price to go up from December 14! New price hereAre you a subscriber of Amazon Prime or planning to take a subscription? If yes, here is an important update for you. The subscription price for Amazon Prime is going to increase in India from December 14, 2021. Read moreBlogger cooks Maggi with milk and chocolate sauce, tries it. Watch her reactionMaggi, for many, is more than a food. It is an emotion. Hence, some of the videos that showcase fusion dishes made with the instant noodles leave people irked. Watch hereAnti Obesity Day: 5 obesity myths busted by an expertThere are certain things about obese individuals that people assume without verification. It is believed that they must be having wrong eating habits, a sedentary lifestyle or lazy attitude towards life. Read moreMG Motor India harnesses wind-solar hybrid energy to power its production plantMG Motor India on Thursday has announced that becomes the first passenger car brand in the country to adopt wind-solar hybrid energy. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-stalin-seeks-temporary-air-bubble-with-singapore-malaysia-101637839037948.html
25-11-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu at it again, threatens hunger strike against Channi government||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said he will go on a hunger strike against the state government if the Congress government does not make public the reports on drug menace and the sacrilege incident. Accusing his own government is not new for Sidhu as the Congress chief, in past, too seemingly carried out the role of 'conscience' as he continuously criticised the Amarinder Singh government leading to a major upheaval in the state as Amarinder Singh's government was toppled. As Charanjit Singh Channi became the new chief minister, Sidhu continued his "war against injustice" while the apparent cracks between Channi and Sidhu regarding appointments were papered over.'Congress trying to suppress Navjot Sidhu's voice': Kejriwal in PunjabWith a few months left before the elections, which will be more interesting this time because of the Amarinder Singh factor, Sidhu has become active on social media and is tweeting about the policies that he catalysed.  On Thursday, Sidhu said he proposed a new law to recover stolen state taxes from Fastway, a cable TV company, by taking control over computers and data hidden by the company. Sidhu said it could have freed the cable operators from the clutches of this monopoly by Fastway and filled the state coffers. But Captain Amarinder Singh stalled his proposal, Sidhu tweeted.Soon after Charanjit Singh Channi became the chief minister, Sidhu resigned from the post of the Punjab Congress chief as he was unhappy with some of the appointments. After several rounds of negotiations, Sidhu agreed to continue in his post as Channi took a step back. Finally, Sidhu had his way as the DS Patwalia became the advocate general replacing APS Deol. Sidhu had opposed Deol's appointment as he had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 police firing incidents after the desecration of a religious text.With that episode left behind, this is another major offensive by Sidhu against the Channi government, which indicates that the infighting between Congress in Punjab is far from over though Amarinder Singh has quit the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-at-it-again-threatens-hunger-strike-against-channi-government-101637838780191.html
25-11-2021||India||ECI to host international webinar on increasing electoral participation||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will host an international webinar called “Enhancing Electoral Participation of Women, Persons with Disabilities, and Senior Citizen Voters” on Friday.It will be attended by delegates from 24 countries and four organisations from across the world.“Presentations will be made by election management bodies (EMBs) and organisations on best practices and initiatives taken by them to enhance electoral participation of women, persons with disabilities, and senior citizen voters,” the ECI said in a press release.The ECI further said, “This international webinar will provide a good opportunity to all the participants to exchange ideas and learn from each other’s experience of the best practices and initiatives taken.”On the sidelines of the webinar, three publications will be released - the October issue of A-WEB India Journal of Elections; the October issue of VoICE International magazine, and a publication on Participation of Women, Persons with Disabilities and Senior Citizen Voters in Elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-to-host-international-webinar-on-increasing-electoral-participation-101637838448154.html
25-11-2021||India||Maintenance centre, integrated multimodel cargo hub: Here's more about Noida international airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of Noida International Airport in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district near Jewar. During his address at the venue, PM Modi said that after seven decades of India’s independence, Uttar Pradesh is finally getting what it deserves. Hailing the double-engine Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in state and the Centre, PM Modi said that Uttar Pradesh is emerging as the “most connected region in the country.”PM Modi said that the Noida International Airport will become the logistical gateway of north India, and will have direct connectivity to a dedicated freight corridor.Also Read | 'Ganna or Jinnah': Yogi's jibe ahead of polls at Noida Airport inaugurationHe added that infrastructure for BJP is not national politics but part of the national policy, and that it tries to ensure that projects are finished on time and do not get “stuck” or “hang” or “go astray".Here are some key information about the Noida International Airport:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-noida-airport-know-about-the-air-transit-hub-101637836570962.html
25-11-2021||India||Stalin seeks temporary air transport bubble with Singapore, Malaysia for Tamil diaspora||Tamil Nadu chief MK Stalin on Thursday wrote to civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia urging him to make a temporary air transport bubble agreement with Singapore and Malaysia to facilitate the movement of the Tamil diaspora with permanent residence of these countries.He said many such travellers who came to India during the Covid-19 pandemic were facing difficulties while returning to the respective countries due to non-availability of direct flights.“They have to travel through Dubai, Doha and Colombo which is causing serious inconvenience and financial burden as they have to pay more air charges and travel long distance due to the detour,” he added.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin writes to Union Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia requesting him to make a temporary air transport bubble agreement with Singapore & Malaysia to facilitate the movement of Tamils with permanent residentship of these countries pic.twitter.com/xoPUoHcXxlHe further spoke how the transport industry was being affected in the absence of agreements for temporary ‘air transport bubbles’ with these countries. He said foreign airlines like Qatar Airways, Emirates and Srilankan Airlines were cornering domestic companies.“Hence, I request you to make a temporary air transport bubble with Singapore, Malaysia at the earliest, for providing temporary airline services and resolve the difficulties faced by the Tamil diaspora in Singapore and Malaysia,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-seeks-temporary-air-bubble-with-singapore-malaysia-for-tamil-diaspora-101637836407806.html
25-11-2021||India||NIA court rejects bail plea of Elgar Parishad accused Mahesh Raut||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday rejected the bail application of forest rights activist Mahesh Raut, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, for allegedly spreading Maoist ideology and encouraging unlawful activities. Raut’s counsel, Advocate Vijay Hiremath, informed the court that the forest rights activist has studied in Nagpur and Nashik, and then in 2011 passed out of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). He was teaching in Goa and did a fellowship on conflict zones, he is a former fellow of the prestigious Prime Minister’s Rural Development Programme of the ministry of Rural Development and has worked with the Gadchiroli collector, Hiremath added. It has been alleged that Raut had provided funds for banned organisations and sent some students to the jungle to join the Naxalite movement. However, the prosecution have not been able to provide a single name, his lawyer claimed. “There is nothing on record about the funding,” said Hiremath. “Equally, the charge-sheet does not contain anything about the allegation that Raut was a recruiter for the Naxalite movement.” NIA claimed that a letter found on co-accused Rona Wilson’s computer had Raut’s name. In this connection, Hiremath argued that the existence of the letter on the computer was disputed in the report of US-based Arsenal Consulting. On the basis of the report, the case has already been challenged in the High Court. It has been mentioned in the letter about one Mahesh and ₹5 lakh, but the agency has failed to find a money trail and also whether it is the same Mahesh or some other person. “These are all wild allegations,” Hiremath said. On the other hand, Prakash Shetty who represented NIA argued that Raut had already filed a bail application on similar grounds before a Pune court which was rejected and all the documents that Raut is referring to have already been considered by the Pune court while rejecting his bail plea. The agency claimed that a letter seized from Rona Wilson’s computer mentioned “Mahesh” and claimed that through unknown channels Raut passed on ₹5 lakh for the Elgar Parishad event to Sudhir Dhawale, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling. The Pune police, who initially investigated the case, had alleged that Raut had taken TISS students to meet absconding underground Maoist leaders in the jungles in 2017. The agency further claimed that Raut recruited two former TISS students for the Maoist Party and that those students underwent arms training in the jungles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-elgar-parishad-accused-mahesh-raut-101637835448070.html
25-11-2021||India||'Had Modi, Yogi wanted...': PM Modi's 10 quotes at Noida Airport inauguration||The ground-breaking ceremony of the Noida International Airport could have taken place in 2017, soon after the Yogi Adityanath government came to power in the state as the project was conceptualised by the previous BJP government, PM Modi said as he addressed the event on Thursday at Jewar in Uttar Pradesh. Going by the standard practice of politics, it would not have been frowned upon, PM Modi said, but BJP's politics is different from other parties that have been in power in Uttar Pradesh previously, the PM said. "We could have got photographed and the news would come at all newspapers. But this was the practice of the previous rule," PM Modi said. Taking the opportunity to slam opposition parties, PM Modi said parties used to announce projects without estimating the expenses, without acquiring land and that's why so many projects did not see the light of the day. 'Ganna or Jinnah': Yogi's jibe ahead of polls at Noida Airport inaugurationHere are the top 10 quotes of PM Modi1. Some political parties in our country have always put their self-interest first. The thinking of these people is self-interest, only their own, development of the family and the development of the area where they live. They think this is Vikas, while we follow the spirit of nation first, Sabka Saath - Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas is our mantra2. Infrastructure is not part of politics for us but part of national policy.Watch: Jewar International Airport to be Asia's biggest, create jobs: All you need to know3. Previous governments deprived Uttar Pradesh of what it deserves. Be it scams, bad infrastructure, caste politics, UP was subjected to only criticism4. UP people used to wonder whether their state will never have a positive image. But the same UP is leaving its marks today internationally.5. After seven decades since Independence, Uttar Pradesh is getting its dues with the efforts of the double-engine government.6. The Noida International Airport will be the logistics gateway of north India. This will make the entire region a powerful reflection of the National Gatishakti masterplan.7. Now, Uttar Pradesh means Uttam Suvida (best facilities), nirantar nivesh (endless investment). Once this airport is ready, there will be five international airports. 8. The previous government of Uttar Pradesh even wrote a letter to the Centre asking it to stop the work of this airport. 9. Had Modi and Yogi wanted, we could have inaugurated the airport soon after we came to power. But this is not our politics.10. We make sure the project does not hit any roadblocks midway. If there is a delay, there is a provision of penalty as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-modi-yogi-wanted-pm-modi-s-10-quotes-at-noida-airport-inauguration-101637833981272.html
25-11-2021||India||Joined TMC as Congress is not an effective opposition: Mukul Sangma||Former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma on Thursday blamed the Congress’s inability in playing the role of an effective opposition and said this prompted him and 11 other lawmakers of the party to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC) a day earlier.“The pulse of the people says there is a need for a strong pan-India alternative as Congress is really failing to respond to its call of duty as the main opposition party in the country. Therefore, our exercise to find such a party ultimately culminated in this decision (to join TMC),” Sangma said at a press conference in Shillong with the 11 lawmakers.Sangma said they did an exhaustive study and explored the options available as they were failing in their role as an effective opposition. “We found it wanting in Congress despite trying to prevail upon the leadership. We were making trips after trips to Delhi while it should have been the other way round,” Sangma said.Sangma said his interactions with political strategist Prashant Kishore over the past few months led him and other Congress lawmakers to join TMC. He added the TMC fights against an ideology that is “not compatible with our nation with diverse people”. He said this was one reason why they joined the party. “We have every reason to believe that we will win the trust and confidence of the people (in the 2023 assembly polls).”Watch: Congress loses 12 of 17 Meghalaya MLAs to TMCHe added the decision was taken consciously and collectively after a lot of analysis and as part of a long-drawn exercise for the greater good of the people of Meghalaya and the nation. “We are setting a new trend for the future of the state, the region, and the nation with the utmost sense of humility but a complete sense of responsibility and commitment towards fulfilling our responsibility in serving the people, the state, and the nation.” He said the move to join TMC was a culmination of exhaustive due diligence analysis and trying to understand how best they can respond to their call towards their people.The defections of the 12 reduced the Congress’s strength in the 60-member state assembly to five and made the TMC the single largest opposition party without even contesting an election. National Peoples’ Party, which heads the ruling Meghalaya Democratic Alliance in the state, has 23 lawmakers and ally Bharatiya Janata Party two.The defections are the latest in a series of switchovers to the TMC since May when chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led TMC returned to power for the third time in a row in West Bengal.Meghalaya Congress chief Vincent H Pala told a news channel that the defection was expected. He said it was “not a setback, but a challenge for Congress”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joined-tmc-as-congress-is-not-an-effective-opposition-meghalaya-s-mukul-sangma-101637834548034.html
25-11-2021||India||Parliament winter session: BJP issues three-line whip to Rajya Sabha MPs||A three-line whip issued by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to its members in the Rajya Sabha instructing them to be present in the House when the winter session of Parliament begins on November 29 is being seen as a signal that the government could introduce a bill to repeal the three farm laws on the first day of the session.The whip said that the BJP members have to remain present to support the government while an “important” business was being taken up for discussion and passage in the House on Monday.Cabinet gives nod for repeal of farm lawsPrime Minister Narendra Modi last week announced that his government has decided to repeal the three farm laws that were being opposed by a section of farmers in Punjab, Haryana, and parts of Uttar Pradesh.On Wednesday, the union Cabinet approved the repeal of the laws that triggered protracted farmer protests along the borders of the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-issues-three-line-whip-to-rajya-sabha-mps-ahead-of-parliament-winter-session-101637833887646.html
25-11-2021||India||Centre to review ₹8L annual income criteria for EWS category, NEET-PG counselling on hold||The Union government on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it will review the annual income criteria of ₹8 lakh to provide reservation under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category for NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) admissions for post-graduate (PG) medical courses this year.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath the government would constitute a committee to ascertain the criteria and the panel would need four weeks to complete the process.The Supreme Court has now postponed the hearing of petitions challenging the EWS/OBC quota in Neet-PG courses till January 6. Also read | EWS quota: No mathematical precision to determine income ceiling, Centre tells Supreme CourtMehta said the NEET (PG) counselling would stand postponed for a further four weeks as per assurance earlier given to the court.The apex court told the Centre that its EWS quota is very enabling and progressive kind of reservation and States must support Centre in its endeavour.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-review-rs-8l-annual-income-criteria-for-ews-category-101637832868705.html
25-11-2021||India||'Ganna or Jinnah': Yogi Adityanath's jibe ahead of polls at Noida Airport inauguration||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday raked his 'Ganna versus Jinnah' plank as he addressed the inauguration ceremony of the Noida International Airport at Jewar. Minutes before Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the airport which will become Asia's biggest airport in the days to come, Yogi Adityanath said the Jewar is known for its exquisite sugarcane. "But some people replaced the sweetness with regular riots. Today, there are two options in front of the country -- whether the country will spread the sweetness of ganna or the hatred of Jinnah," the chief minister said sounding the poll bugle. Follow live updates of Noida International Airport ground-breaking eventYogi Adityanath's 'Ganna versus Jinnah' narrative dates back to 2018 when the chief minister came up with the coinage ahead of the Kairana bypolls. Ahead of the high-voltage Assembly election scheduled next year, Jinnah controversies have started surfacing in Uttar Pradesh again as Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav commented, "Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle." The Jinnah comment stirred a row in the state which Akhilesh denied to withdraw.The projected cost of Jewar airport is estimated at around ₹15,000- 20,000 crore and the development of the first phase of the airport is being done at a cost of around ₹10,050 crore, the ministry said. The airport will house two passenger terminals while adding that Terminal 1 will have a capacity of 30 million 10 passengers per year and Terminal 2 will have a capacity of 40 million passengers per year.According to the civil aviation ministry, terminal 1 will be built in two stages - the first for 12 million passengers per year and the second with an additional capacity for 18 million passengers per year. This phase is scheduled to be completed by the year 2024. Terminal 2 will also be built in two stages - with a first stage capacity of 12 million passengers per year and a second stage capacity of 18 million passengers per year. The work at the airport is scheduled to be completed by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganna-or-jinnah-yogi-adityanath-s-jibe-ahead-of-polls-at-noida-airport-inauguration-101637831471017.html
25-11-2021||India||Seven years later, Andhra Pradesh’s quest for a capital continues||Seven years after it split up into two states, with the formation of Telangana, confusion and uncertainty over the capital city of residuary Andhra Pradesh continues to persist.
25-11-2021||India||UP leaving international mark, says PM Modi as he lays foundation of Noida international airport in Jewar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation of the Noida international airport near Jewar in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district. Spread over more than 1,300 hectares of land, the airport is touted to be India's largest upon its completion.Addressing the ground-breaking ceremony of the airport, PM Modi said, “The new India of the 21st century today is building one of the best modern infrastructure. Better roads, better rail network, better airports are not just infrastructure projects but they transform the entire region, transforming people's lives completely.”The Prime Minister stressed the Noida international airport would be the logistics gateway of northern India, adding this will make the entire region a "powerful reflection of the National Gatishakti Masterplan."Along with Modi, who arrived earlier in the day to attend the event in Jewar, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia were also present at the ground-breaking ceremony.Also read | 'Ganna or Jinnah': Yogi's jibe ahead of polls at Noida Airport inaugurationTaking a dig at previous governments, Modi said they always showed “false dreams”. He also said after seven decades of Independence, Uttar Pradesh is finally getting what it has always deserved. “With the efforts of the government of double engine, today Uttar Pradesh is turning into the most-connected region of the country,” he said, lauding Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government.“The same Uttar Pradesh is leaving its mark not only nationally but internationally,” Modi underlined.Also read | Jewar airport to be Asia’s biggest: ScindiaThe Noida international airport will be the state's fifth international airport and it is scheduled to be operational by 2024. The Noida airport will also be the second international flight transit hub to come up in the national capital region, and is aimed at decongesting Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport.Being developed at an estmiated cost of ₹10,500 crore during its first phase, the Noida airport would have the capacity to serve around 1.2 crore passengers every year.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the development of the airport is in line with the vision of the Prime Minister towards boosting connectivity and creating a future-ready aviation sector. The airport is strategically located and will serve the people of Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Agra, Faridabad and neighbouring areas, the PMO earlier said.Get our Daily News Capsule||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-lays-foundation-of-noida-international-airport-in-jewar-to-be-india-s-largest-101637824927906.html
25-11-2021||India||After fresh ‘forgery’ tweet, Nawab Malik says won't post anything on Wankhede family till Dec 9||Nationalist Communist Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday that he is not going to post anything against Dnyandev Wankhede and his family till December 9.Malik's statements came in reference to a fresh appeal filed by Dnyandev in the high court, stating that the minister continues to post unverified content online.Notably, the high court on November 22 had refused to pass a blanket injunction on Malik as per a prior appeal by Dnyandev. The injunction sought for restraining the NCP leader from posting statements on Dnyandev, his son Sameer Wankhede, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director, and their family. However, the court directed that Malik must conduct adequate verification of all information before posting them online.Although Malik won't be posting anything against Dnyandev till December 9, he informed the division bench of Justice SJ Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav on Thursday that he would file an appeal against certain portions of the November 22 high court order.This development comes after the NCP leader took to Twitter on Thursday morning to take a fresh dig at the NCB Mumbai chief by sharing documents pertaining to the NCB chief's mother Zaheda Bano's death. He shared Bano's death certificate wherein her religion has been mentioned as Hindu while another cemetery document shows her religion mentioned as Muslim.“One more forgery. Muslim for the last rites and Hindu on government documents?” the Maharashtra minister wrote on the micro-blogging site.Tension has been rife between Malik and Wankhede since the NCB busted the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case, which quickly garnered nationwide attention due to the arrest and subsequent 20-day jail term of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan.Malik has alleged Dnyandev is a Hindu, who converted to Islam before marrying Bano, and that Wankhede has utilised his father's previous identity to get a government job under the Scheduled Caste (SC) quota.However, the Wankhede family has consistently refuted all claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-post-anything-on-wankhede-family-till-december-9-says-nawab-malik-101637825692122.html
25-11-2021||India||National security comes first, says review panel chief on Data Protection Bill||Individual privacy cannot supersede national security, sovereignty and integrity, PP Chaudhary, the head of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) that reviewed the proposed Data Protection Bill, has said days after the panel’s opposition party members argued that the new bill gives the government “unbridled power”. At least five penal members have submitted their dissent notes over the panel’s report.The JPC finalised the report on Monday and has suggested stricter compliance requirements for companies. It has added or tweaked clauses that provide for lighter obligations on government agencies and recommended a greater say for the state in the legal mechanism that will be set up to safeguard personal and non-personal data.“Sufficient safeguards have been provided in the bill to ensure that data is only accessed through a fair and proportionate procedure,” Chaudhary said. He added the only exemptions are the ones already provided for in the Constitution while referring to the contentious Clause 35 of the bill.Clause 35 empowers the government to provide exemptions to its agencies from the provisions of the bill.The panel has recommended that the procedure by which this exemption is claimed be “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate”. Also Read: MPs file dissent notes citing ‘reservations’ over Data Protection Bill reportThe clause allows the government to claim the exemption if it is satisfied that it is “necessary or expedient” to do so in the interest of purposes such as national security – a test that still exists in that form. The tests for just, fair and proportionate have been explained further as part of the procedure.Chaudhary said the procedures built into the bill provide for a framework even more detailed than the Constitution. “We have removed the provisions of public order and morality from the clause. But one must understand that national security cannot be compromised in lieu of individual privacy,” he said. “When the central government is satisfied that is necessary and expedient, it may grant exemptions, say to the army or to Intelligence Agencies, but under only the conditions provided for.”Chaudhary referred to Clause 12, which empowers the government to access data without consent. He added the intent of the bill is clear and that such action should only be taken in exceptional cases when it is required to provide benefits and services. “Is the government using data to provide ration through the public distribution system or provide funds under the MGNREGS (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) not beneficial to people?” he asked. “We need to understand the limitation of people’s ability to provide consent. How can we obtain consent from the poor when the data is being processed in a centralised form?”Chaudhary said consent was paramount, but the aim was to prevent its misuse and not hinder its use for beneficial schemes. “If a service is being provided, then consent is not necessarily required.”The panel’s report will be tabled in Parliament during the Winter Session beginning November 29 for discussion, following which the government will re-introduce the bill, with amendments if needed as the recommendations are not binding.Chaudhary attacked the opposition parties for opposing the bill and said they have a “dissent ideology”. “We have to strike a fine balance,” he said. “The Parliament will enact the law, so it can look into it whenever it wants but to have it evaluate it on a day-to-day basis is untenable. The IT (information technology) parliamentary committee can also take it up and provide further recommendations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-security-comes-first-says-review-panel-chief-on-data-protection-bill-101637831127677.html
25-11-2021||India||Defections to TMC continue as it seeks to expand base beyond West Bengal||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) with practically no presence in Meghalaya became the state’s largest opposition party in the 60-member House when 12 Congress legislators, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, switched sides on Wednesday. The defections are the latest in a series of switchovers to the TMC since May when chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led party returned to power for the third time in a row in West Bengal.Leaders from the Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and other parties, including in Bengal, have since joined the TMC. Independent legislators and turncoats, who joined the BJP in the run-up to the state assembly elections in Bengal this summer, have been among those who have defected to TMC. At least two of the leaders, who have joined the TMC, have been given Rajya Sabha berths.Sangma, who served as the chief minister for eight years, joined TMC amid reports that he was upset with the Congress leadership after being sidelined. Luizinho Faleiro, another former Congress leader and ex-chief minister of Goa, joined the TMC with leaders close to him in September. He was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha this week. TMC has also appointed Faleiro as vice president.Also Read: After Meghalaya defections, Cong says ‘conspiracy’ against it in northeastSusmita Dev, a former Member of Parliament, quit the Congress in August to join the TMC. The TMC has given her charge of the party in Assam and Tripura besides nominating her to Rajya Sabha.Pavan Varma, a former diplomat who along with political strategist Prashant Kishor was sacked from Janata Dal (United) over disagreements with the party chief Nitish Kumar, joined the TMC along with Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar this week. A former cricketer, Azad has been in both the BJP and the Congress. Azad joined the Congress in February 2019.Tanwar, a former Congress Lok Sabha Member of Parliament from Haryana, left the Congress in 2019.Former Union minister Babul Supriyo joined the TMC in September after the two-time Member of Parliament from West Bengal’s Asansol was dropped from the Union Cabinet in July.Mukul Roy, a former BJP vice president, and his son Subhranshu Roy returned to the TMC in June. He was instrumental in the rise of the TMC but left the party in 2017 after his name cropped up in a corruption case. He has since been nominated as the head of the Public Accounts Committee of the West Bengal assembly. At least BJP five legislators in Bengal have also joined the TMC in recent months while more have expressed their willingness to follow suit.The TMC plans to set up units in at least 15 states within the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defections-to-tmc-continue-as-it-seeks-to-expand-base-beyond-west-bengal-101637830647554.html
25-11-2021||India||Amit Shah urges industries to invest in northeast, says region is now peaceful||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday called upon industries to invest in the country’s northeast and boost development in the region that was witnessing peace and political stability for the first time.He said that in just seven years, the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi created an atmosphere in the northeast that is ideal for investments.Shah made the appeal while addressing a session themed “Bharat at 75: Empowering Northeast India” at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC).He urged the ICC to look at the positive change in the region and set up a chapter there. “I would like to tell the ICC that everything required for investments is now there in the northeast. It is time to invest in the region, empower it and boost its development,” the home minister said.Shah pointed out that the government is focusing on a new approach in its development boost in the region that revolves around “three Es” - empathy, empowerment and enabler.The home minister said PM Modi’s target of turning India into a $5 trillion economy in the coming years isn’t possible if the northeast region isn’t developed properly. “The northeast is very important for us and we have to connect it with the rest of the country in all sense,” Shah said.Also Read: From Adil Hussain to Rima Das: North eastern artistes cry neglect“The Modi government has focused on the northeast region since it came to power. Today, the region is ready to play the role of contributor in the development of the country,” he said. Talking about development initiates taken by the Modi government during its seven years, Shah said the northeast is clearly the main focus for the PM, who has made at least 50 trips to the region since coming to the power in 2014.“Today, there is rail and road connectivity to every capital city in northeastern states. Tourism is booming and national highways have been built in all the states. All governments in the northeast are now working in majority and peacefully. Conflicts have been resolved and insurgency is finished,” said Shah.He said before 2014, the region had reported 385 civilian deaths, but since 2019, only two people have been killed in insurgency-related incidents.He also pointed out that by 2024, all capital cities in the northeast region will be connected by air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-urges-industries-to-invest-in-northeast-says-region-is-now-peaceful-101637829387812.html
25-11-2021||India||Amit Shah lauds PM Modi for focussing on development of Northeast, urges industries to invest||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday lauded the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government for focussing on the development of Northeast India since it came to power in 2014. “Today, the region is ready to play the role of contributor in the development of the country. We want to move forward with three E's-'Empathy, Empowerment, Enabler' in the region," news agency ANI quoted Shah as saying during an annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, which he addressed virtually.Shah urged industries to invest in the Northeast, asserting that the Narendra Modi government has created a conducive environment for the industrial growth of the region. He assured the industries that all the state governments will cooperate if they come to invest in the region.The home minister also emphasised that peace has been restored in the Northeast in the last seven years, adding that militancy has come to an end and there is political stability in all the states in the region. “All state govt in the region have completed their respective 5-year terms. Elections in the region have also been conducted peacefully,” Amit Shah further said.Underlining the development in North east India, Amit Shah also underlined asserted that all capital cities have air connectivity. He further said by 2024, the Modi government will connect capitals of all the Northeastern states by air; seven of the eight state capitals will be connected through rail, and a network of roads is operational.The home minister said that the Prime Minister's vision of making India a USD 5 trillion economy and global power house by 2024-25 will be successful only when the Northeastern region is developed at par with the rest of the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-lauds-pm-modi-for-focussing-on-development-of-northeast-urges-industries-to-invest-101637826505425.html
25-11-2021||India||After Meghalaya defections, Congress says 'conspiracy' against it in northeast||The Congress alleged on Thursday that there was a ‘conspiracy’ against it not only in Meghalaya, but the whole of northeast, a day after 12 out of 17 party legislators in the state jumped ship to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Wednesday’s development means that the Congress is no longer the principal opposition party in the state, with the Trinamool taking over the mantle.Also Read | Congress loses 12 Meghalaya MLAs in a huge jolt. They team up with Mamata’s TMC“The conspiracy to break the Congress is happening not only in Meghalaya, but the whole northeast. I challenge (West Bengal) CM Mamata Banerjee to first elect them (Congress MLAs) on her party’s symbol and then formally welcome them to her party,” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress MP and the president of its West Bengal unit, said, according to news agency ANI. This conspiracy to break Congress is happening not only in Meghalaya, but whole northeast. I challenge CM Mamata Banerjee to first elect them on TMC's symbol&then formally welcome them to her party: Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya to join TMC pic.twitter.com/GVXe3KDrX1On Banerjee not meeting interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi, Chowdhury remarked that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would have been ‘angry’ had the meeting taken place. “If she (Banerjee) meets Sonia Gandhi now, then PM Modi will get angry. Her actions changed soon after her nephew (Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee) was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Before this, she wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi to fight against the BJP together,” he said.Also Read | 'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata Banerjee on why she didn't meet Sonia GandhiThough the TMC chief, who is an official visit to Delhi met PM Modi, she did not meet Gandhi. Banerjee explained, “This time, I only sought time from the PM. Why should we meet Sonia Gandhi every time? It is not constitutionally mandated.” Chowdhury, meanwhile, further alleged that the recent defections from the Grand Old Party to the TMC were orchestrated by poll strategist Prashant Kishor and former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro. While Kishor played an instrumental role in the TMC’s victory in the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year, Faleiro, a former Congress leader himself, joined Banerjee’s party in September. This all is being done by Prashant Kishor and TMC's leader Luizinho Faleiro. We were aware of this, Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury added on 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya to join TMC pic.twitter.com/OitpPd96vcThere have been tensions between the two parties in recent times over TMC’s ‘poaching’ of current and former Congress leaders. With an aim to expand beyond West Bengal after winning a third consecutive five-year term in the eastern state, the Trinamool has inducted leaders such as Faleiro, Sushmita Dev, Abhijit Mukherjee, Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar, among others. The new inductees from Meghalaya include former CM Mukul Sangma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-meghalaya-defections-congress-says-conspiracy-against-it-in-northeast-101637825849267.html
25-11-2021||India||Delhi high court dismisses plea seeking to ban Salman Khurshid's book: 'Ask people not to buy it'||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a petition seeking to ban the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation of a book written by Congress leader Salman Khurshid.The book titled ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’ triggered extensive outbursts from certain political quarters, particularly over the fact that the author had compared a “robust version” of Hindutva to the jihadist Islam of terror groups such as the Islamic State (IS) and the Boko Haram."Dismissed," said Justice Yashwant Varma while hearing the plea filed by a lawyer Vineet Jindal."Why don’t you tell people not to buy the book? What can we do if people are feeling so sensitive? No one is asking them to read it," the court said further in its observation.The court also sought to know whether any untoward communal incident happened in the country because of the references made in the book. This happened after the petitioner's counsel told the court that communal riots might break out in the country because of the book. The court said that the breach of communal peace is a mere "apprehension"."Tell everyone the book is badly authored. Ask them to read something better,” the court remarked.The petitioner had said that the book violates “the fundamental right guaranteed under articles 19 and 21” of the Indian Constitution. Other than seeking a ban on the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation, the petition also asked the court to ensure that it is not published henceforth in any form - neither print nor digital.Khurshid's house was vandalised in Nainital after the release of the book, with the parts of it set on fire allegedly by mobs. The Kumaun police had booked 21 people in connection with the incident.Khurshid's new book on the Ayodhya verdict was released last week. It explored the Apex Court's landmark judgment on the Ayodhya dispute.Even within the ranks of his own party, leaders differ on the debate over religious views. Khurshid's party colleague, Ghulam Nabi Azad, has publicly said that he did not agree with the former on the matter. “The comparison is factually incorrect and an exaggeration,” news agency PTI quoted Azad as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-against-salman-khurshid-s-book-says-badly-authored-101637826271998.html
25-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nawab Malik launches fresh attack on Sameer Wankhede, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Launching fresh attack on Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB's) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Thursday tweeted documents related to the death of latter's mother. Read moreA turnout of nearly 21.79% was recorded till 11am as Tripura was holding civic polls on Thursday, according to the state’s election commission. Also readFormer Australia captain Ricky Ponting is proud of Shreyas Iyer as the batter made his Test debut for India against New Zealand in Kanpur. Iyer, 26, on Thursday became India's 303rd Test cricketer, receiving his maiden Test cap from the legendary Sunil Gavaskar, and Ponting, head coach of the Delhi Capitals, posted a heart-warming message for the batter. Read moreKia has taken the covers off its new generation Niro SUV at the Seoul Mobility Show. The SUV comes with a new 'Opposites United' design philosophy with a bolder look than the first generation. The SUV will be on show till December 5 at the event. Read moreYour gut health in many ways affects your overall health. It is not without a reason that our gut is considered body's second brain and if not healthy can lead to many diseases. Read moreCongress accused former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's wife Preneet Kaur of indulging in anti-Congress activities. Congress gave her 7 days to explain her stand on Amarinder's exit from the party & her future plans. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nawab-malik-launches-fresh-attack-on-sameer-wankhede-and-all-the-latest-news-101637823178841.html
25-11-2021||India||Supreme Court orders additional central forces at Tripura local body polls||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre to immediately rush two additional companies of central paramilitary forces for the Tripura municipal polls to ensure each of the 770 polling booths in the state are manned by central paramilitary forces. Municipal polls are being held on Thursday to nearly 334 seats in the urban local bodies which includes 13 municipal councils, six nagar panchayats and 51 wards of Agartala municipal corporation. Counting of votes is to be held on Sunday. The Court also allowed media coverage of the elections in the absence of CCTVs at all polling booths.The top court directed the polling officials to make necessary arrangements to ensure safety of ballots and unhindered counting of votes and ordered the polling officials in each booth to take the help of the central paramilitary personnel in the event of any exigency.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath said, “We direct the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to provide additional two companies of central armed paramilitary forces of its discretion as expediently as possible considering that polling has begun and to secure polling booths so that polling can take place without any disruption.”The order came while the Court was hearing a petition filed by All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) alleging violence in the state prior to the polls against their candidates and party workers. Based on the orders passed by the court earlier this week, the state government and director general of police (DGP) of Tripura filed joint status reports about steps taken to secure free and fair polls and action taken on complaints of violence as alleged by AITC.On Thursday, even the Communist Party of India (Marxist) filed an intervention application in the proceedings pointing to the disturbing situation in the state. For AITC, senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan said that since voting began on Thursday, there were videos of outsiders entering polling booths and pressing the button. He also alleged that one of their candidates was not allowed to cast vote at a ward of Agartala municipal corporation.The state, represented by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, informed the Court that polls are peaceful and the only hindrance to free and fair polls was the present proceeding. He informed Court that after assessing security situation, the state DGP and home secretary requested Centre for two additional companies of central forces pursuant to which two additional companies of border security force (BSF) have been deployed in addition to the three battalions of central forces already present in the state. Additionally the state counsel Shuvojit Roy informed that 458 personnel of Tripura State Rifles have been deployed for law and order duties.Shankarnaraynan told the Court that a petition was pending before Tripura high court for installing CCTVs inside polling booth. But the state told the high court that the matter is being monitored by Supreme Court. The bench clarified that the issue of CCTVs was not before it and said that the high court was free to issue orders. However, since polling ends today, the Court directed the state election commission to issue immediate orders to the polling officials at each booth to allow access to print and electronic media for coverage of elections.On Tuesday, the court had refused to postpone the polls stating that postponing elections is a matter of last and extreme resort. The Court will hear the matter next week and has directed the DGP and Home Secretary to file a joint compliance report by next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-additional-central-forces-at-tripura-local-body-polls-101637823447210.html
25-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: Nearly 74% voter turnout till 3pm | Top points||Voting for elections to 222 seats of the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 19 other urban local bodies took place on Thursday. The polling began at 7am on Thursday and was held till 4pm. The counting of votes and declaration of results is scheduled for November 28.Here are the latest developments:1. A turnout of nearly 74 per cent (73.94 per cent) was recorded till 3pm, according to the state election commission. At 1pm, six hours after the polling began, the turnout stood at 43.53 per cent. More than 594,000 voters are eligible to exercise their right to vote.2. The Supreme Court, which, on Tuesday, dismissed a petition filed by the opposition Trinamool Congress (TMC) seeking postponement of the polls, directed the Centre to ‘immediately' deploy two more companies of paramilitary forces to ensure free and fair civic polls in the northeastern state.Also Read | Tripura civic polls: SC directs Centre to immediately deploy additional forces3. The state poll panel has said that there was no report of any untoward incident. However, the CPI(M) alleged that their polling agents were prevented from entering some booths. The party also claimed that ‘selected’ voters were asked to leave the polling booths.Also Read | CPI(M), TMC hurl charges as Tripura holds civic polls today4. The TMC, meanwhile, said that two of its polling agents were attacked and injured.5. The elections are taking place in the backdrop of violent clashes between workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool. The Tripura Police have said that they have taken adequate measures to ensure that the polling was free and fair.6. Earlier this month, the BJP won 112 seats uncontested out of the total 334 seats across the 20 municipal corporations. A total of 785 candidates are in the fray for the remaining 222 seats.7. These are Tripura's first civic elections since the BJP formed its first government in the state, in 2018. The next assembly elections here are scheduled for early 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-nearly-22-voter-turnout-till-11am-top-points-101637820818908.html
25-11-2021||India||Absconding top cop Param Bir Singh reaches Mumbai, to join probe soon||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who has been on the run since March this year, has landed in the city, police confirmed on Wednesday. He has reached unit 11 of the Mumbai police crime branch located in Kandivali, and is soon going to join the investigation into the corruption and extortion case lodged against him at the Goregaon police station.A person familiar with the developments said on Wednesday that the former Mumbai top cop is in Chandigarh. Singh also briefly appeared on Telegram on Wednesday but soon after deleted his account from the social messaging application.Singh is facing as many as five separate charges of extortion and corruption in Maharashtra in which former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze have also been named. Crime branch unit 11 of the Mumbai Police is probing five first information reports (FIRs) registered against Singh, while the remaining four are being investigated by the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and Thane Police.Singh last reported to work in May, after his transfer after his transfer to Home Guards as director general and his subsequent allegations against Deshmukh.The latest development in the case comes days after the Supreme Court granted interim protection to Singh from arrest in all the FIRs registered against him in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absconding-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-lands-in-mumbai-to-join-extortion-probe-101637820737151.html
25-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: Supreme Court directs Centre to immediately deploy additional forces||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the Tripura State Election Commission (SEC) to "immediately" deploy two additional forces for ensuring free and fair civic body elections in Tripura. The apex court has asked the Union home ministry to provide two additional companies of the Central Armed Police Forces.The order comes amid the ongoing voting for Tripura municipal elections marred in political violence.Earlier today, Trinamool Congress officials claimed that one of their party workers was beaten up in ward number 5 in the state capital of Agartala. CPI(M) state secretary Jiten Chaudhary also alleged that the ruling BJP was indulging in voter intimidation in south Tripura district and obstructing party workers from functioning freely. However, the ruling party denied these allegations.“Utsaber mejaj e vote hocche (Vote is going on in a celebratory spirit)," BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The run-up to Tripura civic polls became a cause celebre due to violence, arrests, sit-ins in the national capital of Delhi and with the Supreme Court intervening to ask officials to ensure peaceful polling.A three-way battle is underway in the north-eastern state, which saw TMC sending its top leaders to Tripura and BJP fighting back politically, while the CPI(M) tries to regain foot.The polls were announced by Tripura State Election Commission (SEC) to 20 urban local bodies, including Agartala Municipal Corporation in all the eight districts in the state.The counting of votes will take place on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-supreme-court-directs-centre-to-immediately-deploy-addition-101637819316968.html
25-11-2021||India||CPI(M), TMC hurl charges as Tripura holds civic polls today||A turnout of nearly 21.79% was recorded till 11am as Tripura was holding civic polls on Thursday, according to the state’s election commission. Polling began at 7am for 222 seats out of total 334. The remaining 112 seats were comfortably won by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) earlier. The CPI(M), however, alleged that its polling agents were stopped from entering polling booths, and also many waiting in queue were not allowed to enter booths and asked to go back without casting their votes based on their political affiliations. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) alleged that two of its polling agents were attacked and injured. Also Read: Hours before civic polls, Tripura CPM leader sends SOS message to Supreme Court“We didn’t get any report of EVM malfunction from anywhere as of now. Polling is going on peacefully, “ said an official from the election department. Police in Tripura said they have taken adequate measures to ensure free and fair polling, with state troopers posted at all the polling stations. The civic election votes would be counted on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-tmc-hurl-charges-as-tripura-holds-civic-polls-today-101637821527322.html
25-11-2021||India||6 Rafale fighter jets with India specific enhancement to arrive in Dec-Jan 2022||India is set to get remaining six Rafale multi-role jets with country-specific enhancements including long range air-to-air missiles, frequency jammers and advanced communications in the coming two months.According to IAF officials, first of the three Rafales with India specific enhancements with arrive from Istres-Le Tube air base, north-west of Marseille, France in December while the last three of multi-role fighters will be flown into Ambala air base in January 2022. The Istres air base is equipped with test bed facilities for manufacturer Dassault Aviation to install India specific enhancements on Rafale fighters.It is understood that once the India specific enhancements are tested to satisfaction in Indian conditions, the existing fleet of 30 Rafales will be retrofitted with the same enhancements in the coming year. The Indian Rafales are based in Ambala to handle the two front threat and in Hashimara to respond to any emergency in the eastern sector.Apart from the Meteor air-to-air beyond visual range missiles, the Rafale has potent weapons like SCALP air to ground laser guided ammunition to target the enemy from over 300 kilometers range and HAMMER precision terrain hugging ammunition which hunts and destroy high value enemy targets from 60 kilometers away.With 36 Rafale in its armory, the Indian Air Force will also become much more potent in December with the induction of at least two S-400 air defence systems in India. The Russian S-400 will not only match similar system deployed with the Chinese Army on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) but also deter any aerial threat from across the Tibetan border from 400 kilometers. Indian Air Force with longest beyond visual range air to air missiles onboard Rafale and S-400 air defence system to protect the air bases and skies above, any enemy will think many a times before casting an evil eye towards India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-rafale-fighter-jets-with-india-specific-enhancement-to-arrive-in-dec-jan-2022-101637821271866.html
25-11-2021||India||Noida airport ceremony: 6-km-long jam on Jewar road. Read traffic advisory||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi heads to Noida for groud-breaking ceremony of international airport in Jewar, the Noida Traffic Police has issued advisory, which contains details about traffic diversion and routes to follow.On Thursday morning, a 6-km-long jam was reported on the road leading to Jewar airport as buses and tractors loaded with locals are headed to the bhoomi pujan event.According to the government, the ceremony will take place at 1pm.The Noida Traffic Police in its advisory said that only those cars/vehicles which are going to Jewar for the public meeting will be allowed to pass. Movement of heavy and medium goods vehicles is strictly prohibited towards the venue.It also said that vehicles going to Secunderabad-Bulandshahr through Yamuna Expressway, Palwal, Noida and Jewar can use the Jewar-Khurja road from Kasba Jahangirpur to Kasba Jhajjar."संशोधित ट्रैफिक एडवाइजरी" https://t.co/gFJL264ydc pic.twitter.com/eK5itGj7uXThe first phase of the airport is being constructed at a cost of over ₹10,000 crore. It is spread over more than 1300 hectares of land.Also Read | All you need to know about Jewar airportThe completed first phase of the airport will have a capacity to serve around 12 million passengers a year and work on it is scheduled to be completed by 2024.Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister had said that the project will boost commerce, connectivity and tourism.According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Uttar Pradesh will become the only state in India to have five international airports.The Noida airport will be the second international airport to come up in Delhi-NCR. It will help decongest the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport.As per PMO, the airport is strategically located and will serve the people of cities including Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Agra, Faridabad and neighbouring areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-airport-ceremony-6-km-long-jam-on-jewar-road-read-traffic-advisory-101637820688849.html
25-11-2021||India||Nawab Malik again targets Sameer Wankhede with 'one more forgery' tweet||Launching fresh attack on Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB's) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Thursday tweeted documents related to the death of latter's mother.Launching fresh attack on Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB's) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Thursday tweeted documents related to the death of latter's mother.|#+|Malik tweeted his mother Zaheda Bano's death certificate in which her religion has been mentioned as Hindu, whereas other document tweeted by the NCP leader is of a cemetery in which her religion was mentioned as Muslim. "One more forgery. Muslim for the last rites and Hindu on government documents?" Malik said in his tweet.एक और फर्जीवाड़ा,अंतिम संस्कार के लिए मुसलमान और सरकारी दस्तावेज के लिए हिन्दू ?धन्य है Dawood Dnyandeo pic.twitter.com/uuM58cjfruThe Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader had alleged that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth and used his father's previous identity to get a job in the Indian Revenue Services (IRS) under the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. He claimed that his father Dnyandev Wankhede converted as a Muslim before marrying Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano.Wankhede and his family have refuted the claims and filed a defamation case against Malik.But on Monday, the Bombay high court refused to restrain Malik from making comments and putting social media posts against Wankhede and his family. That order has been challenged by the NCB officer's father Dnyandev Wankhede in a division bench.The Maharashtra minister has been continuously attacking Sameer Wankhede since the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan in the cruise drug bust case.The high-profile case has now turned into a war of words between Malik and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis making allegations and counter-allegations against each other.While Malik had alleged that former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has been shielding NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and accused Fadnavis of "criminalisation of politics".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-again-targets-sameer-wankhede-with-one-more-forgery-tweet-101637819049771.html
25-11-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu to lead India at ASEM meet on multilateralism, economic recovery||Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu will head the Indian delegation that will join the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) Summit being held virtually on Thursday and Friday to strengthen multilateralism and post-pandemic economic recovery. The theme for the summit is “Strengthening multilateralism for shared growth” and the event is expected to see the participation of all 51 member countries, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and the European Union (EU). Cambodia, the current chair of Asean, is hosting the summit, which will also mark the 25th anniversary of the ASEM process. Several heads of states are expected to participate in the summit. Also Read: Can’t afford to miss 4th industrial revolution: Venkaiah NaiduThe ASEM agenda for 2021 will prioritise issues related to strengthening multilateralism, post-pandemic socio-economic recovery and development, and other regional and global issues of common concern, India’s external affairs ministry said. Besides the opening ceremony, Naidu will join the first plenary session and the retreat session of the summit and exchange views on areas such as reformed multilateralism, the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, post-pandemic recovery, mitigating global climate change, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and maritime security. The ASEM is a platform for countries in Asia and Europe to exchange views on regional and global issues and strengthen collaboration in a wide range of areas emanating from the group’s three pillars – political and security cooperation, economic and financial cooperation, and sociocultural cooperation. The grouping comprises 51 member countries and two regional organisations, the EU and Asean. Countries in the grouping represent 65% of the global GDP, 60% of the world’s population, 75% of worldwide tourism and 55% of global trade. The ASEM Summit is a biennial event alternating between a country in Asia and Europe, and it is the foremost event of the process that sets priorities for dialogue and cooperation between Asia and Europe in political, economic, financial, social, cultural and educational issues of common interest in a spirit of equal partnership. India joined the ASEM process in 2006. The 7th ASEM Summit in 2008 saw the first summit-level participation by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-to-lead-india-at-asem-meet-on-multilateralism-economic-recovery-101637818347091.html
25-11-2021||India||India’s single-day Covid death toll dips, recovery rate highest since March 2020||India on Thursday witnessed a marginal dip in single-day case count as well as fresh fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) 8am update. As many as 9,119 new cases were logged in the last 24 hours that took the cumulative count to 34,544,882, whereas the death toll reached 466,980 after 396 people succumbed to the virus, according to the ministry.With 10,624 fresh recoveries, the total number of patients to recover from the infection has climbed up to 33,967,962. The country’s recovery rate is currently at 98.33 per cent, highest since March 2020. The active case count that was recorded to be the lowest in 537 days on Wednesday, further went down to 109,940, the health ministry data revealed.On Wednesday, the country had reported 164 more cases with a total of 9,283 people testing positive for Covid-19, while 437 new deaths were logged.What remains concerning about the death toll of India is the continuing massive contribution by Kerala. Of the 396 fatalities reported on Thursday, the southern state accounts for 308. Citing the state health bulletin, the Union health ministry portal stated that 35 deaths were reported in Kerala in the last 24 hours, while the remaining 273 were added after appeals on the basis of Centre’s new guidelines and Supreme Court’s direction.Also Read | Third wave of pandemic won’t be as severe as previous ones: AIIMS directorKerala has added more than 1,000 backlog Covid-19 deaths thus far in November, which is nearly 4 per cent of the total 38,353 fatalities the state has witnessed till now.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday that a total of 1,150,538 samples were tested in India in the last 24 hours, pushing the total number of samples tested so far in the country to more than 635 million.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed 1,193.8 million with 9,027,638 jabs administered in the last 24 hours. Of the total number of doses, 2,507,849 eligible beneficiaries received the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine whereas 6,519,789 received their second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-covid-death-toll-dips-recovery-rate-highest-since-march-2020-101637817311066.html
25-11-2021||India||NIA conducts fresh raids in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was conducting fresh raids in Kashmir on Thursday morning in connection with a terror-funding case that the federal agency is probing, people aware of the matter said.The people said the raids were being conducted with the help of Jammu and Kashmir Police and paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force at separate places in Srinagar and Shopian districts.NIA officials confirmed the raids but refused to provide further information. The fresh raids come three days after NIA on Monday arrested human rights activist Khurram Parvaz after conducting raids at his office and residence at Sonwar and Amira Kadal localities in Srinagar. Some documents and electronic equipment were also seized during the raids. Parvez is the programme coordinator of the Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society and the chairperson of Asian Federation Against Involuntary Disappearances.The central agency has registered the terror funding case under the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niaconducts-fresh-raids-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101637817506918.html
25-11-2021||India||Indian Navy commissions 4th Scorpene-class submarine INS Vela in Mumbai||The Indian Navy on Thursday commissioned Scorpene-class submarine INS Vela at the naval dockyard in Mumbai, in the presence of the chief of naval staff Admiral Karambir Singh. INS Vela is the fourth Scorpene-class submarine to be commissioned under Project 75.It has been built by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in collaboration with M/s Naval Group of France.Addressing the commissioning event, Admiral Singh said on Thursday that INS Vela can undertake an entire spectrum of submarine operations. “Given today's dynamic and complex security situation, its capability and firepower will play a crucial role in enhancing the navy's ability to protect India's maritime interests,” Singh added.Also Read| INS Vela: Navy to get 4th Scorpene-class submarine today. All you need to knowThe chief of naval staff also said that Thursday's commissioning of INS Vela marks another high point in the partnership between India and France.The submarine possesses advanced stealth and combat capabilities. Attacks from Vela can be carried using torpedoes and tube-launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, be it on the surface or underwater.
25-11-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari lays foundation stone of key highway projects in Jammu and Kashmir||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday inaugurated highway projects covering a total length of 257km and worth ₹11,721 crore in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). The projects involve the upgradation of some sections and construction of viaducts and tunnels.Gadkari said he realised how people faced hardships in the absence of roads thanks to his visits to J&K after taking charge of his ministry. “The work on three corridors is on. The NH-44 (Jammu-Udhampur-Ramban-Anantnag) faced several challenges including forest clearance, landslides and then contractor, too, had to be changed but I assure you that the work will be completed within two years paving way for a four-hour journey to Srinagar from Jammu,” he said in his address after the inauguration in Doda. He added the work on NH-244 (Jammu-Udhampur, Chenani-Nashri tunnel-Doda-Kishtwar- Anantnag) and NH 144 (Jammu- Akhnoor-Nowshera- Rajouri-Bufliaz- Shopian–Srinagar) was also being executed.Gadkari said they were working on all three corridor projects. “Similarly, the work on a ring road project in Jammu is in full swing and will be completed soon.” He added said that an inter-model station will be constructed at Katra—the base camp of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi. “It is a religious place for all of us and therefore we plan to construct an inter-model station, for which a proposal has been submitted to the LG (Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha). The inter-model station will have a helipad, railway station, and bus stand at the same place. The helipad will be on the rooftop of the structure.” He said the station will be linked with the 650km-long Delhi-Katra expressway. “The feasibility report has already been done.”Also Read: Srinagar records coldest night of this winter seasonGadkari said the roads and allied amenities in J&K will match that of Switzerland, London, and America. He added the Delhi-Katra expressway will reduce the travelling time between the two destinations by half to six hours. “I also promise that the travelling time from Delhi to Srinagar will be eight hours after the completion of the corridor.”Gadkari said Asia’s biggest tunnel was being constructed in Ladakh’s Zojila. “We saved ₹5,000 crore but at the same time, not even a single contractor had to come to the ministry for getting the tender. Corruption free system, fast-track decision-making, and transparency are the benchmark of our government.” He said the tunnel will reduce the travelling time from Leh to Srinagar considerably. Gadkari said he has discussed a proposal with Sinha to have air-conditioned electric buses with fares 30% cheaper in Jammu and for the long route as well. “We have (electric) buses that can run for over 600km.”Gadkari said their priority is to shift to green hydrogen than relying on conventional fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-of-key-highway-projects-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101637816667371.html
25-11-2021||India||BSF lodges protest with Pak Rangers over border violations using drones||The Border Security Force (BSF) has said that it lodged a strong protest with Pakistan Rangers at a commandant-level meeting on Wednesday against violations of the international border by drones. The Pakistani side was asked to refrain from such activities at the meeting held along India-Pakistan border at RS Pura near Jammu.A BSF spokesman said commandant Ajay Suryavanshi led the Indian delegation. “...commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues including maintenance of border pillars and latest infrastructure activities on the border, Pakistan’s drone operations and other activities. Pak Rangers objected to the BSF’s defence-related construction works,” said the spokesman. He added the two sides agreed to resolve operational matters and issues with a mutual understanding. “The meeting was held in a cordial and constructive atmosphere and both the commanders agreed to work for maintaining a peaceful atmosphere.”Also Read: Pathankot grenade blast: Strengthen second line of defence along Pakistan border, says RandhawaOn October 2, a Pakistani drone dropped an AK-47 assault rifle, three magazines, 30 rounds at Sohanjana in the Phallain Mandal area of Jammu. This was the latest in a series of such instances. On June 27, two Pakistani drones dropped explosives on an Indian Air Force station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Drones were repeatedly spotted in the region later.The June 27 attack was the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case.Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh has said over 360 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-lodges-protest-with-pakistan-rangers-over-border-violations-using-drones-101637815706765.html
25-11-2021||India||President Kovind, PM Modi to attend events related to Constitution Day||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend events related to Constitution Day on Friday. Kovind will read the Constitution’s Preamble, release the digital versions of Constituent Assembly debates, and a calligraphed copy of the Constitution as well as its updated version that will include all amendments till date to mark the day. An online quiz will also be held to mark the occasion.Modi will later inaugurate Supreme Court’s two-day Constitution Day celebrations. Supreme Court judges, chief justices of high courts and senior-most puisne judges, solicitor general of India are scheduled to attend the gathering that Modi will also address.Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday said that the online reading of the preamble to the Constitution will be available in 23 Indian languages. “The event is being organised by the Lok Sabha Secretariat and Speaker [Om Birla],” he said. He added Birla will also attend the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-to-attend-events-related-to-constitution-day-101637813246612.html
25-11-2021||India||Widespread rain expected in peninsular India over next few days, says IMD||A low-pressure area is likely to develop over southeast Bay of Bengal on Thursday and bring widespread rain to peninsular India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.A cyclonic circulation lying over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal was likely to lead to a low-pressure area over southwest Bay of Bengal during the next 12 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards towards Sri Lanka and south Tamil Nadu coast.A trough ( line of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal to south Tamil Nadu in lower tropospheric levels.IMD said light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall was very likely in coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Rayalaseema, south Interior Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe, Tami Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days.Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal until November 28. It was also very likely in south Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was very likely in south Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and Rayalaseema over the weekend. Isolated heavy rainfall was also very likely in Kerala and Mahe until November 28.Squally wind (speed reaching 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph) was likely in southwest Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar along and off south Tamil Nadu coast on Thursday. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into these areas.The IMD said a gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4°C was very likely in parts of East India during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-expected-in-peninsular-india-over-next-few-days-says-imd-101637812706653.html
25-11-2021||India||Congress parliamentary group to meet today, here’s what can be expected||Ahead of the winter session of Parliament starting November 29, the Congress party will meet on Thursday to discuss the issues that would be raised. The meeting of Congress' parliamentary strategy group will be held at the residence of party president Sonia Gandhi.The upcoming session comes following the recent announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws by the Centre, and the Union cabinet’s subsequent nod to approve the bill.Earlier on Monday, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal told news agency ANI that the matter of inflation will be raised by the party in the winter session.
25-11-2021||India||‘Provides evidence of effectiveness’: Bharat Biotech on real-world study of Covaxin||Reacting to a real-world assessment, which said that Covaxin is 50 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed the jab, said on Thursday that the study provides 'evidence for effectiveness’ of India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19.Also Read | Covaxin 50% effective against Delta variant: Real-world study“Bharat Biotech commends the investigators from AIIMS on the BBV152 study published in Lancet Infectious Diseases. These results provide evidence for effectiveness for Covaxin in real-life settings,” the vaccine manufacturer said in a statement. Bharat Biotech commends the investigators from #AIIMS on the BBV152 study published in Lancet Infectious Diseases. These results provide evidence for effectiveness for #COVAXIN in real life settings.@WHO @TheLancet@MoHFW_INDIA  #Deltavariant #BBV152 #Lancet #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/pZK0oqqJxBThe firm further said, “An effectiveness result of 50 per cent achieved during the peak Covid-19 Delta variant wave in India, in a high-risk study population of physicians and health care workers, in a health-related environment, and who are challenged repeatedly with high viral loads, provides insights into the efficacy and effectiveness of Covaxin.”It is to be noted that the data, published in the Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, goes against results from Bharat Biotech’s Phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin, which found the vaccine to be 77.8 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19. A peer review, also published in the Lancet earlier this month, too, said that the shot was 77.8 per cent effective against symptomatic infections.Also Read | Covaxin 77.8% effective against Covid-19 in Lancet studyA total of 2714 hospital workers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, were assessed during this study, which took place between April 15 and May 15, when the second Covid-19 wave was at its peak. Researchers noted that the highly infectious Delta variant was the dominant strain during the second wave, accounting for nearly 80 per cent of all confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease.On the Delta variant, Bharat Biotech noted, “These results compare well with the 65.2 per cent efficacy obtained during the controlled Phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin conducted among the general population.”Covaxin, also known as BBV152, was developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and is one of the two most widely-used vaccines in the national inoculation exercise. It has a two-dose regimen, with a gap of 28 days between each dose. On November 3, it was granted Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provides-evidence-of-effectiveness-bharat-biotech-on-real-world-study-of-covaxin-101637809310530.html
25-11-2021||India||School teachers to be trained to identify mental health issues among students||The Centre is set to launch a programme under which schoolteachers will be trained to identify the early warning signs of stress and mental health problems among students, and provide them and their families with the required support. The union education ministry has constituted an 11-member committee to develop content for the training within the next three months.Officials said the teacher-training programme will be conducted under the ministry’s “Manodarpan” initiative that was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July last year to provide support to students during the Covid-19 pandemic and beyond. The training will be provided in collaboration with the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI).An official in the ministry’s department of school education and literacy said that the “psycho-social needs” of children and youth, aged between 15-24 years, has been compromised amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has brought the concerns of mental health and well-being in the picture even with more prominence... Schools play a significant role in the life of children and therefore can play a pivotal role to enhance the nature and scope of mental health interventions, address problems early, and in doing so reduce the stigma attached with mental illness. Therefore, there is a need to develop school-based interventions which can reduce risk factors and promote the mental health and well-being of children and adolescents,” said the official, who did not want to be named.Also Read: School reopening: How parents should mentally prepare childrenAccording to an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) 2005 study, 12% to 13 % of school students in India suffer from emotional, behavioural, and learning problems such as anxiety, depression, learning difficulties, and suicidal tendencies, among others. Similarly,The State of the World’s Children report by Unicef released this year said mental health disorders among children and youth mostly remain undiagnosed as most of them are hesitant to seek any support or treatment.“Early childhood years are the foundational years and are critical periods for human development. Any event that occurs during this time has a long-lasting effect on academic, social, emotional and behavioural achievement in adulthood. The majority of the mental disorders occur during the transition period from childhood to young adulthood, with up to 1 in 5 individuals suffering from a clinically relevant mental health problem before the age of 25,” the official said.Another official in the ministry said that the idea is to sensitise and make schoolteachers aware of all the available interventions so that they can help students. “Broadly the programme would aim to inform teachers and staff on identifying characteristics, behaviours, symptoms and the requisite assistance for identified mental illness/problems. The attempt is to promote social and emotional competency and build resilience among children. Overall we aim to create and ensure a positive and safe school environment for all students,” the official said, adding the teachers will work in collaboration with counsellors, special educators and mental health professionals.The 11-member committee that will develop content for the training will be chaired by psychiatrist and a member of the working group on Manodarpan Dr Jitendra Nagpal. The programme is likely to kick-off ahead of the next academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schoolteachers-to-be-trained-to-identify-mental-health-issues-among-students-101637812046586.html
25-11-2021||India||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh to commission INS Vela today||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh will commission INS Vela, the country’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, on Thursday, two days after Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) delivered it following over two years of sea trials. The submarine is seen as a major shot in the arm for the Indian Navy’s strength and capability.MDL built INS Vela, the diesel-electric submarine known to have advanced stealth and combat capabilities, in Mumbai. INS Vela is the fourth submarine in the series that was launched in May 2019. The first, INS Kalvari, was launched in October 2015 and commissioned in December 2017, five years behind schedule. INS Khanderi, the second, was commissioned in September 2019 after its launch in January 2017 for trials. The third, INS Karanj, was launched in January 2018 and commissioned on March 10, 2021. INS Vagir, The fifth one, was launched in November 2020 and has commenced harbour trials. It is expected to go for its first surface sortie in December. INS Vagsheer, the sixth submarine, is in the advanced stage of outfitting.Also Read: INS Vela: Navy to get 4th Scorpene-class submarine today. All you need to know“The delivery of four submarines--Kalvari, Khanderi, Karanj, and now Vela--reaffirmed India’s membership in the exclusive group of submarine-building nations,” said Ashish Singh, the public relations manager at MDL.Scorpene-class submarines can undertake multifarious missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance, etc. They are designed to operate in all theatres with the means to ensure interoperability. The state-of-the-art technology used in the construction of Scorpene-class submarines has ensured improved stealth features. The features include advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimised shape, and the ability to launch an attack using precision-guided weapons. Attacks can be carried out using both torpedoes as well as tube-launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, underwater or on the surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh-to-commission-ins-vela-today-101637810786632.html
25-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida International Airport today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida International Airport in UP's Jewar todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday lay the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport (NIA) in Uttar Pradesh's Jewar. Read more.'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata on why she didn't meet Sonia GandhiWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is on an official visit to Delhi, said on Wednesday that she is not going to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Read more.On Cam: Cash worth ₹13 lakh found in drainage pipe of civic engineer’s houseAnti-Corruption Bureau sleuths raided the residence of a junior engineer of PWD in Karnataka. Watch.Tripura civic polls: Voting for 222 seats begins, results on November 28Voting for elections to 222 seats in the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and other municipal bodies in Tripura began at 7am on Thursday, and will go on till 4pm. Read more.India vs New Zealand 1st Test: Ravichandran Ashwin five wickets away from going past Harbhajan Singh's huge recordAshwin, who has enjoyed a prolific run in the limited-overs format for India, will be aiming to carry forth the momentum in the Tests. Read more.Radhika Madan's way of performing the Surya Namaskar has our heartRadhika Madan's way of working out is better than ours. Read more.Salman Khan holds niece Ayat, poses with stepmom Helen, mom Salma Khan and others at Salim Khan’s birthday partySalman Khan took to Instagram to share a picture from his father Salim Khan’s birthday party and wrote, “Happy b’day dad.” Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-noida-international-airport-101637809351938.html
25-11-2021||India||PM Modi reviews 8 key projects costing ₹20,000 crore at Pragati summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed eight major projects covering seven states. The projects, which collective cost around ₹20,000 crore, are concerned with development in the areas of railways, road transport, power, and oil and gas.PM Modi reviewed the projects as he chaired the 39th Pragati summit on Wednesday. Pragati, or Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation, is a project-focused platform involving the Centre and various state governments.According to a government press release, nine agenda items were taken up for review, which comprised eight projects and a separate scheme. Among the eight projects, three were from the railways ministry, two projects each from the road transport and highways ministry and the power ministry, and one from petroleum and natural gas ministry.Also Read: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida Airport in UP’s Jewar today“These eight projects, having a cumulative cost of about ₹20,000 crores, span seven states: Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal,” the government said in the press statement.In the 38 previous editions of Pragati meetings, a total of 303 projects worth around ₹14.64 lakh crore had been reviewed.During the latest summit, the PM also reviewed the “Poshan Abhiyaan” programme, underlining the importance of implementing it on a mission mode in all the states.Modi also spoke about the participation of self-help groups (SHGs) and similar local organisations in promoting awareness about children’s health and nutrition at the grassroots level, which could help widen the reach of the Poshan Abhiyaan programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-eight-key-projects-costing-20-000-crore-at-pragati-summit-101637810186648.html
25-11-2021||India||'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata Banerjee on why she didn't meet Sonia Gandhi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is on an official visit to Delhi, said on Wednesday that she is not going to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief said it is not "constitutionally mandated" to meet Gandhi whenever she comes to Delhi."This time I sought time only from the prime minister. The leaders are all busy with Punjab polls. Work is first... Why should we meet Sonia every time? It is not constitutionally mandated," Banerjee told reporters after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She raised the issue of the BSF's territorial jurisdiction in the state in the meeting with the Prime Minister, demanding that it be withdrawn.Banerjee shares close ties with the Congress president. But recent developments, such as exodus of key Congress leaders to TMC, its entry into Goa politics and other factors have led to tension between the two parties.The latest jolt to Congress came in Meghalaya where 12 of its 17 MLAs, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, joined Trinamool Congress. The TMC has witnessed a steady stream of leaders joining its ranks after quitting from Congress in the last few months.In September, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joined TMC after resigning from the primary membership of Congress. A month before that, Congress MP from Assam's Silchar and ex-president of All India Mahila Congress, Sushmita Dev had joined the TMC. Both were awarded Rajya Sabha seats after joining West Bengal's ruling party.Congress leader Kirti Azad and former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar also recently joined TMC. Tanwar was once a close aide of Rahul Gandhi.Banerjee also said that expansion plans for the TMC are underway, indicating that a trip to PM's constituency Varanasi is planned. "I would visit Varanasi since Kamalapati Tripathi's family is now with us," added Banerjee.Rajeshpati Tripathi and Laliteshpati Tripathi, the grandson and the great-grandson of former UP chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi, joined the Trinamool Congress in October.On the Uttar Pradesh elections, Banerjee said that she was open to helping Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav if he needs the TMC's help."If Trinamool can help defeat the BJP in UP, we will go... If Akhilesh (Samajwadi chief Akhilesh Yadav) wants our help, we will help," she said.The TMC chief also said while her party has "started" in Goa, regional parties should slug it out in some states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-constitutionally-mandated-mamata-banerjee-on-not-meeting-sonia-gandhi-101637807733402.html
25-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: Polling for 222 seats underway, 13.13% voter turnout till 9am||Voting for elections to 222 seats in the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and other municipal bodies in Tripura is currently underway after commencing at 7am and will be held till 4pm. A total of 785 candidates are in the fray, including those from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and opposition parties such as the Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC), CPM etc.Also Read | Tripura civic polls: Voting on remaining 222 seats on ThursdayTill 9am, 13.13 per cent of the eligible voters had exercised their right to vote. Overall, nearly 6 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in these elections.Earlier this month, of the total 334 seats in the AMC and 19 other urban local bodies, the BJP won 112 uncontested. The counting of votes for the remaining seats will begin at 8am on Sunday. Tripura Municipal Elections | Voting underway at a polling station in Agartala's ward number 20 770 polling stations have been established across the State for the civic polls: State Election Commission pic.twitter.com/VxsMlqFyx1Thursday's polling is being conducted across 644 booths, of which 370 have been identified as category ‘A,’ while the remaining 274 are under category ’B.’ Authorities have taken adequate measures to ensure that the polling remains free and fair; the steps taken include deployment of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the police state troopers.The stringent security measures were necessitated due to violence that preceded the polls, particularly due to clashes between workers from the BJP and TMC. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court dismissed the Trinamool's petition seeking postponement of the civic polls, though it did direct the Tripura Police to submit within two days an action-taken report on incidents of poll-related violence in the northeastern state. Also Read | Tripura: SC refuses to delay municipal polls, asks for report on unrestThese are the first municipal elections taking place in Tripura since the BJP formed its first government here, in 2018. The state will elect its next government in early 2023.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-voting-for-222-seats-begins-results-on-november-28-101637805653471.html
25-11-2021||India||Piyush Goyal to hold meeting with states on model community kitchen scheme today||Union consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal will on Thursday chair the ‘All India Food Ministers Meeting’ and discuss community kitchen scheme, the status of implementation of One Nation One Ration Card and other issues.“Some of the likely key issues that will be discussed during the meeting are Model Community Kitchen Scheme, One Nation One Ration Card-status of implementation, Aadhaar seeding of Ration Cards, Biometrically authenticated FPS transactions and others,” according to an official statement on Wednesday.Thursday's meeting comes after the Supreme Court directed the Centre on November 16 to come up with a community kitchen scheme that is agreeable to all states and UTs within three weeks. A welfare state must ensure that nobody dies of hunger, the court observed.The above directions to the Centre were issued as the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Singh, and Kunajan Singh, that sought the setting up community kitchens and creating a national food grid for people falling outside the purview of the Public Distribution Scheme (PDS).Also Read| Welfare state must ensure nobody dies of hunger, says Supreme CourtAll states and UTs have been asked by the top court to attend Thursday's meeting and cooperate with the Centre in coming up with the community kitchen scheme that can be made uniformly applicable across the country, the official statement also said.Four days back, the secretary of the department of food and public distribution (DPFD) held a meeting with chief secretaries and food secretaries of states and UTs to discuss the scheme.In India, several states, including Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Delhi and Jharkhand, have been running community kitchens that serve meals at subsidised rates in hygienic conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-to-hold-meeting-with-states-on-model-community-kitchen-scheme-today-101637802638344.html
25-11-2021||India||Haryana advocate general to hear criminal contempt plea against Navjot Sidhu today||The advocate general of Haryana will on Thursday hear a plea filed against Navjot Singh Sidhu, seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Punjab Congress president for his alleged ‘irresponsible’ tweets in connection with a drugs case in Punjab.Last Tuesday, the Haryana AG deferred the hearing for November 25. “Arguments were partly heard today, and the case will be taken up for hearing next Thursday for further arguments,” petitioner Parampreet Singh Bajwa, an advocate of the Punjab and Haryana high court, had said.Also Read | Haryana advocate general defers hearing on criminal contempt petition against Navjot SidhuThe plea seeks the AG's consent for initiation of contempt proceedings by the Punjab and Haryana high court, where the said case is being heard. It was filed in Haryana and not Punjab as the latter's advocate general at the time, APS Deol, had resigned.The petitioner has submitted that the cricketer-turned-politician posts tweets about the drugs case just when it is to be taken up by the high court for a matter in which proceedings are going on. Sidhu's act ‘substantially’ interferes with ‘due course of justice’ since Twitter is a public platform, and he has more than 900,000 followers on the social media network, the plea says.Bajwa also attached screenshots of some of the tweets, posted by the Congress leader, with his petition. The petition also states that though Sidhu is not even a party to to the proceedings in this case, he is using his current position to ‘create and influence’ public opinion. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-advocate-general-to-hear-criminal-contempt-plea-against-navjot-sidhu-today-101637802475800.html
25-11-2021||India||INS Vela: Navy to get 4th Scorpene-class submarine today. All you need to know||The Indian Navy will commission INS Vela, its fourth Scorpene-class submarine, on Thursday. INS Vela's induction will boost the Navy's combat capability.The commissioning is taking place under Project 75, which includes construction of six submarines of the Scorpene class. These submarines can undertake multifarious missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance etc.Three of these submarines - Kalvari, Khanderi, Karanj - have already been commissioned.Here's everything you need to know about Indian Navy's newest induction:• INS Vela will be commissioner by Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh.• The submarine has been built by Mumbai-based Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in collaboration with M/s Naval Group of France.• INS Vela is known to have advanced stealth and combat capabilities when it comes to engaging with the enemy.• Some of these features are advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimised shape and the ability to launch a crippling attack on the enemy using precision-guided weapons.• The previous avatar of INS Vela was commissioned on August 31, 1973 and it rendered service to the nation for 37 eventful years before being decommissioned on June 25, 2010.• The new 'Vela' is a potent man o' war and is capable of offensive operations that span across the entire spectrum of maritime warfare, the Navy said in a statement.• Attacks can be carried out using both torpedoes as well as tube-launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, underwater or on surface.• Launched in May 2019, INS Vela has completed all major harbour and sea trials including weapon and sensor trials since then despite Covid-induced restrictions.• The first submarine in the series, INS Kalvari, was launched in October 2015 and was commissioned in December 2017 - five years behind schedule. The second one, INS Khanderi, was launched in January 2017 for trials and commissioned in September 2019. The third submarine, INS Karanj, was launched in January 2018 and commissioned on March 10, 2021. INS Vela is the fourth one.• The fifth one, INS Vagir, was launched in November 2020 and has commenced harbour trials. It is expected to go for its maiden surface sortie in December 2021. The sixth submarine, INS Vagsheer, is in the advanced stage of outfitting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-vela-navy-to-get-4th-scorpene-class-submarine-today-all-you-need-to-know-101637803324728.html
25-11-2021||India||Haryana CM likely to meet PM Modi, issues around farm laws may be discussed||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, news agency ANI reported. The meeting is likely to take place at 10.30am, it further said.The meeting comes against the backdrop of PM Modi's announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws a protest call given by the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on the first anniversary of farmers' protest on November 26. The farmers have refused to end their protest despite assurance from PM Modi, saying they don't trust the Prime Minister and will end their stir only after Parliament passes the farm laws repeal bill.Haryana and Punjab saw the start of the farmers' protest immediately after the three bills were passed by Parliament in September last year. The protest has been going on since then.A cabinet meeting will be held today at 3pm at the Haryana Civil Secretariat.Khattar had on Friday last week welcomed PM Modi's announcement to repeal the Centre's three farm laws and urged farmers to end their protest."I would urge farmers sitting at the Delhi borders to immediately end their protest and return to their homes as the common man is also facing a lot of difficulties due to this agitation. Now, a positive attitude should be adopted towards this issue," Khattar said in an official release.The chief minister said the decision of the Prime Minister shows that keeping the interest of the public is paramount for him.The three contentious laws are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved the repeal of the three laws. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 has been listed for introduction and passage. It is among 26 new bills on the agenda of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-likely-to-meet-pm-modi-issues-around-farm-laws-may-be-discussed-101637800844772.html
25-11-2021||India||Centre proposes allowing exploratory drilling for oil, natural gas in inter-tidal areas of CRZ||The Union government proposes to allow exploratory drilling for oil and natural gas in the intertidal areas of coastal regulation zones (CRZ) and let gas-based power plants function within similar protected areas in islands, floating these for public feedback as part of three draft notifications that experts say degrade fragile areas.CRZs are divided based on how far they are from the shore and high-tide areas, with varying levels of restrictions on the sort of activities that can be carried out.According to a draft notification issued on November 1, the Centre said several states and the Union ministry of petroleum sought amendments in the CRZ notification to allow small infrastructure projects, the removal of sand bars by traditional communities, exempting exploratory drilling in inter-tidal areas and letting people set up temporary beach shacks in CRZ areas of all coastal states.The draft notification introduces all these provisions, proposing to allow Coastal Zone Management Authority or State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), instead of the Centre, to take decisions on these.“There is no ambiguity in our intention and its clear in the preamble why these draft notifications have been issued. Oil and gas exploration is like a research activity. Development and production will still require CRZ nod. We are waiting for responses on these draft notifications,” said a senior environment ministry official. There is a sixty day period for public to send in their comments and objections to the draft notifications.In another draft notification, dated November 18, the Centre has made provisions for gas power plants within the Island Coastal Regulation Zone (ICRZ). According to the draft, the Centre received a proposal from Andaman and Nicobar Coastal Zone Management Authority (ANCZMA) to include gas-based power plant within the ICRZ area to reduce dependence on diesel generator sets. The National Coastal Zone Management Authority has recommended the inclusion of gas-based power plant within ICRZ-III (a classification for relatively undisturbed rural areas between 200-500m from high tide) be considered.Another draft notification, also issued on November 18, makes provision for setting up of gas power plants in islands with geographical areas >100 sq km.Experts cautioned these tweaks could degrade fragile landscapes in coastal areas. “The proposed amendments need to be read along the economic aspirations that recognize expansion of the oil and gas industry as revenue earner for the government. The ministry’s proposal signals the partisan repurposing of fragile inter-tidal areas and marine areas which are crucial for biodiversity, important buffers in instances of climate events like cyclones and support fishing livelihoods. This is reinstated through the justification for these proposed amendments that heavily relies on the requests of sectoral ministries looking to expand petroleum gas and hydrocarbon footprint. This framing of the draft notification relegates fisherfolk, traders, coastal farmers or small-scale tourism operators as mere respondents and not partners in coastal development,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.Last month, the Centre also released a consultation paper on amending the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, to bring significant changes to how forest land is managed in India, a move that will facilitate private plantations and the extraction of oil and natural gas from deep beneath forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas. Kohli said the new draft notifications cannot be considered in isolation because several policy tweaks are being made to ease environmental norms for these industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-proposes-allowing-exploratory-drilling-for-oil-natural-gas-in-inter-tidal-areas-of-crz-101637800353636.html
25-11-2021||NA||Centre writes to states/UTs warning against B.1.1529 Covid-19 variant detected in South Africa, other nations||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Congress MPs won’t participate in the central hall event tomorrowCongress MPs won’t participate in the Central Hall event at Parliament (being held on the occasion of Constitution Day) on Friday, people familiar with the development told news agency ANI.Reliance, Aramco call off $15 billion deal, reports ReutersReliance Industries and Saudi Aramco have called off a deal for the state oil giant to buy a stake in the oil-to-chemicals business of the Indian conglomerate due to valuation concerns, people familiar with the matter told Reuters.Centre writes to states/UTs regarding Covid-19 variant B.1.1529 detected in South Africa & other nationsUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to additional chief secretary/principal secretary/secretary (Health) of all states/UTs, stating "multiple cases of a Covid-19 variant B.1.1529 have been reported in c(3 cases), South Africa (6 cases) and Honk Kong (1 case).""Imperative that all international travellers travelling from and transiting through these nations and including other 'at risk' nations indicated in revised guidelines for international arrivals are subjected to rigorous screening and testing. Their contacts must also be tracked and tested," the letter read.Congress's Parliament Strategy Group holds meetingCongress Parliament Strategy Group meeting was held at the residence of the party's interim president Sonia Gandhi's residence on Thursday, ahead of the commencement of the Parliament session.“We have decided that we will raise a range of issues in the Parliament, including inflation, prices of petrol & diesel, Chinese aggression, & issue of J&K,” news agency ANI quoted Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, as saying.  BJP building airports only to sell them off, says Akhilesh YadavSamajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said the BJP is laying the foundation of Noida International airport while selling other existing airports in the country, reported news agency PTI. "How can the BJP be believed when on one hand it is making new airports, and on the other hand selling the existing ones?" Akhilesh was quoted as saying during a rally in Lucknow.Param Bir Singh appears before Mumbai Police crime branch, grilled for six hoursFormer Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday appeared before the city crime branch where he was grilled for more than six hours in an extortion case against him. Read moreAnna Hazare admitted to Pune's Ruby Hospital after chest pain, reports ANIAnna Hazare has been admitted to Ruby Hospital in Pune after complaint of chest pain. He has been kept under observation and is stable, news agency ANI quoted medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, as saying.South Africa detects new Covid-19 variant, reports AFP citing scientistsScientists in South Africa said on Thursday they have detected a new Covid-19 variant with multiple mutations, reports news agency AFP. "Unfortunately we have detected a new variant which is a reason for concern in South Africa," AFP quoted virologist Tulio de Oliveira as telling a hastily-called news conference. Read moreMaharashtra govt announces reopening of schools for all classes from Dec 1The Maharashtra government has decided to reopen schools for classes 1-4 in rural areas and classes 1-7 in urban areas from December 1, news agency ANI quoted state education minister Varsha Gaikwad as saying on Thursday.Navjot Singh Sidhu threatens to go on a hunger strikePunjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Thursday that he will go on a hunger strike against the state government if it doesn't make the reports on drugs menace and the sacrilege incidents public.Foreign ministers of Russia, India and China will meet on Nov 26Foreign ministers of Russia-India-China (RIC) to meet on November 26, via video-conference pic.twitter.com/hnnu70AaPlForeign ministers of Russia, India and China (RIC) will meet on November 26, via video-conference.Tamil Nadu CM Stalin writes to Scindia seeking temporary air bubble with Singapore, MalaysiaTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin writes to Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia requesting him to make a temporary air transport bubble agreement with Singapore and Malaysia to facilitate the movement of Tamils with permanent residentship of these countries.“…travellers from our state who made their trip to India during pandemic period are facing hardship for their return journey due to non-availability of direct flight services,” the letter read.‘Over UP politics’: Kejriwal on meeting between AAP's Sanjay Singh and Akhilesh YadavFollowing the meeting between AAP leader Sanjay Singh ad SP chief Akhiles Yadav in Lucknow yesterday, AAP supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal told ANI that the meeting took place “over Uttar Pradesh politics.”‘Momentous occasion’: Mukul Sangma on joining TMC“Today is a very momentous occasion for Meghalaya. With utmost sense of humility but complete sense of responsibility and commitment towards fulfilling our responsibility, we have taken a decision to march with the Trinamool Congress,” former Meghalaya CM and ex-Congress leader Mukul Sangma.No ban on Salman Khurshid's book on Ayodhya, rules Delhi HCDelhi HC dismisses plea seeking to ban the sale, purchase, and all forms of circulation of ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’ written by former Union minister Salman Khurshid.Congress accuses TMC of trying to ‘break’ itThis conspiracy to break Congress is happening not only in Meghalaya, but whole northeast. I challenge CM Mamata Banerjee to first elect them on TMC's symbol and then formally welcome them to her party: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress MPDelhi Assembly summons actor Kangana RanautDelhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony committee, headed by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, summons actor Kangana Ranaut for alleged derogatory remarks on Sikhs.Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh lands in city‘Absconding’ former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh lands in city, expected to join corruption and extortion probe in Maharashtra.Tripura civic polls: SC directs Centre to deploy more paramilitary forcesSupreme Court instructs Centre to 'immediately' deploy two additional companies of paramilitary force to ensure free and fair voting in Tripura civic polls.Shakti Mills gang-rape: Death sentence of 3 convicts commuted to life termBombay high court commutes death sentence of three convicts to life term. The court also upholds the life imprisonment sentence of the fourth convict.Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls on December 19West Bengal State election commission issues notification for Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. Voting to take place on December 19.Navy commissions INS VelaIndian Navy commissions INS Vela, fourth Scorpene-class submarine, at the Mumbai-based naval dockyard.Tripura civic polls: 13.13% voting till 9amVoter turnout of 13.13% recorded till 9am in voting for elections to 222 seats of Agartala Municipal Corporation and 19 other local urban bodies.Terrorism conspiracy case: Fresh NIA raids in J&KNIA carries out fresh raids in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar and Shopian as part of the ongoing probe in terrorism conspiracy case.India logs 9119 new Covid-19 cases and 396 deathsIndia's daily Covid-19 tally sees slight fall with 9,119 new cases while 396 new deaths also recorded.Tripura civic polls: Voting underwayVoting underway in Tripura for elections to the remaining 222 seats in the Agartala Municipal Corporation and 19 other local urban bodies in the state. 112 seats won uncontested by ruling BJP earlier this month.35 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi on November 24Delhi reported 35 new Covid-19 cases, 20 recoveries and 0 deaths on Wednesday. Total tally at 1,440,754 including 1,415,348 recoveries, 25,095 deaths and 311 active cases.1 held for fatal stabbing in Delhi's Rajouri Garden: PoliceOne man apprehended in stabbing a 25-year-old man to death in west Delhi's Rajouri Garden area on November 24. The incident took place following a scuffle: Delhi PoliceAt 330, Delhi's AQI in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 330 (overall) in the 'Very Poor' category: SAFAR-IndiaMexico logs over 300 new Covid-19 related deathsMexico logs 336 new deaths due to Covid-19, taking the cumulative death toll to 293,186, as per the country's health ministry.France likely to announce Covid-19 boosters for adults todayFrench health minister Olivier Veran, at a press conference on Thursday, is expected to announce that Covid-19 booster shots will be made available to all adults, local media has reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-25-2021-101637799929553.html
25-11-2021||India||Terrorists involved in civilian killings gunned down in J&K||Security forces on Wednesday gunned down three terrorists of The Resistance Front (TRF), including a commander of the outfit, who they said was involved in the killings of civilians in the Valley, police officials familiar with the matter said.Police identified the terrorists as TRF commander Mehran Yaseen Shalla of Srinagar, Manzoor Ahmad Mir of Pulwama and Arafat Ahmad Sheikh of Pulwama.“Acting swiftly on specific input regarding movement of terrorists in the Rambagh area of Srinagar, a small team from Srinagar Police signalled a suspected Santro vehicle to stop. However, the terrorists started firing indiscriminately on the police party from inside the car while trying to flee. The fire was however effectively retaliated leading to gunfight,” a police spokesperson said, adding that the terrorists were killed in police retaliation.According to police, Mehran was linked to several deadly attacks on civilians in Kashmir, including the killings of school principal Supinder Kour and teacher Deepak Chand. On October 7, Kour and Chand were shot dead by gunmen inside the premises of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Srinagar’s Eidgah area.“He (Mehran) was involved in the killing of Meeran Ali Sheikh at Bulbul Lanker Nawa Kadal, killing of PSI Arshad Ahmad at Khanyar, killing of school Principal Supinder Kour and teacher Deepak Chand of Government Higher Secondary School. Prior to joining in terror ranks, several cases regarding his involvement in stone pelting incidents are also registered against him,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that Ahmad was also involved in attacks on civilians, including the killing of labourer in Pulwama on November 16.A protest broke out at the site of the gunfight with locals alleging that the forces dragged the three men out the car and shot them. They countered the police version and said there was no gunfight.The killing of civilians had spread panic in the Valley. The attacks were discussed during home minister Amit Shah’s security review meeting in October. During the four-hour meeting, Shah directed the chiefs of intelligence and investigative agencies, and security forces to make rigorous efforts to wipe out terror from the Valley, people familiar with the development said. TRF, an arm of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, claimed responsibility for most of the attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-involved-in-civilian-killings-gunned-down-in-jk-101637799563803.html
25-11-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida International Airport in UP's Jewar today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday lay the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport (NIA) in Uttar Pradesh's Jewar.  It will be the second international airport to come up in the Delhi-NCR region, after the capital's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, and, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), will help decongest the country's busiest airport.Also Read | PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Jewar airport in Noida as BJP sets tone for UP polls“Tomorrow, 25th November is a major day for India's and Uttar Pradesh's stride in infra creation. At 1 PM, the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport will be laid. This project will significantly boost commerce, connectivity and tourism," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday. Tomorrow, 25th November is a major day for India’s and Uttar Pradesh’s strides in infra creation. At 1 PM, the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport will be laid. This project will significantly boost commerce, connectivity and tourism. https://t.co/8sSa8R1aFlThe first phase of the project will be undertaken at a cost of around ₹10,500 crore, and the work on it is scheduled to be completed by 2024. The first phase, once fully executed, will be spread across more than 1300 hectares of land. It will have the capacity to serve around 1.2 crore passengers a year.Also Read | Jewar airport to be Asia’s biggest: ScindiaBesides Delhi, the airport will benefit other cities such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Agra, Faridabad etc. as well.The Noida International Airport will be among five international airports in Uttar Pradesh, making UP the only state to have that many international airports, according to the state government. The state previously had two international airports, one each in capital Lucknow and Varanasi. However, last month, PM Modi inaugurated the Kushinagar International Airport, and another one will come up in the temple town of Ayodhya in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-noida-international-airport-in-up-s-jewar-today-101637797844138.html
25-11-2021||India||PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Noida airport in Jewar: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday lay the foundation stone (bhoomi pujan) for Noida International Airport in Gautam Buddh Nagar's Jewar. The ceremony will take place at 1pm.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the airport is strategically located and will serve the people of cities including Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Agra, Faridabad and neighbouring areas.Once completed, it will make Uttar Pradesh the only state in India to have five international air transit hubs.Here is everything you need to know about the airport:• The Jewar airport is being developed by Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), a 100 per cent subsidiary of the project's Swiss concessionaire Zurich International Airport AG.• Yamuna International Airport Pvt Ltd (YIAPL) is developing the airport under the PPP model in close partnership with the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the Government of India.• The airport is spread over more than 1300 hectares of land.• It is a greenfield airport that will be constructed in four phases. The first phase will be operational in 2024. The project cost of phase 1 is ₹8,916 crore.•The traffic of 12 million passengers per year is expected in the first phase. After the completion of the final phase between 2040 and 2050, it will be able to handle 70 million passengers per year.• The Jewar airport will be located 72km from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi and 40km from Noida.• It is being conceived as a ground transportation centre that will feature a multimodal transit hub owing to its proximity to the existing Yamuna Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and will also be linked to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh in Haryana's Faridabad district.• Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that only two airports were functional in Uttar Pradesh till 2017 but now, with the Centre's regional connectivity scheme also coming into play, there are nine functional airports in the state.• After reviewing the preparations for PM Modi's visit on Tuesday, Adityanath said the new airports are being planned near Sonbhadra, Chitrakoot, Lalitpur, Azamgarh and Shravasti.• The state government has said that Noida International Airport in Jewar will lead to generation of employment for lakhs of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-perform-bhoomi-pujan-of-noida-airport-in-jewar-all-you-need-to-know-101637798912138.html
25-11-2021||India||500 farmers will reach Delhi on Nov 29: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait announced on Wednesday that 30 tractors carrying 500 farmers will reach Parliament on November 29 — the first day of the winter session — to press for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs).  “On November 29, 500 farmers will go to Delhi on 30 tractors. The details will be provided after a meeting on November 26, which will be marked as the first anniversary of our protest,” Tikait said at a rally in Ghaziabad.The announcement comes even as the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to repeal the three contentious farm laws that resulted in tens of thousands of farmers protesting for over a year. The Cabinet’s nod will allow the government to table a “repeal bill” in Parliament to revoke three separate laws. A bulletin from the Lok Sabha listed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, as one of the 26 pieces of legislation to be introduced during the session.Asserting that a law guaranteeing the MSP is a big issue for the protesting farmers, Tikait said: “The three bills were related to the public while the key demand of farmers is the guarantee on MSP... The government has 35 days and they should bring in law on MSP while they should also take entire responsibility of farmers, including compensation, who have died during the agitation.”Later, he tweeted: “This protest will not end yet. We have a meeting on November 27 after which we will take further decisions...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-farmers-will-reach-delhi-on-nov-29-tikait-101637799034835.html
25-11-2021||India||First domestic flight from UP's Kushinagar airport to take off on Friday||The first domestic flight from the recently inaugurated Kushinagar International Airport will take off for Delhi on Friday, airport director AK Dwivedi said on Wednesday."From Friday, the Kushinagar International Airport will be functional. SpiceJet is launching a flight between Kushinagar and Delhi. From next month, flights for two more cities will take off from the airport -- for Kolkata from December 17 and for Mumbai from December 18," Dwivedi said.The flight to Delhi will be operational four days a week -- Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The aircraft will take off from Delhi at 12 pm and reach Kushinagar at 1.35 pm. It will take off from Kushinagar at 1.55 pm and land in Delhi at 3.55 pm.Uttar Pradesh had two international airports, in Lucknow and Varanasi, until recently. The Kushinagar airport -- the state's third international airport -- was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 20.From December 17, a flight for Kolkata from Kushinagar will be operational three days a week -- Monday, Wednesday and Friday.On December 17, the flight will take off from Kolkata at 1.35 pm and land in Kushinagar at 3.20 pm. It will depart from Kushinagar at 3.40 pm and land in Kolkata at 5.15 pm.December 18 onwards, a flight for Mumbai from Kushinagar will be operational every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.On December 18, the flight will fly out of the Mumbai airport at 12.10 pm and land in Kushinagar at 2.25 pm and it will take off from Kushinagar at 3 pm and land in Mumbai at 5.35 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-domestic-flight-from-up-s-kushinagar-airport-to-take-off-on-friday-101637797732011.html
25-11-2021||India||NO2 levels hazardous in many traffic-heavy areas||As agencies in Delhi focus their mitigation measures on cutting PM2.5 and PM10 (ultrafine particles) emissions, the concentration of nitrogen oxides (NOx) in the city’s air has largely gone under the radar, despite their levels being more than two-and-a-half-times the global safe standards, according to data from pollution monitoring stations across the Capital.Between November 1 and 24 this year, Delhi recorded a 24-hour average nitrous dioxide (NO2) concentration of 65 micrograms per cubic metre, according to data from air quality monitoring stations run by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) – the highest so far across in any month this year, and almost three times the World Health Organization’s (WHO) limit of 25 micrograms per cubic metre.Vehicular emissions are the primary source of NO2 in the national capital.
25-11-2021||India||Explainer on three capitals of Andhra Pradesh||HyderabadConfusion and uncertainty over the capital city of residuary Andhra Pradesh continues to prevail, even after seven years of bifurcation of the combined state. Perhaps, it is the only state in the country which doesn’t have a proper capital till now.As Amaravati, the world-class capital city on the lines of mythical Mahishmati in the epic film Baahubali, dreamt by Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on the banks of the Krishna, has turned into a virtual ghost city, the three capitals envisioned by his successor Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on the lines of South Africa are still hanging in thin air, what with the plan caught in a legal wrangle.With the Andhra Pradesh state assembly on Monday unanimously passing a Bill repealing the two laws enacted in June 2020 on the three capitals, the uncertainty over the state capital has come back to square one.Though Jagan Reddy vowed to bring back a more comprehensive and fool-proof legislation that would answer all the doubts and overcome legal hurdles, when this uncertainty is going to end still remains a million dollar question.THE CAPITAL CONUNDRUMThe exercise over identifying the capital city for the residuary Andhra Pradesh began a few months before the bifurcation of the combined state. The UPA government constituted a five-member committee under the chairmanship of former home secretary K Sivaramakrishnan to suggest the place to build the capital city of Andhra Pradesh. The committee travelled to various parts of the state and submitted its report to then Union home minister Rajnath Singh on August 27, 2014.Though the committee did not recommend any particular place for the capital, it opposed the concept of building a Super City or Smart City on the lines of Hyderabad and also said the capital between Vijayawada and Guntur is incorrect because it would bring up economic and environmental problems.It also suggested a decentralised model for the capital city through three zones, instead of concentrating all the offices at one place. It, however, recommended that assembly, secretariat and the chief minister’s office should be set up in the state capital city.However, the newly-formed TDP government headed by N Chandrababu Naidu simultaneously constituted a separate advisory committee headed by minister for municipal administration P Narayana, which also toured different parts of the state and finally came up with the suggestion that the capital should be centrally located, equidistant from all regions of the state.That was how, the Naidu government zeroed in on the fertile agriculture zone between Vijayawada and Guntur as the capital city and named it as Amaravati, an ancient city of Sathavahana dynasty on the banks of the Krishna river which later transformed into a famed Buddhist centre, located a few kilometres from the proposed capital city.Thus, Naidu completely ignored the recommendations of the Sivaramakrishnan Committee and chose Amaravati as the capital. Though Jagan Reddy, too, extended his support to the establishment of the capital city at Amaravati, he later alleged that Naidu deliberately chose the place to benefit his own Kamma caste people, who bought big chunks of land as they were privy to the information about the location of the capital there.In December 2014, the Naidu government announced creation of a world class greenfield capital city in over 7,000 sq km area at Amaravati, much larger than Brihan Mumbai. He established AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) through a legislation in the state assembly to develop the capital city.APCRDA began acquiring 33,000 acres of fertile land from the farmers of 29 villages under land pooling by conducting gram sabhas to take their consent. APCRDA entered into an agreement with the farmers promising them to allot residential and commercial plots in the developed capital region whose value would match their original land value. Besides, it also agreed to pay certain amount of annuity to the farmers every year, besides subsistence allowance to the landless agriculture labourers.The foundation stone for the new capital Amaravati was laid on October 22, 2015, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Soon, the Naidu government moved its seat of power from Hyderabad to Amaravati and it had built an interim government complex, a temporary high court building, a legislature complex, and even bungalows and apartments for lawmakers, judges, and officers in the next three years.While the Centre gave ₹2,500 crore for building the capital, the Naidu government obtained loans from banks. Even the World Bank had finalised a US $ 300 million loan for the Amaravati capital city. While the master plan for the capital was done by the Singapore government-run consultancy, the designs for the capital buildings were to be done by Foster and Partners of London.CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT, CHANGE OF PRIORITIESBut even before the grandiose plans of Naidu on Amaravati came to a shape, he lost power to YSR Congress party led by Jagan Mohan Reddy in May 2019.Within hours of taking charge as the new chief minister, Jagan hinted at dropping Amaravati as the state capital. He ordered that all ongoing works in the capital city be stalled forthwith and all payments made to the contractors be stopped.For the next six months, there was practically no activity in Amaravati capital region and the contractors abandoned the place due to lack of payments from the government and workers being left with no work.On December 17, 2019, Jagan suddenly came up with the idea of three capital cities – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati. He made an announcement in the assembly to that effect, triggering massive protests from farmers of Amaravati, who gave away their lands for the capital.In fact, the Jagan government had begun the ground work on the three capital silently much earlier. He appointed an expert committee headed by retired IAS officer G N Rao and engaged an international consultancy – Boston Consultancy Group to work on the alternative capital models. And both the committees submitted their reports in a gap of one week, supporting the three capitals idea envisaged by Jagan.Jagan argued that the Sivaramakrishnan committee recommended decentralised administration, as focusing the entire development on one single mega capital would do injustice to other regions of the state. But his intention was obvious: he did not want to continue anything that his arch rival Naidu had planned.In January, the Jagan government introduced the two separate bills –the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020, seeking to establish three capital cities and the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill, 2020 -- aimed at doing away with the authority created to develop Amaravati as the capital.Both the bills were passed by the state legislative assembly on January 20, 2020, but were stalled by the majority TDP members in the legislative council the following day. This prompted Jagan to move a resolution seeking abolition of the legislative council.Even as the farmers of Amaravati launched a massive agitation against the three capitals’ plan, the Jagan government went ahead with his proposal. Finally, in June 2020, the Jagan government reintroduced the two bills in the state assembly and got them passed again.Though the council stalled the bills again and recommended them to select committee, the officials of the state legislature stalled them on procedural grounds. Finally, on July 31, Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan gave its consent for the bills, which then became Acts.The farmers of Amaravati who formed into a joint action committee moved the high court challenging the two Acts. More than a hundred petitions were filed before the high court, most of them backed by the TDP.THREE CAPITALS IN LEGAL WRANGLEA division bench of the high court headed by former chief justice J K Maheshwari took up the hearing in August 2020 and ordered status quo on the capitals, thereby stalling the three capitals plan.The bench had a prolonged hearing of arguments from the counsels of the farmers as well as the government. But even as the hearing was going on, Justice Maheshwari was transferred, apparently after a letter written by Jagan Reddy to then CJI A J Bobde, making certain allegations against some high court judges including Maheshwari.Later, the issue came up before another bench headed by new chief justice Aroop Kumar Goswami, but it could not take up the hearing due to Covid-19 pandemic. The hearing was postponed twice and was finally posted on November 15, 2021.By then, Justice Goswami was transferred and the fresh bench headed by new CJ Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra took up the hearing.But even as the hearing was going on, the Jagan government suddenly announced withdrawal of the two legislations on the three capitals and abolition of the APCRDA on Monday. A bill repealing the earlier two legislations was passed by the assembly.WHY REPEALING THE CAPITAL BILLS?The chief minister did not explain the reasons for repealing the bills. He only said his government would bring a “better” and more “comprehensive” bill that would answer all the doubts of some sections of people over the three capitals and clears all legal queries.He sought to blame the TDP for this uncertainty over the capitals, as it was spreading apprehensions among a section of people and creating legal hurdles in the process. “The Act was being withdrawn in the larger public interest,” he said.A CMO official familiar with the development said legal experts had told Jagan that the legislations on the three capitals might be dismissed by the high court as there were a few loopholes. “The agreement between the APCRDA and the farmers on land pooling is fool-proof and it cannot be cancelled unilaterally by the government,” he said.Secondly, the high court was established at Amaravati with a Presidential order after taking consent from the Supreme Court. “The Jagan government cannot shift the judicial capital to Kurnool without the Supreme Court’s approval,” he said.These and a few other factors, forced the Jagan government to repeal the earlier laws on three capitals.WAY OUT FOR JAGAN, NOWNow, the question is what will the Jagan government do now. The chief minister made it clear that there is no question of going back on the three capitals plan. He only said he would bring about a more comprehensive bill on the same in future.However, it is not certain when he is going to do that. A senior YSRC functionary said on condition of anonymity that the government will appoint another committee comprising legal experts to work out the new legislation that would address the legal issues.“Maybe, he will retain the judicial and legislative capital at Amaravati with a bench at Kurnool and shift the executive capital to Viskhapatnam. He may also establish regional development boards for all the three regions. But it is too early to talk about what is in Jagan’s mind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-on-three-capitals-of-andhra-pradesh-101637783124515.html
25-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu steps in to sell tomatoes at lower rates||Chennai: With tomato prices soaring due to the north east monsoon downpour, the Tamil Nadu government has started the process of selling tomatoes between a price range of ₹85 and ₹100 per kg through state-run farm fresh outlets in 12 districts including Chennai from Wednesday. The state cooperatives department said in a statement that they are procuring 15 metric tonnes of tomatoes every day for this purpose. “The government is making efforts to supply tomatoes at a lower price to the public. Until this afternoon, 8 MTs of tomatoes were sold in these markets,” minister for cooperatives I Periyasamy said in a statement. “Until Tuesday, a kg of tomatoes in the open market was ₹140, and due to this move by the government, today it is around ₹90-100 per kg. Similarly the prices of other vegetables have also come down.”On Wednesday, Chennai’s main wholesale market saw tomatoes selling for ₹120 per kg while in other markets it has touched ₹140. Tamil Nadu primarily receives its tomatoes from two regions in Karnataka and three regions in Andhra Pradesh, says advisor to the Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetable Traders, V R Soundararajan. “Usually, during the north east monsoon, there will be a gap in the rains in the various parts of Tamil Nadu. But this time, there is heavy rain in all the southern districts at the same time. We have not experienced a situation like this in 30 years,” says Soundararajan. Soundarajan said that it was not just tomatoes that were being affected. “Tomatoes, brinjal, ladies finger reach Koyambedu from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and because of the rains, the crops are damaged, transport is affected so our supply has dwindled,” he said. After tomatoes, the vegetables that cost the highest per kg in the retail market are ladies finger ( ₹80), beans ( ₹71), brinjal ( ₹72).K Pushparaj, a small vendor who supplies fruits and vegetables door-to-door said that he has stopped purchasing tomatoes from the wholesale market. “Tomatoes have become a luxury for some so a few residents have stopped buying it,” he said.The prices have been steadily increasing since the arrival of the north east monsoon in the state in October and have skyrocketed since heavy spells of rain caused severe damage and havoc in Chennai, delta districts and southern districts. Between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-steps-in-to-sell-tomatoes-at-lower-rates-101637782886143.html
25-11-2021||India||Civic body draws up ₹900cr estimate to fix drainage system to check flooding||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) on Wednesday drew up a rough estimate of ₹900 crore to complete remaining works of primary and secondary drains in the city to prevent rain-related floods in the future, adding to piling expenditures the city corporation claims to have spent at least in recent years.“Work on 51km of primary drains and 38km of secondary drains should be taken up immediately. The BBMP Special Commissioner has been instructed to prepare the DPR (detailed project report) for this project which would cost ₹900 crore. Special grants would be provided for this and instructions have been issued for speedy completion of the works without disturbing the general public,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said.Data from successive BBMP budgets shows that the civic body draws up elaborate plans for storm water drains (SWDs) or Raja Kaluves, secondary and tertiary drains each year that has so far proved to be counterintuitive to its purpose of preventing floods in Bengaluru.Bommai said there were around 842 Raja Kaluves in Bengaluru of which the works for 415 kms were completed. In 2019, approval was given for 75 km of which 40 km will be completed and another 30 km will be completed by January end.Interestingly, the BBMP got a grant of ₹1,054.87 crore in 2014-15 which the centre had approved under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) for the “comprehensive development” of SWD of which the BBMP provided ₹320.76 crore.“Under ‘JNNURM’ grants a sum of ₹1,054.87 crore has been approved by the central government for comprehensive development of SWD in new zones. The BBMP has provided ₹320.76 crore in the budget,” according to the 2014-15 BBMP budget.The BBMP and other civic agencies in Bengaluru have a reputation of making tall promises with each budget, earmarking crore, but with little to show for on ground. Similarly, in 2016-17, the BBMP earmarked ₹300 crore for SWD that includes works to “rejuvenate and construct the primary drain of 415.50 km and 426.50 km of secondary drains connecting these valleys.”The successive or preceding years have been no different as the state government and civic bodies continue to show hundreds and thousands of crore in expenditure for SWD, lake rejuvenation, laying of roads and other public infrastructure that is often seen to be of poor quality or non-existent.Bommai himself had said during the monsoon session of the state legislature in September that the state government had spent over ₹20,000 crore for road-related works in Bengaluru alone over the last five years. “There are 94 critical spots which need to be rectified. I have obtained details on this. I have instructed completion of these works within 2 months,” Bommai said.The chief minister said he was taking steps to find a permanent solution -- a promise made by several before him. He added that strict orders had been given to the civic body officials to clear encroachments on lakes and SWDs.“About 2626 encroached structures have been identified on Raja Kaluves of which 1,480 have been cleared. Legal action has been initiated for eviction of 714 structures. The operation would be carried out without causing inconvenience for the poor by giving them time, while big builders would be acted on immediately,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civic-body-draws-up-900cr-estimate-to-fix-drainage-system-to-check-flooding-101637782885001.html
25-11-2021||India||CM Jagan says Andhra suffered ₹6,000 crore loss due to rains||Hyderabad The recent heavy rains in Rayalaseema and south coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh due to a depression in Bay of Bengal resulted in a loss of ₹6,054 crore in the form of destruction of properties and infrastructure, and damage to standing crops. As many as 40 people died in the calamity and another 25 people are still missing, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy informed the Centre on Wednesday.In a letter written to Union home minister Amit Shah, the chief minister requested that the Centre release ₹1,000 crore towards immediate relief and restoration works in the flood-affected areas.Jagan said four south coastal districts of Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore, and four Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool, Anantapur, Kadapa and Chitttoor received an average rainfall of 11.1 cm, against the normal of 3.2 cm, between November 13 and 20.“On a single day on November 19, the highest rainfall of 20 cm was recorded in Peddamandyam block in Chittoor district, 19.3 cm in Galiveedu block of Kadapa district and 17.8 cm in Nallacheruvu block of Ananthapuram district,” he said.Heavy rains also lashed the temple town of Tirupati, Tirumala, Nellore town, Madanapalli and Rajampet town, causing inundation of low-lying areas and disrupting normal life. As many as 17 NDRF and SDRF teams and two helicopters had to be deployed for undertaking search and rescue operations.“Despite their best efforts, 40 people, including one SDRF constable involved in search and rescue operations, died and 25 people are still missing. As many as 1,402 villages in 196 mandals and four towns were affected. As part of relief measures, 324 relief camps accommodating about 69,616 people have been arranged in the affected districts and they are still continuing,” the chief minister said.He pointed out that several highways, irrigation tanks and canals got breached and damaged at several places in Kadapa, Chittoor, Ananthapuram and Nellore districts. Somasila reservoir in Pennar basin received heavy inflows of more than 500,000 cusecs of water during 48 hours causing inundation of low-lying areas in Nellore town and Kovvur in the district.“The Annamayya reservoir in Kadapa district got breached and thus, a railway track between Nandaluru and Hastavaram was badly damaged causing traffic disruption. In Nellore district Swarnamukhi has been in spate with heavy inflows and thus, the road between Kovvur and Nellore town submerged in flood water,” he said.Jagan said heavy rains created havoc in the affected districts as the crops in thousands of acres suffered damage. The worst-affected were the farmers as the crops that were ready for harvesting were damaged. The cost of the crops damaged and loss to infrastructure is estimated at ₹6054.29 crore. He requested the Centre to come to the rescue of the state by immediately releasing ₹1,000 crore as an interim aid so as to provide relief to affected families and restore the normalcy by undertaking repairs and restoration of damaged infrastructure in the affected districts.“I also request you to kindly depute the Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) at the earliest to assess the damage and losses caused by heavy rains,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-jagan-says-andhra-suffered-6-000-crore-loss-due-to-rains-101637782826093.html
25-11-2021||India||Four arrested for rape, murder of 8-year-old girl in Mangaluru||Mangaluru police on Wednesday arrested four men for allegedly gang raping and murdering an eight-year-old girl at a tile factory on the outskirts of Mangaluru city. Police said the suspects adducted the girl and took turns to rape her.Four suspects have been identified as Mukesh Singh (20), Muneem Singh (20), Jaisingh (21) and Manish Tikri (33). While Tikri is from Jharkhand, the other three accused are natives of Madhya Pradesh. All four are workers of the factory where the assault took place. All the accused confessed to the crime, an officer said.The incident took place on November 21. According to police, the factory, where the incident took place, employed several people from other states, many of whom live with their families. The child was the daughter of a couple of working at the factory, said the officer.“On the day of the incident, the victim was playing with her brother and sisters in the factory compound. The arrested men took the girl to their room and allegedly raped her in turns. As the girl was crying loudly because of bleeding and pain, one of the men smothered her to death. They then tossed the body into a drain,” said a senior Mangaluru police official who didn’t want to be named.The parents of the girl began searching for her after her sibling, who was playing with her, raised alarm after she went missing. At around 6 pm after searching around the factory her body was found in a drain. When the people in the area including the parents went searching for the girl, the accused had also acted like searching for her, police said.The investigation revealed that the suspects have been sexually abusing the child for several days. In the past, they had taken the girl to their accommodation offering chocolates and used to sexually assault her.Police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Four teams were formed to probe the case in light of seriousness of the crime.According to police, the teams after thorough verification of CCTV footage, other evidence and witness accounts took the four men into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-8-year-old-girl-in-mangaluru-101637782644963.html
25-11-2021||India||Hours before civic polls, Tripura CPM leader sends SOS message to Supreme Court||AGARTALA: Hours before people in the state’s urban areas vote for new municipal bodies, Tripura’s Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Jitendra Chaudhary on Wednesday rushed to the Supreme Court to seek its intervention to ensure free and fair civic body elections, CPM leaders said late on Wednesday.Chaudhary also sent a letter to Tripura police chief VS Yadav, alleging that a large number of “outsiders” and “miscreants” have entered areas that are going to vote on Thursday in a continuing effort to terrorise opposition candidates and their supporters.“ ...large number of miscreants are intruding into those areas at the behest of ruling BJP and indulging into terrorising the houses of the opposition supporters with dire consequences, with the threat not to move to the polling stations tomorrow on 25th November 2021,” Chaudhury said in his letter to DGP Yadav.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court rejected the Trinamool Congress request to defer the civic body polls but told the police to submit within two days an action-taken report on incidents of violence in the state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP.“While we are not inclined to accede to the prayer for postponing polls, we are equally of the view that it is the duty of the director-general of police (DGP), the inspector general of police (IGP – law and order) and the home secretary of the state of Tripura to assuage any misgivings about the fairness of the law enforcement machinery in supporting the electoral process,” a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Vikram Nath ruled on Tuesday.In a statement soon after the court ruling, the Tripura police listed the additional steps that were being taken.Opposition parties, however, insist that the police action has fallen short.“There is no reflection of improved law and order in the state even after the Supreme Court directed to ensure a peaceful and fair election,” Trinamool Congress convener Subal Bhowmik told reporters.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “The state has complied with the Supreme Court order and accordingly, proper security arrangement was made. The opposition is making baseless allegations”.The ruling BJP has won 112 seats uncontested out of a total of 334 seats on which elections were to be held. Voting for the remaining 222 local urban body seats will begin from 7am across 644 polling stations. There are 785 candidates in the fray, and over 5.94 lakh people are entitled to vote.Of the total of 644 polling stations, 370 have been identified as ‘ A’ category where four Tripura State Rifles personnel will be deployed. In the remaining 274 ‘B’ category polling stations, four armed police personnel would be stationed.Additionally, two sections of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) are deployed at strong room and government press. All returning officers and observers were provided personal security officers.“After the directions of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, additional 15 sections of CRPF are also being provided for the Agartala municipal elections and outside,” said a statement from the assistant inspector general of police on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-civic-polls-tripura-cpm-leader-sends-sos-message-to-supreme-court-101637781985196.html
25-11-2021||India||NFHS survey: Health insurance coverage rises, officials credit Ayushman Bharat||Summary findings from the fifth edition of the National Family Health Survey, released Wednesday showed a 12.3 percentage point increase over the previous edition of the survey in the coverage of health insurance to 41% of households surveyed, an indication of the impact of the government’s flagship Ayuhsman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-Pmjay), that was launched in September 2018. AB-Pmjay, the world’s largest public health insurance programme was launched on September 23, 2018, to provide up to ₹5 lakh hospitalisation cover to 100 million poor families in the country.NFHS-5 was conducted between 2019-2021,in two phases; the fourth edition of the survey captured data between 2015-16. “The increase that is seen is substantially on account of the impact of Ayuhsman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna,” said Vikas Sheel, additional secretary and mission director, National Health Mission, Union ministry of health and family welfare, commenting on the survey results.“However, it may not have been fully captured in the current survey; more impact will be visible in going forward,” he added.Preparations for the next survey are on currently. “The survey will happen in 2022 and the results are expected in 2023-2024, by that time full impact of Pm-jay will be adequately captured as the scheme has now stabilised and various states have taken it up and are addressing the challenges,” added Sheel.Interestingly, coverage in the rural sector is higher at 42.4%, and urban areas, 38.1%. A government official familiar with the numbers said that this is because the target population for the scheme is largely rural. Experts agree that the increase in the insurance coverage is because of the introduction of AB-pmjay.“That is best explanation,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.“However, one needs to also see what is the eligible population under Pm-jay as the coverage might not go up furtheronce the target is met. The government should look at expanding the insurance scheme somehow,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nfhssurvey-health-insurance-coverage-rises-officials-credit-ayushman-bharat-101637781745265.html
25-11-2021||India||Jump in bank accounts operated by women: NFHS survey||There has been significant progress with respect to women operating bank accounts, from 53 per cent to 79 per cent at all-India level, according to findings of phase two of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5).“Women empowerment indicators portray considerable improvement at all India level and across all the phase-II states/UTs (Union territories). Significant progress has been recorded between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5 with regard to women operating bank accounts from 53% to 79% at all-India level,” the health ministry said in a statement.More than 70% of women in every state and Union territory surveyed in the second phase have operational bank accounts, it added. Taking note of the latest development, a finance ministry official said the government is committed to provide financial inclusiveness and support to women, which is a national priority. “This achievement was accomplished because of the government’s key initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna (PMJDY), which is one of the biggest financial inclusion initiatives in the world, and the Stand Up India Scheme,” the official said on condition of anonymity. The PMJDY was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2014, and was launched on August 28 that year.As on August 18, 2021, the number of total PMJDY accounts stood at over 430 million, where 55.47% (238.7 million) Jan Dhan account holders were women and 66.69% (287 million) Jan Dhan accounts were in rural and semi-urban areas, the official said. Similarly, Stand-Up India Scheme, which was launched on April 5, 2016, to promote entrepreneurship at grass root level for economic empowerment and job creation, has more than 81% (91,109 accounts) with a sanctioned amount of ₹20,749 crore belonging to women entrepreneurs. The objective of this scheme is to facilitate bank loans between ₹10 lakh and ₹1 crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch of SCBs (scheduled commercial banks) for setting up a greenfield enterprise.The government on Wednesday released factsheets of key indicators on population, reproductive and child health, family welfare, nutrition and others for India as well as 14 states and union territories, clubbed under phase two, of the 2019-21 NFHS-5. The states and UTs which were surveyed in this phase were Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, NCT of Delhi, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the statement said.The NFHS-5 survey work has been conducted in around 6.1 lakh sample households from 707 districts (as on March, 2017) of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jump-in-bank-accounts-operated-by-women-nfhs-survey-101637781564950.html
25-11-2021||India||Crypto investors to get exit time if Centre bans trading: Officials||People who hold cryptocurrencies will get time to exit from the unregulated market if the government enacts a law banning their trade or use, but all profit from liquidating these investments will be treated as income or capital gains and will be appropriately taxed, two officials aware of the development said on Wednesday.The government has scheduled the introduction of the “Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021” in the winter session of Parliament with the purpose to “prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India,” but the bill will have “certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses”. The session starts on November 29.There’s also a school of thought that believes the government could continue to allow cryptocurrencies as an asset class (like mutual funds), not currency.The first person said investors will have ample time to exit if they wish from the time the bill is introduced in the Parliament and then passed by the two houses. Additionally, a three-month buffer is likely to be allowed, beginning from the date a potential ban is enacted.“In fact, people should have taken a cue from RBI’s [Reserve Bank of India] cautionary note issued in 2018; subsequently, a committee under the chairmanship of economic affairs secretary recommended banning private VCs [virtual currencies] in 2019. Perhaps, they took a calculated risk,” this person added, asking not to be named.According to officials, the Bill is still a draft as it needs formal approval by the cabinet before being introduced in the Parliament.RBI on April 6, 2018, pointed to the risks associated with cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and advised banks and other entities under its regulation not to deal with such currencies. The Supreme Court set aside the RBI circular on March 4, 2020.India is among those countries mulling the idea of a central-bank issued digital currency.“Governments world-over are facing issues of terror-financing and money laundering, which could be facilitated by cryptocurrencies. Even (international intergovernmental body) Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has cautioned that virtual currencies can create new opportunities for criminals to launder their proceeds and finance their illicit activities. Hence, private virtual currencies cannot be allowed. But, a reasonable time will be given to people if they want to exit after paying taxes,” a second official said.Naveen Wadhwa, deputy general manager at Taxmann, a tax research and advisory firm said, the applicability of income tax on such investments would depend on several factors -- whether the assessee is a broker or an investor.For an investor, based on the holding period, the income can be classified as short-term profit or long-term capital gains. Hence, different tax rates will be applicable.“On short-term capital gains, appropriate income tax slab will be applicable, which could go up to 30%, plus surcharge. If income is classified as long-term capital gains, the applicable rate would be 20% plus surcharge,” he said.SR Patnaik, head-taxation at law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas said: “The gains accrued to an individual investor may either be regarded as business income or as capital gains depending on how they have been recorded and the purposes for which such investment was made.”“In case the investor acquired cryptocurrencies for speculative purposes or with an intention to trade in them and make money, they may be regarded as business income. However, if the investment was made with the intention of making gains from the long term appreciation, then such gains may be taxed as capital gains,” he said.Alternatively, the entire amount of gains may be taxed at the highest rate as income from other sources, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crypto-investors-to-get-exit-time-if-centre-bans-trading-officials-101637781452784.html
25-11-2021||India||Bombay HC rejects Tejpal’s plea for in-camera hearing of appeal against acquittal||The Bombay High Court at Goa on Wednesday rejected an application filed by Tarun Tejpal seeking that the hearing of the appeal be held ‘in-camera’ and out of public view after hearing substantive arguments by Advocate Amit Desai on behalf of Tejpal and a rebuttal by the prosecution that was represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. “For reasons that we will be recording separately in writing, the application is rejected,” a bench of Justices Revati Mohite Dere and MS Jawalkar, said. Tejpal, has, however, via his counsel indicated that he would prefer to appeal against the ruling.Tejpal had filed an application claiming relief under section 327(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which mandates that “the inquiry into and trial of rape or an offence under section 376, section 376A, section 376B, section 376C or section 376D of the Indian Penal Code shall be conducted in camera.”Advocate Desai argued that an appeal fell within the ambit of the definition of an ‘enquiry’ and hence was covered under the definition of article 327 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC). “The identity of an accused in an appeal is equally required to be protected. Article 327 (of CrPC) becomes a facet of article 21 (of the constitution) (Right to life). Article 327 is intended to protect the reputation of the complainant and the accused. Reputation is a fundamental right and no longer (just) a statutory obligation,” Desai argued. On the other hand, Solicitor General Advocate Tushar Mehta, who argued for the state of Goa, which has appealed against Tejpal’s acquittal, argued that such a request was beyond the scope of Article 327 of the CrPC. “The appeal is neither an inquiry nor a trial. After the judgement is passed, the trial ends. Article 327 is limited to an inquiry and a trial,” Mehta argued. Mehta argued that with the conclusion of the trial and pronouncement of judgement, which is in public domain the accused, if acquitted, was free to assail his accuser with there being no legal bar. Similarly, if convicted, would suffer damage to his reputation. However, after freely availing of opportunity to comment on the verdict, the accused could not, after he files an appeal, seek to demand that the appeal be held in camera. Tejpal sought time to appeal against the verdict and asked for the matter to be adjourned until the next date. The matter has now been posted for December 6.Earlier the High Court had indicated that it would not, “at this stage” be hearing Tejpal’s application for an in-camera hearing. However, on Wednesday, Desai urged the court to decide the application before hearing the application for ‘leave to appeal’. At Desai’s instance, the High Court agreed to hear the application.The former editor of Tehelka magazine was accused of raping a junior colleague in an elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa during the THiNK festival in November 2013. The complainant alleged that Tejpal had raped her in a lift in the hotel on November 7 and attempted to assault her again on November 8. Tejpal, who refuted the charges in court, was acquitted by the fast-track court on May 21.The judge in her judgement gave Tejpal, who is facing charges under sections 376 (rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code, the benefit of doubt and acquitted him on account of lack of sufficient evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-rejects-tejpal-s-plea-for-in-camera-hearing-of-appeal-against-acquittal-101637781445147.html
25-11-2021||India||ACB raids: ₹13.5L seized from pipe at govt staff’s residence in Karnataka||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday had to use a bucket to drain out ₹13.50 lakh in cash, stuffed inside the waterpipe of Public Works Department (PWD) junior engineer Shanta Gouda, during a raid in Kalaburgi district. They also recovered ₹15 lakh in cash from the ceiling of the house. In all, they seized more than ₹55 lakh from his residence. According to officials, Gouda didn’t answer the door for 15 minutes even as the team was continuously knocking on the door. They found that during this time Gouda and his son were stashing cash into the wash basin outlet. After gaining entry, they had to cut open the pipe and confiscate the cash. The anti-corruption agency conducted simultaneous search operations at 68 locations related to 15 government officials, said a brief statement from the department. The ACB searched houses, offices, and residences across Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Mandya, Kalburgi, among others, the ACB added. The raids were conducted on the heels of an ongoing operation at the headquarters and other offices of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) in Bengaluru. More than 300 ACB staff, including eight Superintendent of Police rank officers, took part in the massive raids. Among those who were raided was Karnataka Administrative Service (KAS) official LC Nagaraj, out on bail after he was arrested in July 2019 for his alleged involvement in the I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) ponzi scam case in 2019The IMA scam pertains to over ₹4,000 crores collected by the IMA Group from over 100,000 investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investment following Islamic ways. IMA was an investment banking company run by Mahommed Mansoor Khan, who claimed it was a sharia-compliant operation run on Islamic principles and which took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police and in June 2019, the Karnataka government set up an SIT to investigate the more than 51,500 complaints that had been filed by investors. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the scam arrested Nagaraj he was the assistant commissioner (Bengaluru North), charging him with taking a bribe of ₹4.5 crores to submit a favourable report on Khan’s company. Official supervising the raid said that ACB found gold, cash, and other valuables at the KAS officer’s house in Bengaluru. The raid is still underway, and Nagaraj is yet to produce documentation for the seized articles, the officer said. “We can’t disclose the value of the property that has been seized. During the raids, we have found valuables that could run into several lakhs of rupees, especially gold ornaments. The officer has claimed he purchased them taking big loans, but he is yet to produce relevant documents. Also, we have found that he was using Benamis (proxies), he will have to explain those assets as well,” said the officer, who did not want to be named. In the Gadag district, ACB officials unearthed around 7kg of gold worth ₹3.5 crores and ₹15 lakh cash at the residence of TS Rudreshappa, joint director, agriculture department, Gadag. The ACB also seized assets (moveable and immovable) to the tune of ₹13 crores from the premises of Mayanna M, a first division clerk Major Roads and Infrastructure at Bengaluru civic body BBMP. “Even he has used several Benami properties registered to his wife, mother-in-law and some friends. We have raided four locations related to Mayanna. He is yet to provide explanations for the disproportionate assets. Legal proceedings will be followed,” the officer added. Mayanna, in his statement to ACB, disassociated himself from the person who ACB alleged to be his proxies, said ACB. However, Umadevi, one of the alleged associates of Mayanna, said she was known to Mayanna but did not have any financial transactions with him. Umadevi is alleged to be a proxy for Mayanna. “He (Mayanna) has been targeted because they (unspecified) fear that he would become bigger than them. He recently participated in the Sahitya Parishat election. So, raid against him me (?) an attempt to target those who are close to Mayanna. We have not done anything illegal… I have been living with my son since my husband died 20 years ago,” said Umadevi. ACB officials said all 15 officials were raided based on specific information about them collecting bribes. In another case, Rajashekar, who worked as a physiotherapist at Yelahanka government hospital, has purchased three BDA sites, two revenue sites besides five acres of land in Doddaballapur taluk near Bengaluru. Most of the purchases were made during and post Covid pandemic. In a statement, the ACB said the raids were conducted on the properties of KS Lingegowda, (Executive Engineer, Mangaluru Smart City Limited), Lakshminarashimaiah (Revenue Inspector at Doddaballapur), Srinivas K (Executive Engineer of Hemavati Left Bank Canal (HLBC)), Vasudev (former project manager of Nirmiti Kendra) and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acb-raids-13-5l-seized-from-pipe-at-govt-staff-s-residence-in-karnataka-101637781384954.html
25-11-2021||India||Domestic, sexual violence rising in state: NFHS data||The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) 5, released on Wednesday, points to rising instances of domestic and sexual violence against women in the state. The survey shows that married women, between the ages of 18-49, who have ever experienced spousal violence, has more than doubled from 20.6 in 2014-15 to 44.5%.The rise of spousal violence among pregnant married women has come down marginally from 6.5 in 2014-15 to 5.8. Young women (18-29), who have experienced sexual violence by age 18, has risen from 10.3 in 2014-15 to 11.0, data shows, indicating to a higher instances of domestic and sexual violence during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns.The survey was carried out from July 10, 2019 to December 11, 2019 by Nielsen India which gathered information from 26,574 households -- 30,455 women and 4,516 men.“This is definitely quite a dramatic increase and from what we understand, these kinds of situations have only worsened in the context of Covid,” Dr Adithya Pradyumna, faculty member, Azim Premji University told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The survey paints a contrasting picture of the recently released National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data that shows a decrease in crimes against women in 2020.According to the NCRB data, Karnataka saw a reduction in cases of crime against women registered in the state from 13,514 in 2018 and 13,828 cases in 2019 which reduced to 12,680 in 2020. A case of assault on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty was recorded the most in the state. 4,751 cases were registered under the section which amount to sexual harassment, HT reported on September 16.Data from the NFHS also show that issues like obesity have been on the rise among adult male and females.The Karnataka fact sheet of key indicators shows that women who are overweight (as a percentage) have gone up from 22.3 in 2014-15 to 30.1 among women and from 22.1 to 30.9 among men between the ages of 15-49.Even in the indicators that have seen positive developments, there appears to be a stark contrast among regions with several districts of north-eastern Karnataka, among the most backward in the state, showing significantly less improvement but the average going up as some of the more prosperous southern districts raise the average of the state.The contrast is ominous as it emphasises on the rising regional imbalance in Karnataka where prosperity and promise of one region balances out abject poverty of millions by the law of averages.For instance, the per capita income of the Bengaluru region in 2018-19 stood at ₹301,748 as against the Kalaburagi division, which includes six of some of the most backward districts in the country, at ₹114,133, data from the state economic survey show.The Belagavi division or Kittur-Karnataka region (earlier known as Mumbai-Karnataka) has a per capita income of ₹128,761 as against Mysuru division which stands at ₹205,829.However, the average of the state’s per capita income (at current prices) saw a rise to ₹226,796 in 2020-21, registering a 1.6% increase as against ₹223,175 the previous year, shouldered by the revenues earned largely by Bengaluru’s vibrant technology, aerospace, biotechnology and startup ecosystem.Dr Pradyumna also points to the growing costs for delivery of a child at public healthcare facilities.The average out-of-pocket expenditure per delivery in a public health facility has increased from ₹4,824 in 2014-15 to ₹5,042 in 2019-20, NFHS data shows.Rising cost of healthcare in public facilities indicates a larger problem of corruption, restricting access to subsidised healthcare and recurring costs associated with them.“The fact that people have to spend that much money itself is a matter of concern. If people are reporting that they are spending almost ₹5,000 for a delivery is a matter of concern that too in a public facility. This shows that public facilities that should ideally be giving fully subsidised care, especially for things such as delivery, people are spending around ₹5,000 and there needs to be some further studies on where these expenses are being incurred,” he said.A recent study by the Azim Premji University, released in November, shows that healthcare has a disproportionate burden on the poor, especially those living in urban areas. “Our evidence from Bengaluru shows that 30% of even the poorest quintile seek delivery care from private sources. Since there is a 10-fold difference in cost between public and private facilities, this significantly adds to their financial burden,” the report by AZU shows.The emphasis on health insurance with union government schemes like Ayushman Bharat too appears not to have the desired impact, NFHS data shows. Households with any usual member covered under a health insurance or financing scheme remain stagnant at 28.1 as compared to the 2014-15.“There seems to have been some focus on Ayushman Bharat and other sorts of insurance schemes but for whatever reason the proportion of households that are covered with insurance seems to have remained stagnant,” Dr Pradyumna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-sexual-violence-rising-in-state-nfhs-data-101637781327387.html
25-11-2021||India||Congress candidate in Karnataka MLC polls declares assets worth ₹1,743 crore||It was in 2001 that a young Yusuf Shariff aka Scrap Babu had secured 21 tankers from an auction from the now defunct Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) with an investment of ₹7 lakh. He was hoping to help his family with the returns but his fortunes had better plans.Shariff struck gold, literally as one of the containers that he purchased had around 13 kg of the precious metal that had been trapped in one of the containers.Shariff’s first daughter was born on that day and life has never been the same for the person now known by different names and characters he supposedly dons.Babu, the proprietor of Umrah Developers, named after his first born, has been chosen as the Congress’ choice for the December 10 MLC polls from Bengaluru Urban. Babu has declared assets worth around ₹1,743 crore that makes him the richest legislator in Karnataka, if not in the country.“I was inspired by Amitabh Bachchan’s role in the movie ‘Trishul’ in which he starts Shanti Construction. He also is first breaking boulders, becomes a big man, buys private land and becomes big (in the movie). I did it in the same style,” he told a Kannada news channel in August.Shariff claims all his businesses are legitimate and he only buys properties that are auctioned by various high courts in the country as he is afraid of being cheated by others since he is not educated.Shariff had first tried to run a bakery, and then drove an auto, worked in construction before entering the scrap business.The 54-year-old, the first of 14 children, studied till 5th standard but cannot read or write in any language but has grown to become a big name in Bengaluru. He resurfaced into the spotlight after one of his cars, a Rolls Royce, was among the several high-end cars seized by police from near upmarket Church Street over unpaid taxes.Babu had told reporters that he had purchased the car from Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan but could not complete the transfer of paperwork. Babu had, during his interview, claimed that he amassed over ₹4,000 crore and pays around ₹130 crore in taxes depending on income.He had even proudly said he wears a Rolex Gold and Diamond studded watch valued at ₹1.07 crore. He has liabilities of over ₹67.24 crore.He has 12 bank accounts with a balance of over ₹16.87 crore. He has claimed to own 1 Rolls Royce costing over ₹2.1 crore and two Toyota Fortuner’s that cost ₹49 lakh each. But he has been accused of fraud, cheating, intimidation and his premises have been raided by the income tax department in the past.In April 2019, when he was called in for questioning by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on charges of selling land with fake documents, stabbed himself with a pair of scissors and had famously said he would “shut down the CCB”.In his affidavit, Shariff said he was raided by the income tax over dues of ₹13.43 crore. “I have preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax and the same is admitted. The hearing of the case is yet to be done,” he said in the affidavit.He has at least seven criminal cases pending against him under various sections by his own declaration.Congress Karnataka unit president DK Shivakumar had declared assets of ₹840 crore in 2018 just before the assembly election. M Nagaraju (MTB), the BJP legislator, is worth in excess of ₹1,201 crore (along with his wife) and is the one of the richest legislators in the country, at least in terms of declared amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-candidate-in-karnataka-mlc-polls-declares-assets-worth-1-743-crore-101637781326270.html
25-11-2021||India||Gujarat govt called Army on time to control riots: SIT to SC||The Narendra Modi government in Gujarat took a timely decision to call the Army on the day riots broke out on February 28, 2002 and, on the same day, deployment commenced, said the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Wednesday.Defending the clean chit given to then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and 63 others in the larger conspiracy probe undertaken by the SIT on a complaint by Zakia Ehsan Jafri, whose husband former Congress MP Eshan Jafri died during the riots, the SIT told the Court that the presence of state Ministers in the police control room on the day of riots was to possibly boost the morale of the police. It further argued that calling SIT partisan was unfair as its investigation into the nine riot cases led to arrest and conviction of a sitting state minister Maya Kodnani and addition of several other accused whose role was not examined by the Gujarat Police.After SIT was entrusted by the top court in 2011 to examine Jafri’s complaint, it filed a closure report on February 8, 2012 finding no substance in the larger conspiracy angle. The magistrate dismissed Jafri’s petition challenging the SIT report ; the Gujarat high court too in October 2017 refused to admit her appeal. The appeal against this order is presently being heard by a three-judge bench of the top court headed by justice AM Khanwilkar.Opening arguments for SIT, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, “A large part of the complaint is general and not worthy of investigation. But the SIT culled out 30 allegations and investigated every aspect, examining 275 witnesses. Much time was spent on it since it was the mandate from the highest court.” He further stated that the SIT was not to probe “everything under the sun” as its remit was limited to finding out additional material on which other accused could be charge sheeted.Dismissing every allegation of inaction leveled against it by Jafri’s lawyer senior advocate Kapil SIbal, the SIT began by denying parading of dead bodies of Godhra train burning incident of February 27, 2002 (this was alleged by the petitioner to be the trigger point that sparked riots). “There was no question of parading the bodies. It was a serious issue that could add fuel to the fire. We examined all persons and found no substance as bodies moved under police escort,” Rohatgi said.On the role of the state officials, Rohatgi said, “A decision was taken by the Chief Minister to call the Army on February 28. It is a false allegation that army was called in late. The fax was sent at 2 pm and the army was redeployed in the night itself. The PM had to give his approval to move the army because of the tension after the Parliament attack (in December 2001). But there was no delay.” He added that the last unit of the Army landed on March 1.Sibal relied upon a statement by Lt. Gen. Zameer Uddin Shah who wrote a book in 2018 alleging that the army’s deployment was delayed due to lack of transportation by the state leading to so many deaths. Rohatgi said, “A public notice was issued in April 2008 asking members of public to come forward and depose before SIT. What stopped him from coming to SIT? His statement is irrelevant as there is no purpose of writing a book in 2018.”On the Tehelka sting tapes (recordings made during a sting operation by magazine Tehelka) , used as evidence to prosecute accused in some of the riots cases, Rohatgi said, “There is no dispute about its genuineness of the tapes. But the statements inspire no confidence. SIT found no substance to lodge charge sheet but we still gave it to the trial court in three riots cases. One particular court rejected the material produced in the sting tapes.”Rohatgi explained to the Court that the remit of SIT was of limited scope. “My remit under SC order was to see whether there is material against people who are not already accused and whether charge sheet must be filed against other accused. I am not a super-police station that I will investigate everything under the sun.”SIT also alleged that the copy of Jafri’s original complaint produced before Supreme Court was “doctored” and Rohatgi showed discrepancies with the complaint SIT received in 2011. He pointed out that the complaint copiously relied on statements made by two police officials during the riots – Sanjiv Bhat and RB Sreekumar, but not a word of it was argued in the present proceedings. Bhat was sacked from the police force and Sreekumar turned against the state government after he was superseded in 2005, he argued. Rohatgi said, “We left no stone unturned because SC had asked us to investigate. Somebody may agree or disagree with us but it is very unfair to say SIT did not do its job.” Rohatgi will continue with arguments on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-called-army-on-time-to-control-riots-sit-to-sc-101637781090977.html
25-11-2021||India||Woman reunited with baby after DNA test||After a month-long battle, former Left student leader Anupama S Chandran and her husband Ajith Kumar on Wednesday were reunited with their one-year-old son, who was forcibly given away for adoption by her parents who disapproved of her marriage.The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare Committee handed over the child after a family court was informed that DNA tests on the infant, Chandran and Kumar had established the couple as his parents. “I am happy I got my baby back. Really indebted to all those who supported me. I will continue my struggle till officials who were part of this trafficking are punished,” Anupama told reporters outside the office of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare Committee, where she had been staging a protest for the last 10 days.The child had been under the care and protection of his adoptive parents in Andhra Pradesh till last Sunday. Daughter of CPI-M leader S Jayachandran, Anupama had alleged last month that her parents had taken away her three-day-old son a year ago and put him up for adoption as they did not approve of her marriage with a Dalit man. During the court proceedings at 2.30 pm, Child Welfare Committee (CWC) submitted the results of the DNA test which was conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB). During the one-and-a-half hour long proceedings held in the chamber of the judge K Biju Menon, the baby, who was in the custody of CWC at Nirmala Sishu Bhavan, was also produced before the court as per its directive. The court then directed that the baby be medically examined and after completing all legal formalities, ordered the CWC to hand over the child to his mother. It also ordered that all adoption proceedings in this regard be dropped. “Since the biological mother has come forward to receive the child, the adoption proceedings should be dropped and summarily dismissed,” the judge said. The court had posted the matter for hearing on November 30, but rescheduled the hearing to Wednesday after the state government pleader appealed to hand over the baby to its parents at the earliest. Anupama’s parents refused to comment on the court order but said “they did everything with the knowledge of the party and their daughter”. CPI(M) leaders did not react to the court order till the time of going to press. Welcoming the court order, Revolutionary Marxist Party leader and Vadakara MLA K K Rema said: “It is a historic day. The government and powerful party had to bend its knees before a mother. It is a victory for motherhood.” Opposition leader V D Satheesan asked the state government not to protect officials who played a key role in the matter. “It is ideal for the government to dismiss officials of the child welfare council who were part of a criminal conspiracy,” he said. In the second week of October, Anupama claimed that her newborn baby was forcibly taken by her father, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, on the third day of delivery and handed over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (SCCW)-run orphanage last year. The child was later given up for adoption in a hurry, in violation of several rules, she alleged. With her father holding an influential position in the CPI(M), she alleged that she approached the local police station, DGP, child welfare committee and party leaders but justice was not delivered.The woman’s father, however, maintained that the baby was born out of wedlock and hence, shifted to a government-run children’s home with Anupama’s consent. While he claimed his daughter had signed on stamp paper, Anupama later said she signed under duress.On October 20, police filed a complaint against six people, including her parents, on the basis of her statement.The issue kicked up a row as several writers and left intellectuals sought the intervention of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who described the case as a “family affair”. Anupama then staged a protest in front of the Kerala Secretariat, demanding to return her ‘missing’ son. Ajith also protested outside the Secretariat.Later, Anupama started an indefinite strike outside the Kerala Child Welfare Committee office here.As the issue turned controversial, Kerala health minister Veena George ordered the Women and Child Development Department to investigate the matter.After the family court ordered to bring back the child from his adoptive parents in Andhra Pradesh and conduct a DNA test, child welfare committee officials brought the child to Thiruvananthapuram and a DNA test was conducted. Anupama said she and her husband may plan a trip later if the Andhra couple wanted to see the baby again. “I feel bad for them. Officials cheated them,” she said. Social activist and writer Dr J Devika said: “It is a victory of a mother over power and stubbornness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anupama-husband-ajith-reunited-with-baby-after-dna-test-confirms-parentage-101637781088662.html
25-11-2021||India||Supreme Court revives construction ban across Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said controlling pollution in the national capital should not be left to “an act of God”, directing the Union government to instead devise a scientific model, based on seasons and wind conditions, for taking all remedial and urgent steps in anticipation of the air quality. The bench also reimposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), while allowing some ancillary non-polluting works like plumbing and electrical fitting. The ban on construction activities in NCR was lifted on November 22 in view of the improved air quality. In its order uploaded late of Wednesday night, the top court, however, decided to reinforce the prohibition till further orders. It also directed the state governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to utilise the corpus of labour cess for paying wages to construction workers during suspension of activities. “There has to be a statistical model for Delhi. This is the national capital. Imagine the kind of signals we are sending to the world. You have to have a system in anticipation of how the weather is going to be. Ad hoc measures will not be good enough,” said a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, as it heard a public interest litigation on air pollution in Delhi-NCR.“You have to have a scientific model based on seasons and wind directions which can reasonably be predicted by the metrological department. You have super computers now. You prepare a statistical model based on these inputs which will indicate the expected levels of pollution. Then you can take measures on the basis of this model. Why do Delhiites have to suffer severe or very poor level of pollution at all?” the bench, which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant observed.The bench then directed the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and Adjoining Areas, which works under the Centre, to engage expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modelling and carry out a scientific study of air quality within a month, following which it would submit a report in the court. The directions came as solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the central government, took the bench through various steps taken by the CAQM in Delhi-NCR and Adjoining Areas in the last one week to control the rising levels of pollution. He narrated measures including closure of thermal power plants, ban on old vehicles and use of road cleaning machines and sprinklers. The SG, however, conceded that the improvement in the pollution level could be chiefly attributed to a change in wind direction since November 21.“So, we are saved because of the wind... we are dependent on an act of God. But we cannot go only by wind directions or Met department or act of God. Tell us what major steps you have taken,” the bench asked Mehta, who said that the prediction is that pollution levels will go downward over the next few days and that the situation will be reviewed by the Commission after three days.To this, the bench retorted: “This is all ad hoc. The Commission has to conduct a scientific study. Now, when we know the wind direction for the next seven days, there has to be a statistical model that if this is going to be the wind direction for the next few days, what should be the steps taken to improve the situation.”The bench added: “Suddenly you start road cleaning machines, sprinkling water etc. but all that will not help in long term. The problem is that there is no scientific study done. Nature is given. You cannot do anything about the wind pattern. So, you have to devise a graded response based on the statistical model. Somebody has to conduct a study and propose measures. It has to be science based. It can’t be ad hoc.”Mehta pointed out that there is a Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which provides for some immediate measures as soon as the pollution level reaches severe-plus.“As you are suggesting, under the graded response plan, we wait for the weather to become severe for two days and then steps are taken. What you need to do is to have a system where you must act in anticipation of what the weather is going to be in next few days. You have weather predictions and other relevant information. Why should we reach such levels at all?” the bench asked the SG.Mehta responded that under the Grap, pollution levels have been classified in different categories – severe, very poor, and so on.“You should be able to figure out what the standard pollution levels for Delhi will be in different weathers. You have to have a scientific model for different seasons for Delhi,” responded the bench.Delhi and the National Capital Region, in an annual winter rerun, has been in the grip of hazardous air pollution as a toxic smog lingers over the Capital and its adjoining cities, leading to a public health emergency. This November has also seen the number of farm fires reaching a new high with the enforcement of a ban on the practice collapsing.The city’s pollution levels on Wednesday began to worsen as winds weakened. The air quality index (AQI) was “poor” on Tuesday - for the first time since November 1 - with a reading of 290 recorded, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. The AQI shot up to 361 — in the “very poor” category — at 4pm on Wednesday.The bench told Mehta that the mobile phone of one of the judges on the bench showed that the AQI was 350-plus and not 280, as was cited by the law officer. “There also some reports that the situation will become bad again after the evening today,” added the court. Mehta responded that the authorities will review the situation again after three days.At this point, the CJI told Mehta that the top court would not let go of this 2020 PIL without examining the issues thoroughly. The bench asked Mehta to continue with the restrictive measures for the next few days, fixing November 29 as the next date of hearing.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey, appealed to the court to also deal with the problem of stubble burning, which, he said, could be a seasonal problem but chokes Delhi-NCR during the pre-winter weeks. Singh said that farmers have to incentivised if farm fires have to come down.The bench replied that it was currently focusing on immediate measures to control air pollution and that a full-fledged discussion would be required on the issue of farm fires. “We wonder if there is any study on how much stubble has been removed from the fields and how much subsidies and incentives have been given to the farmers,” added the bench.As the SG said that he would welcome a deliberation on the issue, the bench replied: “As a government lawyer and judges, we are discussing all this here. What has been the bureaucracy doing for all these years? Why can’t they sit with each other, visit fields, meet farmers and come up with something? Anyway, you continue with your steps as we are currently focusing on immediate measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-revives-construction-ban-across-delhincr-101637780965282.html
25-11-2021||India||Keen on quick resumption of flight services with India: UAE envoy||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is keen on speedy restoration of normal air services with India as the lack of adequate flights is posing difficulties for travellers and has led to a spike in air fares, UAE ambassador Ahmed AlBanna said on Wednesday. Under the air bubble arrangement worked out by the two countries following the Covid-19 pandemic, Emirates and Etihad, the flag carriers of the UAE, are currently operating at 30% of their total capacity under the normal air services agreement. This is affecting traffic and the price of a return ticket has increased to almost ₹200,000 from the pre-pandemic rate of around ₹80,000 to ₹90,000. Besides going back to the air services agreement, which will result in the doubling of traffic, the two countries should look at increasing capacity under the pact, AlBanna told a group of reporters. The UAE has also asked the Indian government to exempt flights to the emirates from restrictions for the duration of the Dubai Expo 2020, which will continue till March next year, but is yet to get a “green light”, he said. The UAE is home to more three million Indian expatriates, the largest ethnic community in the emirates comprising professionals and blue-collar workers and their families. The demand for flights has increased as a growing number of Indians are making their way back to the UAE. Dubai also serves as a key transit point for Indians travelling to other parts of the world. AlBanna noted the total weekly capacity for Dubai alone under the air services agreement was about 65,000 seats, while only 24,000 seats are currently available. The frequency of flights on the Delhi-Dubai route has dropped from five a week to three a week, he said. A clause in the air services agreement of 2007 mandates that when capacity on routes between the UAE and India touches 80%, new quotas to be shared between carriers of both countries should be re-negotiated. AlBanna noted that Indian carriers had reached 100% capacity before the pandemic. “At that time, there were at 1,068 flights a week, with around 400-plus flights by the UAE carriers and over 500 by the Indian ones. We need to re-negotiate,” he said. Two rounds of talks held in Mumbai in 2017 and New Delhi in 2019 had not been “successful in reaching a final decision on increasing capacities for the four sectors of Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Ras Al Khaimah”, he said. It would be to India’s benefit to end the air bubble, go back to the air services agreement and open all airports once travel restrictions are eased further, the envoy added. AlBanna said the UAE and India had recently concluded the second round of negotiations on a proposed comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) in Dubai and a third round will be held soon. Though the two sides are eyeing the completion of negotiations by March next year, AlBanna said: “I want it before March. Hopefully it will be in place. The CEPA will be a big plus point in our strategic partnership.” Referring to the first virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of India, Israel, the US and the UAE last month, AlBanna said the four countries had no plans to create a NATO-like alliance. “That doesn’t make any sense. It is an economic bloc that concentrates on economic and business collaboration between the four countries,” he said. Technical teams from the four sides are preparing for an in-person ministerial meeting. “Very soon, once that is done, the ministers will meet to discuss further sectors [of cooperation],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keen-on-quick-resumption-of-flight-services-with-india-uae-envoy-101637780906200.html
25-11-2021||India||Navy leak case: CBI files charge sheet against 2 commanders||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a fresh charge sheet in the naval leak case against a retired Indian Navy officer as well as three serving ones, people familiar with the matter said. Those named in the latest charge sheet filed on Saturday, the third in the case so far, include Commanders Jagdish, Abhishek Shaw, and Ajeet Pandey and retired Commodore Randeep Singh. The retired officer was named in the first charge sheet filed by CBI and Pandey in the second, both filed on November 2. People familiar with the development said the four are accused of leaking confidential information related to advance payments in the INS Sindhuratna-MRLC project. The Major Refit and Life Certification programme envisaged spending up to ₹5,000 crore, HT has learnt. The espionage racket came to the light on September 2 when the agency raided and arrested Randeep Singh and another retired Commander SJ Singh (who too was named in the first charge sheet). The agency said it recovered ₹2 crore from Randeep Singh. Apart from the two, it also arrested on the same day, Pandey and another serving officer who was not named, and two other people who were also not named. Officials who did not want to be named said all six accused persons were granted bail last week by a Delhi court . Three executives from Hyderabad based Allen Reinforced Plastics, NB Rao, TP Shastri, and K Chandrasekhar, were also named in the second charge sheet. It was initially believed that confidential information about the upgrade of the Russian-origin Kilo-class submarines was leaked by the accused. However, the CBI probe found that information related to at least three more projects may have been compromised. The CBI probe found retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”. The agency has questioned several persons in the case and further investigation into the leak of information on other projects is going on.  CBI has approached the Centre for its approval for invoking stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) against the accused as the probe has found that classified information was leaked. OSA provides for imprisonment of up to 14 years, where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military or air force establishment or station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-leak-case-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-2-commanders-101637780605002.html
25-11-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks Centre, IITs reply over plea on quota for faculty recruitment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Centre and all Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) on a plea over inadequate reservation for faculty members and research degree programmes.The petition, filed by geothermal energy researcher Sachichida Nand Pandey, claimed that the representation of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes was way below the prescribed percentage of 15%, 7.5% and 27% respectively.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna asked the petitioner’s lawyer to examine the issue based on the 2019 law passed by Parliament, which provides for reservation for SC, ST and OBC in teacher cadre in central educational institutions, IITs being one among them.Advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, appearing for the petitioner, urged for a mechanism to be put in place for resolving complaints by students/scholars alleging harassment and to have a committee of technical experts to review the performance of the existing faculty, besides adopting a transparent recruitment policy.The bench agreed to consider only one prayer asking the IITs to follow the reservation policy in admission in research degree programmes and recruitment of faculty at the institute.As per data collected by the petitioner, out of 3,581 faculty posts in 11 leading IITs, the faculty strength belonging to SCs was 68, STs was 10 and OBCs 194. “The respondents are not following the guidelines of reservation as per the constitutional mandate,” the petition said.In June 2008, a letter was addressed by the ministry of education to the Directors of IITs at Kharagpur, Madras, Bombay, Roorkee and Guwahati asking them to implement reservation for SC, ST and OBCs in teaching posts at the assistant professor level in science and technology and all levels in humanities and management department.In November 2019, the petition added, the Centre extended reservation to all posts (associate professors and professors) in all streams, including technical or faculty positions. Quoting news reports, the petition said that between 2015 and 2019, IITs admitted 2.1% STs, 9.1% SCs and 23.2% OBCs as research scholars.The petition also raised the rising suicides cases among students in IITs and linked the issue to the poor quality of teaching, supervision, caste and racial harassment that students have to undergo at these institutions. It pointed out that faculty members belonging to north, central and Hindi speaking states are low in the IITs which is an added factor of discrimination in the recruitment policy adopted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-centre-iits-reply-over-plea-on-quota-for-faculty-recruitment-101637780486235.html
25-11-2021||India||Centre writes to states, UTs over drop in Covid testing||The Union health ministry has directed 11 states and two Union territories to increase Covid-19 testing amid concerns over declining weekly testing rates and spiking positivity rates in some districts.In a letter to the states and Union territories on Tuesday, Union secretary for health and family welfare Rajesh Bhushan stressed on maintaining high testing rates given the recent increase in travelling due to events like marriages, festivals and vacations that have recently concluded or are underway.The letter was addressed to the governments of Nagaland, Sikkim, Maharashtra, Kerala, Goa, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Ladakh. It also mentioned state-specific testing details of particular districts and positivity rates.“While there has been a significant decline in new cases with 10,195 average daily cases reported in the week ending 22nd November, it has been observed that there has also been a decline in weekly testing rates,” Bhushan said.Citing multiple surges in Covid-19 cases in several countries, the health secretary said: “In the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing, it is very difficult to determine the true level of infection spread in a geography. With a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in Covid cases in recent times and a few developed countries facing even fourth and fifth waves despite high levels of Covid vaccination, there is a need for continued vigil, given the unpredictable and contagious nature of the disease.”A decrease in testing would undermine the actual infection spread within the community, he added.With the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states, the health ministry also directed them to closely monitor the prevalence of respiratory distress symptoms, influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), with tests being conducted regularly for timely monitoring and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification,“…we will be able to maintain the momentum and build on the progress made so far to bring the pandemic situation under control. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare assures of any requisite support to the state in the ongoing and collective efforts against Covid-19,” Bhushan said.Experts also believe that increasing testing is the key to curb the rate of Covid-19 infection.“Tracking, testing and treating is crucial to bring down the rate of infection. Increasing testing will help identify positive cases which otherwise may go unnoticed and might infect many others within the community. It’s scientifically established that testing and isolating positive cases works effectively in breaking the transmission chain,” Jacob John, former virology head of Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-writes-to-states-uts-over-drop-in-covid-testing-101637780424929.html
25-11-2021||India||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in Chandigarh, may join probe||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh is in Chandigarh, and likely to join an ongoing corruption and extortion probe in Maharashtra soon, said a person aware of developments on Wednesday.Singh, who is facing five separate charges of extortion and corruption in Maharashtra, has been missing since May 4, and has failed to appear before a judicial commission looking into his allegations of graft against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.“Singh is in Chandigarh and will join the probe at a suitable time,” said the person cited above, requesting anonymity.Some news channels reported that Singh, 56, is likely to travel to Mumbai but added that he hadn’t decided on the next course of action.Singh also briefly appeared on Telegram on Wednesday but later deleted his account from the social messaging app. He, however, appeared to have switched his phone on after about six months.Singh has not reported to work since May 4, after his transfer from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner and his subsequent allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.The development came two days after the Supreme Court protected Singh from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the IPS officer said he was “very much in the country” and willing to submit to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any agency other than Maharashtra police.A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought responses from CBI and the Maharashtra government on Singh’s plea to transfer investigation of six first information reports (FIRs) from Mumbai Police to the CBI, and fixed the matter for hearing next on December 6.The bench, which also comprised justice MM Sundresh, asked Singh to join the investigation by Mumbai Police in the meantime, but made it clear that he would not be arrested.Last week, the top court directed Singh to disclose his whereabouts while making it clear that it would not entertain his petition for protection against arrest until his location was known. “Where are you? Are you in the country or outside the country?” the apex court had asked.Singh, the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court last week after he remained elusive since March and did not show up before the trial court despite several notices and warrants issued against him.Singh was transferred on March 17 after Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, ‘Antilia’ and the subsequent suspicious death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.The saga began with the Antilla bomb scare case, where a SUV with some gelatin sticks was found near the residence of billionaire businessman Ambani. Singh was transferred for his mishandling of the case, and soon after wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that Vaze, the policeman who is the main accused in the Antilla case, was asked to raise ₹100 crore a month by extortion by Deshmukh. The investigation against Deshmukh was sparked by his claims and petitions based on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-mumbai-police-commissioner-param-bir-singh-in-chandigarh-may-join-probe-101637780305632.html
25-11-2021||India||Kerala adds 1,500 backlog Covid-19 deaths in November||Kerala, which has touted its low Covid-19 death rate as a measure of the quality of its health system and its ability to manage the pandemic, has added at least 1,500 backlog deaths thus far in November, almost 4% of the total of 38,353 deaths the state has seen thus far.Even with the additions, the state’s case fatality rate of 0.82% trails the national rate of 1.4% – but the 0.82% marks an almost doubling of the case fatality rate over the past six months. In October, 70% of the deaths recorded in the state were backlog deaths.The addition of the backlog has now taken the overall Covid-19 death toll in Kerala to 38,353. This pushes the state to second in terms of overall death numbers, edging out Karnataka, which has seen 38,185 deaths.On Wednesday, the country reported 397 fatalities (according to HT’s dashboard) of which Kerala’s share was 308 – 35 daily deaths and 273 that were designated as “virus-induced deaths” as per the new guidelines of the Union health ministry. It also reported 4,280 fresh cases and currently has an active case load of 51,302; India reported 9,072 cases and an active load of 117.488 cases.The state blames poor documentation and fresh Covid-19 death guidelines for the mounting numbers. The number is likely to go up further as 17,000 appeals for considering deaths as those caused by Covid-19 are pending with a committee that is overseeing norms for distributing compensation.Strangely, even a month after state health minister Veena George admitted in the assembly that around 7,000 deaths had failed to find mention in the Covid-19 death list only half have been added. Some of the backlog deaths being added date back to the first half of 2020.“From day one we have been following guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research and there is no deliberate attempt to lessen numbers. Due to some technical glitches and other reasons some deaths failed to find in the list. We have already revised the list,” said Veena George.Health secretary Rajan Khobragade also said that since the Centre amended its rules for declaring deaths the state has also reviewed its list.Several other regions such as Maharashtra, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, have all issued such statistical corrections over the past few months to incorporate previously uncounted fatalities in their Covid-19 death tolls, particularly those that occurred during the country’s brutal second wave.Public health experts and opposition parties have been alleging that the Kerala government has not been transparent with its data. “We are happy now the government conceded its mistakes. When we pointed out glares and lapses we were branded by the government. In initial days, the government was on an overdrive to show low deaths and laud its robust health system,” said health expert Dr SS Lal, who had a stint with the World Health Organisation. “The state was forced to correct its data once compensation was announced. The government should give real time data and share it with experts also,” said another public health expert Dr NM Arun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-1-500-backlog-covid-19-deaths-in-november-101637780244961.html
25-11-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata calls on PM, flags BSF jurisdiction row and Tripura violence||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee flagged the enhanced jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) as a disturbance to the country’s federal structure and invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate a business summit in Kolkata in her meeting with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader on Wednesday.Banerjee also announced that she will go to Mumbai to meet Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, and admitted that she didn’t seek time to meet Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.Hours after her meeting with the PM, TMC delivered its biggest jolt yet to the Congress by poaching 12 of the latter's 18 legislators in Meghalaya.The visit marked a growing distance between the Congress and the TMC, two parties otherwise interested in a broader Opposition pact against the BJP in 2024.Banerjee admitted that she didn’t seek time to meet Gandhi -- as first reported by HT -- and quipped, “They must be busy in Punjab election” before her sharp comment that it was not mandated in the Constitution that she must meet Gandhi.“Giving more powers to the BSF leads to confrontation in law and order with the state police. We are not against the BSF. It is not right to disturb the federal structure without any reason,” she said, referring to the Centre’s decision last month to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km from the border.The contentious amendment that will need Parliament’s approval puts roughly a third of the border state under the federal force.She raised the issue of the recent clashes in Tripura with the PM. “A popular artist like Sayoni Ghosh (TMC’s youth wing leader) was arrested. I have raised the matter with the PM,” she said.Though the BJP remains her biggest challenge in Bengal, she invited the PM for the first time for Bengal’s global business summit to be held next April. “He has accepted my invitation,” Banerjee said, “There are differences between political equations and the Centre-state relationship for development. The Centre will prosper only if the states prosper.”This was Banerjee’s second meeting with PM Modi after trouncing the BJP in a high-octane assembly election in May.She also defended her party’s Goa poll venture and said “every party has democratic right to contest” and made it clear that in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, she is open to supporting Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party. Banerjee also met BJP’s Subramanian Swamy on Wednesday.She also explained her party’s expansion plan and said, “We have started working in Goa and Haryana. But I think some places, the regional parties (like SP) should fight. If Akhilesh Yadav want us to campaign, we will help”.TMC leaders aware of developments said Banerjee’s visit to Mumbai was meant to recalibrate a possible alliance between Opposition parties ahead of the 2024 general elections in a way that the Congress party is not the fulcrum of the formation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-calls-on-pm-modi-flags-bsf-jurisdiction-row-and-tripura-violence-101637779893630.html
25-11-2021||India||Andhra passes bill prohibiting sale of movie tickets at cinema halls||The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Wednesday passed a bill prohibiting the sale of movie tickets at counters, making it mandatory for cinema halls to sell their tickets through a government-run online platform -- the first state in the country to take over sale of movie tickets to minimise tax evasion.The government has decided to introduce a seamless online movie booking system, on the lines of Indian Railways online ticketing system, minister for information and public relations Perni Venkatramaiah alias Nani told the assembly as he introduced the legislation on behalf of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The assembly later unanimously passed the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2021 by a voice vote. It will be introduced on Thursday in the state’s legislative council for passage before seeking the governor’s assent.The online booking system will be run by Andhra’s state film and theatre development corporation.Perni Venkatramaiah said the government will not allow theatres to screen more than four shows a day for any film. “All these days, the exhibitors have been screening the films for six or even seven shows a day to make big money. Besides, they are collecting ₹500 to ₹1,000 on each ticket in the name of benefit shows, ignoring rules and regulations,” he said.The online ticketing system run by the government will end all such activities, the minister said. The exhibitors will only screen films on prescribed timings and ticket prices will be completely under government control.He added that there were instances where there was no connection between a theatre’s collections and the Goods and Services Tax accruing to the state government from a particular film.“Now, producers and distributors cannot avoid payment of taxes to the government. Since the portal is managed by the state-run corporation, payment would be made to the theatres through Reserve Bank of India gateway on a day-to-day basis,” the minister added.Perni Venkatramaiah also underlined that the government-controlled ticketing system will benefit moviegoers as well. People will be able to book tickets of for their choice at any theatre by making a phone call, surfing the Internet, by sending SMS etc.The minister said it will help people get tickets without standing in long queues. “The proposed online movie booking system reduces traffic problems and pollution and helps in checking black-marketing,” the minister said.Popular Telugu film producer DVV Danaiah, whose multi-crore budget film “RRR” directed by SS Rajamouli of “Bahubali” fame, is up for release shortly, said the film industry doesn’t have any objections on the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to take over online cinema ticketing system.“In fact, we welcome it, as it will lead to transparency in ticket sales. It will benefit both the industry as well as the government,” he said.Danayya, however, refused to comment on the government’s decision to control the number of shows to be screened in the theatres and restricting the number of the benefit shows.“We have to wait and see how the government will do that,” he said.Noted Telugu film critic Venkat Arikatla said the online ticketing system was going to be a complicated affair.“No doubt, it will definitely result in a transparency in the system and plug the holes in the revenue generation from films, but it is not so easy to operate the system,” he said.“The government says the portal will be operated and maintained by the AP Film and Theatre Development Corporation, but it requires huge investment, apart from technical manpower to run it. Instead, the government could have entered into a tie-up with already existing online cinema ticketing platforms like Bookmyshow.com by paying them certain fee,” Arikatla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-passes-bill-prohibiting-sale-of-movie-tickets-at-cinema-halls-101637779884981.html
25-11-2021||India||Supreme Court asks govt view on ban on convicted lawmakers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked for the Centre’s view on imposing life bans from contesting elections on convicted lawmakers, noting that the issue was hanging fire for the last five years.Dealing with a 2016 petition filed by lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana asked the Centre to make clear its stand on the issue. “Is the government prepared to have life ban on contesting elections for convicted politicians? You have to take a view. Unless you take some view, we cannot ask the Election Commission to ban such people from contesting elections.”Additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju, appearing for the Centre, replied that he would require to take instructions in this regard.The court also dealt with a petition filed by Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and MLA Mohammad Azam Khan, who complained that due to court’s orders in these proceedings, cases to be tried by a magistrate were shifted to a sessions court designated as a special court to try cases against MPs and MLAs, thus depriving him of an essential layer of appeal.The bench, also comprising justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, noted that the Allahabad high court “misconstrued” its past orders requiring special courts for MPs and MLAs to be designated at both the magisterial and sessions court levels. “Our directions do not mandate the high courts to transfer cases which are triable by magistrates to sessions courts,” the bench said.Accordingly, the Court directed the Allahabad high court to issue a fresh notification replacing its earlier order of August 2019 designating 62 Sessions courts as special courts to try MP/MLA cases and provide for such courts at magistrate level. For cases already pending trial before sessions court, the bench directed the entire case records to be transferred to the special court at magistrate level while clarifying that “proceedings shall commence from the stage which has been reached prior to the transfer of the proceedings, as a consequence of which the trial shall not have to commence afresh.”When the discussion on this matter was concluded, the pending issue of life ban on convicted politicians was brought up by Upadhyay. He told the court that his petition, filed five years ago, raised the issue of criminalisation of politics, demanding fast-tracking criminal trials against sitting and former members of Parliament and legislative assemblies. Though this was sufficiently addressed through various orders passed by the court directing high courts to set up special courts for speedy trials, the petition also sought a life ban from contesting polls on convicted lawmakers.Upadhyay’s application challenged the validity of Sections 8(1), 8(2), 8(3) and 9(1) of the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act, 1951, in which a six-year disqualification from contesting polls is prescribed on a legislator being convicted for an offence which carries a sentence of two years and above.In December 2020, the ministry of law and justice responded on the issue by filing an affidavit opposing the life ban. Although the matter has since been heard on many occasions, the aspect of life ban and the affidavit in question has not been taken up by the Court. The Court has not indicated when the matter will be taken up next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-govt-view-on-ban-on-convicted-lawmakers-101637779824981.html
25-11-2021||India||Taliban look to ‘balance’ ties with India, Pakistan||Days before the Taliban’s acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi embarked on a visit to Pakistan on November 10, one of his aides reached out to an intermediary to ascertain whether there were any India-related issues that should be raised in Islamabad.The aide from Muttaqi’s office also wanted to ascertain from the intermediary whether there were any sensitivities that should be kept in mind in the Taliban foreign policy chief’s maiden engagement with the Pakistani leadership, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Muttaqi’s aide was informed about the need to take up with the Pakistani leadership the offer made by India several weeks ago to supply 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan, and the pressing need to make travel arrangements for hundreds of Afghan citizens stranded across India since the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government in August, the people said.Pakistan had not responded to India’s proposal to ship the wheat to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing in the absence of direct flights.The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi, which was in Pakistan for three days, raised both issues with top leaders such as foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Prime Minister Imran Khan. As a result, Khan announced on November 22 that his government would allow the shipment of the Indian wheat as soon as modalities were worked out by Islamabad and New Delhi.Khan said Pakistan would also facilitate the return of Afghans who had gone to India for medical treatment and were stuck there.This outreach by Muttaqi’s camp and the Taliban’s balanced response to the November 10 meeting of senior security officials of seven countries, including Iran and Russia, that was convened by India are being seen in some quarters as an attempt by the Taliban to strike a balance in their attempts to forge relations with Pakistan and India.Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid had said the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India was in the “better interest of Afghanistan” and reiterated the group’s policy on not allowing Afghan soil to be “used against any country”. The Taliban, he added, had no “objection or anxiety” about the meeting.“Though we are not present in this conference, we firmly believe this conference is in the better interest of Afghanistan...and the participating countries also must be thoughtful of improving and safeguarding the security situation in Afghanistan and helping the current government to ensure security in the country on its own,” Mujahid said.One of the people cited above said: “It is difficult to gauge their sincerity but they do seem to be going through the motions to create an impression that they want a balance between Pakistan and India. It also suits the Taliban to be seen as not completely reliant on Pakistan.”The Indian side, which had opened channels of communication with sections of the Taliban leadership last year, has made it clear it is in no rush to give legitimacy or recognition to the Taliban setup. New Delhi has insisted that Afghanistan must not be used for planning or executing terror attacks on other countries and an inclusive government must be formed in Kabul.Participating in an online event organised on Wednesday by the Indian Chamber of Commerce, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla described the Indian side’s conversations so far with the Taliban as “very reassuring” but also listed the world community’s continuing concerns on Afghanistan.Though the rapid developments in Afghanistan amounted to a setback, he said: “We have also established some contact with the Taliban both in Doha as well as in Moscow in the talks, and I think the Taliban in our conversation with them have been very reassuring. They have recognised that India has contributed greatly to the people of Afghanistan, that our developmental projects over the last 20 years have greatly contributed to Afghanistan’s development.”He added the Taliban “want us to provide humanitarian assistance, they want us to re-establish our embassy there. So they have said good things, which is a good start.”India, Shringla said, will now “have to see how best to protect our interests, make the best of a difficult situation”, and also make sure the country is “not in any way vulnerable to the new strategic realities” of the region. He referred to the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan and said it lays down the international community’s expectations of the Taliban.“One is an inclusive negotiated political settlement, the second is that its territory should not be used against the detriment of any others, the third is that they should provide humanitarian access, the fourth is that there should be no human rights abuses on women, children and minorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-look-to-balance-ties-with-india-pakistan-101637779766204.html
25-11-2021||India||Congress leaders’ discussion on Patel triggers row in Karnataka||A month-old purported video of a conversation between Karnataka former chief minister Siddaramaiah and state Congress chief DK Shivakumar sparked a political slugfest as Siddramaiah seems to persuade Shivakumar to get a portrait of Sardar Vallabhai Patel on his birth anniversary, which was on October 31.The incident took place during an event organised at the Bengaluru party office to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, also the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. In a conversation caught on camera, senior leader Siddaramaiah is heard informing Shivakumar about Patel’s birth anniversary and suggesting a photo be placed next to Gandhi. Shivakumar is heard saying “we never do this”, to which, Siddaramaiah replied: “BJP will take advantage of this.” Little later, a portrait of Patel is placed alongside that of Indira Gandhi. Soon after the alleged video went viral on social media, BJP leaders took to Twitter to accuse the Congress party of insulting Patel. “If anyone had a doubt how much the Nehru Dynasty hated Sardar Patel, this video clears it. CONgress leaders @siddaramaiah & @DKShivakumar agree to place a photo of Sardar Patel along with that of Indira Gandhi fearing BJP. It is a shame that Slaves are so much scared of an Italian,” CT Ravi, the national general secretary of the BJP, said in a post on Twitter. “Leaked voices of top Karnataka Congress leaders during a Press briefing exposes the typical “Dynastic” mindset of the party where tall leaders like Sardar Patel are pulled out of “Store Rooms” lest the BJP doesn’t take political benefit out of the situation,” Sambit Patra, the BJP national spokesperson also posted, with the hashtag #CongressInsultsPatel. He added that the Congress party never think beyond the ‘Gandhis’. “The Congress can never think beyond the “Gandhis” ..for them, it’s the Family over Subash Bose, Sardar Patel & Baba Saheb Ambedkar. BJP never appropriated Sardar Patel...Since the Congress rejected the Sardar, we gave due place to the “Iron Man” of India,” Patra said in his two-part tweet. Later in the day, Shivakumar hit back at the BJP’s criticism, saying, “Let them (BJP) show whether they have celebrated Vallabhai Patel’s birthday in Karnataka. Since he was a Congress president and banned the RSS, they (BJP) never do it. We, Congressmen, have a lot of respect for him, and we do it every year. We wanted to do a separate programme.” “In no offices do they celebrate Vallabhai Patel’s birth anniversary? It is only Congress which does. Indira Gandhi is separate from the Congress party. Her contribution, sacrifice for the nation, and integrity of this country is different compared to Vallabhai Patel. But still, he is our leader, our president, he is the Iron Man, and we spoke and decided let us have a separate programme for him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-discussion-on-patel-triggers-row-in-karnataka-101637779705995.html
25-11-2021||India||India weighs options on Chinese trade ties||The government is carefully assessing all options to ensure that India’s trade and investment ties with China do not leave the country vulnerable in any way, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Wednesday against the backdrop of the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Normal ties in areas such as trade and technology are based on peace and tranquillity being maintained in the border areas, but the two sides have been unable to “conduct normal relations” since China adopted an “aggressive posture and attempted multiple transgressions” along the border in eastern Ladakh, Shringla said. “Trade continues, there are investment ties that continue but all of this has to be examined very carefully and the government is examining all these options very, very carefully to ensure that our integrity and security remain intact,” he said at an online interaction on the theme “Bharat@75: Empowering India” organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Shringla was responding to a question from the moderator for the event, who described China as India’s biggest foreign policy challenge and asked what could be done to address the issue. The foreign secretary said India will have to ensure it is not vulnerable in any way because of its economic and trade ties with China. “Last year...we saw that China maintained an aggressive posture and attempted multiple transgressions along our border in eastern Ladakh. That obviously was not conducive to peace and security, and as a result, we are not able to conduct normal relations,” he said. “Having said that, of course trade continues, import and export continues, China continues to be an economic partner. But obviously we need to today evaluate whether we are over-extended in terms of our supply chains, in terms of our investment tie-ups, in terms of the technology that we get,” he added. All these issues need to be carefully examined to see “that it is in keeping with our larger strategic and security interests and that obviously, as we move forward, our own economy grows, our own interactions grow”, he said. “We need to ensure that we are not vulnerable in any way. On the contrary, our growth and development can be faster and better ensured,” Shringla said. India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector since May last year and a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020, that killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, has taken relations to an all-time low. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said last week ties are passing through a “particularly bad patch” and China still hasn’t given a credible explanation for massing tens of thousands of troops on the LAC. The two sides pulled back frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Soon after the standoff began, India imposed a ban on more than 200 apps owned by some of the biggest Chinese internet firms and restricted foreign direct investment from China, especially in critical sectors such as telecommunications. Shringla pointed out that India had restarted ties with China in 1988 with the objective of allowing “normal business to be conducted without the border issue coming in the way of that relationship”. “In other words, we would have trade, commercial ties, scientific and technological ties, people-to-people contacts but we would isolate the border issues that would be discussed separately through the special representatives of both countries. But of course, that was predicated on peace and tranquillity being maintained in the border areas,” he said. The rapid rise of China, both as a military and an economic power, is an issue the world is grappling with, and India is in the process of protecting its own strategic and security interests, Shringla said. “We have had several rounds of talks with China. We have resolved some of the issues but there are still some outstanding issues and until we can resolve those issues, obviously we will not be in a normal relationship mode,” he added. At their latest round of diplomatic talks on the standoff on November 18, India and China agreed to hold the next discussions between senior military commanders at an early date but were unable to make headway on the bigger issues. The meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was held against the backdrop of growing evidence of China building infrastructure and villages in disputed sections of the border with both India and Bhutan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-look-to-balance-ties-with-india-pakistan-101637779644930.html
25-11-2021||India||How to solve the crypto conundrum?||Web3, the buzzword of the year, is, as some experts have described it, all about the decentralisation of the Internet. The current iteration of the Internet is dominated by gigantic technology firms, many with as much power as large countries. Some of these companies have their own Web3 plans. Yet, the next generation of the Internet is actually about a future where these companies are no longer the main gatekeepers and custodians of data. Instead, proponents of Web3 claim that thanks to the use of Blockchain technology, a collective of users will perform the twin roles — of gatekeeping and custodianship. Blockchain, the emerging vision for Web3 claims, will help build apps that bypass the current gatekeepers almost entirely. This is the disintermediation of companies that made disintermediation their business.It’s all deliciously vague, like technology at the bleeding edge usually is — but so far, so good. And, in many ways, the promise of decentralisation that is at the core of Web3 (one analyst described it as a personal patch of the Internet) harks back to the near Utopian concept of an open Internet and one, more importantly, controlled by users, not large firms that do not always have the best interests of users in mind.A quick diversion may be required here: AI (artificial intelligence) isn’t Web3, although some people see it as a layer on top of Web3 technologies that helps people interact better with other people, and with machines.But to return to Web3, thus far our experience with this new phase of the Internet (the third, as the name suggests) has been shaped by cryptocurrencies, non-fungible tokens or NFTs, digital autonomous organisations or DAOs, and DeFi or decentralised finance. Those are a lot of fuzzy buzzwords, so some definitions first.NFTs are unique pieces of data stored on a distributed digital ledger (Blockchain is nothing but a kind of digital, distributed, decentralised ledger, 3Ds and an L), so it is easy to see how a piece of digital art can be NFT-ised. DAOs are, again, decentralised organisations with no clear leader, usually set up for a specific purpose, with established rules, and funded either by NFTs or crypto; and DeFis are entities that use Blockchain contracts to offer traditional financial instruments (thereby completely disintermediating traditional financial entities including banks and brokerages).It’s all very breathless and exciting. And, given the rush of venture capital to Blockchain companies across crypto, payments, mining, finance, and exchanges, flush with funds.The most problematic of these (and also in the news thanks to the law that the Indian government hopes to introduce in Parliament this session, clamping down on private cryptocurrencies) is crypto.It is problematic at three levels.The first, at the sovereign one. Issuing currency is a sovereign right. Having non-central bank or monetary authority issued currency sloshing around the system has significant economic implications — few of them salutary.The second is at the financial level. Just what is the asset underlying the currency. What is its intrinsic value? Central bank issued currencies are guaranteed by the sovereign. But what about crypto?The third is at the operational level. Isn’t this a classic instance of the medium becoming the message? A case where code that seeks to make transactions and contracts secure (and distributed) and easy across borders, takes on value of the currency involved in the underlying contract or transaction?And in India, there is a fourth-level problem as well. Replete with venture capital, a clutch of crypto start-ups have indulged in high-decibel, and often irresponsible advertising, passing off crypto as yet another get-rich-quick scheme. The numbers being thrown around — 15 million investors; $10 billion in investments; investments in Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns — have only served to create the impression of a bubble. Which isn’t surprising — because, at one level, it is.The exact contours of the law that India will introduce isn’t clear. It could completely ban private cryptocurrencies and trading in them; or it could just ban their use as a currency and allow their trade as an asset class (although that begs the question on the value of the underlying asset). India’s long experience with companies that ran get-rich-quick schemes speaks of the relative unsophistication of small investors who burn their hands on these — which may mean a complete ban may not be out of place.But there’s more to Web3 than crypto (although there’s an unkind school of thought that Web3 is an invention of crypto entrepreneurs to make their business seem above board; if so, India’s crypto start-ups did a pretty shoddy job of this). India would do well to tap other benefits of Web3. This could deepen financial inclusion, reduce the cost and increase the ease of investment in various financial instruments, make transactions safer and more private, facilitate smooth cross-border transactions, and help data localisation. It could even universalise land titling (in a country where most people do not actually have titles to the land or property in their possession).Some of these objectives can be met by having a central bank issued digital currency. Years ago, in an editorial in Mint, my former colleague Niranjan Rajadhyaksha even suggested a name for this — Bharatcoin. And the others can be met by creating a national Blockchain or Web3 mission that figures out how to use these emerging technologies. There will be a significant role for Web3 start-ups to play in this, and new, and profitable business models. But however clever it may sound — the reinvention of currency isn’t a great business model. Or is it?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-solve-the-crypto-conundrum-101637779526577.html
25-11-2021||India||National Family and Health Survey: More women than men in India for the 1st time||India now has 1,020 women for every 1000 men, is not getting any younger, and no longer faces the threat of a population explosion.All three radical findings are part of the summary findings of the fifth round of the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS), which were released by the Union health ministry on November 24. To be sure, NFHS is a sample survey, and whether these numbers apply to the larger population can only be said with certainty when the next national census is conducted, although it is very likely that they will in the case of many states and Union territories.The numbers indicate that India can no longer be called a country of “missing women”, a phrase first used by Nobel Prize winning economist Amartya Sen in a 1990 essay in the New York Review of Books. Back then, there were 927 women per 1,000 men in India. According to NFHS-3, conducted in 2005-06, the ratio was equal, 1000: 1000; it went down to 991:1000 in 2015-16 in NFHS-4. This is the first time, in any NFHS or Census, that the sex ratio is skewed in favour of women.“The improved sex ratio and sex ratio at birth is also a significant achievement; even though the real picture will emerge from the census, we can say for now looking at the results that our measures for women empowerment have steered us in the right direction ,” said Vikas Sheel, additional secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare and mission director, National Health Mission.To be sure, the gender ratio at birth for children born in the last five years is still 929, which suggests that son-preference, in its various macabre forms, still persists, but the sex ratio is a significant milestone achieved on the back of policies aimed to curb sex selection practices that were once rampant and female infanticide, and on the fact that women in India tend to live longer than men.The average life expectancy at birth for men and women was 66.4 years and 69.6 years respectively in 2010-14, according to data from the Census of India website.There are other interesting read outs from the survey.The share of population under the age of 15 years, which was 34.9% in 2005-06, has come down to 26.5% in 2019-21. India is still a young country -- a median age of 24 years in 2011 according to the Census figures -- but it is ageing, and that comes with the associated policy challenges.“The fact that we are now an aging population suggests that our approach to women’s health needs a more holistic life cycle view rather than one that prioritises reproductive health only,” Yamini Aiyar, president of the Centre for Policy Research, said. “The fact that more women have completed ten years of schooling in 2019-20 than previously coincides with a drop in female labour force participation points to significant structural challenges in India’s labour market. These need to be urgently addressed if India is to make progress,” Aiyar added.Finally, the total fertility rate (TFR), or the average number of children per women in India, is now just 2, which is below the internationally accepted replacement level fertility rate – the point at which a population exactly replaces itself from one generation to the next -- of 2.1. This means, India’s population may have peaked -- another data-point that can only be established by the Census, but which is almost certainly for at least the southern states, as well some of the richer ones.“There is usually a gap of 30-40 years between total fertility rate falling below replacement levels and a decline in overall population, because the population which will give birth in the next 10-15 years has already been born in the past when fertility levels were higher,” said Dr KS James, director and senior professor at the International Institute for Population Sciences. “Of course, the population growth in southern states is going to fall at a faster rate than the rest of the country,” he added.NFHS-5 was conducted in two phases between 2019 and 2021, and covered 650,000 households from 707 districts of the country. The States and UTs that were surveyed in Phase-II are Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, NCT of Delhi, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The findings of NFHS-5 in respect of 22 States & UTs covered in Phase-I were released in December 2020.NFHS is the most comprehensive database on a host of socioeconomic and health indicators with a focus on women – NFHS-5 covered 720,000 women and just above 100,000 men – and its basic results can be compared to the previous four rounds which were conducted in 1992-93, 1998-99, 2005-06 and 2015-16.To be sure, successive NFHS rounds have expanded their coverage both in terms of their sample size as well as number of indicators on which information is collected.While the statistics quoted above are a watershed moment in India’s socio-economic and demographic transformation story, other findings of NFHS also convey a similar message. Socio-economic challenges facing India, going forward, will need to be dealt with more nuance and some of the stereotypes and political beliefs (such as the political obsession with population control laws) which dominate the public discourse will need to be shelved.For example, balanced diets need as much attention as adequate diets as obesity and anaemia (more than half of women and children suffer from it) are on the rise, even as undernourishment continues to decline at the national level. To be sure, there is some evidence to suggest that the fight against undernutrition has lost momentum.“Overall, the NFHS-5 shows a reduction in stunting, which is an indicator of chronic undernutrition, from 38.4% to 35.5%, which is only about 3 percentage points in five years, about 0.6 percentage point a year. Between NFHS-3 and NFHS-4 we saw a improvement from 48% to 38.4%, roughly 1 percentage point a year. So there is definitely a slowdown in improvement and this is much below the goals set under Poshan Abhiyaan,” Dipa Sinha, an assistant professor of economics at Ambedkar University who is also associated with the Right to Food campaign, said. “We also know that in some states stunting has actually shown a reversal, so a more detailed analysis will be required. The other concerning findings in NFHS-5 related to nutrition are the increase in anaemia as well as the increase in overweight/obesity,” Sinha added.“The findings on fertility decline are good news for maternal and child health and nutrition outcomes. However, the high fertility-high undernutrition states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand still need to see more progress on fertility reductions – improvements in those high burden states are essential to move the all-India average for all outcomes,” said Purnima Menon, senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute. “The undernutrition improvements in UP and Bihar that are signalled in the NFHS-5 are also really promising and need deeper analyses to understand further,” Menon added.Despite the government’s claims of at least two of its policy-level programmes achieving the targets of eradicating open defecation and ensuring a switch to clean fuel, gaps remain on both these fronts: 70.2% and 58.6% of households use an improved sanitation facility and clean fuel for cooking, respectively. These numbers still mark a huge improvement over data from the previous round of the survey -- 48.5% and 43.8%, respectively.Other schemes such as promotion of financial inclusion and health insurance coverage seem to have worked well. The share of women who had a bank account they themselves use went up from 53% in NFHS-4 to 78.6% in NFHS-5. Similarly, health insurance coverage has increased from 28.7% to 41% (the NFHS-5 might not have covered the full gains of the central government’s health insurance programme, the ministry said) between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5.The government is yet to release the full database of NFHS-5. Detailed all-India report and reports for the states and Union territories which were canvassed in the second round and the unit level data had not been released at the time of writing this story. This means that a disaggregated analysis by caste, wealth levels and religion, etc, is not possible at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-family-and-health-survey-more-women-than-men-in-india-for-the-first-time-101637779104256.html
25-11-2021||India||Delhi schools to reopen next week as curbs lifted||Schools, colleges and other educational institutes will open from next week in the national capital, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced on Wednesday, following growing calls to allow in-person classes to resume to stem the setback to learning caused already by the pandemic.Some of the other curbs on activities that are linked to polluting activities were slightly relaxed – all trucks running on CNG (compressed natural gas) will now be allowed to enter from Saturday, but those using conventional fuels will continue to be banned from the city unless they are carrying essential supplies.“For the last three days, we have observed a reduction in the pollution levels in Delhi. We have decided to ease the restrictions, but a strict watch will be kept on the sources [of pollution],” Rai told reporters following the meeting, where it was also decided to allow government offices to call employees on-site.
25-11-2021||India||Congress loses 12 Meghalaya MLAs in a huge jolt. They team up with Mamata’s TMC||The Congress party in Meghalaya suffered a jolt on Wednesday night with 12 of its 17 MLAs in the state, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, switching sides and joining the Trinamool Congress (TMC). With the sudden move, TMC which had practically no presence in the north-eastern state becomes the largest opposition party in the 60-member house. The state is ruled by the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance, which is led by the National People’s Party and has BJP as a minor partner. Senior Congress leaders in Meghalaya including Sangma and state unit chief Vincent H Pala didn’t take calls, while people familiar with the development informed that the Congress MLAs led by the former chief minister have already submitted their resignations to Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh. Wednesday’s development comes two months after speculations surfaced that Sangma was upset with the Congress leadership and was planning to quit the party and join TMC. At that time the former CM had rubbished the reports and said they were mere speculation. Sangma was unhappy at being sidelined during appointment of Pala to a party post in August and had started skipping Congress events in Meghalaya. There were also rumours that he was looking at joining other parties including the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-meghalaya-cong-mlas-join-tmc-making-it-largest-opposition-party-in-60-member-house-101637778924779.html
25-11-2021||India||The key demographic transitions captured by the 5th round of NFHS||The Union health ministry released the summary findings of the fifth round of the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS-5), conducted in two phases between 2019 and 2021, on November 24. NFHS is the most comprehensive survey on socio-economic and health indicators in the country. While the results of the first phase were released in December last year, country-level statistics were released only on Wednesday. The previous four rounds of the NFHS were conducted in 1992-93, 1998-99, 2005-06 and 2015-16.The results of the survey show some surprising demographic transitions, such as women outnumbering men, and some expected ones, such as fertility rates declining. They also highlight the health challenges that remain, such as moving towards addressing nutrition deficiency apart from just food adequacy. And they offer a more sobering picture of the impact of government’s schemes on access to basic amenities such as clean cooking fuel and improved sanitation. Here are four charts that show this.Women outnumber men, fertility has decreased, and India is getting olderNFHS-5 data shows that there were 1,020 women for 1000 men in the country in 2019-2021. This is the highest sex ratio for any NFHS survey as well as since the first modern synchronous census conducted in 1881. To be sure, in the 2005-06 NFHS, the sex ratio was 1,000 or women and men were equal in number.The improved sex ratio is not the only big demographic transition that the latest round of NFHS has revealed. The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) has also come down below the threshold at which the population is expected to replace itself from one generation to next. TFR was 2 in 2019-2021, just below the replacement fertility rate of 2.1. To be sure, in rural areas, the TFR is still 2.1. In urban areas, TFR had gone below the replacement fertility rate in the 2015-16 NFHS itself.A decline in TFR, which implies that lower number of children are being born, also entails that India’s population would become older. Sure enough, the survey shows that the share of under-15 population in the country has therefore further declined from 28.6% in 2015-16 to 26.5% in 2019-21.Children’s nutrition improved but at a slower paceThe share of stunted (low height for age), wasted (low weight for height), and underweight (low weight for age) children have all come down since the last NFHS conducted in 2015-16. However, the share of severely wasted children has not, nor has the share of overweight (high weight for height) or anaemic children. The share of overweight children has increased from 2.1% to 3.4%. The share of anaemic children has increased from 58.6% to 67.1%. Another cause of worry for children’s nutrition is that the pace at which the share of stunted and underweight children decreased in the latest NFHS was less than the pace at which it did between the 2005-06 and 2015-16 surveys. The share of stunted children decreased by 20% between NFHS-3 and NFHS-4, but only by 7.6% between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5. The corresponding numbers for underweight children are 15.8% decline between NFHS-3 and NFHS-4 and 10.3% decline in the latest round. A similar challenge remains in reducing mortality rates of children. All such indicators suggest a declining rate of mortality, but the pace at which it declined in the last round has come down.India might be food secure, but nutrition is a problem for adults tooFor children and their mothers, there are at least government schemes such as Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) that seek to address the nutritional needs at the time of childbirth and infancy.However, there is a need to address the nutritional needs of adults too. In October 2020, a paper by Kalyani Raghunathan published in the Food Policy journal (and reported in this paper) showed that though India might have achieved food security, 60% of Indians cannot afford nutritious diets.This is reinforced by the results of the latest NFHS. While the share of women and men with below normal Body Mass Index (BMI) has decreased, the share of overweight and obese (those with above normal BMI) and the share of anaemic has increased between 2 and 4 percentage points. The problem of anaemia is more prevalent among women. In 2015-16, 53% women were anaemic compared to 23% men in the 15-49 age group. These numbers have now increased to 57% and 25% for women and men respectively.Challenges remain on open defecation and use of clean fuelAvailability of basic amenities such as improved sanitation facilities clean fuel for cooking, or menstrual hygiene products can improve health outcomes. There has been an improvement on indicators for all three since the last NFHS. However, the degree of improvement might be less than claimed by the government. For example, only 70% population had access to an improved sanitation facility.While not exactly an indicator of open defecation, it means that the remaining 30% of the population has a flush or pour flush toilet not connected to a sewer, septic tank or pit latrine, uses a public toilet or still practices open defecation. The share of households that use clean cooking fuel is also just 59%.The schemes of the NDA government under Narendra Modi for financial inclusion, however, seem to have worked better. The share of women having a bank account that they themselves use has increased from 53% to 79%. Households’ coverage by health insurance or financing scheme also has increased 1.4 times to 41%, a clear indication of the impact of the government’s health insurance scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-key-demographic-transitions-captured-by-the-5th-round-of-nfhs-101637777904158.html
25-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 25, 1949 — Hyderabad accedes to India||Secunderabad- Hyderabad has acceded to India, announces a firman issued by the Nizam tonight. The following is the text of the firman: “Whereas in the best interests of the State of Hyderabad, which is closely linked with the rest of India by a community of interest in the economic, political and other fields, it is desirable that a constitutional relationship should be established between this State and the contemplated Union of India; “And whereas, the Constitution of India, as drafted by the Constituent Assembly of India, provides a suitable basis for this State to enter into such a constitutional relationship with the Indian Union, as also for re-ordering the internal constitutional structure of the State. “I hereby declare and direct that the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India shall be the constitution for the State of Hyderabad as for the other parts of India, and shall be enforced as such by me, my heirs and successors in accordance with the tenor of its provisions and that the provisions of the said Constitution shall, as from the date of its commencement, supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith, which are at present in force in this State. “I further declare that the above decision which I have taken after mature consideration in order to ensure for the people of Hyderabad, the benefits of an honourable partnership in a united and democratic India, shall, in view of its far-reaching consequences, be subject to ratification by the people of this State, whose will as expressed through the Constituent Assembly of the State proposed to be constituted shortly must finally determine the nature of the relationship between this State and the Union of India, as also the Constitution of the State itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-24-1949-hyderabad-accedes-to-india-101637762724527.html
25-11-2021||India||Cabinet gives nod for repeal of farm laws||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to repeal three contentious laws that resulted in tens of thousands of farmers protesting for over a year but agitating unions indicated that the stir will continue until the government legislated crop price guarantees.Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur said the Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cleared the formalities to roll back the laws, which were passed in September 2020. PM Modi announced in a televised address to the nation on November 19 that his government would revoke the legislation during the Winter Session of Parliament.The Cabinet’s nod will allow the government to table a “repeal bill” in Parliament to revoke three separate laws to liberalise trade in farm produce. A bulletin from the Lok Sabha on Tuesday listed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, as one of the 26 pieces of legislation to be introduced during the session.Thakur said the process of repealing the laws would begin as soon as Parliament convenes.“In the upcoming session of Parliament, it will be our priority to take back these three laws,” he added.The Winter Session will begin on November 29 and conclude on December 23.The minister did not answer questions on whether the government will consider demands from protesting farmers for law guaranteeing minimum support prices.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha , a platform for farm unions, said the agitation will continue till the government acceded to all their “rightful demands”, including statutory provisions to ensure minimum support prices for farm produce.“This protest will not end yet. We have a meeting on November 27 after which we will take further decisions...Farmers’ victory will be ensured when they get the right price for their crops,” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait tweeted in Hindi.Under Article 245 of the Indian Constitution, Parliament is vested with powers to both pass and annul laws. If Parliament is in recess, the government can repeal or enact laws by bringing an ordinance, which needs to be ratified by the House later. The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping legislation is largely the same, experts said. A fresh repealing bill needs to be approved to junk an existing law.“A bill to repeal an existing law and its passage is all that is needed. It has to be passed by a majority like any other law,” said GC Malhotra, former secretary-general of the Lok Sabha.The laws were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on a written agreement.Farm unions say the legislation would have left them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power.The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.Thakur said the Cabinet also approved the extension of the free food grain scheme Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) until March. The extension will cost ₹2.6 lakh crore. Under PMGKAY, the Centre provides 5kg of foodgrain per person, per month, to nearly 793.9 million beneficiaries. PMGKAY was meant to provide higher food quantities during the pandemic. It was launched in March 2020 for the April-June 2020 period but was extended until November 30.The Opposition said the decision to withdraw the farm laws was a defeat of the Centre.“I congratulate the farmers of the country who struggled for so long and died for the cause. Today they have won and the central government has lost. Arrogance has been crushed,” said Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar alleged that the central government would not have taken the decision if there were no elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states.“There are elections in UP and other neighbouring states. As per our information, the people in power, when they visited the villages in some parts of these states, they got some different kind of reception from the locals. Considering this, they might have sensed what kind of treatment they will get when they go to seek votes. It seems that on that backdrop, this practical decision was taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-extension-of-pmgkay-scheme-101637751863401.html
25-11-2021||India||India’s fertility rate drops below 2.1, contraceptive prevalence up: NFHS||India’s Total Fertility Rate (TFR), or the average number of children a woman gives birth to in her lifetime, has declined from 2.2 to 2 while the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) has increased from 54% to 67%, according data from the National Family Health Survey-5. The union health ministry released data for Phase-2 of the survey on Wednesday; data from Phase-1 was released in December 2020.A TFR of 2.1 is termed the replacement rate, and means there will be neither an increase, nor a decrease in population.As per the fourth edition of the survey conducted between 2015 and 2016, the TFR was 2.2. The fifth survey was conducted between 2019 and 2021 in two phases and reflects gains made in population control.
25-11-2021||India||Train for Ayodhya pilgrimage to leave Delhi on December 3: Kejriwal||The first train to Ayodhya as part of the Delhi government’s free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens will leave on December 3, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Wednesday. He also added the Velankanni church in Tamil Nadu to government’s list of free pilgrimage sites for Christian residents of the national capital.“Last month, I visited the Ram temple in Ayodhya. After returning, I got Ayodhya included in the Delhi government’s Mukhya Mantri Teerth Yatra Yojna. Today, I am happy to announce that the first train for Ayodhya with the city’s senior citizens will leave from Delhi on December 3. Every senior citizen can bring a young attendant to take care of them. The cost of both will be borne by the government,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing. The chief minister said that, on the demand of the city’s Christian community, the Delhi government will also include a free pilgrimage trip to Velankanni Church soon. “Many Christians wish to go to Velankanni Church. We are going to include Velankanni Church in the list of pilgrimage very soon and you will also be able to go on pilgrimage as per your wish. May everyone be blessed and be happy and healthy by the grace of God,” he said. The Ram Mandir is an emotive issue in Uttar Pradesh, where Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party has decided to contest the assembly elections early next year. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Wednesday said that seat-sharing talks have begun with the Samajwadi Party to set up a common platform against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state.Under the Mukhya Mantri Teerth Yatra Yojna, Hindu pilgrims who are over 60 years of age can also visit Vaishno Devi, Shirdi, Rameswaram, Dwarka, Puri, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura, Vrindavan, among others and Sikh residents have the option to do a Delhi-Amritsar-Wagha Border-Anandpur Sahib-Delhi tour for four days.Senior citizens availing of the free pilgrimage scheme are issued certificates by the MLAs of their respective areas, ministers of the Delhi government, or the chairman of the Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti. The Delhi government bears all the expenses on the pilgrimage, including travel, food and accommodation. Facilities such as paramedical staff and attendants are also provided during the journeyThe scheme was approved by the Kejriwal government in 2018. So far, over 36,000 people have availed the scheme. The Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi tour will be the 13th destination and the Delhi-Velankanni church-Delhi route will be the 14th once it is officially approved by the Cabinet.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The BJP hopes these yatras will continue beyond ensuing municipal polls, unlike the past when the Arvind Kejriwal government launched Tirth Yatra Scheme in mid-2019 and stalled it after the assembly elections in January 2020. No one heard about the scheme from the Delhi government till October 2021,” said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-for-ayodhya-pilgrimage-to-leave-delhi-on-december-3kejriwal-101637740582398.html
25-11-2021||India||Covaxin 50% effective against Delta variant: Real-world study||The findings are based on the study conducted between April 15 and May 15, at the height of India’s second wave of infections this year. Covaxin in clinical trials had an estimated efficacy of 65% when the more infectious Delta variant was taken into account.Covaxin in clinical trials had an estimated efficacy of 65% when the more infectious Delta variant was taken into account.All vaccines have shown to be less effective when infections have been caused by the more transmissible variant of the Sars-CoV-2, and the latest report underscores the higher odds of catching Covid-19 during an active wave and among healthcare workers.According to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the efficacy of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine dropped from 93.7% to 88% and that of the AstraZeneca vaccine (as the Covishield shot is known in markets where the British pharma company makes) from 75% to 67% when protection against Alpha and Delta variants were compared. It is likely those numbers may have reduced further for high-risk groups such as hospital workers.“…The adjusted effectiveness of BBV152 against symptomatic Covid-19 after two doses administered at least 14 days before testing was 50%... The adjusted effectiveness of two doses administered at least 28 days before testing was 46%... and administered at least 42 days before testing was 57%... After excluding participants with previous SARS-CoV-2 infections, the adjusted effectiveness of two doses administered at least 14 days before testing was 47%..,” said the Lancet study.According to the Phase 3 clinical trials, for which evaluations were held over a longer period of time, the vaccine had an estimated efficacy of around 65% when Delta variant infections were taken into account. Overall, clinical trials held with 25,000 people showed an efficacy rate of 77.8%.“There is a difference between efficacy studies that are done in controlled settings, and effectiveness of a vaccine that is based on real-world data. I’d say 50% effectiveness is quite good as the results have to be taken in the context of the Covid-19 surge conditions in India during the second Covid wave, combined with the possible immune evasive potential of the delta variant that dominated at that time,” said Dr Manish Soneja, a corresponding author of the study, and additional professor, department of medicine, AIIMS, Delhi.The Delta variant was the dominant strain, accounting for approximately 80% of all confirmed Covid-19 cases.Other experts agreed that 50% effectiveness is acceptable for a vaccine against a respiratory disease.“Actually 50% is the minimum suggested by the World Health Organisation. However, higher the better and Covaxin with its initial reports of 68-70% effectivity was found to be definitely acceptable. The higher efficacy of above 90% or higher came about only after the mRNA platform was introduced. Otherwise traditionally anything above 50% has been acceptable,” said Dr NK Mehra, senior immunologist.The authors in the paper also pointed out that further studies are required in the area, and the current findings add to the growing body of evidence that rapid vaccination programmes remain one of the most promising path to pandemic control.“…this study only assessed symptomatic Covid-19 infections, and further research is needed to determine BBV152 vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation, severe disease, and death,” they said in the paper.Dr Parul Kodan, another author and assistant professor of medicine at AIIMS, Delhi, said, “More research is needed to better understand how these findings translate to BBV152’s effectiveness against delta and other variants of concern, especially related to severe Covid-19 infection, hopsitalisation, and death.”On November 12, the Phase 3 clinical trials data of Covaxin was published in the Lancet journal, which showed 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 cases, and 93.4% efficacy against severe symptomatic disease.The report also reaffirms that the efficacy data of the whole virion inactivated vaccine demonstrates 63.6% protection against asymptomatic disease, and 65.2% protection against the Sars-Cov-2, B.1.617.2 against Delta variant.The vaccine received emergency use authorisation from India’s drugs regulator in January this year, and on November 3, it was granted World Health Organization’s Emergency Use Listing, enabling countries to expedite their regulatory approval to import and administer doses.The vaccine was developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, with Bharat Biotech receiving the Sars-CoV-2 strains isolated by the government’s apex virology laboratory in March 2020.Covaxin manufacturers Bharat Biotech didn’t comment on the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-50-effective-against-delta-variant-real-world-study-101637696275411.html
