26-11-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram ready to set up panels to solve border dispute||Assam and Mizoram on Friday resolved to maintain peace and tranquillity, and set up committees to resolve the contentious border dispute, four months after violent clashes between police forces of both states left six Assam policemen dead. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart, Zoramthanga, agreed to hold discussions on the matter, in the presence of Union minister Amit Shah during a meeting in the national capital. “(It’s) heartening to share that I, along with honorable chief minister of Mizoram Zoramthanga, met honorable home minister Amit Shah this evening in New Delhi. We reaffirmed our resolve to maintain peace and tranquility at our borders,” Sarma tweeted after the meeting. “It has been decided that both the states will constitute committees for resolving the border disputes through discussions. Towards this end, chief minister level talks will also take place from time to time. We are grateful to union home minister for his kind guidance and support,” he added. There was no statement or comment from the Mizoram chief minister’s office at the time of filing this report. Earlier on Thursday, the chief ministers of the two states met over an informal dinner meeting in Delhi, for the first time since the July 26 clashes at Lailapur on the Assam-Mizoram border. Officials in the Assam chief minister’s office, who are familiar with the developments, said the details on the constitution of the committees will be disclosed at a later date. It is expected that they could be on the lines of similar panels formed by Assam and Meghalaya governments this year to address the border disputes between the two states.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6km-long disputed border. In Mizoram’s side, the bordering districts are Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit, while in Assam’s side, the border-sharing districts are Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. Police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.Tensions flared up immediately but eased after central intervention. Friday’s meeting was the first official one between the two chief ministers. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rules Assam and the Mizo National Front, a part of the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance, is in power in Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-ready-to-set-up-panel-to-solve-border-dispute-101637951207485.html
26-11-2021||India||Fresh rain alert for south-coastal Andhra, Rayalaseema district till December 2||Even as south-coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh are limping back to normal following last week’s torrential rain, the India Meteorological Department on Friday predicted more rainfall in the region till December 2.Scattered rainfall was reported in parts of Chittoor, including the temple town of Tirupati for a couple of hours on Friday morning with Nagari town bordering Tamil Nadu recording a maximum of 2 mm rainfall. The Tirupati International Airport at Renigunta also recorded scanty rainfall of 0.5 mm till Friday evening.A weather forecast bulletin, however, from the IMD Amaravati said heavy to very heavy rainfall may be witnessed in parts of Rayalaseema and south-coastal Andhra, particularly Chittoor and Nellore in the next three to four days. The state government has put the district authorities on high alert due to possible breach of tanks which are already filled to the brim due to recent heavy rains, leading to inundation of villages downstream.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told the state assembly on Friday that his government was taking up relief and rescue measures without delay in the flood-affected areas.Referring to last week’s floods in the state, he said Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Nellore districts were badly affected by heavy rain and floods like never before. He said that all the district authorities were involved in relief work and were being supervised by ministers and elected representatives of the respective areas.Reddy said the flash floods were caused due to unprecedented heavy rainfall in a short span of time, which led to the flooding of villages downstream of Pincha and Annamayya reservoirs on Cheyyeru following a breach in its bund. In a span of a few hours, almost 51 mandals of Kadapa district received an average rainfall of 10.7 cm. Heavy rain also lashed Seshachalam Hills in Tirupati and other parts of Chittoor district.“By the wee hours of November 19, the inflows to Annamayya reservoir crossed 3.2 lakh cusecs, while its discharge capacity was only 2.17 lakh cusecs, which resulted in a breach to the project, causing unfortunate damage. The officials have alerted the villages and immediately taken over the rescue operations by shifting 400 families to safe places and providing shelter to 900 people in relief camps, saving hundreds of people with their efforts,” he said.A total of 1990 villages in 119 mandals of four districts were affected by the floods, of which 211 villages were completely inundated leading to a death toll of 44 people while 16 are still missing. The CM said that 1169 houses were completely damaged and 5434 houses were partially damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-rain-alert-for-south-coastal-andhra-rayalaseema-district-till-december-2-101637950907775.html
26-11-2021||India||Blacklist illegal miners in Goa: Green NGOs write to Centre||A group of environmental NGOs including the Goa Foundation, Common Cause, Mineral Inheritors Rights’ Association and others have written to the Union government seeking to blacklist those involved in ‘illegal mining’ from taking part in auctions and those offences be treated at par with offences under other economic laws such as FERA. “Misappropriation of the shared inheritance of mineral wealth, anyone convicted for illegal mining should be disqualified under a variety of laws, including the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and the Economic Offences (Inapplicability of Limitation) Act, 1974,” the NGOs said in their letter to Union Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi and Comptroller and Auditor General Girish Chandra Murmu The demand is significant especially since the Goa government has indicated it is willing to for the first time begin auctions to grant new leases to help restart mining in the state that has been stalled since the Supreme Court rejected lease renewals by the Goa government in March 2018. The Goa Foundation has said that it is eager to ensure that those involved in illegal mining are not allowed to participate in auctions to acquire fresh leases. “With the rise of illegal miners in the country, there are no adequate mechanisms to hold them accountable and undertake stringent actions such as blacklisting them from any mining activity. Any one violation whether it is economic, environmental, or social by the entity must be a good enough reason to disqualify the miners on the basis of questionable integrity and they should be prevented from managing our shared inheritance of mineral wealth,” the NGOs said. “The government instead of using a fit and proper test to screen mining companies and pre-empting illegal mining in the first place has changed the definition of illegality. This has emboldened all illegal miners...”, Sreedhar Ramamurthi, Managing Trustee of the Environics Trust said.“Illegal mining has been associated with terrorism finance within India. Illegal mining under the MMDR Act must be included in Part A of the Schedule of the PMLA,” the organisations said in their letter. The NGOs have pointed out that under the IBC, 2016 those convicted of any offence are punishable by imprisonment for two or more years under any Act specified in the Twelfth Schedule which includes most economic laws but does not include the Mines and Minerals Development Act. “The MMDR Act must be included in the Twelfth Schedule of the IBC,” the NGOs have demanded. Earlier this week, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced that the state government had roped in State Bank of India to help auction a bunch of leases that were being auctioned via the newly created Goa Mineral Development Corporation to help restart mining. The Supreme Court in 2108 ruled that if mining in Goa is to restart, fresh leases will have to be given along with fresh environmental clearances and not renewals of existing leases. The mining industry was a major revenue and employment generator for the state and at its peak contributed close to 15% of the state’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blacklist-illegal-miners-in-goa-green-ngos-write-to-centre-101637949410260.html
26-11-2021||India||Despite govt schemes, NFHS-5 says Odisha’s child sex ratio is dropping||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s child sex ratio has plummeted to its lowest ever, according to the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) that reported 894 female children for every 1000 males despite central and state government initiatives for the girl child. In 2015-16, the child sex ratio in Odisha was estimated at 932.Child sex ratio is defined as the number of girls per 1000 boys between 0-6 years of age is considered a strong indicator of social health. The adverse sex ratios not only indicate poor social health, but also a barrier to attaining sustainable social development.Odisha health secretary RK Sharma and woman child development secretary Anu Garg did not comment on the NFHS-5 findings.The NFHS-5 was conducted on population, health, and nutrition across the country. Due to the Covid-19 situation and the lockdown that followed, NFHS-5 fieldwork in Odisha was conducted in two phases -January 19, 2020, to March 21, 2020, prior to the lockdown and November 30, 2020, to March 31, 2021, post lockdown by the Indian Institute of Health Management Research. The findings are based on a survey of 26,467 households, 27,971 women, and 3,865 men.According to the NFHS-5, the decline in the child sex ratio was reported from urban and rural areas. In urban areas, the ratio declined from 966 in 2015-16 to 950 in 2020-21 in urban areas. In rural areas, the ratio dropped from 926 in 2015-16 to 855 in 2020-21.However, the overall sex ratio rose from 1,036 in 2015-16 to 1063 in 2020-21.Professor Sanjukta Das of Sambalpur University who has researched the declining child sex ratio of Odisha said it showed patriarchal mindset continues to prevail in the state.“While states such as Haryana, UP and Rajasthan showed an appreciable rise in child sex ratio in last 5 years, the same is on a downward spiral in Odisha. This shows that rising literacy and the latest technology is used by parents to eliminate the possibility of the birth of a girl child. If we continue like this, then only God can save us,” said Das.The declining child sex ratio in Odisha in NFHS-5 for the first time put it below the national average of 929, which has increased by 10 points since NFHS-4.The child sex ratio of Odisha since 1961 has always been better than the national average. In the 1961 census, Odisha’s ratio was 1,035 which declined to 1,020 in 1971, 995 in 1981, 967 in 1991, 953 in 2001 and 941 in 2011.Woman activist Pramila Swain of the National Alliance of Woman said policy measures such as Beti Bachao Beti Padhao or Biju Kanya Ratna Yojana of Naveen Patnaik government have largely failed on the ground. “These policies have not been able to change the mindset of parents who continue to opt for boys over girls. The state has also failed to strictly implement the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994,” said Swain.In 2016-17, the Naveen Patnaik government had launched the Biju Kanya Ratna Yojana in the districts of Angul, Dhenkanal and Ganjam infamous for low child sex ratios. The scheme aimed at providing elementary education to girls, improving their access to education, reducing the school drop-out ratio of girls from schools, sensitising adolescent girls on sexual and reproductive health issues and training elected representatives and grassroots functionaries as community champions to mobilise communities to improve the sex ratio.Nutritionist Basant Kar said the rise of anaemia among children in the 6 months to 6 years age group from 44.6 in NFHS-4 to 64.2 in NFHS-5 was also a reason for the declining child sex ratio. “In rural areas as well as urban areas, the girls would be the most discriminated when it comes to food and this is the reason for rising anaemia,” said Kar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-govt-schemes-nfhs-5-says-odisha-s-child-sex-ratio-is-dropping-101637947128129.html
26-11-2021||India||Nawab Malik, barred from talking about Wankhede on social media, tweets this||Maharashtra ministerand NCP leader Nawab Malik, who has now given an undertaking before the Bombay high court that he will not tweet against Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede or his family members on Friday tweeted that he was being spied on. Following the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case on October 3, Nawab Malik has become the centre of a raging controversy involving Wankhede, NCB and drugs cases in Mumbai. On a regular basis, he tweeted purported screenshots, documents bringing allegations against the operations of the NCB. After being rapped by the Bombay high court which is hearing a case brought against the minister, the minister said he will not tweet anything about the Wankhedes till December 9 when the court will again hear the case.
26-11-2021||India||Top AIIMS doctor pushes for booster shots as experts scramble over new Covid-19 variant||A senior doctor at the All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi, on Friday pushed for booster shots against the coronavirus disease amid renewed fears of a third wave of the pandemic.Chairperson of the Covid-19 task force, AIIMS Delhi, Dr Naveet Wig, said booster shots will need to be administered in the coming days and immediate studies must be commenced to ascertain its effectiveness on various age groups.Giving Israel as a case study, Dr Wig said studies have shown vaccine effectiveness after the booster dose increases significantly -- from 40 per cent to 93 per cent.“Booster doses will be required and immediate studies are needed -- based on age groups and different patients. In Israel, vaccine effectiveness after the booster dose rose from 40% to 93%,” the senior doctor said.His remarks came at a time health experts across the world are scrambling to study the new variant of Covid-19 that has been detected in South Africa.“The new variant is supposed to be more effective and transmissible with less neutralisation with antibodies. So we have to understand that new variants will keep coming. Universal vaccination is the most important thing,” the doctor added.On Tuesday, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said no booster dose for coronavirus infection is required in the country at present as he hailed the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive in the country.Also read | Coronavirus: Will booster shots be the new normal?Earlier, other experts have also maintained that India cannot afford to administer booster shots yet as only about 35 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease.Many countries across the world are administering booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccine, including the US, Germany, Austria, Canada and France among others. A booster dose is administered to a vaccinated person when the rate of immunity in them has dropped below the required levels over a period of time.India reported 10,549 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 3,45,55,431, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 488 patients died and 9,868 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 4,67,468 and 3,39,77,830||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-aiims-doctor-pushes-for-booster-shots-as-experts-scramble-over-new-covid-19-variant-101637945339498.html
26-11-2021||India||Trinamool Congress alleges violation of SC order at Tripura polls||The All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) told the Supreme Court on Friday that it was “mayhem” at the local body polls in Tripura where in violation of the top court’s order, paramilitary forces were not posted at all polling booths, security denied to candidates with many not even being able to cast their vote, and media access restricted to all television channels.Moving an application bringing on record the details of these violations, senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for AITC requested for an urgent hearing prior to the counting of votes on Sunday.Sibal said, “Horrendous scenes have been recorded by us on video. This Court had directed unhindered access to media at polling booths. But what we saw was absolute mayhem. Our candidates were not allowed to enter polling booths to cast votes, no central armed paramilitary forces (CAPF) were available and the ‘two constables to each candidate’ rule was flouted. This is not done. It is complete violation of this court’s order. It is a very serious situation and we require an urgent hearing.”The matter was mentioned before a bench headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud as the order for additional deployment of CAPF and unhindered media access was passed on Thursday by a three-judge bench headed by him, the other two being Justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath. Justice Chandrachud told Sibal that since the remaining two judges were not sitting with him on Friday; it will be difficult to take up the matter.When Sibal requested for a special sitting on Saturday, the judge said he would consult the other two judges and seek their availability.On Thursday, polls were held to nearly 334 seats in the urban local bodies, which include 13 municipal councils, six nagar panchayats and 51 wards of the Agartala Municipal Corporation.Considering allegations of unabated violence in the state against AITC workers and candidates, the top court directed the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to provide additional two companies of CAPFs till the date of counting of votes in addition to the presence of the Central Reserve Police Force, border security force and Tripura state rifles, already deployed for law and order and securing polling booths. In addition, the SC bench directed the state police chief and home secretary to review the security arrangements and asked the Centre to provide for more forces, if needed. The matter was posted for December 2 by the Court to consider compliance of its directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-alleges-violation-of-sc-order-at-tripura-polls-101637945206667.html
26-11-2021||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav admitted to AIIMS emergency dept, stable: Report||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) patriarch and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav was admitted to the emergency department of AIIMS, Delhi, on Friday.A PTI report said the senior politician who returned to Bihar last month after over three-and-a-half years, is suffering from fever and drowsiness.The 73-year-old leader’s condition is not serious and is stable. His blood samples have been sent for investigations and reports are awaited, a source said.Yadav, who lives with his daughter Misa in Delhi, suffers from a number of ailments, including diabetes and renal issues, and has been under strict medical supervision for a long time.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-yadav-admitted-to-aiims-emergency-dept-stable-report-101637942896925.html
26-11-2021||India||After meeting Amit Shah, Assam-Mizoram to form panels to solve border row||Exactly four months after violent clashes between police forces of both states left six Assam policemen dead, Assam and Mizoram agreed on Friday to resolve their contentious boundary dispute by forming committees and through discussions. Chief Ministers of both the north-eastern states took the step following a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. On Thursday, both Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga had interacted in Delhi over an informal dinner meeting—the first interaction between both leaders since the July 26 clashes at Lailapur on the Assam-Mizoram border. “(It’s) heartening to share that I along with honourable Chief Minister of Mizoram Zoramthanga, met honourable home minister Amit Shah this evening in New Delhi. We reaffirmed our resolve to maintain peace and tranquillity at our borders,” Sarma tweeted after the meeting. “It has been decided that both the states will constitute committees for resolving the border disputes through discussions. Towards this end, chief minister level talks will also take place from time to time. We are grateful to Union home minister for his kind guidance and support,” he added. There was no statement or comment from the Mizoram CM’s office till the filing of this report. Sources at the Assam CM’s office said that details on constitution of the committees will be disclosed at a later date. It is expected that they could be on the lines of similar committees formed by Assam and Meghalaya governments this year to address the border dispute between the two states. Assam and Meghalaya have formed three committees comprising ministers, bureaucrats and stakeholders of both states to resolve disputes at 6 of the 12 border points of contention between the two neighbours. The committees, which visited each disputed site, are to file their reports by November 30. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km long inter-state border and there has been a long-standing dispute on the exact boundary. On Mizoram’s side the border districts are Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit, while on Assam’s side, the border sharing districts are Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. After the firing between the police of both the states at Cachar’s Lailapur on July 26 this year, there were several rounds of talks between both states under the Central government’s intervention, but Friday’s meeting was the first official one between the two chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-meeting-amit-shah-assam-mizoram-to-form-panels-to-solve-border-row-101637942986731.html
26-11-2021||India||Bihar DGP administers a new oath to all cops in the state. Watch here||Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) on Friday administered an oath to all his fellow colleagues to stay away from liquor for the rest of their lives and ensure implementation of its ban in the state. He also warned of terminating the services of any violating police personnel.Administering the oath to all police personnel at the headquarters in Patna, the DGP said, “I, Sandeep Kumar Singhal, today on November 26, 2011, with complete probity take oath that I will not consume liquor for the whole life. Whether I be on duty or not, I will not indulge in liquor-involving activities even in daily life.”“I will also ensure effective implementation of the liquor prohibition law…” he further said.The top police officer’s oath-taking was in line with similar pledges taken by chief minister Nitish Kumar and other public servants of the state.Later, Singhal said, “We'll implement the ban with all our efforts. It is also being seen that people are moving towards drugs. All of us in the police department are committed to implementing the ban. If any police personnel is found to be involved, their services will be terminated.”#WATCH | Patna: Bihar DGP SK Singhal administers an oath to all Police personnel at the Police HQ to ensure implementation of liquor ban in the state, and personally abide by the ban too. pic.twitter.com/DTXloFSJXbEarlier in the day, several government officials, students at different schools and colleges, employees of Bihar Vidhan Sabha secretariat joined Kumar in taking the pledge. The JD(U) supremo also flagged off a rath (chariot) that would create awareness among the masses about the ill effects of drinking liquor. He also appealed to state officials to enforce the law more effectively without any discrimination.The Patna police recently raided several hotels and wedding halls in the state capital and arrested several persons on charges of consuming and supplying liquor.The CM also presented certificates of appreciation to 31 officials, including policemen, for their role in enforcing the prohibition. "Some people have turned against us. They feel bad, but this is wrong... This law was implemented with the consent of all," Kumar said.Hooch has claimed close to 50 lives in different districts of the state since Diwali.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-dgp-administers-a-new-oath-to-all-cops-in-the-state-watch-here-101637940723565.html
26-11-2021||India||‘Fire extinguishers didn’t work’: 2 coaches of Udhampur-Durg Express gutted||BHOPAL/MORENA: A fire broke out in Udhampur-Durg Express in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district on Friday afternoon allegedly due to a short circuit in one of the train’s washrooms, gutting two air-conditioned coaches and damaging one more, people familiar with the development said.Lalit Shakyawar, superintendent of police, Morena, said the 116 passengers in the affected coaches were evacuated at the district’s Hetampur railway station. No casualties have been reported, he added.North Central Railway spokesperson Manoj Kumar Singh said the fire prima facie appears to have started due to a short circuit in a bathroom. An inquiry has been ordered by the divisional railway manager into the incident.Railway officials in Jhansi said the fire started at about 3.30pm. Attempts were made on the train to extinguish the fire. About 15 minutes later, it was stopped at the Hetampur railway station. The train eventually left at 5.53pm and three coaches were added at Gwalior for the remaining 1,000km journey to Durg in Chhattisgarh, its final destination.Passengers said the fire, which started around a bathroom in A2 coach, was spotted much before it spread but the fire extinguishers located by the attendants and passengers didn’t work..Asked about the allegation, the North Central Railway spokesperson said: “Passengers were claiming this but attendants didn’t inform about it. An inquiry will be held in this matter.”The attendants tried to douse the fire but the fire extinguishers didn’t work... it turned into a massive fire,” said a passenger from Chhattisgarh who requested anonymity. The passenger said the fire spread to A1 and A2 coaches within just about 15 minutes. Ashwini Kashyap, who was travelling with his family in A1 coach, said, “The fire could have been controlled in time but the fire extinguishers didn’t work. Later, we broke the windows, threw out our luggage and ran out.” Dr Ghanshyam Parte, who was travelling in the adjoining coach, said some people also fainted, possibly due to panic. “The smoke was engulfing the bogies but passengers and railway officials broke the glass windows. Passengers were shifted swiftly to other coaches before detaching the affected bogies, he said.The fire was eventually put out by a team of police and firefighters, the Morena district police chief Shakyawar said. Local residents and villagers also helped out the passengers with food and water.An emergency medical train from Agra and Gwalior also reached the spot. The coaches were later inspected by a Bomb Disposal Squad (BDS) and forensic team to rule out mischief.(With inputs from Haider Naqvi in Kanpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-udhampur-durg-express-train-2-ac-coaches-gutted-passengers-safe-101637941007597.html
26-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Assam, Mizoram CMs discuss border peace at Shah's residence, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam, Mizoram CMs meet at Amit Shah's residence, discuss border peaceAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday a meeting with his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga was held at Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence in Delhi wherein it was decided that governments of the two states have decided to maintain peace and tranquility along the border. Read more…Constitution helped take India forward, but a lot still needs to be done: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said the Constitution helped in taking the country forward, but a lot still needs to be done. Speaking at Vigyan Bhavan on the occasion of Constitution Day, Modi said hundreds of years of dependence had pushed India into several problems. Read more…Tomato prices expected to fall in December with pick up in arrivals: GovtThe average retail price of tomatoes will fall in December as the arrival of the common vegetable ingredient from north Indian states will start from the beginning of the next month, the government said on Friday. The ministry of consumer affairs, food & public distribution stated that the arrival of tomatoes is expected to be at par with last year which could bring much-needed relief to consumers. Read more…Nitish Kumar backs PM Modi on swipe at dynastic partiesBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday backed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comment attacking “dynastic parties” and said these parties had no meaning in the electoral space. Read more…Shreyas Iyer reveals Sunil Gavaskar's special advice ahead of his Test debut: 'That stayed in my mind'On an otherwise disappointing day for India on Friday at the Green Park, Shreyas Iyer became the 16th Indian batsman to score a century on Test debut joining the likes of former captain Sourav Ganguly and his IPL teammate Prithvi Shaw. His 105 helped India finish with 345 on the second morning of the opening Test. At the end of day's play, Iyer revealed what legendary batsman Sunil Gavaskar told him while presenting the debut Test cap on Thursday morning. Read more…Hawkeye review: Despite simplistic storytelling, Jeremy Renner, Hailee Steinfeld may just hit the markA young girl sees her entire world change in an instant when creatures from another world appear and start laying waste to her New York-penthouse, and city. Crippled by fear, as one of the alien creatures charges towards her, her life is saved by an arrow. On a rooftop corner in the distance, she sees a hero with a bow and arrow doing his best to fight back and protect the city and its people. It’s a moment that comes to define her. Her need to protect her loved ones become her identity, with that image of the heroic archer giving her an ideal to aspire to. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-assam-mizoram-cms-discuss-border-peace-at-shah-s-residence-and-all-the-latest-news-101637938459811.html
26-11-2021||India||From ‘party for the family’ to colonial mindset: PM Modi's top quotes on Constitution Day||Attending two events on the occasion of Constitution Day on November 26, Prime Minister Narendra Modi voiced concerns over issues that are not in tune of the Constitution. Addressing at the Central Hall of Parliament, PM Modi slammed the family-run parties of the country, while in the evening as he spoke at Vigyan Bhavan, he criticised the colonial mindset.Here are the top quotes of the Prime Minister on the occasion of Constitution Day.> Our constitution is not just a collection of many articles, it is the great tradition of millennia. What if we were supposed to write the Constitution today! Could we have written even one page of the Constitution!> When a political party loses its own democratic character, how can it protect democracy?> Today, look at every corner of India. The country is moving towards a crisis that should worry every individual who respects the Constitution and that comes from dynastic parties.Undemocratic, family-run party system is not in tune with the Constitution: PM Modi> Political parties – party for the family, party by the family, and do I need to elaborate. This is against the principles of the Constitution, quite opposite to what the Constitution tells us.> A party run by one family, generation after generation, the family controlling every aspect of the party, is the biggest threat to a healthy democracy. If more than one person from a family enters politics based on merit and blessings, then that is not dynastic politics.> I remember when I was addressing the House in 2015 on BR Ambedkar’s 125th anniversary and made this announcement of observing November 26 as Constitution Day, even then there was resistance. Where did you bring November 26 from? Why are you doing this, what was the need? This country is not ready to listen to such things where Ambedkar’s name is attached. And even now, to not commemorate this occasion it is a matter of concern,”> Due to colonial mindset, obstacles are put in the development of our own country, including in name of freedom of expression. Roadblocks are being created on the path of growth of developing nations due to the colonial mindset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-party-for-the-family-to-colonial-mindset-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-on-constitution-day-101637939446879.html
26-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Now, Hingoli in Maharashtra adopts 'no vaccine, no fuel' policy to boost drive||To increase vaccine coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among its population, the authorities in Maharashtra's Hingoli on Friday ordered dispensing stations to not sell fuel unless the vaccination certificate of the buyer is checked.All fuel stations have also been asked to put up 'no vaccine, no fuel' board, according to an order issued by Hingoli collector Jitendra Papalkar.The order further said the chief executive officer of the local zilla parishad, the superintendent of police, sub-divisional officers and tehsildars would be responsible for ensuring its effective implementation, a PTI report said.Violators would be charged under provisions of the IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act etc.The order came days after a similar strategy was adopted by the Aurangabad administration wherein it mandated that residents not having received at least the first dose of the vaccine will not get petrol, gas or ration. Store and fuel station owners and operators were also asked to check vaccination certificates of people.The orders came after the vaccination figures in the region were found to be low.Besides, the collector wrote to the treasury officer instructing him to stop salaries and other fund sanctions for November of employees who have not taken a single dose of vaccine and presented a certificate for the same.Earlier, eight districts in Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Buldhana, Hingoli, Nanded, Beed, Amravati and Akola, were identified as laggards with respect to the pace of inoculation drive.India reported 10,549 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 3,45,55,431, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.As many as 488 patients died and 9,868 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 467,468 and 33,977,830.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-now-hingoli-in-maharashtra-adopts-no-vaccine-no-fuel-policy-to-boost-drive-101637939648435.html
26-11-2021||India||India-Russia 2+2 dialogue to be held on margins of Modi-Putin summit on Dec 6||India and Russia announced on Friday they will hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin in New Delhi on December 6. This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak began – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India. This will be the 21st annual summit between the two sides, though the meeting could not be held last year because of the pandemic. It comes at a time when the Russian leadership is wary about India’s increasingly stronger ties with the US, while the Indian side has been upset by a perceived uptick in Pakistan-Russia relations. “The leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries. The summit will afford an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues of mutual interest,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Russian foreign ministry said in a statement that Putin plans to discuss further development of bilateral ties. The leaders will exchange views on topical global issues, including working jointly within G20, Brics and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), it said. The last annual summit was held during Modi’s visit to Vladivostok in September 2019. This will also be the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders since their discussions on the margins of the Brics Summit in Brasilia in November 2019. Modi and Putin had agreed during a telephone conversation on April 28 to launch a 2+2 dialogue. India currently has 2+2 ministerial dialogues only with Australia, Japan and the US. The agenda for the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 dialogue on December 6 will cover political and defence issues, the external affairs ministry said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will represent the Indian side. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and defence minister Sergey Shoigu will visit New Delhi during December 5-6 for the dialogue. “The establishment of a new mechanism of 2+2 dialogue is expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries,” the external affairs ministry said. The Russian side said the 2+2 dialogue is expected to focus on key regional and international topics, including the “situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments on Afghanistan and Syria”. The ministers will also exchange views on interaction within SCO and the Russia-India-China (RIC) mechanism. Putin’s visit and the 2+2 dialogue are under considerable scrutiny as they are coinciding with the delivery by Russia of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems. Russian officials said in mid-November that deliveries of the S-400 systems have begun and are proceeding on schedule. The two countries signed a $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems during Putin’s last visit to India in October 2018. India has signalled its determination to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics at each other’s bases. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that defence cooperation is an important part of the India-Russia relationship but declined to comment on specific deals. “Regarding the CAATSA waiver, India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, and India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We also pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are guided by our national security interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiarussia-2-2-dialogue-to-be-held-on-margins-of-modi-putin-summit-on-dec-6-101637939326014.html
26-11-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram CMs meet at Amit Shah's residence, discuss border peace||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday a meeting with his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga was held at Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence in Delhi wherein it was decided that governments of the two states have decided to maintain peace and tranquility along the border.He further said the state governments will form two teams at the political level and soon talks will be held for a permanent solution.“This will also be discussed at the CM level from time to time. This was decided in the presence of the Union home minister,” Sarma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Everything was discussed in the meeting. Both state govts decided that we will maintain peace and tranquility on the Assam-Mizoram border. We will deal with this very sensitively,” he added.On Thursday, Sarma invited Zoramthanga at his Delhi residence and it was decided at the meeting to increase fencing along their inter-state border that has seen violent clashes leading to loss of lives of five Assam Police personnel and a civilian last July.Zoramthanga later described his about two-hour meeting with Sarma as "cordial"."We had a very good meeting. We are like brothers. Tomorrow we will meet the Union Home Minister (Amit Shah) together. We will try to increase our fencing all along the border," Zoramthanga told reporters after the meeting.However, Sarma said they did not discuss anything except enjoying the dinner together. "We enjoyed the dinner together since we are good friends. We will meet the home minister tomorrow. Nothing discussed today," Sarma said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-cms-meet-at-shah-s-house-discuss-border-peace-101637937660653.html
26-11-2021||India||Why this old video of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh is going viral||As India observed the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack through remembrance, homage on Friday, an old video of Madhya Pradesh Congress leader Digvijaya Singh went viral on social media. Several prominent Twitter handles including BJP leader CT Ravi shared the old video of Singh and said the Congress was responsible for the Mumbai terror attack. "The blood of innocent lives is on the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Never forgive, never forget!" the BJP leader wrote. The Karnataka BJP handle also shared a news clipping of 2008 which claimed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was in 'party mood soon after Mumbai crisis'. BJP leader Amit Malviya too shared the news clipping. If anyone still believes there is anything Indian left in CONgress, watch this video.You will realise that CONgress always served the interests of Pakistan.#MumbaiTerrorAttack pic.twitter.com/it10FSBJNJWhat is the old video of Digvijaya Singh about? In the video, Digviajaya Singh can be heard talking about a book. He said, "Nowhere in the book, there is mention of the involvement of Pakistani terrorists in 26/11." The video also contains a statement of Mahesh Bhatt.This rakes up an old controversy regarding 26/11 over Digvijaya Singh's past comments in which he reportedly attempted to link Maharashtra ATS chief Hemant Karkare's death during the 26/11 terror attack to some alleged threats he apparently received from a Hindu outfit. At that time, Digvijaya stirred a row by saying that two hours before the terrorist attack, Karkare told Singh that he was received threats by 'Hindu extremist' groups who were opposed to the ATS probe into the 2008 Malegaon blast.The book which was launched by Digvijaya Singh and Mahesh Bhatt was a controversial one as it blamed RSS for the terror attack. Written by Aziz Burnet, '26/11: RSS ki Sazish' put the responsibility of the terror attack on CIA, Mossad and RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-this-old-video-of-congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-is-viral-today-101637937236824.html
26-11-2021||India||Tomato prices expected to fall in December with pick up in arrivals: Govt||The average retail price of tomatoes will fall in December as the arrival of the common vegetable ingredient from north Indian states will start from the beginning of the next month, the government said on Friday. The ministry of consumer affairs, food & public distribution stated that the arrival of tomatoes is expected to be at par with last year which could bring much-needed relief to consumers.As of Thursday, the average retail price of tomatoes was at ₹67 per kilogram, 63% higher than last year. The ministry pointed towards the delayed arrivals of tomatoes from north Indian states followed by heavy rains in the southern part of the country which disrupted the supply chain and damaged the crop as well.“The all-India average retail price of Tomato has been on the rise from the end of September 2021 due to unseasonal rains in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh which led to crop damage and delay in arrival from these Sates,” the ministry said, adding that slight disruptions in the supply chain or damage due to heavy rains results in a spurt in prices.Tomato price hike sparks meme fest. Posts leave people teary-eyed, with laughterAs per the government’s estimate, the Kharif production this year stood at 69.52 lakh metric tonnes, marginally less than 70.12 lakh metric tonnes produced last year. The arrivals in November, however, were only 19.62 lakh metric tonnes this year as compared to 21.32 lakh metric tonnes in 2020.“Tomato arrivals from North Indian States will start from the beginning of December itself, which will add to availability and lead to fall in prices. In December, arrival is expected to be at par with last year,” the ministry added.The price rise of onion, meanwhile, substantially subsided in October. According to the ministry, the all-India average retail price of Onion as of Thursday was at ₹39 per kilogram, 32% lower than last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomato-price-expected-to-fall-in-december-with-pick-up-in-arrivals-govt-101637936826104.html
26-11-2021||India||Nitish Kumar backs PM Modi on swipe at dynastic parties||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday backed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comment attacking “dynastic parties” and said these parties had no meaning in the electoral space.The Bihar CM said concerns expressed by the Prime Minister were absolutely correct. “Family parties may get a lot in the present time, but they have no future,” he said, without naming any particular party.Kumar was addressing the media on the sidelines of a programme organised at Gyan Bhawan in Patna on the occasion of drug de-addiction day. “Nowadays, some parties are running on the same lines, but all this will not work in the coming days,” he reiterated.There are a number of parties in Bihar centred around a family, including Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and factions of the Lok Janshakti Party founded by former Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan.Earlier, on Friday morning, Kumar once again administered oath to people to abstain from alcohol. Reiterating his resolve that there was no going back on the issue of the liquor ban in Bihar imposed in April 2016, Kumar also took a dig at those who were attacking the government over hooch deaths. “Do they mean to suggest that they should drink good liquor? The liquor prohibition law was passed unanimously in Bihar,” he said.Citing recent figures, he said, “Today, 43% of men are giving more time to agriculture, 83% women’s saving and income have increased.Kumar also promised to take strict action against officers who go easy on implementing the liquor ban in place in the state.Asked about a recent raid at a hotel where a marriage was being solemnized, the CM said that the police could go anywhere on the basis of information. “Everyone will be investigated under the rule. It is not necessary that every information is correct,” he said while defending the police action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-backs-pm-modi-on-swipe-at-dynastic-parties-101637935306956.html
26-11-2021||India||Narayan Rane says MVA govt will collapse by March. Nawab Malik replies||Maharashtra firebrand minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Friday replied to BJP leader Narayan Rane's prediction that BJP will form the government in Maharashtra in March and said the Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance is not for five years, but for 25 years. "First, Devendra Fadnavis had the responsibility of predicting the collapse of the MVA government. Then Chandrakant Patil took the responsibility. None of their predictions came true. And now Narayan Rane has taken up the job," Nawab Malik said."Narayan Rane was the chief minister of Maharashtra 23 years ago. He went to the Congress to get the Chief Minister's post. Then he switched to the BJP. His followers must have raised thousands of goats and hens praying for his CM ship. But a government can't be wished away like that -- through predictions, dreams, prayers," Nawab Malik said."Chief Minister said earlier the alliance in Maharashtra is not for five years, but for 25 years. And we will complete 25 years because people have confidence in us. Earlier, BJP national president said teh government will be ousted. Government can neither be ousted nor be set up, A government is formed through people's choice. Our MLAs will not get scared. BJP must understand that people of Maharashtra will choose us time and again," the minister said.Narayan Rane's comments on Friday triggered speculation as Fadnavis, Chandrakant Patil, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and NCP leader Praful Patel were in Delhi. Dismissing reports of cracks in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the recent past, all partners of the alliance vowed to have a commitment to the alliance.Following Narayan Rane's ominous prediction as he was asked the details, he said toppling and forming governments is done in secrecy and it can not be discussed in public. "Uddhav Thackeray is unwell, so I don't want to talk about him... But the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi govt will not be surviving for long in Maharashtra," Rane said.Like the NCP, the Congress too dismissed speculations of any rift in the alliance. Then why are NCP and BJP leaders are in Delhi at the same time? According to reports, Fadnavis and Patil are in Delhi to discuss "organisational matters" with the central leadership. Sharad Pawar travelled to Delhi to attend a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defense and his schedule had been planned a week ago, an NCP source said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-wish-nawab-malik-replies-to-narayan-rane-s-mva-will-collapse-in-march-comment-101637933373387.html
26-11-2021||India||Constitution helped take India forward, but a lot still needs to be done: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Constitution helped in taking the country forward, but a lot still needs to be done. Speaking at Vigyan Bhavan on the occasion of Constitution Day, Modi said hundreds of years of dependence had pushed India into several problems.“The India that was once called a golden bird was suffering from poverty, starvation and diseases. In that background, the Constitution always helped us in taking forward the nation,” he added.“Our Constitution drafters gave us the Constitution in the light of the dreams seen by the people who lived and died for the independence and by cherishing the thousands of years long great traditions of India,” he said.Also read | In his Constitution Day address, PM Modi targets family-ruled partiesHe said when compared to other countries that became independent around the same time as India, they are way ahead of us today. “It means that a lot of things still need to be done. We have to reach the goal together,” he added.The reality is that even after decades post-Independence, a large section of people in the country had to suffer exclusion. "Crores of such people did not even have a toilet at their house. They were living in the dark in the absence of electricity, without water," he said.Also read | On Constitution Day, PM Modi shares part of Ambedkar’s speech in Constituent Assembly“Investing oneself in understanding their problems, their pain to make their lives easier - I consider this the real honour of the Constitution. I'm satisfied that in line with this sentiment of the Constitution, a vigorous drive is going on to convert exclusion into inclusion,” the PM added.He said that while no nation directly exists as a colony of another country, but it does not mean the colonial mindset has come to an end. “This mindset is giving rise to many distortions. We can see a clear example of this in the hurdles cropping up in the journey of developing nations,” the PM added.Modi further said attempts are made to shut the path and resources for developing nations through which developed nations reached where they are today. “In the past decades, a web of different terminologies was spun for this. But the aim has always been one to stop the progress of developing nations,” he said.The issue of environment is also being attempted to be hijacked for this purpose. “We saw an example of this in the recent COP-26 Summit. If we talk of absolute cumulative emissions, developed nations have caused 15 per cent more emissions than India since 1850 to date.”“Still, India is lectured on environmental conservation - that India that has living with nature embedded in its tradition, where God is seen even in plants, where the land is worshipped as the mother. For us, these values are not just confined to books," the PM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-helped-take-india-forward-but-a-lot-still-needs-to-be-done-pm-modi-101637932742942.html
26-11-2021||India||Working on modalities with Pakistan for shipping wheat to Afghan people: India||India said on Friday it is working out modalities with Pakistan for transporting 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan via land routes but insisted that no conditions should be attached by the Pakistani side. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and life-saving medicines to the people of Afghanistan via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received an assurance from the Pakistan government only on November 24; external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.He made it clear that no conditions should be attached by Pakistan to the shipment of the humanitarian assistance. “This was about humanitarian access into Afghanistan for the delivery of the 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and life-saving medicines we are supplying to the people of Afghanistan,” he said. “We are examining the response of the government of Pakistan. We are also working on the modalities with the Pakistan side. We believe that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” he added. India has always stood by the people of Afghanistan for both humanitarian support and development assistance, Bagchi said. Pakistan formally informed India on Wednesday that it would allow the shipment of the wheat and medicines to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border as a goodwill gesture to the Afghan people. There are currently no flights between India and Afghanistan, and transporting the materials via Pakistan was seen as the quickest way of getting the aid to Afghanistan, which is on the brink of a looming humanitarian crisis. Even a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi that recently visited Islamabad had raised the issue of allowing the shipment of the wheat with the top Pakistani leadership. Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday his government would allow the transportation of the wheat as soon as modalities were finalised by Islamabad and New Delhi. The UN has warned up to 23 million Afghans will be in “crisis or emergency levels of food insecurity” as winter approaches. Ten out of 11 of Afghanistan’s most densely populated urban areas are now anticipated to be at emergency levels of food insecurity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-on-modalities-with-pakistan-for-shipping-wheat-to-afghan-people-india-101637932305125.html
26-11-2021||India||India allows scheduled international flights from Dec 15. Some restrictions apply||NEW DELHI: India will allow scheduled international flights to all countries from December 15, according to an official order issued by the civil aviation directorate on Friday. Scheduled international passenger flights to and from India were suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The matter has been reviewed and the competent authority has decided to resume the scheduled commercial international passenger services to/from India with effect from 15 December 2021,” the order by the office of Director General of Civil Aviation said.HT has reviewed the order.Indians are currently flying to and from India currently under air bubble arrangements that allow passengers of two countries to fly with some restrictions. India has air-bubble pacts with 28 countries, including the US, UK, UAE and France.From December 14 midnight, this arrangement will come to an end.“Resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services with effect from 15 December, 2021 would imply reversion to bilaterally agreed capacity entitlements and termination of air bubble arrangements. However, due to prevailing Covid-19 situation, the capacity entitlements shall be as per the category of countries based on enlistment of countries as “at-risk” from time to time by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW),” the document said.Flights to countries that are not classified as “at-risk” can resume to full capacity entitlement according to the bilateral air service agreements.Europe including the UK and other 13 countries - South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel - are currently classified as “at-risk” by the Union health ministry.Flights to these “at-risk” countries can resume to 75% of the full capacity entitlements under bilateral air service agreements if there is an air bubble agreement with the foreign country. At least seven flights a week would be allowed.In case of “at-risk” countries with whom India did not have an air bubble agreement, only 50% of pre-Covid operations of Indian or foreign carrier, or 50% of bilateral capacity entitlements will be allowed.Earlier this week, Bansal spoke about resuming scheduled international flights “very soon” amid a continuing fall in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country -- currently, daily cases are the lowest since last June -- riding vaccinations, and swelling domestic air passenger traffic, now up to almost pre-pandemic levels of 400,000 a day. “Normalisation of international operations is expected to resume, very soon, by the end of the calendar year,” he said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allows-scheduled-international-flights-from-dec-15-some-restrictions-apply-101637931465194.html
26-11-2021||India||Serum Institute of India resumes exports of Covishield vaccine to COVAX facility||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, said on Friday it had shipped the first batch of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot to the COVAX vaccine-sharing platform after an eight-month hiatus.India in March put a temporary hold on all major exports of the AstraZeneca shot made by the family-run firm to inoculate its citizens during a devastating surge in Covid-19 cases.The resumption came after SII exceeded its original target to produce 1 billion doses of the vaccine branded as Covishield by the end of the year, the company said in a statement. It has produced more than 1.25 billion doses so far.The move also comes as countries in Asia and Europe tighten border controls after the discovery of a new coronavirus variant in South Africa that scientists say could resist vaccines.SII said its supply of doses through COVAX was expected to increase substantially into the first quarter of 2022.It will bring into production other vaccines under licence, including COVOVAX from US-based Novavax, to boost its output.Earlier this month, Reuters had reported India could resume deliveries of COVID-19 shots to COVAX in a few weeks.SII Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla told Reuters last month his company was expecting to export 20-30 million Covishield doses to COVAX in November and an equal amount in December, with volumes set to increase from January once India's own needs were close to being fully met.As per government records, 82% of the country's population has received the first dose, while the second dose coverage is at 43%.The organisations running COVAX had said in September that the global programme providing Covid-19 vaccines to poor countries was on course to fall nearly 30% short of its previous goal of 2 billion shots this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-resumes-exports-of-covishield-vaccine-to-covax-facility-101637930981524.html
26-11-2021||India||Delhi resident moves top court, seeks compensation for hate crimes||The victim of a hate crime in Uttar Pradesh has moved the Supreme Court to demand compensation for victims of hate crimes and seek punitive action against police personnel who refused to register a case and instead put pressure on the victim to withdraw complaint.The petition filed by 62-year-old Kazeem Ahmed Sherwani, a resident of Delhi’s Zakir Nagar alleged that on July 4, while waiting for an Aligarh-bound bus at Noida Section 37, he was offered a free ride by a group of men who abused, harassed and tortured him in the car they were travelling in due to his Muslim identity. When he went with a complaint to the nearby police station in Noida, no complaint was registered as the police dissuaded him from pursuing the case.The petition also sought damages for the alleged police misconduct and demanded a victim compensation scheme for persons affected by incidents of similar hate crimes.On Friday, a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar allowed a copy of the petition to be served to the counsel for state of Uttar Pradesh and directed the matter to be heard along with petitions raising similar issues of guidelines against hate speech that is listed before the Chief Justice of India (CJI) on December 3.The petitioner was represented by senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi who informed the Court about the plight of the petitioner.“If hate crimes are permitted to occur with impunity, and without prompt legal action, the promise of the Constitution makers will be broken,” the petition filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rehman said. “This is not a lone case, but one of several cases where similar hate crimes, including public beatings and lynching, have taken place across several states, but where victims have been discouraged , without even a preliminary investigation, to frame the offence as a ‘hate crime, and the police have discouraged them from filing FIRs,” the petition added.The petitioner urged the Court for a fair and impartial investigation into his complaint and demanded that the Delhi Police provide him with security as on many instances in the past, the Uttar Pradesh police had harassed him for pursuing the complaint. After the UP police refused to register his complaint, the petitioner approached the national human rights commission (NHRC), following which he was asked by the police to submit his complaint. He gave a written complaint to the Noida police on July 31. They noted his complaint but suggested he was “politicizing” a non-issue, the petition said.The petition cited a 2018 judgment of the SC in the Tehseen Poonawala case where the top court laid down guidelines for dealing with instances of mob lynching and hate crimes. The petitioner demanded that the UP Police should submit an action taken report on his complaint in compliance with the 2018 decision which placed a “duty of care” on police. Further, he asked for damages and punitive action against the police personnel who refused to act in accordance with the 2018 judgment.“The petitioner was attacked because of his beard, and ostensible Muslim identity. The incident of that day has left the petitioner and his family completely traumatized, because it attacked their very identity as equal citizens of this country,” the petition said. The attack, according to him, besides harming the fundamental right to equality (Article 14) and liberty (Article 21), also violated the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion under Article 25, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-resident-moves-top-court-seeks-compensation-for-hate-crimes-101637930745212.html
26-11-2021||India||Fire breaks out in Durg Express at Morena in MP, all passengers evacuated||Two air-conditioned coaches of Udhampur-Durg superfast express caught fire in Morena on Friday following which the front part of the train had to be separated for firefighting operations. There was no report of injury or loss of life due to the blaze.A senior official of North Central Railway (NCR) division said a fire was reported in the A1 and A2 coaches of Udhampur-Durg Express due to unknown reasons after leaving the Hetampur Railway Station. All passengers have been evacuated, said the official, Shivam Sharma.“The front part of the train has been separated and the fire brigade has reached the spot. This train has been stopped and all other trains are running as per their original schedule,” he was further quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Morena, Madhya Pradesh | Udhampur-Durg Express's A1 & A2 coaches reported fire due to unknown reasons after leaving the Hetampur Railway Station; no casualties were reported & passengers have been evacuated: Dr Shivam Sharma, CPRO/NCR (Video Courtesy: Unverified Source) pic.twitter.com/xzRnk7Xja2Police said villagers informed them about the inferno following which a team of fire brigade was rushed to the spot.“The villagers and local police station Sarai Chhola police helped in the evacuation of the passengers and their luggage from the train,” a senior officer said.Prima facie, the cause of the fire is stated to be a short circuit but the exact reason will be known after investigation, he added.Villagers also took care of passengers and provided them with food and water, he said.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-durg-express-at-morena-in-mp-all-passengers-evacuated-101637930138554.html
26-11-2021||India||Bihar poorest state, followed by Jharkhand and UP: Niti Aayog report||In its first Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) report released on Friday, the Niti Aayog said Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh were found to be the poorest states in the country. They were followed by Madhya Pradesh and Meghalaya in the index.According to the report, 51.91 per cent of the population in Bihar is poor, followed by 42.16 in Jharkhand, 37.79 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, 36.65 per cent in Madhya Pradesh and 32.67 per cent in Meghalaya.Among Union territories, Dadra and Nagar Haveli ( 27.36 per cent), Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh (12.58), Daman & Diu (6.82 per cent) and Chandigarh (5.97 per cent) have emerged as the poorest in the country.Puducherry, with 1.72 per cent of its population as poor, Lakshadweep (1.82 per cent ), Andaman & Nicobar Islands (4.30 per cent) and Delhi (4.79 per cent) have fared better.States that have registered lowest poverty across the country are Kerala with only 0.71 per cent of its population falling in that category, followed by Goa (3.76 per cent), Sikkim (3.82 per cent), Tamil Nadu (4.89 per cent) and Punjab (5.59 per cent).The highest number of malnourished people have been reported in Bihar, followed by Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.Bihar also ranked at the bottom in various other categories, including percentage of population deprived of maternal health, percentage of population deprived of years of schooling, school attendance and percentage of population deprived of cooking fuel and electricity."The development of the National Multidimensional Poverty Index of India is an important contribution towards instituting a public policy tool which monitors multidimensional poverty, informs evidence-based and focused interventions, thereby ensuring that no one is left behind," said Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar in his foreword.According to a PTI report, Kumar further said this baseline report of India's first ever national MPI measure is based on the reference period of 2015-16 of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS).The national MPI measure has been constructed by utilising 12 key components which cover areas such as health and nutrition, education and standard of living, he said.The report said the national MPI, an aggregate measure which defines poverty, in simple terms, as the deprivation in crucial and basic parameters of health, education, and living standards, is a significant departure from the way poverty has been understood and conceptualised historically.In early 2020, the Cabinet Secretariat had identified 29 global indices to monitor, analyse and evaluate with the aim of improving India's position in global rankings.Under this mandate, also known as the Global Indices for Reforms and Growth (GIRG) mandate, Niti Aayog was identified as the nodal agency for the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-poorest-state-followed-by-jharkhand-and-up-niti-aayog-report-101637929691488.html
26-11-2021||India||Why India will resume restricted flight services in these 14 countries. Explained||As India decides to resume regular international flight operations from December 15 after a gap of around 20 months, the ministry has come up with a list of countries where ‘regular flight operations’ will not begin.  Regular flight operations mean pre-Covid flight operations. Flight operations will be allowed to some level in these 14 countries, the civil aviation ministry said on Friday. The decision to resume the international flight services as well as to keep these 14 countries on the restricted list has been taken in consultation with the health ministry, people familiar with the development said.Which are the countries where India is not resuming ‘regular flight operations’?UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, Finland, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore are the 14 countries.Why these 14 countries will see restricted serviceThese countries are high-risk either because of a resurgent Covid wave or the active number of cases. For example, South Africa has on Thursday confirmed a new variant of Covid following which several countries are imposing a travel ban on South Africa. The same variant has been found in Botswana. Both the countries are there on the list. Many European countries are also on the list as they are presently seeing the fourth wave of the pandemic.The health ministry on Thursday alerted all states and Union territories to be extra cautious about international travellers either coming from or transiting through the countries where the new variant has been detected.What will restricted operations be? Does this mean Indians can't fly to the UK, Singapore, Mauritius?No. This list of 14 countries pertains to the resumption of regular international flights or pre-Covid-level operations. India has an air bubble agreement with many of the countries mentioned on the list.  At-risk countries which have such agreements with India will see 75% of pre-Covid operations with India. Countries mentioned on the list which do not have air bubble agreements will see 50% of the pre-covid operations with India.As of now, India has an air bubble agreement with Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-not-resume-regular-flights-in-these-14-countries-here-s-why-101637929292406.html
26-11-2021||India||Peninsular India records 143.4% excess rainfall this month||Peninsular India recorded 143.4% excess rain between November 1 and November 25, leading to flooding and damage to infrastructure in the region. The excess rain was 63% between October 1 and November 25, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).During the northeast monsoon season since October 1, Tamil Nadu has so far recorded 61%, Puducherry 83%, Karnataka 105% and Kerala 110% excess rainfall. The rainfall led to floods between in parts of Chennai and Andhra Pradesh’s Rayalaseema this month. On Thursday and Friday again, extremely heavy rain was recorded in south-eastern Tamil Nadu mainly due to the influence of a cyclonic circulation. Kayalpattinam recorded 31 cm, Tuticorin 27 cm, Tiruchendur 25 cm, Srivaikuntam 18 cm, Kulasekarapattinam 16 cm, Vaippar 15 cm and Nagapattinam 19 cm rainfall.“Very heavy rain on Thursday and Friday is mainly because of a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal. But all of November, there have been several episodes of heavy rain and flooding in the Peninsular India,” said M Mohapatra, IMD director-general. He said the northeast monsoon is active and easterly waves are very strong, which is why Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh recorded heavy rains. Mohapatra said there have also been consecutive low-pressure systems or cyclonic circulations over the Bay of Bengal almost every week this month. “Another low-pressure area is expected to form over Andaman Sea on November 29.”Between November 7 and 13, Chennai experienced heavy rainfall and led to flooding and waterlogging. People residing in the low-lying areas were put on flood alerts. Authorities opened gates of the Poondi and Chembarambakkam reservoirs to release surplus waters. Nungambakkam in Chennai received 21.53 cm of rain on November 7 and triggered panic as similar rainfall intensity in December 2015 triggered floods in the city and led to large scale infrastructure loss. Intense rain along the coast started on November 6 night due to low pressure over the southeast Bay of Bengal.Sufficient moisture is available along the coast due to the northeast monsoon for occurrence of heavy rainfall. “Chennai needs a flood forecasting system with high resolution digital elevation model with an embedded Decision Support System. This will show where what water heights could be expected a few days before the flood really occurs. This time is enough to take some steps to reduce the impact of the flood. Temporary flood protection measures like inflatable water bags, water gates, etc should be deployed in areas that are expected to be inundated to reduce the flood impact,” said Pushpendra Johari, Senior VP (Sustainability), RMSI, an international risk management firm.Extremely heavy rainfall was recorded on November 20 and 21 and led to floods and waterlogging in parts of southern Andhra Pradesh. The floods washed away villages, breached dams, blocked railways and roadways, and caused heavy losses to life and property.India’s south-eastern coast has been facing heavy rainfall over the last month because of the formation of low-pressure areas attributed mainly to the north-east monsoons and cyclonic systems. In southern Andhra Pradesh, flash floods were reported in Rayalseema districts of Chittoor, Kurnool, Kadapa and Anantapur. Over 30 people died and around 1,500 houses were damaged. Vehicles were stranded and trains diverted or cancelled as the railway and road connectivity was disrupted.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Comorin area and adjoining Sri Lanka coast. Strong north-easterly winds were also prevailing over the Tamil Nadu coast and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh. Under its influence, widespread rainfall was very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall was likely in Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema during the next four to five days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was expected in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal until November 29. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) was also likely in north Tamil Nadu on Friday and very heavy rain in Kerala and Mahe until November 29.Isolated heavy rainfall was likely in south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam and Rayalaseema till November 29. Squally winds (speeds reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) were very likely in Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar, along and off south Tamil Nadu coast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal on Friday and Saturday. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into these areas.A low-pressure area likely to form over the south Andaman Sea around November 29 is likely to become more marked and move west north-westwards during subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall was likely in Andaman and Nicobar Islands on November 29 and 30. Squally weather with maximum sustained wind speed reaching 40-50 gusting to 60 kmph were likely over the Andaman Sea and neighbourhood from November 30 to December 2. Fishermen have been advised to be cautious and avoid venturing into these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peninsular-india-records-143-4-excess-rainfall-this-month-101637927504591.html
26-11-2021||India||Undemocratic, family-run party system is not in tune with the Constitution: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave three key messages to people, particularly the political parties who are expected to be custodians of the Constitution – shun the family-run party system to become real champions of democracy, don’t revere convicted politicians in public life, and focus on duties to the nation before exerting your rights.While the first message is directed to key political families across the spectrum such as Gandhis’ stronghold on the Congress, Mamata Banerjee and his nephew’s dominance in the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Mulayam Singh Yadavs’ family-run Samajwadi Party (SP) and Lalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD; his second tirade was at public honouring of Lalu after being convicted in the fodder scam.Making his third point at the Constitution Day celebrations in the Parliament, the Prime Minister said Mahatma Gandhi had tried to prepare the nation for the duties, even while fighting for the rights in the freedom movement. “It would have been better if the duty had been emphasised after the country's independence. In the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, it is necessary for us to move forward on the path of duty so that our rights are protected,” he said. He was hinted at the leadership post-Independence that promoted “rights” but did not pay adequate attention to “duties” towards the people and the nation.He said that the political parties are responsible for enforcing democratic traditions, but unfortunately, many of them have no internal democracy because they promote family members instead of merit. “In the form of family-based parties, India is heading towards a kind of a crisis, which is a matter of concern for the people devoted to the Constitution,” he said.“How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?,” he added.The Prime Minister also warned against the tendency of forgetting and glorifying convicted corrupt people. He said while giving an opportunity to reform we should refrain from glorifying such people in public life.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was speaking at the “Constitution Day” celebrations in Parliament. The event was also addressed by the President, the Vice President, and the Lok Sabha Speaker.PM emphasized that November 26 is the day to bow to this house of democracy also. The Prime Ministers bowed to the martyrs of 26/11 also. “Today, 26/11 is such a sad day for us, when the enemies of the country came inside the country and carried out the terrorist attack in Mumbai. The brave soldiers of the country sacrificed their lives while fighting the terrorists. Today I bow to their sacrifices”, he said.The Prime Minister noted that our constitution is not just a collection of many articles, our constitution is a great tradition of millennia. This is a modern expression of that unbroken stream. The Prime Minister said Constitution Day should also be celebrated because our path should constantly be evaluated whether it is right or not.Elaborating on the spirit behind celebrating the ‘Constitution Day’, the Prime Minister said it was during the 125th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, “We all felt that what could be a greater auspicious occasion than the gift that Babasaheb Ambedkar had given to this country, we should always remember his contribution in the form of a memory book (Smrit Granth)”.He said it would have been better if along with establishing the tradition of Republic Day on 26th January, ‘Constitution Day’ was also established on 26th November at that time itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/undemocratic-family-run-party-system-is-not-in-tune-with-the-constitution-pm-modi-101637926217580.html
26-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: RIC need to work together to combat terror, says Jaishankar, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, Russia and China need to work jointly to counter threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking, and to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the Afghan people without hindrance and politicisation, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Read moreBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said parties indulging in “dynastic politics” would not be able to survive after a certain point. While Kumar did not take any name, his remarks echoed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement made earlier in the day wherein he said India is heading towards “a kind of a crisis” in the form of "family-based" parties. Read moreAmid global alarm over the new coronavirus variant, Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Friday warned that the country is on the verge of a state of emergency. Read moreIndia captain Virat Kohli and batting legenled from the front in congratulating Shreyas Iyer for scoring a century on Test debut. Read morePriyanka Chopra was part of the recently released Netflix special, Jonas Brothers Family Roast. During her bit, Priyanka roasted her husband Nick Jonas and his brothers, joking about how she has more followers than all of them combined. Read moreWinters are here, the season of all things green and leafy and what better than indulging in the goodness of Palak or spinach, the vegetable that is abundant during this season and is loaded with amazing health benefits. Read moreAmid a boycott from Opposition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed dynasty politics and termed it a threat to democracy. Speaking on the occasion of the Constitution Day, Prime Minister Modi said that India family-ruled parties are becoming an issue for those devoted to the constitution and those who believe in democracy. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ric-need-to-work-together-to-combat-terror-says-jaishankar-and-all-the-latest-news-101637925043733.html
26-11-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Kejriwal seeks compensation, guarantee for MSP||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked the Centre to compensate families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the three farm laws, provide guarantee for Minimum Support Prices (MSP), withdraw cases against farmers, and immediately sack union minister Ajay Mishra. Speaking in the Delhi assembly, he said the farmers have restored people’s faith in democracy.Kejriwal referred to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which was triggered after a convoy of cars, including one belonging to Mishra, mowed down protesting farmers. Kejriwal questioned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government over the delay in sacking Mishra, whose son has been arrested for his alleged role in the violence that left eight people dead. “The Lakhimpur incident is very painful… Why cannot the Centre remove him? I do not know what is their compulsion, but the entire country wants that he (Mishra) should be removed.”The Delhi assembly also passed a resolution during a special session on the first anniversary of the year-long farmers’ protest on Friday demanding ₹1 crore compensation for families of 700 farmers who died during the protest, withdrawal of cases against farmers, guaranteed MSP and action against Mishra.Kejriwal lauded the farmers for their patience and peaceful protest despite being called “anti-nationals” by BJP members. Kejriwal praised farmers of poll-bound Punjab, where his Aam Aadmi Party emerged as a significant force in the 2017 polls, for leading the protest.Also Read: 500 farmers will reach Delhi on Nov 29: Tikait“This is the longest farmers’ protest in the world. Over 700 farmers were martyred while fighting against their own government. The ruling party did not leave any chance to instigate them. They were called anti-nationals, Khalistanis, Pakistani agents, etc… But their peaceful protest destroyed the government’s ego,” said Kejriwal.He said the peaceful protest compelled the government to announce repeal the three farm laws. “This is not just farmers’ victory; it is the victory of democracy. In the past few years, people had started losing faith in the democratic system ever since they (BJP) came to power with a majority. But this has reinstated people’s faith in democracy,” said Kejriwal. He said his government opposed the farm laws since day one and supported the farmers. “People are kept in stadiums to crush a movement. We have stayed in stadiums during our Anna movement days. We did not allow our stadiums to be turned into jails,” said Kejriwal.Kejriwal took pot-shots at BJP leaders and said they called both the decisions--the introduction of the farm laws and then the announcement of their repeal--“masterstrokes”.Environment minister Gopal Rai, who proposed the resolution in the assembly, said the Centre has decided to repeal the law. “But the laws were prepared and passed without any discussion with the farmers. It is not good for democracy. Even now the government is not talking to farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-kejriwal-seeks-compensation-guarantee-for-msp-101637924624277.html
26-11-2021||India||India to resume international flights from December 15; 14 countries ‘at risk’||The Centre will resume regular international flights from December 15, while limited services will be there in 14 countries, people familiar with the development said on Friday. The countries which feature on the list of “at-risk” and will thereby not see 100% resumption of international flights are the UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, Finland, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore, sources said. The decision has been taken in consultation with the health ministry in light of the Covid situation across the world, especially the emergence of new variants. On Thursday, South Africa confirmed a new variant of Coronavirus which is believed to be more transmissible and vaccine-evasive. The variant has been reported in Botswana and Hong Kong as well apart from South Africa. India is not resuming regular international flight operations with Botswana and South Africa.With some of the countries on the list India has a travel bubble that permits a certain number of flights a week, which will continue in a different format, officials explained. At-risk countries with an air bubble agreement with India will see the resumption of 75% pre-covid operations, while at-risk countries without an air bubble agreement with India will see teh resumption of 50% of teh pre-Covid operations.Regular international flights operations were suspended in March 2020 owing to the Coronavirus pandemic. The civil aviation ministry started Vande Bharat flights to ferry Indians who got stuck in other countries during the pandemic. After the Vande Bharat flights, the ministry entered into air bubble agreements with some countries allowing international travel.With the number of Covid cases steadily going down and the vaccine coverage in the country going up, the Centre was mulling easing restrictions regarding international travel. Two days ago, civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said the ministry is working towards allowing international passenger flights from this year-end.Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia too recently expressed the ministry's keenness to resume normal international travel operations. “We are evaluating the process. We are coming back to normalcy. First, we allowed 100% passenger capacity in our domestic flights and now we allowed in-flight meals in those flights," Scindia said at an industry summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-international-flights-to-begin-from-dec-15-barring-14-countries-101637924373528.html
26-11-2021||India||Navy officer, on vacation, drowns at Kovalam beach near Chennai||An officer of the Indian Navy, who was on a vacation, drowned at a suburban beach near Chennai on Thursday.Lieutenant Commander JR Suresh was washed away at Kovalam beach and his body was fished out a day later at Kelambakkam, about 5km away from the location where he was washed away, the Navy said in a statement.The officer was on a vacation to Kovalam along with his family, said Navy officials.Lt Commander JR Suresh of the Indian Navy was washed away at Kovalam beach near Chennai on 25 Nov. The body of the officer has been recovered at Kelambakkam today. He was posted in Delhi and was on vacation to Kovalam along with his family: Navy officials"Lieutenant Commander J R Suresh of the Indian Navy was washed away at Kovalam beach in the outskirts of Chennai on 25 November 2021 evening. The body of the officer has been recovered at Kelambakam around noon on 26 November," a defence release here said.The IMD Chennai has predicted thunderstorm with moderate rain with isolated heavy rain the state capital and other parts of Tamil Nadu, including Tiruvallur, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur district, and Puducherry and Karaikal area.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-officer-on-vacation-drowns-at-kovalam-beach-near-chennai-101637924130870.html
26-11-2021||India||Nitish echoes Modi, says parties indulging in 'dynastic politics' won't survive for long||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said parties indulging in “dynastic politics” would not be able to survive after a certain point. While Kumar did not take any name, his remarks echoed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement made earlier in the day wherein he said India is heading towards “a kind of a crisis” in the form of "family-based" parties.“Some parties have gone into dynastic politics...even if they are doing well now, their survival will not be possible after some time,” news agency ANI quoted Nitish Kumar as saying.Earlier, at a Constitution Day event in the Central Hall of Parliament, Modi described family-based parties as one "for the family, by the family". "I don't think I need to say anything more," he added.Also read | Modi calls family-based parties a concern for people devoted to ConstitutionIndia celebrates November 26 as Constitution Day or ‘Samvidhan Diwas’ every year to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India. At least 15 Opposition parties, including the Congress, skipped the event alleging that the government is "undermining parliamentary democracy".The Prime Minister said that in the form of family-based parties, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, India is heading towards a kind of a crisis, which is a matter of concern for the people devoted to the Constitution and those who believe in democracy. His remarks are being seen as an apparent attack to the Congress and other opposition parties for skipping the official event.Modi said the spirit of the Constitution and every section of it is hurt when political parties lose their democratic character. "How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-echoes-modi-says-parties-indulging-in-dynastic-politics-won-t-survive-for-long-101637919617718.html
26-11-2021||India||'Wah kya masterstroke hai': Kejriwal mocks what BJP said about farm laws, repeal||As the protest of the farmers against the three controversial farm laws completes a year on Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi Assembly said he feels sorry for BJP leaders who had to react with 'Wah kya masterstroke hai' with every decision -- be it the farm laws or their withdrawal. In a speech in the Delhi Assembly on the one-year completion of the farmers' protest, the chief minister said that when the Centre asked the AAP government to put the farmers coming from Punjab inside stadiums, he remembered his days as a protester along with Anna Hazare. "I have also spent nights in a stadium. I knew it was a way to foil the protest. We did not allow that with the farmers. The Centre was rattled with us. In any case, the Centre is always angry with us," Kejriwal said."It was the government's pride that they thought they could pass any bill in Parliament. They thought farmers will come, protest for some days and then will go back," Kejriwal said.Comparing the year-long protest with that of India's freedom movement, Kejriwal said the farmers' protest was no less than the freedom movement. And at the end, it was the victory of not the farmers, but of democracy, the chief minister said adding that he doesn't know of any protest across the world that went on for so long. "In 1907, there was a protest of farmers against the British. That went on for nine months. This was the protest of the farmers against the government they elected and it went on for a year," Kejriwal said.Referring to the Lakhimpur incident, Kejriwal said had the Supreme Court not intervened, then they would not even have arrested the minister's son. Congratulating the farmers and the women of Punjab in spearheading the protest, Kejriwal said the protesters weathered teh harsh winter, followed by another wave of Corona, dengue outbreak etc., but did not give up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wah-kya-masterstroke-hai-kejriwal-mocks-what-bjp-said-about-farm-laws-repeal-101637922264984.html
26-11-2021||India||Four minors drown in Cuttack’s Mahanadi river, bodies recovered||The death toll in the Mahanadi River tragedy climbed to four on Friday with rescue teams from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and state fire department fishing out the bodies of three more minors who had gone missing in the river while bathing there on Thursday afternoon.The boys aged between 13 and 14 years and residents of Potapokhari in Nayabazar area of Cuttack had gone to the river at Bhadimula Ghat for swimming after returning from school, police officials said.“He came back home at 1 pm and went to his friend’s house after lunch. When he did not come home till 5 pm, we started looking for him,” said Kalyani Sethy, mother of Subham Sethy, who is among the deceased.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said on Thursday evening, the body of Khetrabasi Behera was recovered while the bodies of Akash Bahalia, Subham Sethy and Chandan Behera were recovered on Friday morning.“Since the four students did not return home after a couple of hours, their family members launched a frantic search to trace their whereabouts. Later, they found four bicycles near the ghat in the evening and informed us,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-minors-drown-in-cuttack-s-mahanadi-river-bodies-recovered-101637921624168.html
26-11-2021||India||Jaishankar & Rajnath to hold talks with Russian counterparts in Delhi next month||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh will hold talks with their Russian counterparts in Delhi on December 6 in a first-of-its-kind “two plus two” format.The Russian embassy said the country’s foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and defence minister Sergey Shoigu are expected to discuss with Jaishankar and Singh key regional and international topics, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments in Afghanistan and Syria. Also read | PM Modi to host President Putin for one-to-one meeting on Dec 6They are also likely to exchange views on interaction within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Russia-India-China (RIC) format, the embassy added.💬#Zakharova: On December 6, Sergey #Lavrov and Defence Minister Sergey #Shoigu will meet with their Indian colleagues @DrSJaishankar and @rajnathsingh in New Delhi. 🇷🇺🇮🇳 They will discuss key regional and international matters, including in the Asia-Pacific. #RussiaIndia pic.twitter.com/d1mZpJo8ZUJaishankar is scheduled to digitally chair the 18th meeting of foreign ministers of RIC during the day.The ministers are expected to discuss further strengthening of the trilateral cooperation, including exchange of views on various regional and international issues of importance, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement on Thursday.India took over the chairmanship of the RIC after its last meeting in Moscow in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-rajnath-to-hold-talks-with-russian-counterparts-in-delhi-next-month-101637919010336.html
26-11-2021||India||Modi calls family-based parties a concern for people devoted to Constitution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India is heading towards “a kind of a crisis” in the form of family-based parties and called it a matter of concern for people who are devoted to the Constitution and believe in democracy. “More than one person from a family joining a party on the basis of merit does not make it dynastic. Problems arise when a party is run by the same family, generation after generation.”Modi said every section of the Constitution is hurt when political parties lose their democratic character. “How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?” asked Modi in his address to a gathering to mark the Constitution Day at the Parliament.Also Read: Constitution Day: Integrating our fundamental duties with our rightsModi said Mahatma Gandhi tried to prepare the nation for duties even while fighting for rights during the freedom movement. He added it would have been better if the duties had been emphasised after the country’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-family-based-parties-a-concern-for-people-devoted-to-constitution-101637918323487.html
26-11-2021||India||Ahead of Parliament’s winter session, VP Naidu urges lawmakers to rethink before disrupting House||With the Winter Session of Parliament set to start from November 29, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday voiced concern over the persistent disruptions during House sessions and the steep fall in the productivity of the Rajya Sabha.In his address during a Constitution Day event in Parliament, Naidu referred to the recently concluded Monsoon Session of Parliament, during which he said the Rajya Sabha lost 70 per cent of its functional time.“During the 254th Session of Rajya Sabha, the productivity has further slipped to 29.60 per cent which means that the Rajya Sabha has lost about 70 per cent of the functional time. All concerned need to ponder over the fact of rendering legislature so dysfunctional,” he said.Stressing the need to spend the time allocated for the Parliament session fruitfully, Naidu said the Rajya Sabha secretariat maintained statistics regarding the productivity of the house since 1978.Also read | Key Bills likely to be tabled during winter session of Parliament“For 16 years from 1979 to 1994, the annual productivity of the house has been over 100 per cent. In the next 26 years since 1995, the productivity of the Rajya Sabha has been more than 100 per cent. Only twice in 1998 and 2009, a broad declining trend in productivity is evident and it touched the lowest ever 35.75 per cent in 2018, a year before the general elections in 2019,” he noted.“Clearly, we need to have more meaningful productive use of our time in our Parliament. We need to recognise the exalted place that Parliament occupies in people’s perception. It is indeed this sacred place where people’s voices are articulated and heard, where their hopes and fears are debated, where laws protecting them, foster their growth and enable fast-tracked national development are formulated,” he added.The comments from the vice president came after opposition parties staged widespread protests in both Houses, during the Monsoon Session held between July and August, against the Pegasus row, the farm laws and rising fuel prices.Notably, Naidu did not deliver his valedictorian address and also broke down at the last session due to the behaviour of some parliamentarians.“Parliament, the apex legislature of our country, is regarded as the temple of democracy. The Table area where the officers, the secretary general and the presiding officer are seated is considered the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House. A certain degree of sacredness is attached to this place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-parliament-s-winter-session-vp-naidu-urges-lawmakers-to-rethink-before-disrupting-house-101637916833542.html
26-11-2021||India||Another sonic boom in Bengaluru? No tremor recorded, says Karnataka disaster monitoring body||A loud mysterious sound was heard in the vicinity of Bengaluru on Friday between 11.50am and 12.15pm, triggering speculations of whether it was another sonic boom that Bengaluru heard on July 2 this year. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre confirmed reports of a sound associated with mild vibrations by local residents and said the data was analysed from the seismic observatories for any seismic signatures during the same period and no such indication was found.The mysterious sound was reported by residents of Hemmigepura, Kengeri, Gnanabharathi, Rajeshwari Nagar and Kaggalipura, the disaster monitoring body said.In July this year, residents of several areas of Bengaluru, including Sarjapur, JP Nagar, Benson Town, Ulsoor, ISRO layout and HSR layout, claimed they heard a loud boom sound, which was later thought to be sonic boom which is the sound generated by an object moving faster than sound. Such a phenomenon created a shock wave that turns into a loud sound. While it was thought that the ‘sonic boom’ might have been created by any of their flights. HAL, however, said none of its flights made the sound. In May last year, a similar sound was heard and was thought to be produced by a Sukhoi 30 which was on a sortie.  Just now heard a loud explosion sound in Bengaluru, then doors and windows vibrated. I felt this in Rajarajeshwari Nagara. #Bengaluru #Bangalore #SonicBoom? Others felt too??Peeps in Bangalore, anyone heard a loud noise in Bangalore? At 12:10 pm ish?Going by the account posted on Twitter, Friday's thud was similar to the previous occurrences. People claimed to have felt tremors and windows and doors have vibrated with the sound. The sound and the tremor made Karnataka people wonder whether there was an earthquake in the South as a strong earthquake of 6.0 magnitude rocked the Myanmar-India border early on Friday with tremors being felt in West Bengal, Tripura and Assam in the East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-sonic-boom-in-bengaluru-no-tremor-recorded-says-karnataka-disaster-monitoring-body-101637916453450.html
26-11-2021||India||No case of new Covid variant in India so far: Report||No case of the new Covid-19 variant, which has a large number of mutations, has been reported in India so far, news agency ANI reported on Friday citing officials.After scientists in South Africa announced they have detected the new variant of coronavirus, identified as B.1.1.529, the Centre issued an advisory to all states and Union territories to rigorously test and screen international travellers from South Africa and other "at risk" countries.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said reports of mutations in the new variant had "serious public health implications".Also read | UK bans flights from South Africa as new Covid-19 variant detected"This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations, and thus, has serious public health implications for the country in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter to states and UTs issued late on Thursday.On Friday, the UK Health Security Agency said the new variant has a spike protein that was dramatically different to the one in the original coronavirus that COVID-19 vaccines are based on. And it could make existing vaccines less effective.Also read | Frequent mutations, rapid spread: New Covid variant found in South AfricaBritain has banned flights from six African countries and asked returning British travellers from those destinations to quarantine.India on Friday reported 10,549 new cases of Covid-19 which have taken the total cases to 34.56 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-case-of-new-covid-variant-in-india-so-far-report-101637913235188.html
26-11-2021||India||Nation grateful to security forces for sacrifice during 26/11 attacks: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said the nation will always be grateful for the bravery and sacrifice of the security forces who laid down their lives in the line of duty during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks 13 years back.“My heartfelt tributes to the martyrs and homage to the victims of the 26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttacks,” he tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi echoed Kovind in thanking the security forces and shared a two-minute video of the pictures of those who lost their lives in the attacks. “Protects the country by staying at the border away from the family in difficult weather, saves innocents by risking his own life during a terrorist attack. He cares about the world without bothering about his own life, our Jawan is the pride of the family, the village and the nation,” he tweeted. “Salute to the heroes of 26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttacks.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid tribute. “I pay homage to the immortal martyrdom of our brave soldiers who laid down their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai attack and served the nation. The country will always be indebted to its brave martyrs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-grateful-to-security-forces-for-sacrifice-during-26-11-attacks-kovind-101637913462914.html
26-11-2021||India||Travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi? Read this traffic police advisory||The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday issued an advisory, informing commuters that the traffic coming from Ghaziabad to the national capital was ‘heavy,’ and, therefore, they should use alternative routes to travel. “Traffic Alert: Traffic coming from Ghaziabad towards Delhi remains heavy, due to barricading by the Local Police at roundabout Gazipur underpass. Commuters are advised to take alternative Vikash Marg/GT Road to Delhi,” the traffic police tweeted. Traffic AlertTraffic coming from Ghaziabad towards Delhi side remain heavy, due to barrigating by Local Police at roundabout Gazipur Underpass. Commuter are advised to take alternative Vikash Marg/GT Road to Delhi.The advisory was issued as farmers, protesting since November 26 last year against the Centre's now-repealed three contentious agricultural laws, are expected to gather in large numbers at protest sites on Delhi's borders on the completion of 1 full year of their agitation. Ghazipur, which is the border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, is one of the three protest sites.The other two are Delhi's borders with Haryana, at Singhu and Tikri.With a huge gathering of farmers expected, the Delhi Police have beefed up security at each of the three borders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced last Friday in an address to the nation that the three laws will be repealed during the upcoming winter session of Parliament, which commences on November 29. However, while welcoming PM Modi's announcement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which has been spearheading the stir, said that the protests will continue till the farm laws are formally repealed, and other demands, including a law for Minimum Support Price (MSP), are met.The SKM had urged cultivators to arrive at the borders to mark the one-year anniversary of the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travelling-between-ghaziabad-and-delhi-read-this-traffic-police-advisory-101637909872830.html
26-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Modi targets ‘family-ruled’ parties in Constitution Day address and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In his Constitution Day address, PM Modi targets family-ruled partiesAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid his tributes to leaders who helped draft the Constitution of India on Friday, he targeted opposition parties, especially the Congress, in his speech in Parliament’s Central Hall. Read moreIND vs NZ: Shreyas Iyer slams century on Test debut, joins Ganguly, Sehwag and Rohit in elite list of Indian battersShreyas Iyer on Friday became the 16th Indian batter to score a century on Test debut. Iyer, who was presented his maiden Test cap by Sunil Gavaskar on Day 1 of the Kanpur Test against New Zealand, started off his Test career in style, finishing the day on 75 not out. Read more83 teaser: Ranveer Singh makes blink-and-miss appearance as Kapil Dev, Sara Ali Khan has a fiery reactionA teaser for Kabir Khan’s sports drama 83, starring Ranveer Singh as former cricketer Kapil Dev, was shared online. The clip recreates a nail-biting moment from the 1983 World Cup final at Lord’s, where India defeated West Indies to win their first-ever World Cup. Read moreNissan Magnite deliveries hit 30,000 mark in less than a year since launchNissan Magnite has been a success story for the Japanese auto brand in India since it was launched on December 2 of 2020. Despite stiff competition in the sub-compact SUV segment and other factors such as Covid-19 pandemic, recovering economy and global shortage of semiconductor chip, over 30,000 units of Magnite have now been delivered. Read more5 ways black raisins can boost your overall health this winterBlack raisins or Kaali kishmish is the perfect addition to your list of healthy snacks this winter season as they will not only keep you full for long and help you with those weight loss goals but will make sure to keep your cholesterol and blood pressure levels in control. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-modi-targets-family-ruled-parties-in-constitution-day-address-and-all-the-latest-news-101637910657953.html
26-11-2021||India||‘Mark of disrespect’: Union minister slams oppn skipping Constitution Day event||Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Friday targeted the Congress and other opposition parties for boycotting the Constitution Day event at Parliament, which was attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others.The Congress, along with 13 other parties including the Shiv Sena, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal, announced on Thursday they will skip the celebrations over what they said was the Centre's disrespect towards them, its refusal to their demands and hurried passage of bills in Parliament.Speaking to news agency ANI, Union minister Meghwal said on Friday that the boycott is disrespectful towards the country's constitution.Meghwal added the Congress party could only respect leaders from the Nehru family and no other political leader including Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, who wrote the constitution.Before Meghwal, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju expressed concerns over "disturbing elements" who opposed laws passed by Parliament."When Parliament passes a bill or when assembly adopts certain laws, until or unless it is unconstitutional, why should there be a reason to say that we don't follow this Act, or we will not follow this law," Rijiju said at an event on Thursday.During the recent sessions of Parliament, both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha witnessed massive uproar by opposition parties over the Centre's three new farm laws, the handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic among other issues.Meanwhile, as opposition parties skipped the Constitution Day event in Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the spirit of the Constitution is hurt when political parties lose their democratic character. "How can such parties protect our democracy?" he asked.Without naming the Congress, Modi during his address in Parliament said family-ruled parties are becoming an issue for people who are devoted to the Constitution and those who believe in democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mark-of-disrespect-union-minister-slams-oppn-skipping-constitution-day-event-101637903409253.html
26-11-2021||India||UK student visas for Indians up 102% in 12-month period ending Sept 2021||Student visas issued by the UK to Indian nationals increased 102% in the 12-month period ending in September 2021, while skilled worker visas issued to Indians during the same period were up 47%, according to the latest British immigration statistics. Indians were also the top nationality granted high-value work visas, accounting for around one-sixth or 17% of the total, statistics released by the UK home office on Thursday showed. British high commissioner Alex Ellis tweeted on Friday about the increase in the grant of student and skilled worker visas to Indians and said the “huge demand is why turnaround of visas is taking longer than usual”. The number of Indian students in the UK had dipped since 2012, when the post-study work visa was scrapped and more Indians began going to European countries such as France and Germany for higher studies. In July, the UK opened a new graduate immigration route that benefited Indian students by allowing them to stay longer in Britain after finishing their studies to look for jobs. Also Read: UK suspends flights to 6 African countries as new Covid variant emergesCompared with the year ending in September 2020, there was an increase of 45,677 (102%) student visas granted to Indians, taking the total to 90,669. It was 197% higher than the figure of 30,496 visas for the year ending September 2019. Indians remained the nationality with the second highest number of sponsored study visa grants. The list was topped by Chinese students, who were granted 135,457 visas in the year ending September 2021, up from 52,698 in the previous year or a 157% increase. Indian and Chinese nationals together comprised more than half (53%) of all sponsored study visa grants. In the case of work visas, Indians were the top nationality granted high value work visas, accounting for about one-sixth or 17% of the total. They were followed by US and Chinese nationals, who accounted for 11% and 10% respectively. The high value work visas include those granted to the exceptional talent route, investors and entrepreneurs. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, in the year ending September 2019, China, India and Pakistan had been the top three nationalities in this category. Indian nationals also accounted for more than two-fifth or 42% of all skilled work visas granted by the UK. In the case of visitor visas, the UK granted 260,275 such visas in the year ending in September 2021, or 72% lower than the previous year, with the largest falls registered for Chinese (down by 145,472 visas or 93%) and Indian (down by 120,408 or 70%) nationals. Together, Chinese (4%) and Indian (20%) nationals accounted for almost one-fourth of total visitor visas granted. “This is around half the proportion seen immediately prior to the pandemic, when Chinese and Indian nationals combined accounted for just under half of all grants,” according to a statement from the UK home office. Indians were second on the list of top five nationalities granted family-related visas in the year ending September 2021, coming in after Pakistani nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-student-visas-for-indians-up-102-in-12-month-period-ending-sept-2021-101637910040395.html
26-11-2021||India||‘Like the Gita’: Lok Sabha Speaker pays tributes to Constitution, vows for unity||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday the Constitution of India is like the Gita, which inspires citizens to work for the nation. “If each one of us commits to working for the country, then we can build ‘Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat,’” said the Speaker of the Lower House at the inauguration of the Constitution Day celebrations in the Central Hall of Parliament.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and other leaders were all taking part in the event that salutes the important piece of document laying down the fundamental political code of a democratic and secular India.November 26 is observed annually as Constitution Day, and this year, too, events are being marked across the nation on the occasion. From the Central Hall of Parliament, President Kovind addressed the nation in a speech, following which people joined him live in a reading session of the Preamble of the Constitution.#WATCH President Ram Nath Kovind leads the nation in reading the Preamble to the Constitution of India(Source: Sansad TV) pic.twitter.com/hRIpUu7212According to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), President Kovind will then release a digital version of the Constituent Assembly Debates at the Central Hall of the Parliament House. The document is an online version of a calligraphed copy of the Constitution as well as an updated version of the document laying down the framework of the fundamental political code of the country, which will include all amendments to date.Prime Minister Modi, who was also present at the Central Hall, recognised Constitution Day as a salute to Parliament, where many of the country's political leaders came together to write the significant piece of political code.“Our Constitution is not just a collection of many articles, it is the great tradition of millennia. The unbroken stream is the modern expression of that section,” he said. “Our Constitution binds our diverse country. It was drafted after many hindrances and united the princely states in the country,” he added.Later in the day, PM Modi will be inaugurating another event, organised by the Supreme Court, at 5:30pm in the plenary hall of New Delhi's Vigyan Bhawan. All judges of the Supreme Court, chief justices of all high courts and senior-most judges, the solicitor-general of India, and other members of the legal fraternity will also be present at the occasion.The Constitution of India, the longest written constitution of any country, is considered the supreme law of the nation and demarcates the structure, framework, powers, and duties of government institutions, and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and duties of citizens.The central government is celebrating Constitution Day as a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav – signifying the passage of 75 years since the country gained independence from British colonial rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-the-gita-lok-sabha-speaker-pays-tributes-to-constitution-vows-for-unity-101637907674993.html
26-11-2021||India||On 1 year of farmers’ protests, Priyanka Gandhi talks about ‘unshakable satyagraha’||Farmers have always been victorious in India and will always continue to win in the future as well, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Friday on the day that marked the completion of one year of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.Priyanka Gandhi also lauded the movement and said that it would be known for the “unshakable ‘satyagraha’ of the farmers, the martyrdom of 700 farmers and the arrogance of the ruthless BJP government and its atrocities towards the farmers,” in a tweet in Hindi.“But in India, the farmers were, are and will always be victorious. The victory of the farmers' struggle is proof of this,” she added, in an apparent reference to the Centre’s recent decision to repeal the farm laws, following continued protests.किसान आंदोलन का एक सालकिसानों के अडिग सत्याग्रह, 700 किसानों की शहादत और निर्मम भाजपा सरकार के अहंकार व अन्नदाताओं पर अत्याचार के लिए जाना जाएगा।लेकिन भारत में किसान की जय-जयकार हमेशा थी, है और रहेगी।किसानों के संघर्ष की जीत इसका प्रमाण है।जय किसान। pic.twitter.com/KCWnLNog0BThe farmers’ protest against the three contentious laws completed one year on Friday. Several farmers from many states, particularly Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the laws at Delhi’s borders. The movement has been spearheaded by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmers’ unions.Also read | Farmers’ protest taught us how to fight for our rights with patience: KejriwalOn Wednesday, the Union cabinet approved a bill to repeal the three laws after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced that his government has decided to repeal them. “We have decided to repeal all three agricultural laws. We will complete the constitutional process to repeal these three agricultural laws in the Parliament session that begins later this month,” Modi said during his address to the nation.Immediately after Modi’s announcement, Priyanka Gandhi reacted to it alleging that the move was done keeping in mind the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab among others. She said that the BJP had sensed they would be defeated in the assembly polls.“Now you start seeing the defeat in the elections, then suddenly you started to understand the truth of this country - that this country has been made by the farmers, this country belongs to the farmers, the farmer is the true caretaker of this country and no government can crush the interest of the farmers in this country,” she tweeted.Several rounds of discussions took place between the protesting farmers and the Union government in the past and following the repeal, the farmer unions have maintained that their struggles would continue. They have said that the repeal was only one among several of their key demands. Meanwhile, the unions have also pressed the government for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-1-year-of-farmers-protests-priyanka-gandhi-talks-about-unshakable-satyagraha-101637909317348.html
26-11-2021||India||Man, 45, arrested in Thane for allegedly raping 13-year-old daughter||A 45-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping his 13-year-old daughter over the last eight months in Maharashtra’s Thane district, police said. The girl suffered a miscarriage last month, they added.Police said the accused and his wife separated in January this year. This month, some of the man’s neighbours contacted the girl’s mother and told her the 13-year-old was visibly unwell and in great pain in October. The mother called up the girl and came to know about the miscarriage. “...the accused first forced himself upon her in February and then repeatedly after that,” said police inspector Rajkumar Upase.The mother took the girl with her and filed a case against the man. “We immediately picked up the accused for inquiries and subsequently placed him under arrest on Wednesday. We have charged him with rape under the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He has been remanded in our custody till Saturday,” Upase said.The girl as been admitted to a hospital and the accused was being interrogated on the basis of her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-45-arrested-in-thane-for-allegedly-raping-13-year-old-daughter-101637909200194.html
26-11-2021||India||In his Constitution Day address, PM Modi targets family-ruled parties||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid his tributes to leaders who helped draft the Constitution of India on Friday, he targeted opposition parties, especially the Congress, in his speech in Parliament’s Central Hall.PM Modi also pointed out that Constitution Day should have been celebrated each year after 1950, when it was adopted by the Constituent Assembly, to educate all about what went into the making of the Constitution. “But some people did not do so. This day should also be celebrated to evaluate whether what we do is right or not,” he said while addressing a Constitution Day event in Parliament.As a delegation of the opposition parties led by the Congress boycotted the celebrations in Parliament, PM Modi said that the spirit of the Constitution is hurt when political parties lose their democratic character. "How can such parties protect our democracy?" he asked.Also Read| Know your Constitution: Salient features of India's fundamental political codeAs many as 14 opposition parties, including the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, skipped the Constitution Day event.Prime Minister Modi, meanwhile, pointed out that India is heading towards a crisis. Without naming the Congress, he said that that family-ruled parties are becoming an issue for those devoted to the constitution and those who believe in democracy.“Party for the family, by the family and of the family,…. I don't think I have to say anything more,” he said in Parliament.PM Modi also said that a party does not become a family-oriented party if one or more members join it based on their merit. “But the party that is operated by one family for generations, whose regime is with that one family, is the biggest threat to a healthy democracy,” he added.The Prime Minister said Constitution Day is a salute to Parliament, where many of the country's political leaders brainstormed to give India its Constitution. He said, “Our Constitution is not just a collection of many articles, it is the great tradition of millennia. The unbroken stream is the modern expression of that section."Also Read| On Constitution Day, PM Modi shares part of BR Ambedkar’s speech“Our Constitution binds our diverse country. It was drafted after many hindrances and united the princely states in the country,” he added.The Prime Minister also paid tributes to those who lost their lives in the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai. “Today on the anniversary of the 26/11 terrorist attacks in Mumbai, I pay tribute to all brave soldiers of the country who sacrificed their lives while fighting the terrorists,” Modi said.PM Modi asp said that Friday's event was not of any government, any political party or any Prime Minister. Rather, it was an event to honour the dignity of the Speaker, the Constitution and that of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-a-salute-to-parliament-says-pm-modi-101637905989923.html
26-11-2021||India||Know your Constitution: Salient features of India's fundamental political code||India observes Constitution Day on November 26 every year to pay its respects to the significant piece of document that lays down the entire framework of the fundamental political code of the country.This year, too, the country has marked the day with a number of events – one of which is to be led by President Ram Nath Kovind in the Central Hall of Parliament where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also address a gathering.The Constitution of India, the longest written constitution of any country, is considered the supreme law of the nation and demarcates the structure, framework, powers, and duties of government institutions, and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and duties of citizens.Here are some of the salient features of the Constitution of India:1. Lengthiest constitution in the world: The Constitution of India, with its preamble and 470 articles grouped into 25 parts, is the lengthiest constitution in the entire world. With 12 schedules and five appendices, the Constitution has been amended 104 times – the latest of which became effective on January 25, 2020.2. Sovereignty resides in the people: The introduction of the Constitution declares that it was adopted and enacted by the people of India and they are the custodians of the Republic.3. Parliamentary form of government: The Constitution of India establishes the parliamentary form of government both at the Centre and the states. In this form of governance, the Prime Minister and his council of ministers are accountable for all their actions, most specifically to the Lok Sabha, which keeps control over the executives through democratic means.4. Fundamental Rights: The fundamental rights of citizens of the country are guaranteed by the Constitution to all its citizens. These include – a guaranteed Right to Equality, Right to Freedom, Freedom of Religion, Right against Exploitation, Educational and Cultural Rights, and Right to Constitutional Remedies.5. Quasi-federal in nature: The nature of the Indian state is federal, in the sense that the powers are distributed between the Union and the state. But in times of emergency, the government assumes a unitary character.6. Adult suffrage: All adult citizens above 18 have the right to vote. In India, there is the concept of ‘Universal Adult Franchise’ which does not tolerate communal divisions in electorates.7. Independence of judiciary: The Constitution of India has made the judicial wing independent from the legislature and executive wings. The judges are free from the interference of other organs of the government.8. Sovereignty: The Constitution of India recognises the country as free and independent, noting that no external force can influence its decisions since the nation is no more the dominion of any other foreign country.9. Secular: The Constitution of India provides for a secular state, ensuring equal protection to all religions, no upholding of any particular religion as the state religion, guaranteed freedom to practice any accepted religion, and equal respect for all of them.10. Single Citizenship: The Constitution of India confers single Indian citizenship, and not separate citizenship for particular states, to enforce the shared sense of unity.On the 71st Constitution Day 2021, President Kovind will address the nation in a speech, following which people will join him live in a reading session of the Preamble of the Constitution.According to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), President Kovind will then release a digital version of the Constituent Assembly Debates at the Central Hall of the Parliament House.The document is an online version of a calligraphed copy of the Constitution as well as an updated version of the document laying down the framework of the fundamental political code of the country, which will include all amendments to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/know-your-constitution-salient-features-of-india-s-fundamental-political-code-101637900027809.html
26-11-2021||India||Gen Rawat is right about escalating Chinese threat to India, so was Fernandes||After Beijing protested Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat’s remark that China was the biggest security threat to India, one gets a sense of déjà vu. Some 23 years ago, then defence minister George Fernandes faced a barrage of protests and criticism both from China and their sympathisers within for calling China a potential threat to India in an interview.Chinese defence ministry spokesperson Senior Colonel Wu Qian told media on Thursday: “Indian officials speculate on the so-called Chinese military threat for no reason, which is a serious violation of the strategic guidance of the leaders of the two countries that China and India do not constitute a threat to each other, and incites geopolitical confrontation, is irresponsible and dangerous.”While China is known in the past to cherry-pick statements to suit its political purpose, the defence ministry spokesperson conveniently forgot that Gen Rawat’s observation comes from the PLA attempts to unilateral change the ground position in Doklam in 2017 and on the Ladakh LAC in May 2020. That India and China virtually came to war on both occasions is enough to substantiate Gen Rawat’s assessment. Gen Rawat was the Indian Army chief when Doklam happened and CDS when Pangong Tso transgressions took place in May 2020.Even as the Chinese defence ministry reminds Gen Rawat about the strategic guidance of the leadership of two countries, the spokesman inexplicably forgot that the PLA threw the written, signed, and sealed 1993 and 1996 bilateral border agreements out of the window when it tried to impose on India the rejected 1959 Line on the Ladakh LAC. The same happened in 2013 in Depsang Bulge in Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) sector and at Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok.The fact is that Chinese PLA actions on the LAC after the 2008 Tibet uprising before Beijing Olympics cannot be justified by any logic other than military. With PLA deploying nearly 50,000 troops across the Ladakh LAC with missile, tank and rocket regiments to back them and fighter aircraft on standby since June 2020, one has to be either naïve or weak to view this as a guarded benign posture of the Chinese army. To date, China has not even explained why it decided to unilaterally change the ground position on the north banks of Pangong Tso and put the growing bilateral relations into a deep freeze. Why did the Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is also the Commander in Chief of PLA, throw the hours and hours of Wuhan and Chennai understandings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the bus? Why is China coercing a tiny Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan to open its borders to trade and diplomatic ties with Beijing with the help of the Chinese army?The timeline of bilateral ties between India and China shows that Beijing has not yielded a millimetre from its position for resolution of the boundary issue or its ties with Pakistan to accommodate the Indian point of view. The May 2020 transgressions show that PLA wants the 1959 line to be imposed on Ladakh LAC and still has eyes on Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. The spurt in upgrading military infrastructure in Tibet and Xinjiang post-Beijing Olympics not only poses a serious threat to India but also is a part of the Fortress Tibet campaign of President Xi. George Fernandes and Gen Rawat were right in their observations about the escalating threat, but the onus is on China to take positive actions on the border to show the CDS his place. India has not forgotten how the Hindi-Chini Bhai Bhai slogan was torn to shreds when China surreptitiously build the Tibet-Xinjiang highway via Aksai Chin before the 1962 betrayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-is-right-about-escalating-chinese-threat-to-india-so-was-fernandes-101637903432914.html
26-11-2021||India||Now, these countries also recognise India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate. List here||Fifteen more countries have recognised India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate, which has taken the list of such nations to 21, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has informed."Mutual recognition of COVID-19 vaccination certificates continues! Fifteen more recognitions for India's vaccination certificate," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted late on Thursday.
26-11-2021||India||India’s daily Covid tally cross 10,000-mark again; active cases up by 193||India's daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 10,000-mark on Friday after 10,549 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 34,555,431, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The daily Covid-19 infections crossed the aforementioned threshold on November 21 when 10,488 people were detected with coronavirus disease.As many as 488 patients died and 9,868 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 467,468 and 33,977,830.Active cases of Covid-19 have climbed to 110,133 after an increase of 193 in the last 24 hours. However, they account for less than 1 per cent of the caseload and have been the lowest since March 2020, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The recovery rate, meanwhile, stands at 98.33 per cent and has been the highest since March last year.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday that a total of 637,106,009 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,181,246 were tested in the last 24 hours.Authorities have administered more than 1.2 billion vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries till now of which 426,210,849 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated while the remaining 776,492,810 have only received the first dose. More than 8.3 million beneficiaries were administered the jab in the last 24 hours.With the detection of a new variant (B.1.1.529) of the coronavirus disease in South Africa, the Union health ministry on Thursday instructed states and Union Territories (UTs) to start rigorous screening and testing of international arrival from the country.Similar instructions have also been given for passengers arriving from Botswana and Hong Kong, who have also reported multiple cases of the B.1.1.529 variant. The variant is reported to have a higher number of mutations and it has been spreading very quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-cross-10-000-mark-again-active-cases-up-by-193-101637900652959.html
26-11-2021||India||26/11 attacks: Amit Shah, Rahul Gandhi pay homage to those who lost their lives||Union home minister Amit Shah and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid tributes on Friday to those who lost their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, in which 166 people were killed.Shah said a grateful nation will always be indebted to the sacrifices of those who died and called the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks a “cowardly” act. “Heartfelt tributes to those who lost their lives in the Mumbai 26/11 terror attacks”, the home minister tweeted.He hailed the courage of the security personnel who faced the terrorists following the terror attacks. “The whole nation will be proud of your bravery. A grateful nation will always be indebted to your sacrifice,” the home minister said.Former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also paid his tributes.Also Read: 26/11: Timeline of Mumbai’s night of terrorGandhi, also, remembered the martyrs of the 26/11 attacks, sharing a two-minute video. “Salute to the heroes of 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. Jai Hind,” the Congress leader said in a tweet in Hindi while sharing the video.Friday marked the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks that were carried out in Mumbai on November 26, 2008. Considered among the deadliest terror strikes in India ever, they were carried out by Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba.A total of 10 Lashkar terrorists carried out multiple shooting and bombing attacks across Mumbai in an episode that lasted four days.India and several other countries including the US, the UK and France have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad.Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed continues to run his organisation and carry out anti-India activities. India has shared detailed evidence with Pakistan on a number of occasions, but Islamabad has refused to cooperate in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-pays-tributes-to-those-who-lost-their-lives-in-26-11-terror-attacks-101637901879341.html
26-11-2021||India||On Constitution Day, PM Modi shares part of Ambedkar’s speech in Constituent Assembly||On Constitution Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday remembered India’s first president Rajendra Prasad and Dr BR Ambedkar, the chairperson of the committee for drafting the Constitution, to stress the importance of the document outlining the rights and duties of both the government and the people.“Best wishes to our citizens on Constitution Day. On this special day, sharing a part of Dr. Ambedkar’s speech in the Constituent Assembly on 4th November 1948 in which he moved a motion for adoption of the Draft Constitution as settled by the Drafting Committee,” PM Modi said in a tweet.“No matter how beautiful, well-organised and strong any Constitution is made, if it is not run by the true, fearless, selfless servants of the country, then the Constitution cannot do anything. This emotion of Dr Rajendra Prasad is like a guide,” he also tweeted in Hindi.
26-11-2021||India||Unaccounted cash seized in income tax raids in Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat||The income tax department has said it conducted searches and seizure operations at the premises of 20 companies in Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Delhi on November 16, and seized around ₹66 lakh unaccounted cash and “restrained bank accounts” containing an aggregate amount of ₹28 crore.The companies are engaged in chemical, ball bearings, machinery parts businesses, etc. “A large number of incrimination evidence in the form of digital data showing earning of huge unaccounted income by these companies has been found and seized. It has been found that these companies are indulging in tax evasion through manipulation of books of accounts,” said the finance ministry in a statement.It cited their books and added they revealed the companies used a network of shell companies to transfer an estimated amount of ₹20 crore to neighbouring countries over the past two years.The statement said one of the companies trading in chemicals was found to be routing the claim of purchases through the Marshall Islands, which is a low tax jurisdiction country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unaccounted-cash-seized-in-income-tax-raids-in-delhi-maharashtra-gujarat-101637899959207.html
26-11-2021||India||Key Bills likely to be tabled during winter session of Parliament||The government has listed 26 Bills for introduction in Parliament’s winter session starting on November 29. Here is a look at some of the proposed laws:-- Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, is scheduled to be tabled following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement last week for rolling back the three farm laws that were enacted last year and triggered protracted protests.-- The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, seeks to create a framework for official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India.-- The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021, is slated to be tabled to replace an ordinance promulgated in September. It seeks to amend the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 to correct a drafting error.-- The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to amend the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003, which provides for the constitution of a Central Vigilance Commission to conduct inquiries into offences alleged to have been committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.-- The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated on November 14. It seeks to amend the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946.Also Read: BJP issues three-line whip to Rajya Sabha MPs-- The Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants, and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021 aims to reform and speed up a disciplinary mechanism.-- The Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, aims to strengthen and streamline the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.-- The Cantonment Bill, 2021, seeks to provide for “greater democratisation, modernisation and overall improvement” in the governance structure of Cantonment Boards.-- Inter-Services Organisations (Command, Control and Discipline) Bill, 2021, aims to empower the Commander-in-Chief or the Officer-in-Command of Inter-Services Organisations in respect of persons subject to the Army Act, 1950, the Navy Act, 1957, and the Air Force Act, 1950, for discipline and proper discharge or duties.-- The Indian Antarctica Bill, 2021, aims at providing a policy and regulatory framework for India’s Antarctic activities.-- The Emigration Bill, 2021, aims to replace the Emigration Act, 1983, to establish a “robust, transparent and comprehensive” emigration management framework that facilitates safe and orderly migration.-- The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, aims to amend Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act.-- The Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks amendments to Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Acts, 1970 and 1980 and incidental amendments to Banking Regulation Act, 1949.-- The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021, aims to amend the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954, and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958.-- The Constitution (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposes an amendment to the List of Scheduled Tribes of Uttar Pradesh.-- The Constitution (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to amend the List of Scheduled Tribes of Tripura.-- The Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, aims to prevent and combat trafficking, especially of women and children, and to provide for care, protection, assistance and rehabilitation to the victims.-- The National Anti-Doping Bill, 2021, proposes a legislative framework to the NADA for meeting the obligations of India under the Convention and the obligations of NADA as a signatory of the WADA Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-bills-likely-to-be-tabled-during-winter-session-of-parliament-101637899539262.html
26-11-2021||India||Indian Army foils infiltration bid in J&K’s Rajouri, kills Pakistani terrorist||The Indian Army foiled an infiltration bid and killed a Pakistani terrorist along the Line of Control (LoC) in Bhimber Gali village of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir late on Thursday.“On Thursday night, Pakistani terrorists attempted an infiltration bid along the LoC in the Bhimber Gali sector. Indian Army troops successfully foiled the infiltration attempt and killed one Pakistani terrorist,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.He said the terrorist’s body, along with weapons and ammunition, has been recovered. Further investigation is underway. The Indian Army lost nine soldiers, including two JCOs, on October 11 and 14 in the Chamrer and Nar Khas forests in Poonch. DGP Dilbag Singh has said that a protracted operation was continuing in the forests of Nar Khas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-foils-infiltration-bid-in-j-k-s-rajouri-kills-pakistani-terrorist-101637898879103.html
26-11-2021||India||National Milk Day 2021: Nation marks birth anniversary of ‘Milk Man’ Verghese Kurien||Friday, November 26, 2021, marks the 100th birth anniversary of Dr Verghese Kurien, who is also known as the ‘Father of White Revolution’ in the country. Every year since 2014, Kurien's birth anniversary has been observed as the National Milk Day.The late social entrepreneur, who was born on November 26, 1921, in present day- Kozhikode, Kerala, played an instrumental role in making India the largest milk producer in the world. He was also the brains behind 'Operation Flood,' which led to dairy farming becoming the country's largest self-sustaining industry, as well as the largest rural employment sector. Kurien also helped set up the Amul cooperative society in 1946, in Gujarat's Anand, and, in later years, became synonymous with it.These, along with further contributions to the dairy industry, earned Kurien the moniker of the ‘Father of White Revolution’ and the ‘Milkman of India.’ He was thus a recipient of several awards, including the Padma Vibhushan (1999), World Food Prize (1989), Krishi Ratna (1986), Padma Bhushan (1966), Padma Shri (1965), Ramon Magsaysay Award (1963) etc.This year, as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the Union government will commemorate the National Milk Day by distributing the National Gopal Ratna Awards in a ceremony at the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) campus in Anand. Parshottam Rupala, the Union minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy, will confer the awards to the winners in various categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-milk-day-2021-nation-marks-birth-anniversary-of-milk-man-verghese-kurien-101637895855877.html
26-11-2021||India||Millet soups to eggs: What states plan for schoolkids under PM Poshan scheme||States plan to provide soya chikki, peanut chikki, chaulai ke laddu, bananas, millet soups, millet laddu, eggs, sprouts with jaggery, etc as part of supplementary nutrition to school students in aspirational districts under the PM Poshan (Poshan Shakti Nirman) scheme. Karnataka is among the states that earlier said they will provide supplementary food from December. The Centre in September expanded the flagship mid-day meal programme into the PM Poshan scheme with an outlay of ₹1.31 trillion, including states’ share for five years. It also added a provision for supplementary nutrition for children in aspirational districts and those with a high prevalence of anaemia. The NITI Ayog has identified at least one aspirational district from each state using a composite index of key data sets that include deprivation enumerated under the socio-economic caste census, key health and education sector performance, and state of basic infrastructure.According to the minutes of the Union education ministry’s Programme Approval Board (mid-day meal) meeting with the states and Union Territories this year ahead of the expansion of mid-day meal schemes, several states submitted their proposals for introducing supplementary nutrition items in aspirational districts. The board approved these proposals with some minor cost-related changes, as per the minutes.Also Read: President, PM to address gathering on Constitution Day event at ParliamentWhile approving the proposals, the board advised the states and territories to start providing the proposed items at the earliest to mitigate the nutritional challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.On October 28, the ministry wrote to states and territories and asked them to include millets under the scheme to address malnutrition and anemia among children.Earlier, the central funds provided for the mid-day meal scheme were restricted to be used for wheat, rice, pulses, and vegetables. States including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat, and Uttarakhand, were providing supplementary nutrition as a part of the mid-day meal schemes on certain days on their own.According to the minutes, Andhra Pradesh proposed to provide chikki (made of jaggery and peanuts) to children enrolled in schools of six aspiration districts--Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Prakasam, Kadapa and Anantapur. Haryana sought to provide pinni to primary and upper primary students in the aspirational district of Mewat.Jharkhand and Kerala proposed to provide peanut chikki to students in all aspirational districts while Maharashtra items such as nutritive slices made of bajra, jowar, nachni, soyabean in 14 aspirational districts. Chhattisgarh sought to provide soya chikki in six aspiration districts, Odisha millet laddus in tribal and aspiration districts, and Rajastha gur-peanut chikki in aspirational districts and those with a high prevalence of malnutrition.Punjab decided to provide bananas to children in two aspirational districts--Moga and Ferozepur-- and Telangana millet soup and sprouts with jaggery to children as a supplementary diet to students in all districts.Karnataka, which proposed to provide eggs to students in seven districts with a higher prevalence of anemia, plans to implement it from December 1. The state will provide bananas to students who do eat eggs.The mid-day meal scheme, which covered students enrolled in classes first to eighth, has now been expanded to include around 2.4 million students in pre-primary sections under the PM Poshan scheme.The Centre and states share the costs under a 60:40 ratio under the scheme.An official in September said generally the states and territories spend 80-85% of the annually allocated budget and they earlier surrendered the unspent money. “But now they can use that budget on supplementary nutrition under the PM Poshan [scheme].”Amrita Johri of NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan welcomed the provision for supplementary diet in aspiration districts but added funds should also be earmarked to ensure the proper source of protein. “We have to move away from just calorie count to have a balanced diet. Besides, the supplementary diet should be extended to all students and not just aspirational districts since there are pockets of malnutrition, starvation, and food insecurity in every district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/millet-soups-to-eggs-what-states-plan-for-schoolkids-under-pm-poshan-scheme-101637897858914.html
26-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: President, PM to address gathering on Constitution Day, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President Kovind, PM Modi to address gathering on Constitution Day event at ParliamentAs part of the Constitution Day celebrations on Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the nation in celebrating the day. Read moreNew Delhi’s air quality plunges to ‘severe’ category; shallow fog likely todayNew Delhi’s air quality plunged to the “severe” category on Friday morning with data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showing an hourly air quality index (AQI) reading of 403 at 7am. Read morePat Cummins confirmed as Australia Test captain, Steve Smith named his deputyCummins, 28, becomes only the second specialist fast bowler to take the captaincy after Ray Lindwall, who led for one Test against India in the mid-1950s. Read moreChhorii movie review: Nushrratt Bharuccha’s feminist heroine shows rural horrors their placeThe remake has a 15-minute prologue, the purpose of which is to introduce the heroine, Sakshi (Nushrratt Bharuccha), as a girlboss, and flesh out the reason she finds herself in a village. Read moreThanksgiving 2021: Look who wished Michele Obama's Twitter familyMichelle Obama took to her social media profiles to share a glimpse of how she celebrated Thanksgiving this year. Sharing a picture of her dog Sunny, Michelle Obama wrote a warm wish for her fans and friends. Read more‘Tie him down…’: Tikait’s ‘unbridled bull’ jibe at Asaduddin Owaisi in HyderabadBKU leader Rakesh Tikait hit out at AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi in Hyderabad. Tikait accused Owaisi Of helping the Bjp and said he should be ‘tied down’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-president-pm-to-address-gathering-on-constitution-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101637893072048.html
26-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM likely to meet PM Modi; farmers, mill workers issues on agenda||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him about the problems mill workers and farmers of the state are facing. Baghel will be accompanied by all members of his cabinet.According to an official statement, Chhattisgarh's chief secretary Amitabh Jain wrote a letter to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) to fix the date and time of the meeting with PM Modi and discuss issues related to paddy procurement, news agency ANI reported.In his letter to the PMO, Jain said that as per the Centre's Decentralised Procurement Scheme and the memorandum of understanding (MoU), paddy is brought from farmers during the Kharif season.In the current Kharif marketing year, the Centre has issued instructions to procure 100 per cent (61.65 lakh metric tonne) of arwa rice under the central pool from Chhattisgarh, the letter said. Meanwhile, usna rice was also taken from the state in the previous years.Jain said that because of these above instructions, there will be problems inChhattisgarh's 416 usna mills and will affect the livelihood of labourers. There is also a possibility of difficulty in resolving such paddy produced by the farmers of the state, from which only usna rice can be made, the state chief secretary further said in his letter to PMO.Jain also pointed out that a sufficient supply of gunny bags from the jute commissioner was also not being done in time for the procurement of paddy.In January this year, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel accused the Centre of reducing the paddy procurement target from 60 lakh metric tonne (MT) to 24 lakh MT. Baghel said that it is the responsibility of the Centre to procure its quota of grains from the state at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and pay the state accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-likely-to-meet-pm-modi-farmers-mill-workers-issues-on-agenda-101637890411984.html
26-11-2021||India||RA&W chief offered to resign for failure to prevent 26/11 attack||On the evening of November 27, 2008, a day after the heinous terror attacks in Mumbai referred to as 26/11, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) secretary Ashok Chaturvedi met then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and offered to resign for his failure to prevent the multiple terror strike that led to the deaths of 166 people and injured 293 others.Piecing together the chain of events by talking to those involved in the response to terror strike executed by Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and likely carried out with the cognisance of that country’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Hindustan Times has learnt that Chaturvedi showed all relevant intelligence alerts on impending major terror strike sent by R&AW to the multi-agency centre of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) for dissemination and action by the Mumbai Police. The specific alerts were sent to the IB by then joint secretary (international liaison) Anil Dhasmana; these alerts were compiled with the help of agencies such as the US Central Intelligence Agency and Israel’s Mossad.Also Read | Manish Tewari’s views on UPA action after 26/11 attacks trigger controversyThe R&AW alerts listed possible targets, including Nariman House, by name. There was also the November 20, 2008, alert issued by the agency to Indian Navy and Coast Guard, which were at the time involved in Defence of Gujarat war exercises in the high seas off the Kathiawar peninsula, about intruding ship Al Husseini which began its journey from KT Bandar in Karachi. The ship, whose latitude and longitude at anchor was given in the alert, was not intercepted on the high seas and the terrorists then used hijacked fishing trawler MV Kuber to reach the outer perimeter of Mumbai harbour on that fateful day.Watch: Ahead of 26/11 anniversary, UPA govt's lack of response questioned by Congress leader; BJP gets ammoWhile Chaturvedi died in 2011, it is understood that Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, after examining R&AW’s alerts, which will still be in the agency’s archives, asked the then chief of India’s external intelligence agency not to resign. Chaturvedi, who was subsequently targeted for not preventing the 26/11 attacks, retired from the agency in January 2009. His Madhya Pradesh IPS cadremate Anil Dhasmana went on to become the R&AW chief in 2017 and is currently chairman of the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO).Also Read | 26/11: The day terror hit usThat IB used these alerts to issue three warnings of impending terror strikes , including attacks on Jewish targets in India’s commercial capital, is evident from the de-classified report of RD Pradhan Commission of Inquiry set up by then state government headed by Congress chief minister Ashok Chavan. The Pradhan report talks about the lack of intelligent perception of threats by both the state home department and the Mumbai Police, and specifically mentions August 9, 2008, alerts from the IB on possible attacks on Taj Mahal Hotel, Oberoi Hotel and the World Trade Centre.To be sure, while Mumbai Police did take the IB warnings very seriously as per the Pradhan Committee, the state of readiness went down over the following months and everyone was caught by surprise on 26/11. That the terror strikes had been in the works for some time (something that explains the advance warnings) is clear from details of the interrogation of LeT’s 26/11 Mumbai scout David Coleman Headley aka Daood Gilani. Headley told NIA in June 2010 that the first attempt on Mumbai in September failed as the boat sank on high seas. The second attempt on 26/11 was successful and deadly with the Union home ministry, state home department and Mumbai Police all caught unawares.With six US nationals and four Israeli nationals being killed in the attacks, both the CIA and Mossad were upset with India for its failure to prevent the Mumbai massacre. Despite this, both agencies and their governments helped Indian security agencies in digging out clues from charred mobile phones and GPS sets of the terrorists using latest technology.Also Read | 26/11 special: ‘Survivors say they are prepared for the worst, now’While Union home minister Shivraj Patil, state home minister RR Patil, and Mumbai Police commissioner Hasan Ghafoor lost their jobs after the incident, director, Intelligence Bureau, PC Haldar retired on his due date of superannuation on December 31, 2008. Clearly, central Intelligence had not failed.Although there was a mood for military retaliation against Pakistan after the Mumbai massacre of innocents, this changed eight month later when PM Manmohan Singh met his Pakistani counterpart Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani at Shram El Sheikh on July 16, 2009, and decided to chart a way forward for bilateral relations. The Pakistani PM promised to bring perpetrators of Mumbai attacks to justice but countered with allegations of an Indian terror threat to Balochistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ra-w-chief-offered-to-resign-for-failure-to-prevent-26-11-attack-101637879543544.html
26-11-2021||India||President Kovind, PM Modi to address gathering on Constitution Day event at Parliament||As part of the Constitution Day celebrations on Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind will lead the celebration with Preamble reading in the Central Hall of Parliament where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a distinguished gathering.President Kovind will address the nation in a speech, following which people will join him live in a reading session of the Preamble of the Constitution.According to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), President Kovind will then release a digital version of the Constituent Assembly Debates at the Central Hall of the Parliament House. The document is an online version of a calligraphed copy of the Constitution as well as an updated version of the document laying down the framework of the fundamental political code of the country, which will include all amendments to date.PM Modi will also inaugurate the two-day Constitution Day celebrations in New Delhi's Vigyan Bhawan and participate in related programmes.According to an official release issued by the ministry of parliamentary affairs, the programme organised in Parliament will also be addressed by vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla.The central government is celebrating Constitution Day as a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav – signifying the passage of 75 years since the country gained independence from British colonial rule.PM Modi will officially be inaugurating the Constitution Day celebrations, organised by the Supreme Court, at 5:30pm in the plenary hall of Vigyan Bhawan. All judges of the Supreme Court, chief justices of all high courts and senior-most judges, the solicitor-general of India, and other members of the legal fraternity will also be present at the occasion.The observation of Constitution Day on November 26 started in 2015, with an aim to give due recognition to the significance of this historic date. This year, too, the nation is celebrating Constitution Day to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India by the Constituent Assembly in 1949.The roots of this celebration, according to the ANI news agency, can be traced back to the “Samvidhan Gaurav Yatra” in 2010 organised by PM Modi, who was then the chief minister of Gujarat.The Constitution of India, the longest written constitution of any country, is considered the supreme law of the nation and demarcates the structure, framework, powers, and duties of government institutions, and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and duties of citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-2021-pm-modi-to-kick-off-celebrations-attend-2-programmes-in-delhi-101637888565207.html
26-11-2021||India||Constitution Day today: History, celebrations, significance||November 26 is observed as Constitution Day or ‘Samvidhan Diwas’ every year, which commemorates the adoption of the Constitution of India. On November 26, 1949, the Constitution was adopted and it came into effect on January 26, 1950.In 2015, the Union ministry of social justice notified the decision of the Centre to celebrate November 26 as Constitution Day to promote constitutional values among citizens, according to a government website.Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, who became the first law minister of India in the Congress-led Centre, was appointed as the chairman of the constitution drafting committee in 1947 and was given the responsibility of writing the country’s new constitution.American historian Granville Seward Austin has described the Constitution drafted by Ambedkar as ‘first and foremost a social document’.Parliament to celebrate Constitution DayParliament will observe Constitution Day on Friday and President Ram Nath Kovind will lead the celebrations from the Central hall from 11am onwards. President Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla will address the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also take part in the celebrations in Parliament and Vigyan Bhawan. Later in the day, PM Modi will inaugurate the two-day Constitution Day celebrations organised by the Supreme Court, at 5:30pm in Vigyan Bhawan.
26-11-2021||India||26/11 Mumbai attacks: Pakistan yet to show sincerity in delivering justice even after 13 years||November 26, 2021, marks 13 years since the series of dreadful terror attacks in Mumbai when 10 members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a jihadist outfit based in Pakistan, carried out 12 coordinated attacks lasting as many as four days across major locations.As many as 166 people from 15 countries were killed in the attacks at the iconic Taj Mahal Palace hotel, the Nariman House, the Metro Cinema, and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, among other places.The November 2008 Mumbai attacks, also referred to as 26/11 attacks, perhaps for the first time drew widespread global condemnation at a scale hitherto unseen and prompted the central government to critically heighten its counter-terrorism operations and re-examine several aspects of its already straining ties with Pakistan.Ajmal Kasab, who was the sole surviving attacker captured by the security forces, later confirmed the assault was planned, coordinated, and conducted by the LeT and other Pakistan-based terror modules. In testimonies acquired by the intelligence agencies in the country, Kasab was quoted as saying all the attackers came from Pakistan and their controllers, too, were all operating from that country.Ten years after the attack, former Pakistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif – in a series of sensational revelations – also indicated that Islamabad played a role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Current evidence suggests that Pakistan's state-sponsored terrorism in the 26/11 attacks has been proved during the interrogation accounts of three men terrorists – Ajmal Kasab, David Headley, and Zabiuddin Ansari.Despite its own public acknowledgment as well as the availability of all necessary evidence, including those shared by India, Pakistan is yet to show sincerity in delivering justice to the families of victims even on the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 attacks.On November 7, a Pakistani court freed six terrorists, including those involved with the dreadful attacks, mentored by Hafiz Saeed – the United Nations designated terrorist who is the founder of the LeT outfit and its charity wing, the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD).Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, LeT commander and ringleader of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, had also been on bail since 2015 after he was arrested, on terror-financing charges by the counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of the country's Punjab province.Lakhvi, also another UN-designated international terrorist, was arrested once again in Pakistan earlier this year in January, but counter-terror watchers indicate that political interference in the country often gets in the way of justice.Terror outfits in Pakistan also keep changing their names in order to escape scrutiny and contest claims, as the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Organisation has amplified its watch.Earlier, in April this year, a New York-based Artificial Intelligence start-up revealed that Pakistan has silently removed the names of almost 4,000 terrorists from its terror watch list. The removed names include LeT leader and Mumbai attack mastermind Zakir ur Rehman Lakhvi and many others.According to International Forum for Rights and Security, in terms of international terrorism, the Mumbai attack underscores the threat posed by a few well-armed and well-trained individuals who could carry out an unconventional attack on unarmed civilians and soft target civilian population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2611-mumbai-attacks-pakistan-yet-to-show-sincerity-in-delivering-justice-even-after-13-years-101637883313772.html
26-11-2021||India||Noida airport will be bigger than IGI in Capital: Scindia||The upcoming Noida international airport at Jewar in western Uttar Pradesh will eventually be bigger than Delhi’s facility and create 100,000 job opportunities, Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday at the foundation-laying ceremony of the mega project.Scindia said Jewar airport, located in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of western Uttar Pradesh, will bring investments worth ₹60,000 crore. The first phase of the greenfield project is expected to be completed in 2024 with a capacity of 12 million passengers annually.“By the last phase of development, the Noida International Airport will even surpass Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport and become India’s leading airport,” said Scindia.The final phase is expected to be completed by 2040- 2050 with a capacity to handle 70 million passengers annually. In comparison, according to civil aviation ministry, Delhi’s IGI airport currently handles 69 million passengers annually, and is expected to handle 110 million after its expansion work is completed.“It was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s direction that Asia’s biggest airport had to be built in Uttar Pradesh,” Scindia said. “Where there is a will, there is a way.... It was an ambitious resolution of the prime minister, which has come true today.”Scindia declared that Uttar Pradesh will have 17 airports in all with the government adding eight new ones in the next two years in the state.UP had six (Prayagraj, Varanasi, Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra and Gorakhpur) airports. The government has added three (Hindon, Bareilly and Kushinagar) airports in 2021 and aims to add five more (Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Azamgarh, Moradabad and Shrawasti) by 2022 .Jewar airport is expected to commence operations from 2024. The government also aims to start flights from Muirpur (Sonbhadra) and Ayodhya.“Earlier, there were only four airports in Uttar Pradesh but now there are nine airports and this (Jewar) will be the 10th airport in the state,” Scindia said.”From 74 airports in the country, we built 136 under the prime minister’s guidance.”Under the multi-modal connectivity system, Jewar will be connected via road, rail, bus and even metro, Scindia said.The minister also said that one hundred thousand people will get jobs.“Noida International Airport will generate employment for one lakh [100,000] people,” the civil aviation minister said while addressing the gathering at Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-airport-will-be-bigger-than-igi-in-capital-scindia-101637887548802.html
26-11-2021||India||Magnitude 6 earthquake rocks India-Myanmar border; tremors felt in Kolkata, Guwahati||A strong and shallow earthquake of magnitude 6.0 struck the Myanmar-India border region early on Friday, according to the Euro-Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC). According to the alert by the independent organisation and provider of real-time earthquake information, the quake struck 174km east of Bangladesh's Chittagong, and the tremors were felt as far away as in West Bengal, Tripura, and Assam in eastern India.As per user testimonies posted by the EMSC on its website, the earthquake was a “long shake” for about 30 seconds in most parts of Kolkata and Guwahati, where the effects were felt."Very strong," one such witness posted on EMSC from Chittagong, which is about 184 km (115 miles) west of the quake's epicentre.M6.0 #earthquake (#भूकंप) strikes 174 km E of #Chittagong (#Bangladesh) 9 min ago. Effects reported by eyewitnesses: pic.twitter.com/vkKuCcT5fC#BREAKING | Powerful magnitude 6 earthquake strikes along Myanmar-India border - EMSChttps://t.co/46wVycgOn5#SputnikBreaking pic.twitter.com/hEGaVPcnpWNetizens, who felt the effects of the earthquake in parts of India and Bangladesh, took to Twitter to report the tremor.#Earthquake shakes #Guwahati. Did you feel the tremors?EMSC later pegged the temblor's magnitude at 5.8, after having earlier given it a magnitude of 6.0, and said the epicenter was about 126 km southeast of Aizawl in northeastern India.According to the National Center for Seismology, the quake with a magnitude of 6.1 occurred at 5:15am. The central nodal agency, which monitors earthquake activity in the country, also said its epicentre was at a depth of 12km and 73km southeast of Thenzawl in Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-6-earthquake-rocks-india-myanmar-border-tremors-felt-in-kolkata-guwahati-101637884518490.html
26-11-2021||India||An order that looks beyond just economics, prioritises humans||As the Covid-19 virus ebbs and wanes, post-pandemic realities are beginning to emerge. They underline a growing set of understandings and arrangements that form the basis of an emerging world order.Empirically speaking, downturns are followed by recovery. The Indian economy is beginning to bounce back with economic output and activity surging. A vaccination campaign of unprecedented scope and complexity has improved health security and reduced vulnerabilities in record time. The stage is set for a return to normalcy and more.This is, therefore, a moment of opportunity. The choices that India makes at this juncture are an indication of where it sees promise of a better tomorrow.The pandemic has demonstrated that we need a more, and not less, interconnected world. Common problems must have common solutions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, over the last few months, has in the G7, G20, in COP26, in the first Quad Summit, in the United Nations General Assembly, and as Chair of the UN Security Council, BRICS, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of Government, articulated a vision of a new world order that is relevant to the challenges of the post-pandemic world. He has also, through a variety of domestic and international platforms, laid down a set of strategies and objectives which will align Indian priorities with this vision for a better tomorrow for all.A major global challenge on which India has acted to provide leadership and direction is climate change. Despite our developmental needs, we have shown a strong commitment to climate action.Speaking most recently at the COP26 Summit in Glasgow, the Prime Minister outlined India’s climate ambition through Panchamrit which will put India on an accelerated track to raise non-fossil fuel-based energy capacity to 500GW and meet 50% of our energy requirements from renewables by 2030 while reducing projected carbon emissions by a billion tonnes and carbon intensity to below 45% until 2030, and to “net zero” by 2070.Articulating the concerns of the developing world, the Prime Minister also called on developed countries to enhance their ambition on the transfer of climate finance and low cost technologies.Two international organisations, the International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, initiated by India, have begun to play an important role in climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts globally. At COP26, the Prime Minister launched the “One Sun, One World, One Grid” for interconnected solar energy infrastructure at a global scale and ‘Infrastructure for Resilient Island States’ for climate and disaster resilient infrastructure in Small Island Developing States under these organisations.India is also seeking to turn into a global hub for Green Hydrogen production and export under its National Hydrogen Mission.The Prime Minister’s appeal for promoting sustainable lifestyles to deal with the climate crisis found resonance at the G20 Summit in Rome. He has proposed a One-Word Movement, i.e., LIFE or Lifestyle for Environment. The adoption of India’s own example of sustainable lifestyle on a global basis would be transformational in our fight against climate change.The pandemic has highlighted the need to de-risk supply chains and make them more resilient. Prime Minister has emphasised three key factors for improving our supply chains: Trusted Source, Transparency and Time-Frame.The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan prioritises resilience and reliability and intends to make India a trustworthy supply chain hub. This is a part of a larger policy framework to augment capacity through fiscal and monetary support, injection of liquidity, financial support for industry, better ease of doing business, and ambitious structural reforms. A landmark production-linked incentives scheme is attracting investment, boosting domestic manufacturing and creating globally competitive Indian businesses. Previously restricted sectors such as space, defence and atomic energy have been opened to greater private participation.A National Education Policy has created the framework for educating a 21st century workforce and making India a global education and skilling centre.India is also making massive public investments in improving its infrastructure. Prime Minister’s Gati Shakti – the National Master Plan for Multimodal Connectivity – is set to create a seamlessly connected India. It introduces a non-siloed approach to connectivity and brings executing and policy entities onto a common platform.Improvements in physical infrastructure will be accompanied by focus on SDG goals by initiatives such as those on digital connectivity, financial inclusion, and immunisation. The JAM trinity, composed of Jan Dhan, the world’s largest financial inclusion programme; Aadhaar, the world’s largest biometric programme; and one of the world’s largest mobile phone networks; has enabled direct benefits transfer on a transformational scale. It is now powering a fintech revolution. Jal Jeevan and Ayushman Bharat are changing lives by providing access to clean water and health care, respectively, to all Indians.SDG 3 sets us all towards the target of ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages. At the G20 Summit, Prime Minister put forward the holistic vision of “One Earth – One Health” for the world.The pandemic has moved international systems to the digital space. Whether it is the CoWin Portal that has managed one of the world’s most ambitious vaccination operations in a user-friendly, transparent, equitable and efficient manner; the Digital India initiative; digital payment solutions; or the 24x7 BPO and ITES industry; India has adapted and continues to go digital.Speaking at the G20 Summit, Prime Minister pointed out that India has certified at-scale solutions for many developmental problems. It is a proving ground of development. It also has vast experience of South-South Development Cooperation and can offer many templates to other developing countries. Earlier, at the G7 Summit, the Prime Minister had announced that Indian open source digital solutions would be available to all.Even during the bleakest days of the pandemic, India did not forget that it was part of an international community. It went out of its way to supply essential medicines to more than a 150 countries. It received, in its turn, the support of all, during its “second wave”.While running a successful vaccination campaign at home, India has also now resumed export of vaccines to its neighbours and partners.Through all of these, and more, India is acting as a key and constructive player in the creation of a new world order that can cope with the challenges of tomorrow. A world order that looks beyond the purely economic, and places human beings, and their well-being, as the ultimate objective.Harsh Vardhan Shringla is the Foreign Secretary, Government of India. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-order-that-looks-beyond-just-economics-prioritises-humans-101637884413867.html
26-11-2021||India||Odisha drug dealer’s 3 dogs are ‘proceeds of crime’, will also be auctioned: Cop||BHUBANESWAR: Three dogs - a White Spitz, a German Shepherd and a Prager Rattler - at the residence of a 30-year-old Odisha man charged with drug trafficking have been seized and will eventually be auctioned along with his other assets once the formalities are completed, people familiar with the matter said, citing the law which allows authorities to confiscate and auction proceeds of crime.The three dogs were among 30-year-old Somanath Bhujabal’s assets seized by the police this week under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Bhujabal, who is in jail along with his father, a peon in the municipality, faces four cases under NDPS and eight under the Arms Act apart from a rape charge.This list will be submitted to the authorities concerned to request authorisation to confiscate Somnath Bhujabal’s assets. Once this formal order comes in, the police will auction Bhujabal’s assets. Including the three dogs, all of them between 3 to 4 years old.Manas Barik, the sub divisional police officer of Balugaon in Khurda district, suggested the police didn’t have a choice.“We had to include the three dogs in the list as Bhujabal bought the same from the money that he made from dealing in narcotics. When we checked his legal income, we found he could not have bought and maintained those dogs from that. In the last 7 years, he earned ₹13 lakh while his actual asset increase was ₹2.34 crore, almost 1,900 times more. Under the NDPS Act, there is a provision of seizure and forfeiture of ill-gotten property of the accused involved in NDPS cases. During a financial investigation, police seize movable and immovable assets which were illegally acquired by the accused from the profits of the drugs trade. So we had to include the dogs as well,” said the police officer.For now, the dogs are still in Bhujabal’s house till the competent authority in Kolkata passes an order for confiscation of the assets.Police said the family has been warned not to send the dogs anywhere. Once the permission for confiscation of the seized assets comes, the police will auction Bhujabal’s property, including the dogs and deposit the money in the government exchequer.Police said the 30-year-old took his first steps in drug trafficking seven years ago before dealing in illegal arms as well. Now in jail along with his father, a municipality peon, he has 4 NDPS cases and 8 cases of Arms Act lodged against him. He is also facing trial in a case of rape.The other assets seized by the police include a 2-storey house reportedly worth ₹1 crore, an ₹80,000 bank balance, jewellery of around ₹14 lakh and 11 vehicles.Last month, property worth ₹3 crore belonging to 10 people was confiscated in Malkangiri district, the second biggest action in Odisha.In 2015, Nabarangpur district police seized assets worth ₹4.77 crore acquired by drug peddlers under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-drug-dealer-s-3-dogs-are-proceeds-of-crime-say-cops-seized-auction-next-101637875473342.html
26-11-2021||India||Tushar Gandhi’s plea against Sabarmati Ashram makeover rejected by HC. He reacts||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat High Court on Thursday rejected a petition by Tushar Gandhi, social activist and great-grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, against the proposed redevelopment of the Sabarmati Ashram, saying the project will draw tourists to the city.The high court ruling followed an assurance from the state government that the project will not touch the key ashram where Gandhi stayed for 13 years from 1917.Tushar Gandhi’s PIL, which was filed in October, was yet to be admitted. He sought a stay and quashing of the entire project that proposes to cover 55 acres of land at the Ashram.A division bench of chief justice Aravind Kumar and justice AJ Shastri relied on the submission by Gujarat government’s top law officer advocate general Kamal Trivedi that the government intended to preserve Gandhian ethos in the revamped Ashram.“The existing Gandhi Ashram in Sabarmati Riverfront, which is an area of 1 acre, will not be disturbed, or in other words, it would be maintained as it is and all efforts would be made even for the improvement of the said ashram, if decided by the Governing Council,” Kamal Trivedi said. He added the remaining 55 acres will be redeveloped and improved.Advocate Bhushan Oza, representing Tushar Gandhi, told the court that the Gujarat government resolution (GR) of March 5 this year, notifying the formation of governing and executive councils to undertake the Ashram development work, would “transgress the existing working of Gandhi Ashram known as Sabarmati Ashram, which is managed by the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT) and it would cause imbalance and thereby the aesthetic value as well as the Gandhian principles enunciated by the Father of the Nation would recede to background or in other words it would be eclipsed by virtue of the said order (GR)”. The court observed that it did not need to interfere now that the Gujarat government has stated that it will not alter anything in the one acre of the ashram where Mahatma Gandhi and Kasturba stayed.The court order also recorded Trivedi’s submission that “for promoting and educating people in the philosophy, values and teachings of Gandhiji, who is the Father of the Nation, this mammoth project has been taken up and as such he states that the state would not undertake any activity in the said one acre area where the Gandhi Ashram is located but the project envisaged under the impugned order (March 5 GR), would be put into action for spreading the teachings of Gandhi and philosophy of Gandhi.”Announced in March, the ₹1,200 crore redevelopment project has been designed by HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, which also designed the Central Vista Project”. Reacting to the high court’s decision, Tushar Gandhi said over the phone: “I am disappointed, but determined to fight it out. I am yet to receive a copy of the order. Will decide on a future course after studying it.”“But at the outset, let me tell you that the Sabarmati Ashram is not just the one-acre that the government told the court about. Sabarmati Ashram was created by Gandhiji on as many as 120 acres of land, for an entire philosophy and ethos to develop, not just to stay there himself,” Tushar Gandhi said.He added, “They may not touch the one acre, but will gherao the entire place with modern-day grandeur and destroy Gandhi’s frugality and simplicity. So Hriday Kunj will be reduced to a postal stamp in a corner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tushar-gandhi-s-plea-against-sabarmati-ashram-makeover-rejected-by-hc-he-reacts-101637871812709.html
26-11-2021||India||Delhiwale: Our inner Aurobindo||Nobody is denying the slow, subtle charm of Aurobindo Market. Its neighbourly vibes, where everyone seems to know everyone, are soothing. There is a certain old-fashioned politeness in the ambiance of its two family-run bookstores, its fruit sellers, and in its many tailors scattered in the market’s corridors. At the homey dairy (since 1974), the display board cutely misspells its speciality, paneer, as ‘panner.’ The market’s dogs rarely bark.But more charming than all of these things are the little spaces that intersperse throughout the south Delhi market, like little islands composing their own archipelago. These are places sans any commerce—they have nothing to do with shops and consumers. Most are grassy spaces. Some consist of benches alone. Parts of the market’s corridors actually stay so quiet that walking through them fills one with utmost peace. The market has many trees too, and gazing upon their dense greens is meditative. (Tailor Izhar Ansari, see photo, points to the tree in front of him, saying that while he doesn’t know its name, the tree gives a khushboo after sundown).And then there are the market’s birds. It is perhaps one of the few bazaars in Delhi where you actually hear the birds chatter—they must be in other markets too, Connaught Place, for instance, has hundreds of pigeons, but you never hear them. Here in the quietness though, their twittering is easily audible.One of the market’s most calming areas is a large west-side plaza partly laid out into a series of lawns. In the sunny afternoon you can see shop assistants sitting cross-legged on the grass, busy with their home-made meals. In the evening, the market’s park, boasting swings and slides, echoes with the cries of children (these echoes sound distant, as if coming from far away). This evening in the park, a woman in long gown is sitting on the bottom of a slide. A middle-aged man, dressed in formals, is swinging gently on a jhoola, in deep thought. In the corner, a girl in denim pants is sprawled on a bench; she is looking at her mobile screen, her face beaming with soft smile. A bansuri tune is wafting from a distance—a flute seller may be walking about in one of the market’s corridors. To cut it short, everything seems perfect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-our-inner-aurobindo-101637871549503.html
26-11-2021||India||Ain’t fighting with minister Rane, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant in unusual rebuttal||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant chose to begin his speech at a meeting of party workers with a rejoinder to those attempting to spread “rumours” of a rift between him and health minister Vishwajit Rane.“Elections are coming close... many times several political parties keep harping on one thing repeatedly. That there is an ongoing fight between me and Vishwajit (Rane). I want to let you know that there is no fight between me and Vishwajit. We are both one,” Sawant told BJP workers at the event in the presence of visiting Bharatiya Janata Party boss JP Nadda.The backdrop for Pramod Sawant’s equivocal rejoinder are swirling rumours of sharp differences between the two leaders. Some of it has been in the public domain. Like their differences over handling the Covid-19 pandemic. Or reports that Sawant initially refused to sign off on bills sent by the state health department that were allegedly considered exorbitant.Once rivals on opposite sides of the political divide, Vishwajit Rane and Sawant, who represent constituencies that share a common border, found themselves in the same party after Vishwajit Rane decided to switch to the BJP to help himself get a slice of power. Since then, the two have clashed including at cabinet meetings over a range of issues that also came to the fore during the handling of the coronavirus pandemic. At the same event, Rane in his speech hinted that there were instances where there were ‘problems’ with the chief minister but said that they were being sorted out. Rane is not the only ‘dissenting’ voice in Pramod Sawant cabinet. On Wednesday, Goa minister for waste management Michael Lobo objected to a proposal from the state tourism department to hand over the recently-renovated Aguada Jail to a private agency for management, operation and maintenance. The jail is located in the historic Aguada Fort, where several freedom fighters were incarcerated during the colonial era.“This jail cannot be given out lock, stock and barrel… I smell a rat. As a minister in the cabinet, I told CM to go through it. This is our monument that has to go to the next generation. As long as I am cabinet minister, I will not allow this to be signed. I will not allow a historic monument associated with the freedom movement to be handed over to a private party,” Lobo told reporters after the cabinet meeting.With elections drawing closer, there is a perception that Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has been unable to assert his authority in face of contrary voices within the cabinet, something that is seen as a sharp contrast from his predecessor, Manohar Parrikar who often had the last word on all matters concerning his government.Besides Rane and Lobo clashing with the chief minister, Lobo has also clashed with tourism minister Manohar “Babu” Ajgaonkar over beach cleaning contracts, and a host of other issues including those involving taxi operators.“It is well beyond conventional ethics for a sitting minister of the government to air his grievances against the government to the media or in public. He should either take it up within the cabinet or if he feels that he doesn’t have the confidence of the chief minister, he should resign from the cabinet,” Prabhakar Timble, a former state election commissioner and political observer said. “It appears he (Michael Lobo) is seeking an escape route out of the BJP, which is prompting him to voice his grievances,” Timble added. While not all ministers have been vocal in public, differences between the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues such as Mauvin Godinho (over the amended Motor Vehicle Act), and Jennifer Monserrate (over the now redacted Bhumiputra Adhikarni Bill) have also been under the spotlight.Pramod Sawant, who was chosen to succeed Manohar Parrikar after the veteran politician died in March 2019, was the only one among the BJP MLAs to have risen through the party ranks and was considered as someone who follows the party’s ideology closely. The other MLAs were in the past associated with the Congress or Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, (MGP).Sawant’s relative inexperience - he was only a second-time MLA and hadn’t even been a minister before the giant leap to the chief minister’s office - was said to be one of the things to watch out for as he led a cabinet with many ministers with decades of experience.At Thursday’s event, Sawant’s speech in presence of his party boss was seen to underscore unity in his team ahead of state elections early next year.“We will come together and ensure that the Prime Minister’s vision, the vision of Manohar Parrikar for Goa is taken forward and the BJP is reelected to power in the state,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aint-fighting-with-minister-rane-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-in-unusual-rebuttal-101637870372458.html
26-11-2021||India||Kerala surpasses 2018 tally, records heaviest rainfall in 6 decades||With many parts of Kerala continuing to get heavy rainfall, the latest meteorology records show rainfall this year has been the highest in six decades and it has also surpassed the 2018 flood of the century. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, Kerala received 3523.3 mm rainfall till November 24 and it was slightly higher than the 2018 tally of 3518. 9 mm. The highest rainfall was clocked in 1961,-- 4257 mm. This year there was rain in all three seasons_ winter, summer and monsoon. Seven months received excess rainfall-- January, March, April, May, September, October and November. The highest rainfall recorded this year was in October, 590 mm and the average for the month is 303 mm. During the northwest monsoon, Pathanamthitta district received 186% excess rainfall followed by Kannur at 143%, Kasaragod at 141%, Kozhikode at 135% and Idukki at 119%. Heavy rainfall in catchment areas forced authorities to open the shutters of Idukki dam thrice (October 29, November 10 and November 14), a first of sorts since the arch dam was commissioned in 1973. Though expected rainfall during the northeast monsoon (October 1 to December 31) is 387.9 mm this time the state received 820 mm with one more moth to go for the season to end. Weather experts said a recurring cyclonic circulation is the main reason for heavy rainfall. “Rain pattern is changing fast in many parts of the country. These are warning signals. We have to realize impending perils of climate change and prepare ourselves to meet the challenges,” said Dr MG Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. The frequency of cyclonic circulation over the Arabian Sea, usually considered a mild sea, also increased manifold while there is a 52% increase in cyclonic movement over the Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019 there is a decrease of 8 per cent during the same period over the Bay of Bengal. The IMD statistics also show nine cyclones or major depressions had formed in 2020-21, out of which four were over the Arabian Sea. The IMD has issued an orange alert in five districts and a yellow alert in four others. It said some areas especially south Kerala districts will receive heavy rain in the next four days due to a low pressure in the Bay of Bengal. Two weeks back the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report pointing out serious flaws in Kerala’s flood preparedness and dam management during the flood of the century in 2018 kicked off a debate in the state. The report assumed significance as the state has been reporting flash floods and landslides in the last three years without fail. After the 2018 floods that claimed 480 lives there was widespread criticism over the way all dams were opened simultaneously and many including Metro Man E Sreedharan had approached the High Court for a probe into the so-called lapses on the part of government bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-surpasses-2018-tally-records-heaviest-rainfall-in-6-decades-101637868091890.html
26-11-2021||India||Few takers for technical courses in regional languages||Technical colleges that are starting courses in regional languages for the first time this year witnessed poor enrolment as some colleges managed to fill only 15% to 30% seats available until Thursday, five days ahead of the beginning of the new academic session, officials said. In accordance with the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 that moots regional language as language of instruction, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) this year granted permission to 20 colleges across the country to offer select engineering courses in regional languages. Of these 20 colleges, 10 colleges chose Hindi to impart engineering course and rests provided the option of Marathi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada.To meet the requirement of the upcoming session, the AICTE has almost completed translating books applicable for the first-year students in these languages, said AICTE officials. AICTE chairperson Anil Dattatraya Sahasrabudhe said that “large-scale” awareness programmes need to be launched by the colleges.“It’s just the beginning and we should be encouraged even if some students are opting for it. At least colleges are coming forward and AICTE is making all possible efforts to provide an option to study engineering courses in regional languages to students. The information may not have circulated this time to places where the target group is there. We need to extensively create awareness about this to encourage more students to opt for it next year,” he said.Officials at several colleges said that parents and students are hesitant in opting engineering course in regional languages.However, Karnataka showed a better response. According to the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), till Monday, 17 students had applied for 30 government quota seats reserved for engineering in Kannada. Counselling session is yet to begin in the state.Dinesh Goyal, director of Poornima Institute of Engineering and Technology in Jaipur, which is offering BTech in Computer Engineering in Hindi this year, said only 15% of the 60 seats were filled as of yet. “The response is not as per the expectation. It looks like we could not properly communicate about the course structure to the students. There are still many apprehensions among students. Computer science students are not convinced that they can do the programming part in Hindi. Besides, they are concerned about how the industry will absorb them after the course. We are expecting that the regional language courses will get more popular in the coming years,” he said.In West Bengal, Avijit Karamkar, principal of Technique Polytechnic Institute in Hooghly district which is offering diploma courses in Bengali from this year, said only 30% to 35% of their seats were filled as of now. “We need to assure students that they will get jobs after pursuing engineering in regional languages,” he said.Similarly, officials at Pranveer Singh Institute of Technology in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh which is offering computer engineering in Hindi, said the admission number is “abysmally low” as of now. “It looks like people are not yet confident about pursuing technical courses in any language other than English,” said Sanjeev Bhalla, the institute director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-takers-for-technical-courses-in-regional-languages-101637867731893.html
26-11-2021||India||CBI special director Sinha elected to Interpol executive panel for Asia||New Delhi: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special director Praveen Sinha was on Thursday elected the delegate for Asia in the executive committee of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) following a tough contest involving China.The Indian candidate was pitted against four others from China, Singapore, South Korea and Jordan for two posts in the election, and Indian diplomats were engaged in a sustained campaign in New Delhi and capitals around the world to get the backing of a large number of countries, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The election was held in the Turkish city of Istanbul during the 89th Interpol general assembly. CBI represents India’s interests in Interpol, which comprises 194 member countries that have agreed to ensure the widest possible assistance between criminal police authorities to prevent crimes.Ahmed Nasser Al Raisi of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was elected the organisation’s new president at the same general assembly. He was elected following three rounds of voting as he could not attain the mandated two-thirds majority in the first two rounds.One of the people cited above described the Indian candidate’s election to the executive committee as the “result of an intense and well-coordinated election campaign across the world”.India sought the support of friendly countries at different levels during recent bilateral engagements. The country’s missions around the world also regularly followed up the matter with host governments. At the same time, the Indian side also reached out to ambassadors and high commissioners of numerous countries in New Delhi, the people said.The National Central Bureau (NCB-India) also reached out to its counterparts around the world to campaign for the election, and India’s ambassador to Turkey, Sanjay Panda, camped in Istanbul for the past few days to hold bilateral meetings with delegations from around the world as part of a final effort to gain support for the Indian candidate, the people said.The people said Interpol plays a vital role in tackling the trans-national organised crimes, terrorism and cyber crimes. India will continue to actively contribute to Interpol’s aims and objectives and to enhance its effectiveness, they added. PC Sharma, the then director of CBI and head of NCB-India, was elected Interpol’s vice-president for Asia for 2003-06.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-special-director-praveen-sinha-elected-to-interpol-executive-committee-for-asia-101637867251864.html
26-11-2021||India||Delhi HC rejects plea seeking ban on Salman Khurshid’s book||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a petition seeking ban on sale, purchase and all forms of circulation of a book written by senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid, asking what it can do if “people are feeling so sensitive”. The book titled ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’ triggered extensive outbursts from certain political quarters, particularly over the fact that the author had compared a “robust version” of Hindutva to the jihadist Islam of terror groups such as the Islamic State (IS) and the Boko Haram. Justice Yashwant Varma, while hearing a plea by a lawyer, Vineet Jindal, said, “Ask people not to buy the book or read it. Tell people it is badly authored, read something better.” “Why don’t you tell people not to buy the book? What can we do if people are feeling so sensitive? No one is asking them to read it,” the court observed. The court also sought to know whether any untoward communal incident happened in the country because of the references made in the book. This happened after the petitioner’s counsel told the court that communal riots might break out in the country because of the book. The court said that the breach of communal peace is a mere “apprehension”. The petitioner said the book violates “the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 19 and 21” of the Indian Constitution. The petition also urged the court to ensure that the book is not published, henceforth, in any form —print or digital. After the release of the book on November 10, Khurshid’s house was vandalised in Nainital. The Kumaun police had booked 21 people in connection with the incident. Khurshid’s book explored the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment on the Ayodhya dispute. On November 17, a trial court also refused to give interim relief to stop publication, circulation and sale of the book based on a complaint by Hindu Sena president Vishnu Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-ban-on-salman-khurshid-s-book-101637866952007.html
26-11-2021||India||Jharkhand ATS arrests BSF soldier, 4 others for supplying arms to Maoists||In a major haul, the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of Jharkhand Police arrested a Border Security Force (BSF) armoury in-charge in the paramilitary force’s Ferozpur camp for allegedly supplying pilfered ammunition to inter-state gangs that sell arms and ammunition to Maoists and organised gangs, police said on Thursday. Four others including a retired BSF head constable, have also been arrested as part of the series of raids conducted across Bihar, Punjab and Maharashtra during which the police recovered around 9,000 rounds of ammunition, semi-automatic pistols, magazines, detonators empty shells from different locations. In the raids, 8,304 rounds of ammunition, empty shells, detonators and magazines were recovered from the THQ Campus of the 116 Batallion of the Border Security Force in Ferozpur, Punjab, while 909 rounds were recovered from a gang member in Bihar and 14 semi-automatic pistols and magazines were seized from Maharashtra. The monetary value of the total haul of the ammunition is expected to run into several crores as each ammunition sells for around ₹700 in the illegal market, police officials said. The development comes within a fortnight of the Jharkhand ATS having held a CRPF jawan and three others for a similar crime from Bihar and Jharkhand during which they had also recovered 450 rounds of ammunition of 5.6 mm used in Insas rifles. The arrest of the CRPF jawan has led to the fresh arrests of the inter-state gang. Till date, nine people have been arrested as part of the syndicate, including BSF constable Kartik Behra, originally from Sraikela Kharsawan district in Jharkhand and currently posted as Kot (armoury) in-charge, a CRPF jawan from Gaya in Bihar and a retired BSF jawan from Patna, police said. AV Homkar, Inspector General (Operations), Jharkhand Police, said, “We have several leads after these arrests. We are working on them and have shared inputs with other agencies as well for appropriate action. Jharkhand ATS has been able to crack down this syndicate with a pan-India network with help from the police of other states and BSF officials.”The officials said the ammunition recovered from the BSF jawans in Ferozpur and Patna were pilfered from the force’s armoury. Homkar, however, said the arrest of the jawans from the force was an exception. “These are aberrations. Our men are honest and we will ensure those arrested are given the strictest possible punishment in order to set an example,” he added. Elaborating on the series of raids, ATS superintendent of police, Prashant Anand said the arrests were made following interrogation of the arrested CRPF jawan and the leads gathered thereafter. Special teams were made to conduct raids across different states. “Retired BSF constable, Arun Singh was arrested from Patna and ammunition was recovered with help of the Bihar STF. Following further leads, Kartik Behra was arrested from Ferozpur and searches at the THQ Campus with help of BSF officials led to the huge cache of ammunition. In a separate raid in Buldhana district in Maharashtra, three people were held as part of the network and semi-automatic pistols and magazines were recovered. These pistols were manufactured at illegal gun manufacturing units said to be operational on the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border,” said Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-ats-arrests-bsf-soldier-4-others-for-supplying-arms-to-maoists-101637866531758.html
26-11-2021||India||2013 Shakti mills gang-rape: Bombay HC commutes death penalty of 3 convicts||The Bombay high court on Thursday commuted the death penalty given to three men who gangraped a photojournalist in Mumbai in 2013 to life sentence, saying that the convicted men deserved to repent their offence and death put an end to the process of repentance, suffering and mental agony.Observing that the convicts did not “deserve any leniency, empathy or sympathy”, a division bench of Justices Sadhana Jadhav and Prithviraj Chavan refused to confirm the death penalty awarded to Vijay Jadhav, Mohammad Qasim Bengali Shaikh and Mohammad Ansari, and commuted their sentence.“Although the offence is barbaric and heinous, it cannot be said at the threshold that the accused deserve only death penalty and nothing less than that,” the bench said.“They deserve imprisonment for life i.e. for the remainder of their natural life... Every day the rising sun would remind them of the barbaric acts committed by them and the night would lay them with a heavy heart filled with guilt and remorse,” said the bench, adding that the convicts “did not deserve to assimilate with the society, as it would be difficult to survive in a society of such men who look upon women with derision, depravity, contempt and objects of desire”.On August 22, 2013, a 23-year-old photojournalist was gang-raped in the defunct Shakti Mills compound. Police investigation in the case revealed that a similar incident occurred on July 31, 2013, when an 18-year-old call centre employee was gang-raped by the same group at the same place.In March 2014, a sessions court in Mumbai convicted the three men under sections 376 (D) (rape by one or more persons constituting a group or acting in furtherance of common intention), 376 (E) (punishment for repeat offence under section 376), 377 (voluntary carnal intercourse with man or woman), 354-A(iii) (showing pornography against the will of a woman), 354(B) (assault or use of criminal force on any woman or abets such act with the intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506(II) (threat to cause death or grievous hurt), 201 (knowledge of act being an offence) all to be read with Section 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides Section 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act, 2000.On April 4, 2014, the three were awarded the death sentence after the prosecution invoked Section 376E (repeated offenders) of the IPC. Both the trials were held simultaneously and three were convicted in both cases on the same day.Section 376 (E) of the IPC was added through the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, and was introduced following the 2012 Delhi gang-rape and murder case, providing life imprisonment or death sentence for second or subsequent convictions in certain rape cases, including gang-rapes.On Thursday, seven years after being sentenced to death, the high court started hearing the plea by the Maharashtra government seeking confirmation of the death sentence. While the bench upheld the conviction by the sessions court, it commuted their death sentence to rigorous imprisonment for life.The HC bench also took into consideration the observations of the Law Commission that the death penalty does not serve the penological goal of deterrence any more than life imprisonment. “We, therefore, feel that a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for the remainder of their natural life without any remission, parole or furlough would meet the ends of justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2013-shakti-mills-gang-rape-bombay-hc-commutes-death-penalty-of-3-convicts-101637865991741.html
26-11-2021||India||Jaishankar to chair virtual meet with foreign ministers of China, Russia today||New Delhi/Beijing: External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Friday chair a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China grouping that will focus on strengthening trilateral cooperation and a review of regional and global issues.This will be the 18th round of talks between the foreign ministers under the RIC mechanism. India took over chairmanship of RIC after the last meeting of the three foreign ministers in Moscow in September last year.“The foreign ministers are expected to discuss further strengthening of RIC trilateral cooperation including exchange of views on various regional and international issues of importance,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.China’s foreign minister Wang Yi will attend the meeting via video link, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular news briefing on Thursday.The foreign ministers meet periodically under the RIC framework to discuss bilateral, regional and international issues. “During the upcoming meeting, China expects to boost communications, strengthen mutual trust and reach a consensus with Russia and India, sending a positive signal to the world,” Zhao said.Following Friday’s meeting, Jaishankar will pass on chairmanship of RIC to Wang for the next one year.Trilateral cooperation has been hit by the India-China standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which began in May 2020. A brutal clash in Galwan Valley in June last year that killed 20 Indian troops and at least four Chinese soldiers has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. Russia has attempted to nudge India and China to repair their ties over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-chair-virtual-meet-with-foreign-ministers-of-china-russia-today-101637865631570.html
26-11-2021||India||Christian Michel begins hunger strike in Tihar Jail||Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal who is being held in New Delhi’s Tihar Jail, began a hunger strike on Thursday to push the British government to take action on his case. Michel, a British national, recently sent a letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson about his intention to go on hunger strike. He had said in his letter, which was handed over to a British diplomat during a consular access meeting on November 9, that his hunger strike will continue till the UK government announces it will apply the “Magnitsky” sanctions regime against those involved in the “abduction” of Princess Latifa of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in international waters off the coast of India in March 2018. He has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from the UAE. He and his legal team have for long contended the UAE granted his extradition in exchange for the seizure and return of the princess. Officers at Tihar Jail, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Michel was refusing to have his meals. The warder of jail number 1, where Michel is being held, had informed the jail superintendent about the matter, they said. Officials had also requested Michel to stop the protest and start eating. Michel is fond of the cats within the jail and often spends time with the animals. He also does not often interact with other prisoners inside the jail. The UK established the Magnitsky or global human rights sanctions regime during 2020-21 to target those responsible for human rights violations or corruption. The name is derived from Sergei Magnitsky; a Russian tax lawyer who uncovered a $230-million fraud committed by tax officials in 2007, and was jailed on charges of tax evasion in 2008 and died in prison the following year. Michel was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 AgustaWestland helicopters worth 556.2 million euros. At the time, he was a middleman and an external consultant for a subsidiary of AgustaWestland. Michel has denied involvement in wrong-doing and pointed to the acquittal in Italy of two senior executives of AgustaWestland as proof that there was no corruption in the deal. In March, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, called on the Indian government to immediately release Michel as his detention was arbitrary and violated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/christian-michel-begins-hunger-strike-in-tihar-jail-101637865451506.html
26-11-2021||India||India condemns Pak attempts to raise bilateral issues at SCO||In a tacit swipe at Pakistan, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday condemned repeated attempts to bring bilateral issues into the agenda of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and said such efforts violate the grouping’s charter.Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing the meeting of the SCO council of heads of government that was held virtually under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan. He also spoke on the need for reformed and invigorated multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities.“It is unfortunate to note that there have been repeated attempts to deliberately bring bilateral issues into SCO. This violates the well-established principles and norms of SCO Charter,” he said.“Such acts are counterproductive to the spirit of consensus and cooperation that define this organisation and should be condemned,” he added.India, Jaishankar said, considers the SCO an important regional group to promote cooperation in different fields on the basis of “universally recognised international norms, good governance, rule of law, openness, transparency and equality”.Indian officials have accused Pakistan in recent years of repeatedly attempting to raise bilateral issues such as Kashmir at meetings of different SCO bodies.During a virtual meeting of national security advisers of SCO states in September 2020, NSA Ajit Doval walked out after his Pakistani counterpart, Moeed Yusuf, projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries and included several Indian regions within Pakistan.Jaishankar, who represented India at Thursday’s meeting, said SCO is observing its 20th anniversary in a rapidly changing global and regional environment. SCO continues to play a significant role in promoting peace and stability in the region in times of unprecedented upheaval, and India is committed to constructively contributing to implementing the mandate of the grouping, he said.The socio-political impact of Covid-19 is “far from over and has exposed the weakness of global institutions”, he noted. “This is the time to bring in much needed reforms to our global institutions, including the WHO, and rework our development strategies to face a post-Covid-19 world,” the minister said.“For this, we need a reformed and reinvigorated multilateralism that reflects today’s realities, which gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges and puts human beings at the centre of our thought and policies,” he added.India believes greater connectivity is an economic force multiplier that has acquired greater importance in the post-Covid era, though “any serious connectivity initiative must be consultative, transparent and participatory”, Jaishankar said.Such initiatives “must conform to the most basic principle of international law — respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity”, he pointed out.In this context, Jaishankar spoke about India’s efforts to operationalise Chabahar port in Iran in order to provide secure and commercially viable access to the sea for Central Asian state.“We have also proposed to include the Chabahar port in the framework of International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC). I would like to reaffirm India’s commitment to cooperate, plan, invest and build physical and digital connectivity in the SCO region,” he said.Jaishankar also referred to climate change being the “biggest existential threat” for many developing countries and said: “As we move towards practical implementation of the trade and economic agenda of SCO, we must simultaneously pay heed to the climate change impact of our joint activities.”India now ranks fourth in the world in installed renewable energy capacity, and its non-fossil fuel energy has increased by more than 25% in the past seven years. It co-initiated the International Solar Alliance that now has more than 100 member states and is ready to share its experience in climate change mitigation and adaptation in the SCO format, he said.The meeting was attended by leaders of SCO member states, observer states, the SCO secretary general, and the executive director of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-pak-attempts-to-raise-bilateral-issues-at-sco-101637865331619.html
26-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: 15-year-old survivor held for killing baby born out of rape||Bhopal: A 15-year-old rape survivor was arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing her 40-day-old baby in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district, police said, adding that she was feeling humiliated and upset over the child’s birth. Ashok Chaurasiya, sub-divisional police officer, Tendukheda, Damoh, said, “The girl was in a relationship with a 17-year-old boy from her village. The boy raped her in February. The girl’s family came to know about it in August when the girl complained of stomach pain. The doctors at the district hospital informed the family about the pregnancy. Later, the girl shared her ordeal with family.” The family filed a police complaint in August after which the accused was apprehended and booked under the protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) act. The minor accused has been lodged in a juvenile home since August 20, police said. “The girl gave birth to the baby on October 16 in a district hospital, where she was admitted due to medical complications. On November 5, she returned home. On November 10, she reached community health centre in Tendukheda with the baby. She informed the doctors that the baby was ill. The doctor declared the baby brought dead,” said Chaurasiya. The doctors at the community health centre handed over the body to the girl’s family after conducting postmortem on November 11. After the postmortem report on Thursday revealed that the baby died of strangulation, police detained the girl, who confessed to the crime, the senior police officer added. The girl was later arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). She was produced before a juvenile justice court, which sent her to a correction home, the officer said. A child rights activist Prashant Dubey said, “After FIR, the police should have ensured the counselling of the survivor because humiliation and depression are common problem among girls after rape. The doctors at district hospital should have also conducted counselling to deal with post-natal depression. The state government should hold an inquiry to know the factors behind this incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-15-year-old-survivor-held-for-killing-baby-born-out-of-rape-101637865154002.html
26-11-2021||India||Constitution Day: 13 opposition parties decide to skip Parliament event today||As many as 13 Opposition parties led by the Congress have decided to skip the Constitution Day celebrations in the Central Hall of Parliament on Friday, two senior Congress leaders said on Thursday.The opposition parties have decided to boycott the programme to protest the government’s “disrespect” towards them, its refusal to pay heed to their demands and hurried passage of bills in Parliament, the leaders cited above said on condition of anonymity. The decision was taken at the Congress’s parliamentary strategy group meeting held at party chief Sonia Gandhi’s residence here. Several leaders, including Rajya Sabha’s leader of the opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Lok Sabha floor leader Adhi Ranjan Chowdhury and the party’s Upper House deputy leader Anand Sharma, who attended the meeting, extended their support to the boycott, the leaders said.“How can we celebrate Constitution Day when the government doesn’t give any space to the opposition leaders?” one of the leaders said. The Congress has negotiated with the Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Aam Aadmi Party, Shiv Sena, CPM, CPI, Revolutionary Socialist Party, Indian Union Muslim League, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha over the opposition plan, the leader added. In 2019 too, Opposition parties had skipped the programme and instead, gathered around BR Ambedkar’s statue at the Parliament complex to read the Constitution, to register their protest. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, among other leaders are slated to attend the event in Parliament at 11 am on Friday. “President Kovind, after his speech, will read the Preamble of the Constitution and also release the digital version of Constituent Assembly Debates, calligraphed copy of Constitution of India and updated version of the Constitution of India that will include all amendments till date. He will also inaugurate ‘Online Quiz on Constitutional Democracy’,” a press note by the government said. Besides boycotting the programme, the Congress, during the meeting, also decided to demand the repeal of the contentious farm laws on the opening day of the winter session on November 29 and seek a proper debate on the repeal bill which was approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.The meeting also discussed that the Congress will reach out to other opposition parties, in a bid for larger floor coordination, and demand in Parliament a separate law to guarantee farmers minimum support price for crops, which so far has been an executive decision. With the Uttar Pradesh elections round the corner, the Congress will also demand the resignation of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that left eight people dead last month. The party will also press for a debate on price rise and compensation of ₹4 lakhs to kin of Covid-19 victims. Congress leaders AK Antony, KC Venugopal, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Jairam Ramesh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-13-opposition-parties-decide-to-skip-parliament-event-today-101637865093463.html
26-11-2021||India||Will revisit ₹8 lakh annual income limit for EWS quota, Centre tells SC||Nudged by the Supreme Court to do a “high-level policy rethink”, the Union government has decided to review the ₹8 lakh annual income limit to identify economically weaker section (EWS) for providing 10% quota in public jobs and educational institutions.On Thursday, a Supreme Court bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, was informed about the Centre’s decision by solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, who submitted that the government will revisit the annual income criteria by constituting a committee for this purpose.“I have instructions to say that the government has decided to revisit the criteria for EWS. We will form a committee and decide within four weeks... we will be revisiting the economically weaker section criteria reservation and take a call,” Mehta, who represented the Centre, told the bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath.The SG’s submissions came following repeated grilling by the top court over the last two months as regards to the methodology adopted by the Centre in fixing the income criteria for EWS uniformly across the country.As it examined a clutch of petitions that have challenged the 10% quota for EWS within all-India quota (AIQ) seats in medical admissions from the current academic year, 2021-22, the court had, on October 21 and October 7, taken a grim view over the Centre’s inability to explain the exercise conducted before fixing the ₹8 lakh annual income limit for EWS.On Thursday, the bench took on record the SG’s statement that a period of four weeks would be required for the exercise of reviewing the EWS criteria, and pending its conclusion, the date for counselling for medical admissions for the current academic year shall stand postponed. The court fixed January 6 to hear the matter next.During the brief hearing, the bench pointed out that implementation of quota benefits for EWS could be a “progressive” policy decision, but there were multiple questions over the manner of implementing it.“If they (government) have to do something, let them to do something reasonably and let them now do it properly. Four weeks is not unreasonably long to revisit the criteria,” remarked the bench while adjourning the case.The 10% EWS quota was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2019 which is under challenge before a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court.Since the Act has not been stayed by the apex court, the government issued a notification on July 29 introducing 10% EWS quota along with 27% quota for OBC within AIQ seats for postgraduate medical courses from this academic year. By this decision, 2,500 PG seats in government medical colleges would go to OBCs and 1,000 to those from EWS.This decision was challenged in a clutch of petitions that came up for hearing on Thursday. The income criterion of ₹8 lakh fixed by the Centre was one of the grounds taken by the petitioners to question the July 29 notification.On October 7, the bench questioned the methodology adopted by the Union government in determining the annual income limit, demanding data that weighed with the government to provide reservation to families whose annual income was less than ₹8 lakh. It asked whether per capita GDP, purchasing power, and cost of living index that varied across states was taken into account before arriving at this figure.With the government not coming up with any categorial response by the next date of hearing, the bench, on October 21, observed that the Centre cannot “pull” the ₹8 lakh annual income limit “out of thin air”, and questioned if the attempt was to “make unequals as equals”.The bench also framed specific questions, which included whether the Union government undertook any exercise before arriving at the income criteria to determine EWS and if so, whether the Sinho Commission report was the basis of this fixation. “The income limit for determining creamy layer in OBC and EWS is same at ₹8 lakh. In the OBC, those economically progressed is excluded so that social backwardness diminishes. In EWS, it is done to include the segments. Therefore, the income criterion in OBC, which is based on exclusion, is based on inclusion for EWS. In such a scenario, will it be arbitrary to provide similar income limit for EWS and OBC,” asked the court.On October 26, the government filed its affidavit justifying its decision to introduce 10% quota for people coming from families with annual income of less than ₹8 lakh. In matters of reservation, there cannot be mathematical precision to determine an income ceiling to identify the poor, the central government told the Supreme Court.The government added that it is not necessary to have different income scales for different cities, states and regions as economic conditions keep changing with time and that a broad criterion applicable to the entire country should be taken as the basis for providing reservation for EWS. These are matters of policy in which courts need not interfere, the government added.Representing the petitioners, senior advocate Arvind Datar and advocate Charu Mathur have argued in the case that the per capita income in states differs widely, and therefore determining EWS at the all-India level requires a careful study by an expert committee so that the ends of social justice are attained. For this year, the lawyers have pleaded, EWS reservation should not be given effect in the absence of any criteria explaining the reservation.The petitions have also referred to a government order of January 17, 2019 which said income from all sources will be counted for EWS reservation. However, in August 2021, another government communication referred to the Sinho Commission that formed the basis for providing EWS reservation by fixing ₹8 lakh as the income limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-revisit-8-lakh-annual-income-limit-for-ews-quota-centre-tells-sc-101637865031742.html
26-11-2021||India||As job demand grows in MGNREGS, rural ministry may seek funds||Faced with a high flow of job seekers in the flagship MGNREGS (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme), the rural development ministry is likely to demand more than ₹20,000 crore additional budget from the Union finance ministry to overcome the shortage of funds in the legally guaranteed work programme, according to people in the know.“We would demand at least ₹20,000 crore,” a top-ranking bureaucrat told HT.The second wave of the Covid pandemic and a slower-than-expected rate of recovery of the economy have led to higher participation in the scheme, considered the last resort for wages in rural India.As of Thursday, 61.9 million households and 88.5 million workers have participated in the scheme this financial year, with only 1.6 million households able to exhaust the full quota of 100 days mandated by the law. These are higher employment rates than in FY2019, 2018 and 2017. FY20-21, which saw 75.5 million households and 111.9 million people, reflected the exceptional year of pandemic and lockdowns.The government’s own data shows that it already has a negative balance of funds with four more months of work yet to be carried out. The MGNEGS portal shows total expenses stand at 100.98% of the funds. While the total availability for the entire year was ₹75,889 crore, expenses as on date stand at ₹76,632 crore.With winter setting in the Indian subcontinent, experts and officials underline that more people are expected to join MGNREGS as November to March is the preferred time for construction-related work.The rural development ministry said in a release last month that the Centre is “committed to release funds for wage and material payments” for proper implementation of the demand-driven scheme that gives a guarantee for jobs or compensation in case jobs could not be given.“Whenever additional fund is required, the ministry of finance is requested to provide the funds. In the previous financial year, the ministry of finance allocated ₹50,000 crore in additional funds for the scheme over and above that of BE [budget estimates],” the release said.Government functionaries underlined that the demand for work has so far generated more than 2.4 billion person-days as employment has been offered to more than 99% of those who sought jobs.“We expected demand will come down this year but economic recovery has been slow. The second wave also contributed to the surge in demand,” said the top-ranking official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-job-demand-grows-in-mgnregs-rural-ministry-may-seek-funds-101637864913031.html
26-11-2021||India||BJP considers farmers God... repeal of laws to avoid tension: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the Union government decided to accept the farmers’ demands of recalling the three agri laws to ensure that the situation did not turn ugly.Addressing a meeting of booth presidents of the Avadh region in Sitapur, Rajnath said that when farmers refused to relent despite several explanations, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed largeheartedness by announcing withdrawal of the farm laws.“I have been born to a farmers’ family, and our party considers the farmers as God. One can just see how many times during the regime of Congress and other political parties, farmers were fired at. But we never wanted such a situation. The three farm bills were passed by Parliament, but we decided that if the farmers were not ready to listen, let us agree to their demands. Our heads would always remain bowed before our annadatas,” he said.“In this UP, innocent ‘kar sevaks’ were fired at during the Samajwadi Party rule. But, we can neither open fire on farmers nor on Ram bhakts,” Rajnath said, pitching the BJP as pro-farmer government ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls. He also referred to the Kisan Samman Nidhi of ₹6,000 per annum that the Modi government has been providing to farmers as proof of the government’s pro-farmer tilt. “I was the chief minister when the then farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait decided to march till the chief minister’s office. The police officers wanted to stop him, but I said, no, we won’t stop the farmers, and we allowed them to march till the chief minister’s office,” he said. Rajnath also slammed the Samajwadi Party chief and former CM Akhilesh Yadav for his remarks on Jinnah“Where was the need to bring in Jinnah in these elections? There was no need to bring in such a person who was responsible for the division of the country,” Rajnath said, adding that several Muslims have also differed with Akhilesh’s remarks. “I wish to congratulate my Muslim brothers for disagreeing with the SP chief’s remarks as all of them agreed that Jinnah was responsible for the country’s partition,” Rajnath said. The defence minister spoke of his recent visit to Rezang La in the high Himalayas in Ladakh, and said that he decided to undertake the visit as a mark of respect to country’s brave soldiers who guard the borders in -20 degrees Celsius temperature. “I had gone to inaugurate the war memorial at Rezang La in memory of those brave soldiers who had laid down their lives to protect the country. Vastly outnumbered, yet they fought bravely and on coming to know of their bravery I ordered a grand war memorial in their memory,” he said. “Just as soldiers are required to guard the country sovereignty, BJP too is required to give good governance to the country,” he said, adding that he was confident of the party coming to power with a two-thirds majority in the 2022 UP polls. The former BJP chief also praised the Yogi Adityanath government in UP. “Today, there is fear among criminals and law and order was never so good. The government is practising clean politics,” he said.Hitting back, the Samajwadi Party accused the BJP of “shifting the goalposts”. “The BJP is an expert at shifting the goalposts. We saw how after troubling the farmers, comparing them to terrorists and in fact doing everything it could to malign the farmers and their agitation, it finally withdrew the three black laws after realising that the farmers weren’t ready to budge. Yet, such is their politics that they are now positioning themselves as pro-farmers. As for Jinnah talk, why don’t BJP leaders consult their topmost leader Lal Krishna Advani and check out his views on him. The BJP’s credibility is so low that the farmers have refused to believe them until they withdraw the three farm bills in Parliament. Moreover, this government has still not given any assurance on law on MSP whereas we have already promised that when voted to power we would ensure that the kin of those farmers who died during the agitation are each given ₹25 lakh,” said Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-considers-farmers-god-repeal-of-laws-to-avoid-tension-rajnath-singh-101637864799022.html
26-11-2021||India||Congress failing to be Opposition... need a national option: Mukul Sangma||Shillong: Former Meghalaya chief minister and incumbent leader of Opposition Mukul Sangma on Thursday announced he was severing ties with Congress, and joining the Trinamool Congress along with 11 other MLAs. He spoke to HT about the reasons for the switch. Edited excerpts:What was the trigger for you to leave the Congress? For the first time in the history of Meghalaya, in 2013, we led an INC government. There was a government led by Congress without any regional parties as coalition partners, which was a trendsetter. In 2018, we were obviously confident in forming the government, but somehow, we could not achieve it, though we did land up being the single largest party. Again, post-elections there was aggressive poaching of our members and we got reduced to 17. But, this group collectively demonstrated commitment to fulfil our purpose as an Opposition. Today, as we look at the prevailing political scenario across the nation and in our state, you can appreciate this decision taken for welfare of state and for larger good of the country. Were you in touch with the TMC for long? It is not right to say we were in touch with anybody for long. This (joining TMC) is a culmination of exhaustive exercise to understand as to how best we can respond to the call of duty towards our people and our state, and our nation as a whole. We looked at the available space before us to play the role of the Opposition, and to ultimately seek the mandate of the people to take over the helm of affairs in our hands. I must be very frank that I met my friend Prashant Kishore ji, one of the most acclaimed and respected strategists. When we interacted, I felt that we shared the same objectives where the interests of the people of the state and the nation superseded everything else. With this exercise, we found a space, a platform and we decided to merge with the TMC. What about the other Congress MLAs. How did you convince them? Do you plan to rope in more? I felt we were all in sync right from the start in our quest to serve our people. Perhaps it took a little time for us to appreciate each other’s common interests but eventually we exercised our minds and came together. Actually, there are other friends who are on the same page but could not make it in time. They are most welcome to take their own informed decisions subsequently. You see the element of surprise was crucial for all of us, hence the announcement yesterday. Do you feel that you have explored all avenues of resolving matters within the Congress party itself? We did try to explore within the party itself whether the INC can really fulfil the responsibility to serve the state. I am sorry to say that despite all our efforts and endeavour, it seemed elusive. In as far as INC is concerned, we have tried our best to prevail upon the leadership... we kept on making trips after trips to Delhi which should have been the other way round. Despite that, we failed to prevail upon the leadership and today, therefore, we look at the available alternative options. It is now only for the Congress to read the bold writing on the wall and understand its essence and meaning. A classic example is the recently concluded by elections here (Congress lost both the seats badly)...There is perception that the INC is failing to be main Opposition. Therefore, our exercise to find a viable pan-India option to take care of the state, of the region, and to take care of the entire nation ultimately culminated into this decision. The TMC does not have much of a base in Meghalaya, do you think it can make an impact here? It is not right to surmise that TMC does not have much of a base here. Late Mr. PA Sangma contested for MP from TMC and won before returning to his old party, Congress. People are aware of TMC’s existence and party can withstand the onslaught of the NDA and keep the interests of the people first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-failing-to-be-opposition-need-a-national-option-former-cm-of-meghalaya-mukul-sangma-101637864432639.html
26-11-2021||India||Noida airport to be new logistics gateway: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation of a mega international airport in western Uttar Pradesh’s Jewar village on Thursday in a major development push months before crucial elections in India’s most populous state.The ₹29,560 crore project located roughly 70km from Delhi is billed to be among Asia’s largest airports when completed in 2024, with a capacity to handle 12 million people.The PM described it as the logistics gateway of northern India, which will give employment to tens of thousands of people and make western UP a powerful symbol of the National Gatishakti Masterplan. Hailing “rashtraniti’’ (national policy) over “rajniti” (politics), Modi said, “Infrastructure is not part of politics for us but part of rashtraniti. We are making sure that the projects do not get stuck. We try to ensure that the infrastructure work is completed within the stipulated time.”Better roads, better rail network, better airports were not just infrastructure projects but also transformed the entire region and people’s lives, he said. “Infrastructure projects such as Noida International airport at Jewar will change the fate of everyone, be it middle-class, farmers, labourers, industrialists and other classes in 21st century…the multimodal cargo hub will develop the entire region and will give new speed, new hope and new energy in this region,” Modi said at the cornerstone ceremony, flanked by Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Modi attacked Opposition parties, saying previous administrations had made false promises to Uttar Pradesh but now the state was making a mark nationally and internationally due to the Bharatitya Janata Party’s (BJP) double-engine government – a reference to the party being in power both at the Centre and in the state.“The thinking of these people is self-interest, only their own and the development of their family. Whereas we follow the spirit of nation first. Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, (inclusive development for all) is our mantra,” he said. Modi said that after seven decades of independence, for the first time, UP was getting what it deserved. “With the efforts of double-engine government, today UP is turning into the most connected region of the country,” he said, adding that earlier state government ignored western UP, a politically crucial region that holds at least 100of the state’s 403 assembly seats. “There was a time when Uttar Pradesh used to be associated with caste, corruption, bad policing and no industrial atmosphere. But our government at the Centre and state changed that perception and today UP has a better image on the global stage as it is on the path of development,” he said.“Past regimes put this state into darkness. But our government put it on developmental path with quality educational institutions, industrial and infra projects. Selfish policies of certain political parties could not stand in front of our patriotism and national service,” Modi added.The PM devoted a large chunk of his 30-minute speech to the airport, which will be built on over 5,800 hectare of land.He said the airport will play a major role in the growing Indian aviation sector and play key role in the maintenance, repair and operations of aircraft. The PM announced that a 40 acre maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility will also be built.“We spend ₹50,000 crore on repairing our aircraft annually and get the work done on foreign facilities. Once we build an aviation hub with Noida airport here, having MRO facility as well with ₹30,000 crore,he move will help in saving ₹20,000 crore and develop a facility for repairing our aircraft in our country,” he said. India spends ₹50,000 crore on maintenance of aircrafts annually, the PM said. With airport and MRO, the upcoming project needs ₹30,000 crore roughly. It means it will not only enable ₹50,000 crore investment in Jewar but also create jobs.Modi said the airport will be useful for cargo handling and beneficial to industrial places like Aligarh, Mathura, Meerut, Agra, Bijnor, Moradabad and Bareilly. “Footwear from Agra, locks from Aligarh and sports products from Meerut and farm will have a global market with airport in vicinity creating massive opportunities and job creation,” said ModiThe PM said that the BJP government had conceptualised this project two decades ago but it was stalled later. “The previous UP government had written a letter to the then central government and had told that the project of this airport should be should not be continued. However, with the efforts of the double engine government, today we are witnessing the bhumi pujan of this airport,” Modi said.“Previous governments never developed a second airport after IGI [Indira Gandhi International] in Delhi, saying there was no need as one was enough in the national capital. But we have changed that mindset and created this second airport, the biggest in the country, because we want to boost air connectivity that is a symbol of growth,” said Modi. Listing recent initiatives undertaken by the government, Modi mentioned the 10 million vaccine dose milestone, net zero emission goal by 2070, the Kushinagar Airport foundation stone laid in October this year, nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh, a new dam and irrigation project in Mahoba, a defence corridor in Jhansi, the Purvanchal expressway opened on November 16, a revamped railway station in Bhopal named after tribal icon Rani Kamlapati and the widening of the national highway in Pandharpur, Maharashtra. According to officials, stage 1 of the airport will be completed in 2024-27 and cater to 12 million passengers per annum. Stage 2 of the project, to cost an estimated ₹5,983 crore, will handle about 30 million passengers per annum by financial year 2031-32. Stage 3 will be developed at a cost of ₹8,415 crore and will cater to 50 million passengers per annum by 2036-37, and stage 4 will cost an estimated ₹10,575 crore and handle 70 million passengers per year.“We congratulate everyone here on this foundation stone laying ceremony because this project will benefit crores of people. The best part with this project is that you reach to world-class Yamuna Expressway right after coming out of it (airport). You can travel to Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Haryana among other areas seamlessly with great ease as it enjoys world class connectivity via railway, road, Metro and now air,” said PM. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, at a public rally in Lucknow, soon after the Noida event, said the BJP government continues to lay foundation stones and inaugurate projects of the previous government. “Once new airports get ready, the BJP government will sell them to private players. This airport foundation is being laid only for eventually selling it,” he alleged.Noida International Airport is a milestone infrastructure project for the NCR and entire north-India. It will change the market dynamics with two airports competing for customers - and be a win-win for all. Expect Noida airport to be a world class asset with very high green credentials,” said Kapil Kaul, CEO of advisory firm CAPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-airport-to-be-new-logistics-gateway-modi-101637864252023.html
26-11-2021||India||Success, despair, victory: Prince’s long road to IIT||On Thursday, November 25, his 18th birthday, Prince Jaibir Singh sat in one corner of his three-room house glued to a screen, attending the virtual orientation ceremony for the Civil Engineering course at IIT Bombay. There could not have been a more fitting celebration. A month ago, Singh was ecstatic, having gained entry to the institution he always dreamed of. Three days later, the dream turned into a nightmare. Unable to pay the fees on time because of a technical glitch, he was told there was no room for him. Three weeks later, and after an intervention from the Supreme Court that propelled him to national headlines, Prince was in an online classroom with his IIT peers.
26-11-2021||India||FB whistleblower offers to testify before House panel||After appearing before British parliament last month, Facebook whistleblower Sophie Zhang is keen to appear before India’s parliamentary committee on information, although the final decision on this is the committee’s. Hindustan Times has learnt that in a confidential note, members (MPs) have been sent submissions by the former data scientist who has also offered to testify before the committee. A final decision will be taken by the committee headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor during the meeting on Monday and it all depends on whether a majority of the MPs allow her testimony.Neither Tharoor nor other members of the panel responded to queries seeking comment.Zhang is a former Facebook data scientist who warned in an internal memo that there was a “political sophisticated” attempt to influence the February 2020 Delhi elections, involving “more than a thousand” people. The network was taken down, according to Zhang’s memo, although the company did not report this takedown. Zhang worked in the social media company’s Site Integrity team. Zhang was subsequently fired from the company. In a tweet last month, Zhang said she would be willing to testify before Indian Parliament. She testified before British MPs on October 28. Another whistleblower Frances Haugen hit headlines worldwide appearing before the US Senate to talk about how Facebook fuels divisions, harms children and urgently needs to be regulated. Haugen submitted documents referencing research by Facebook’s own researchers that included what they (the researchers) said were fear-mongering and dehumanizing content promoted by Facebook accounts purportedly believed to be either run by or associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fountainhead of the ruling Bharatiya Janata party. Another document cited the lack of language classifiers and how the specific lack of Hindi abd Bangali classifiers meant the company dealt poorly with some of the reported content.As the revelations continued to emerge, Tharoor made it clear that he intended to hear from the whistleblowers to understand the India aspect. However, he also said that he needed to seek the Speaker’s permission for this; it is unclear if that has already been granted. An official in the Speaker’s office said there was no communication on this. The official agenda for Monday’s meeting is to hear Facebook representatives answer questions on how they safeguard user, especially women’s safety. While the committee asked for the India head Ajit Mohun to appear, only policy head Shivnath Thukral is expected to appear.One of the members of the panel , speaking on condition of anonymity, said they would decide on Zhang’s appearance during Monday’s meeting. ``Views of representatives of Facebook will be heard, followed by a discussion by the committee on misuse of social media/news outlets,’’ he said. The panel has had conflicting opinions in the past about their purview. For instance, while chairperson Shashi Tharoor wanted to take up the revelations of Pegasus spyware being used to target activists and journalists in India, BJP MPs opposed it. It is unclear what submissions Zhang has shared with the Indian panel. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-delhi-elections-fb-whistleblower-offers-to-testify-before-parliamentary-panel-101637864072307.html
26-11-2021||India||Congress, Mukul Sangma trade barbs amid rumblings in Meghalaya||Former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma on Thursday formally joined the Trinamool Congress, a day after he and 11 other Congress MLAs quit the grand old party and told assembly speaker Metbah Lyngdoh that they have merged with the TMC.The Congress, which has been reduced to five MLAs from the 21 it had when the last assembly elections were held in 2018, termed the development as “challenging” and said they would emerge from the “setback”.Addressing reporters, Sangma said the decision to join the TMC was a “culmination of exhaustive, due diligent analysis and trying to understand as to how best we can respond to the call of duty towards our people and our state, and our nation as a whole.”He said as engagement within the Congress failed to yield desirable results, the legislators under his leadership chose to take a conscientious call and make use of the available space to “optimally utilise our potentialities in serving the people of the state”. He said, “With this exercise, we found a space, a platform and we decided to merge with the TMC.”Sangma accused Congress of failing to do its duty as a “responsible” main opposition party in the country and fight against “divisive forces” in the country. “Therefore, our exercise to find a viable option to take care of the state, northeast region and the country culminated in this decision (of joining the TMC),” he said.Later in the day, Sangma and 11 other MLAs met the speaker in his official chamber and formally inked their decision to quit the Congress and merge with the TMC. Lyngdoh told reporters that he had received a letter to this effect on Wednesday but wanted that the legislators present themselves physically and append their signatures.“I have met them all and they have signed before me. Being a new group now, which is the second largest in the House, I will have to study the provisions under the Tenth Schedule before I decide. But I will not delay and will shortly pass a decision,” Lyngdoh said.Meghalaya Congress president Vincent H Pala told reporters that Sangma’s rebellion against the party was anticipated for a while. “This was their plan for the last one and a half or two years…they are in opposition and they think by shifting the party they may have a chance to be in the ruling, that’s clearly stated by Dr. Mukul and his friends,” he said.He said that the decision of 12 MLAs to quit the party was “not a setback, but a challenge for Congress”. Pala said that Sangma was rattled by the response the party was getting through its youth enrolment programme and was looking for a switch.Meghalaya Congress in-charge Manish Chatrath, who flew into the state in the morning, denied Sangma’s claim that the party was “ineffective” to combat “divisive forces”. “If Mukul stated that the Congress was ineffective, it is he who is to be blamed as he is the CLP (Congress Legislature Party) leader,” he said.The new group with 12 MLAs now is the principal opposition party and the second-largest group in the House. Besides Sangma, the remaining 7 MLAs from Garo Hills, who joined the Trinamool are his wife Dikkanchi Shira, daughter Miani Shira, brother Zenith Sangma, Winnerson Sangma, Marthon Sangma, Lazarus Sangma and Jimmy Sangma.Marthon was the working president of the recently constituted Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee headed by Shillong MP Vincent Pala.From Khasi-Jaintia Hills and Ri Bhoi, the Congress MLAs who joined TMC are former Assembly Speaker Charles Pyngrope, Himalaya Shangpliang, George Lyngdoh and Shitlang Pale.The Congress legislators who did not leave the party are Ampareen Lyngdoh, Mohendro Rapsang, Mayralborn Syiem, Kimfa Marbaniang and PT Sawkmie. Ampareen Lyngdoh said the Congress was looking at legal options to seek disqualification of the defected MLAs. “It is a big jolt, there is no denying. But I tell you we will stage a comeback in 2023,” Lyngdoh, a former minister, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mukul-sangma-trade-barbs-amid-rumblings-in-meghalaya-101637864071243.html
26-11-2021||India||No evidence of state-sponsored riots: SIT to SC||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) that probed the Gujarat riots told the Supreme Court on Thursday that in their examination of officials and cabinet ministers from the Chief Minister downward, there was no evidence of a state-sponsored riot as alleged by Zakia Ahsan Jafri, who submitted a complaint in June 2006 alleging a larger conspiracy against 63 persons including then chief minister Narendra Modi of failing to prevent the 2002 riots.Defending its closure report on Jafri’s complaint before the top court, SIT’s lawyer Mukul Rohatgi said, “A completely irresponsible statement was made in the complaint (by Jafri) alleging the riots to be a state-sponsored crime. I am rendered speechless. Do they realize the import of this allegation that the state and its officials sponsored the riot and even the train was burnt by them?” His reference is to the burning of a train carrying Hindu pilgrims, which sparked the communal riots in the state.The closure report filed by SIT in February 2012 was challenged by Jafri before the Gujarat High Court where her petition was dismissed in October 2017. She approached the top court in 2018 and after a three-year gap, a three-judge bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar began hearing on her appeal.Rohatgi said, “The SIT examined everybody from the CM downwards and all the major people in the state cabinet, senior functionaries of the police and civil administration before filing (a closure) report.” On the allegation that CM did not visit the riot-affected areas even though he visited Godhra on the day when the train was burnt, he said, “Somebody can say CM visited here but did not visit there but how can you say this is part of conspiracy.”Further, Rohatgi found it “preposterous” how the complaint could allege a conspiracy behind the decision of the state government to submit a report of normalcy to the poll panel for conducting assembly polls later that year. “It was a matter of political gambit for someone to hold polls or postpone polls depending on assessment of state and election body. The order of this court is the guiding light which only required us to see what additional material was there with regard to Gulbarga case as the complainant’s husband was one of the victims in the Gulbarga Society killings.”SIT on Wednesday said there was no undue delay in calling the army by the state administration, as alleged by Jafri. Rohatgi reiterated, “If undue delay is not established, this itself destroys the allegation of larger conspiracy. If there was conspiracy of higher officials and political class, the army would not be called in within three hours of the riots. 40 aircrafts were used to airlift the army and in addition, six companies of central paramilitary forces were deployed on March 3.”The SIT did not deal with the meeting convened by CM on February 27, regarding which allegations were made against the CM by Jafri, who accused him of not taking action. “The allegation was that A-1 ( the chief minister) gave contrary directions and delayed requisitioning the army. It was a serious allegation but since she (Jafri) has not read it during submissions, we are leaving it,” Rohatgi said. The bench asked Sibal if they wished to challenge this aspect of SIT report.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Jafri said, “I have not read any part of allegations against the chief minister and am not asking for any further investigation on the meeting of February 27.” He agreed to file a statement in this regard and said, “It cannot be closed as any fresh or new evidence can come up as we know what happened in the Delhi riots (1984) cases.”Rohatgi will continue his submissions on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-state-sponsored-riots-as-alleged-by-zakia-jafri-gujarat-sit-tells-supreme-court-101637863951395.html
26-11-2021||India||Param Bir arrives in Mumbai to join probe||Three days after he was granted protection from arrest by the Supreme Court, and one day after he resurfaced in Chandigarh, former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh arrived in the Maharashtra capital. Singh, 56, now the commandant general, Maharashtra home guards, landed in the city airport at 10.30am and headed for the office of Mumbai Unit 11 of the Mumbai Police crime branch, where he was interrogated till 6.10pm in connection with an extortion case registered against him. For months before he resurfaced, Singh was incommunicado, fuelling rumours that he had fled the country.His interrogation was supervised by Nilotpal Mishra, a deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.Singh was removed as Mumbai Police chief on March 17, by a state government under fire for its handling of the Antilla bomb scare case, where gelatin sticks were found in a SUV near the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, along with a threatening note addressing the businessman. The National Investigation Agency has said that Sachin Vaze, a politically connected policeman, was behind that (the motive, according to the agency, was to regain his stature, dented by a lengthy suspension from the force) as well as the murder of the car’s owner. Three days later, on March 20, the senior Indian Police Service officer sent an explosive letter to the chief minister and also released it to the media, alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed certain Mumbai police officials, including Vaze, to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from bar owners in Mumbai. Two days later, on March 22, Singh took charge of the post of commandant general, Maharashtra home guards. He last attended the office on May 4 and went on leave from May 5, citing health issues. Till mid-August, he communicated with the Maharashtra home department, requesting for extension of his leave due to health grounds. But, thereafter he became incommunicado, as by then five criminal cases were registered against him in Mumbai and Thane, fuelling rumours that he might have fled abroad to avoid the Maharashtra Police. Simultaneously , the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered a case against Deshmukh over the allegations. The case in which Singh was interrogated was one of these cases, registered on August 20 on the basis of a complaint lodged by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, who alleged that Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh aka Bablu and Riyaz Bhati extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar, owned by him. Agarwal claimed that he paid ₹9 lakh in cash and gave two Samsung Fold-2 mobile phones worth ₹2,12,000 to meet their demands. After taking over investigation in the case, Unit 11 of the crime branch arrested Sumeet, Alpesh and Vaze, who had already been arrested by the NIA in the Antilia explosives scare and the connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. During his interrogation, Singh, a senior Mumbai crime branch officer who did not wish to named said, was evasive, denied all allegations levelled against him, and maintained that he had no knowledge about the facts of the case. The official said a questionnaire with over 45 questions was prepared for Singh’s interrogation. Singh spoke in English and responded to most of questions in the negative. The official added that the IPS officer was specifically asked questions relating to the 64 phone calls between Vaze and complainant Bimal Agarwal that took place earlier this year, mentioning his (Singh’s) name. In one call, Vaze referred to Singh as “Number 1”. Singh denied all knowledge of the calls. The official said Singh might be interrogated again. Param Bir Singh’s lawyer Ramesh Mokashi said,” As per Supreme Court directions, we have joined probe. We have answered all questions asked by investigating officer and will continue to cooperate in all the cases. We restrain ourselves from commenting anything further.”When asked if Singh will present himself before the Chandiwal commission, the lawyer said, “Yes, we have no issues.”Singh’s return to Mumbai was set in earlier this week. On November 22, his counsel senior advocate Puneet Bali informed the Supreme Court that the former Mumbai Police chief was in India, but apprehensive of coercive action by the Maharashtra Police. The apex court then granted him protection from arrest, but also directed him to join investigations in the cases. Singh is also expected to appear before investigating officers of the other four cases against him -- one more in Mumbai and three at Thane. The first case registered against Singh, on April 28, at Kalyan was on the basis of complaint by BR Ghadge, a police inspector from Akola who claimed that Singh and others pressurised him to drop corruption charges against three Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chiefs and some civic officials. On July 26, the Marine Drive police in Mumbai registered a second FIR against Singh and several others following complaint lodged by builder Shyamsunder Agrawal, alleging extortion demands of ₹20 crore by Singh and his subordinates. The same day police arrested builder Sanjay Punamiya and his associate Sunil Jain as they were named as co-accused in the case. The third FIR against Singh was registered at Kopri police station at Thane and also relates to Agrawal. In 2016, Agrawal was arrested in a case at Thane and while he was in jail, Punamiya and his associate Sunil Jain allegedly demanded money from Agrawal’s nephew Sharad by claiming that Param Bir Singh was Punamiya’s friend and if the money was not paid then they would falsely implicate Agrawal using Singh’s clout. The fourth case against Singh was registered at Thane Nagar police station in July on the basis of complaint lodged by builder Ketan Tanna, who claimed that Singh and his subordinates extorted crores of rupees from him, by threatening to kill him in a fake encounter.From the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj international airport, Singh went to the Crime Branch office in Kandivli on Thursday in his official vehicle allotted to him as a DG-rank police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-arrives-in-mumbai-to-join-probe-101637863590583.html
26-11-2021||India||Need global standard law for social media firms to curb user harm: MoS||The Centre is deliberating a “global standard law” for social media companies to curtail user harm, amid allegations that tech giant Meta (earlier known as Facebook) was promoting its subsidiary Instagram to children despite potential harm, minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar told HT on Thursday.“The government is considering a separate legislation for social media companies. For a country like India, where 800 million users are online, it becomes imperative to develop a safe and open cyberspace as the country moves towards a $5 trillion economy,” Chandrasekhar said.The contours of the policy, which is still at a discussion stage, will address challenges such as cyber bullying, cyber stalking and child sexual abuse content, he said. “What is needed is a collaborative framework to ensure users are protected against harm and the culprits can be prosecuted.”Meta has been battling one of its most serious reputational crises yet after Frances Haugen, a former company data scientist-turned-whistleblower, on last month told British lawmakers that the social media giant stokes online hate and extremism, fails to protect children from harmful content and lacks any incentive to fix the problems.Chandrasekhar said that at present, the conduct or misconduct of platforms is addressed under the new social media and intermediary guidelines, which came into effect in February, but as the internet continues to grow, so do the legislations governing it.“At present, the ministry’s writ to take action against the platforms only comes in after the grievance redressal mechanisms have failed. The broader issues of algorithmic biases and prejudices, user harm and misconduct are being discussed as part of a new legislation,” he said.Chandrasekhar said that other verticals of the new legislation will cover the lacunae in the present legislations and also take into account user opinion.“The ministry will analyse the sort of grievances received. This will not be a rushed legislation. Wide stakeholder consultations will be done and a draft will be released once the framework is formulated,” he said.The legislation will also address questions of inclusivity and how to make the internet accessible to more people, he added.Chandrasekhar also stressed that as all aspects of cyberspace cannot be legislated by a single country, a concerted effort will be made to increase cooperation between different countries.According to a 1000-day vision document of the ministry, seen by HT, the government plans to undertake steps to establish an open, safe, trusted and accountable internet as it works on high-speed digital infoways and digitally skilling citizens, and formulating global standard cyber laws.On the Personal Data Protection Bill, now called the Data Protection Bill, the Union minister said the government will carefully review the report submitted by the joint parliamentary committee once it is tabled in Parliament.“The bill establishes that internet governance is not a binary. It’s not just about privacy but also covers ease of doing business,” Chandrasekhar said.“As far my reading of section 35 (government exemptions) goes, it is not an absolute right. There are checks and balances,” he added.Five opposition members of the parliamentary committee have filed dissent notes in the panel’s final report citing a failure to quantify penalties and “unbridled” exemptions for government agencies among causes of concern. The report will be tabled before Parliament in the upcoming session for discussions.Chandrasekhar said the government needs forward-looking legislation as it gears up to take on the challenges of cyberspace. “Progress is something we cannot avoid. Laws must evolve as technology does,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-global-standard-law-for-social-media-companies-mos-rajeev-chandrasekhar-amid-instagram-row-101637863411141.html
26-11-2021||India||UP woman raped in moving car, attempts suicide: Police||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly raped in a moving car by a man she met on social media, in Kalgan town of Mathura on Tuesday, police said on Thursday. The survivor later attempted to die by suicide but was rushed to hospital on time. The accused has been arrested, they added. Providing further details, Mathura superintendent of police (SP) Sirish Chand said the woman had finished writing an exam in Agra when the accused, Tajveer, a resident of Palwal in Haryana, offered to drop her home.The woman got into his vehicle to return to Kosi Kalan when the accused, who is believed to be an Army man, raped her while his driver continued driving the vehicle, he added. “A case has been registered under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code against the accused and driver, Digambar, who drove the car when Tejveer raped the girl. Tejveer has been arrested,” he said. The woman was taken for a medical examination on Wednesday. After returning home, she tried to die by suicide but was rushed to KD Hospital in Mathura, the SP said. Inspector general (Agra Range) Nachiketa Jha met the woman on Thursday. Police, meanwhile, recovered the vehicle used for the crime. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918; Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000; ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930; SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upwoman-raped-in-moving-car-attempts-suicide-police-101637862871311.html
26-11-2021||India||Can the Trinamool Congress replace the Congress as the main opposition party?||The 2021 assembly elections in West Bengal gave a double boost to Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress (TMC). Not only did the TMC inflict a crushing victory on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – the BJP won 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections and gave a huge scare to the TMC in the run-up to the 2021 polls – it also managed the vanquish other anti-BJP parties in the state. Both the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) and its left allies did not get even one MLA in the new assembly.Six months after this significant achievement, the TMC seems to be taking this verdict to a next level. It continues to poach leaders from the BJP in West Bengal and the opposition, especially the Congress in other Indian states. The latest is the defection of 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya, which will make the TMC the main opposition party in the north-eastern state. The poaching on the ground has been accompanied by a shrill rhetoric not just against the BJP, but also the Congress, largely on account of it being a poor challenger to the BJP.Can the TMC replace the Congress as the major opposition party in India? Although neither the TMC nor Banerjee have made an explicit claim to this effect, their actions clearly showcase this ambition.Purely mathematically, there is a possibility of the TMC overtaking the Congress in terms of Lok Sabha seatsPredicting electoral outcomes is always hazardous. And the 2024 elections are a very long time away. With this caveat in place, a logical case of the TMC getting more Lok Sabha seats than the Congress can be made. The TMC’s best performance in the Lok Sabha elections was in 2014, when it won 34 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal with a 39.8% vote share. The TMC had a vote share of 48.5% in the 2021 assembly elections and a parliamentary constituency (PC) wise extrapolation of the 2021 assembly constituency results gives it 32 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state. As things stand today, the BJP is a weaker force in West Bengal than it was before the elections took place. This means that the TMC would be hoping to take its Lok Sabha tally from West Bengal significantly above its 2019, and perhaps even the 2014 tally.The Congress managed to win 52 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. 31 of these came from just three states: Kerala (15) and Punjab (8) and Tamil Nadu (8). The Congress’s assembly performance in the 2021 Kerala elections raises serious question on the possibility of replication of the 2019 tally. In Tamil Nadu, the Congress’s fortunes will depend on the seat sharing formula with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and in Punjab, the party has suffered a split with Captain Amarinder Singh walking out. Assam, where the Congress managed to get three Lok Sabha seats in 2019 might also pose some challenges. The Congress’s alliance with the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) failed badly in the 2021 assembly elections and it is facing a two-way erosion of its Hindu base at the hands of the BJP as well as the TMC (Sushmita Mohan Dev’s defection is a case in point).Of course, these possibilities are pure speculation and the Congress’s tally could increase significantly from other states.Just more Lok Sabha seats than the Congress will not make the TMC a national alternativeEven if the TMC manages to edge past the Congress in terms of Lok Sabha seats, its claim to be recognized as the primary opposition party will not have the desired credibility. This is for the simple reason that even in its hour of crisis, the Congress has a much larger national footprint than the TMC. This is best seen in terms of vote share . In the 2019 general elections, the Congress’s all-India vote share was 19.5%. The TMC, when it achieved its best ever performance in the 2014 general elections, had a national vote share of just 4.1%. A prediction that the TMC’s vote share will not exceed that of the Congress in 2024 is far more robust than that of the TMC getting more seats than the Congress.Will the TMC be a better challenger than the Congress?Not necessarily. The onus of preventing the BJP from winning a third consecutive election in 2024 lies largely on the Congress and regional parties in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. 115 out of the BJP’s 303 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 came from states where the contest was directly between the Congress and the BJP. Another 90 came from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. Except having poached Sushmita Mohan Dev in the state of Assam, the TMC is hardly a factor in these states. So, its claims of having a better strategy to fight the BJP, at least as of now, do not inspire much confidence.Is Mamata Banerjee eyeing a return of Jyoti Basu’s 1996 moment?Astute politician that she is, the arguments made here will not be unknown to Mamata Banerjee and her party. What explains the TMC’s push for a national footprint and voice?A possible explanation could be that Banerjee is fancying a return of the 1996 moment in Indian politics, when the BJP was the single largest party but short of majority and looked for friends who would help it find a majority. After the 13-day old first Atal Bihari Vajpayee government collapsed, opposition parties offered the prime minister’s post to the then West Bengal chief minister and veteran communist leader Jyoti Basu. Basu was willing to accept the offer, but saw his party vetoed the idea.One of the biggest reasons the Congress did not have a rightful claim to the prime minister’s post in 1996 was a leadership crisis in the party. The outgoing Prime Minister Narsimha Rao lost his political capital after the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 and an election defeat. Sonia Gandhi was yet to take over the reins of the party. While the current crisis in the Congress is not comparable, it has definitely raised serious questions about the ability or lack of it of the Gandhi family in rejuvenating the party.The TMC has the right to hope that it could be biggest non-Congress non-BJP party in 2024 and this feat will take Banerjee’s clout in national politics to an all-time high. However, her national ambitions have a problem. The United Front experiment of the 1990s was contingent on the Congress crossing the 100-seat barrier, not collapsing. Banerjee actually wants to expedite the latter process. If the Congress recovers significant ground in 2024, Banerjee’s leadership claims will be significantly diminished. If it collapses even more, her West Bengal seats will have little use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-the-trinamool-congress-replace-the-congress-as-the-main-opposition-party-101637860830059.html
