27-11-2021||India||Odisha hikes surveillance amid fears of new variant of Covid-19||With WHO designating the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus (B.1.1.529) as a ‘Variant of Concern’, the Odisha government on Saturday asked district collectors to intensify surveillance, especially for those coming from foreign countries as isolated clusters of infections were reported from schools and colleges in the state.Director, Public Health, Niranjan Mishra said that following the Centre’s advisory for screening of passengers coming from countries where the new Covid-19 variant Omicron was detected, the state government has asked all district collectors, Municipal Commissioners to begin surveillance and testing of all passengers arriving in the state.“Those who test positive will be isolated and their samples will be sent for genome sequencing as per the protocol,” said Mishra.Officials said of the 56 MBSS students of VIMSAR medical college in Sambalpur who were infected with Covid-19 this week, swab samples of 21 students would be sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing to find out why they got infected. VIMSAR Superintendent Professor Lalmohan Nayak said most of the students had taken the second dose of vaccination for Covid-19. “We wonder how so many students got infected despite being fully vaccinated,” he said.On Friday, 26 girl students of Chamakpur residential school under Thakurmunda block in Mayurbhanj district had tested positive for Covid-19 after a majority of them showed symptoms of cold and cough. Swab samples of 15 other students have been sent to Baripada District Headquarters Hospital for testing. On November 23, at least 53 students of a girls’ high school in Sundargarh district had tested positive for Covid-19.Health department officials said authorities have been asked to ensure that those who show symptoms should not be allowed in schools as per the SOP issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hikes-surveillance-amid-fears-of-new-variant-of-covid19-101638037620280.html
27-11-2021||India||Two from South Africa test Covid positive in Bengaluru amid Omicron concerns||Two travellers from South Africa have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bengaluru and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant, officials familiar with the matter said. While an official report is awaited, a government official said that the lab has said that the two were infected with the Delta variant of the virus. Officials said the tested positive for Covid during the RT-PCR tests conducted at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). “The first passenger arrived in Bengaluru on November 11 and the second arrived on November 16. Both were kept in quarantine after the positive result,” Karnataka health secretary TK Anil Kumar said. The World Health Organization on Friday designated a new variant of concern, classifying it as Omicron. Authorities across states have stepped up testing of international arrivals as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’. “The two people who tested positive came from South Africa. The samples have been sent for sequencing,” deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Rural District, K Srinivas said, adding that the lab orally told them that the two tested positive for Delta variant.State health secretary said that they have revised testing guidelines amid concerns over the Omicron variant. “We have also changed the protocols from those coming from South Africa, other countries of interest. Earlier, they only required an RT-PCR test that is 72 hours old. But we have changed the norms to ensure that all passengers will take the test at the airport on arrival. In the case of a rapid RT-PCR test, results will be available in one hour, while for the normal RT-PCR test the time taken is around 4 hours. The passengers will have to remain at the airport, till the results are available,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-from-south-africa-test-covid-positive-in-bengaluru-amid-omicron-concerns-101638037383076.html
27-11-2021||India||Nitish Kumar calls for one India one power rate, seeks parity in consumer tariff||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reiterated his demand for one nation one rate for purchasing power from Central sectors, as he dedicated a stage-II 500MW (2x250 MW) of NTPC Barauni Thermal Power Station and unit 1 (660 MW) of the NTPC Barh Super Thermal Power project, in the presence of RK Singh, Union minister for power and new & renewable energy on Saturday. Kumar said the consumer power tariff would reduce if India were to have one rate for purchasing power from Central sectors. Presently, Central utilities like the NTPC charge different rates for power supplied to states and union territories from its different plants. The rate depends on many factors, including the age of the plant. Bihar will get 402 MW power (60.91% share) from the 660 MW Barh unit 1. Two other units of 660 MW each will come up over the next two years. Kumar took a trip down memory lane as he recollected how the Barh thermal power plant had come up due to his initiative and the roadblocks that came in way. The 3x660 MW stage I of the Barh super thermal power project plant was conceptualised in 1999 and was initially expected to have come up in 2007-08. However, the deadline was stretched as an earlier firm of Russian origin failed to fulfil its commitment. Earlier, Singh said that the installed power capacity in Bihar would go up as its demand for power was increasing. The NTPC group had an installed capacity of 7970 MW in Bihar and another 1980 MW is under construction. Singh said the 1320 MW Buxar power plant of the SJVNL would be ready before its scheduled deadline of June 2022. He also assured that Bihar would get sufficient Central grant out of the ₹3 lakh crore planned to modernise the distribution management system in India. Singh said Bihar had been allotted ₹24,000 crore, second only to Uttar Pradesh, for strengthening of power projects, including setting up 326 new power sub-stations and adding capacity of existing power station. Singh said in keeping with increased capacity of thermal power, efforts were also on to improve availability of coal. Barh has total installed capacity of 3300 MW out of which 1320 MW is already under commercial operation since March 2016. To accelerate the development of the power sector and increase the availability of power and cost efficiencies for the people in Bihar, the state government had transferred the Barauni Thermal Power Station to NTPC Ltd on December 15, 2018. Rajiv Ranjan, MP from Munger, Alok Kumar, Union secretary power and Gurdeep Singh, chairman-cum-managing director, NTPC, directors of NTPC and other senior officials were also present at both the events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-calls-for-one-india-one-power-rate-seeks-parity-in-consumer-tariff-101638036540418.html
27-11-2021||India||Covid: 2 persons from South Africa test positive for delta variant in Bengaluru||Two persons who reached Bengaluru from South Africa tested positive for delta variant of the coronavirus on Saturday.Deputy commissioner of Bengaluru rural district K Srinivas said as many as 584 people arrived in Bengaluru on Saturday from 10 "high-risk countries"."Ninety-four of them came from countries in Africa. Among those, two who returned from South Africa and are Indian nationals have tested positive for Covid-19. The samples were sent for sequencing. We came to know they are positive with the 'delta variant'," he said.On Friday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) called the new strain of Covid-19 a "variant of concern".Also read | K'taka intensifies curbs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, omicron variant scareThe first cases of new strain were reported from South Africa. The WHO has named the new strain as Omicron.Bengaluru on Saturday made it mandatory for people arriving from affected countries to take the RT-PCR test upon landing in the city. Home quarantine has also been mandatory for these passengers.Health minister K Sudhakar said, “People coming from these affected countries will take the RT-PCR once they land in Bengaluru. If found positive, they will stay in and around the airport and undergo treatment when required. Home quarantine will be mandatory after their arrival.”Srinivas reviewed the precautionary measures taken at Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, after the two persons tested positive during screening.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-2-persons-from-south-africa-test-positive-for-delta-variant-in-bengaluru-101638035308710.html
27-11-2021||India||Govt to review easing of foreign travel curbs||India will review its plan to ease international travel restrictions after a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 triggered global alarm. Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed top officials at a meeting lasting over two hours on Saturday to be “proactive in light of the new threat”.The World Health Organization on Friday designated a new variant of concern, classifying it as Omicron after early analysis of case trends and labs tests in South Africa threw up strong signals that it could be a more serious threat than the Delta variant, which has triggered devastating waves in several countries.“The PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’. The PM also asked officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence,” the government said in a statement.Modi stressed on the need to be proactive to monitor the new threat and “intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases,” the statement said. “People need to more cautious and take proper precautions like masking and social distancing,” the statement quoted Modi as saying. Modi’s directive comes a day after the aviation ministry announced a conditional resumption of scheduled international flights to and from India from December 15, after 20 months of a coronavirus-induced suspension.Countries such as the UK, Germany, Singapore, Israel, France and Italy have restricted air travel from southern Africa, where the cases of new coronavirus variant of serious health implications have been reported.On Friday, as fears grew of the pandemic being fanned afresh, commodity and stock markets around the world took their worst dive this year.Multiple Indian states announced they were stepping up vigil on international arrivals on their own. Maharashtra announced penalties on people for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) and said its health ministry was collaborating with civic agencies to increase surveillance of international travellers who are meant to follow quarantine rules. The state also mandated RT-PCR tests for visitors, a step also taken by Kerala, while Karnataka said it has stepped up airport screening.The UK on Saturday became the latest country to confirm infections of the new variant among two people who had travelled to southern Africa. Countries elsewhere on the continent also are investigating suspected cases. Belgium confirmed one, a regional official in Germany said it’s “highly likely” the strain arrived there, the Netherlands is researching 61 new infections, and the Czech Republic is examining a suspected case.A day earlier, Hong Kong and Israel confirmed they had detected the new variant on their soil.During the meeting held on Saturday, officials told Modi they are following a facilitative approach to newer pharmaceutical products. Modi instructed officials to coordinate with states to ensure adequate buffer stocks of various medicines and asked them to work with the states to review the functioning of medical infrastructure, including paediatric facilities, the government statement added.He also called for genome sequencing of samples from international travellers and community as per norms.The meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul, home secretary AK Bhalla, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava, principal scientific adviser K. Vijay Raghavan and several other officials.“The new Omicron variant seems to be worse than Delta; at least from the preliminary data, we will get more details soon. There are two things that we need to do now – one, prevent importation of a case, and two, build better immune defence so that even if the virus does start circulating, deaths are minimised,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore. “Now, how do we do that? There is no need to ban travel to prevent importation. Rather, ask people to declare all the countries that they have touched in the last, say, 10 days. Those who have been to South Africa or other countries that already have Omicron cases must be mandatorily tested at the airport, put under strict 48-hour quarantine at a hotel, re-test and then be allowed to leave. 72 hours would be better. Anyhow, we may not be able to prevent importation even then, but we have to try,” he added. Dr John said the government must now allow booster doses. “The changes in the viral genome suggest that it might be able to evade immunity to a certain extent. And, even though a huge proportion of people did get infected during the second wave, we do not know who is protected and who is not. Why take chances? If the virus escapes immunity, we should hyper-immunise and build a higher wall,” he said. “There is still a huge population – those under the age of 18 years – who by criteria are not eligible to be vaccinated. We should now start immunising them or the virus will circulate among them. The new variant may very well not be as dangerous as it seem, but till we know we must plug all gaps,” he added. The Omicron variant, also known as B.1.1.529, was first spotted on November 12 and is being believed to have led to a surge in cases in multiple African regions, including South Africa’s Guateng province, where the test positivity rate rose from 1% to over 30% within three weeks. The genomic sequence of the variant shared by South African experts showed it has 32 mutations -- for the first time, two of these mutations are in what is known as the receptor-binding domain, the portion of the pathogen responsible for entry into human cells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-review-easing-of-foreign-travel-curbs-101638035159037.html
27-11-2021||India||CJI Ramana backs new hierarchy in judiciary||The central government should consider restructuring the judiciary by establishing courts of appeal to hear cases against high court orders, while leaving the Supreme Court to examine only issues of constitutional importance, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Saturday.This is the first time a chief justice has advocated altering the hierarchy of the courts in India, which will require a constitutional amendment.Speaking at the valedictory ceremony of Constitution Day celebrations in the national capital, chief justice Ramana referred to the suggestion mooted by attorney general KK Venugopal a day ago in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief justice and law minister Kiran Rijiju during his address at a public event.The Supreme Court of India’s current role should be revamped, making it a purely constitutional court to examine only cases involving constitutional interpretation, Venugopal had said. Four regional courts of appeals should be set up to hear cases arising out high court orders, he said, lamenting that the Supreme Court cannot today call itself a constitutional court when it has to deal with even rent control and matrimonial disputes.“The attorney general’s suggestions yesterday were also enlightening. While highlighting the issue of judicial pendency, he proposed the restructuring of the judicial system and altering the hierarchy of the courts,” the chief justice said on Saturday. “This is something that merits consideration by the government.”Justice Ramana regretted lack of study in the past 75 years to review the existing system of courts. “Since independence, I do not think there has been a serious study to consider what exactly should be the structural hierarchy of judiciary in India,” he said.“It is good that a chief justice is thinking about the issue,” Venugopal told HT. “I have been advocating this point since 2010, highlighting how the Supreme Court has drowned itself in cases that should may have nothing to do with settling points of law or constitutional issues.”It is possible to establish four regional courts of appeals with 15 judges each through a constitutional amendment, Venugopal said. “This will bring down the pendency in the Supreme Court while ensuring speedy disposal of cases of the litigants aggrieved of the high court orders by the courts of appeals,” the government’s chief legal advisor said. “At the same time, the Supreme Court could then sit in larger benches to decide issues of constitutional importance.”Article 124 of the Constitution prescribes the establishment of the Supreme Court of India with the number of judges specified by Parliament. The Supreme Court currently has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges. Similarly, there are provisions in the Constitution mandating that appeals arising out of high courts shall be examined by the Supreme Court. Article 214 lays down that every state would have a high court.Another issue flagged by the chief justice in his address pertained to absence of legislative impact study by the Union government before a new law is brought into force. “Another issue is that the legislature does not conduct studies or assess the impact of the laws that it passes. This sometimes leads to big issues,” he said. “The introduction of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act (criminal prosecution in cheque bounce cases) is an example of this. Now, the already burdened magistrates are further burdened by thousands of these cases.”The judge added that rebranding the existing courts as commercial courts, without creating a special infrastructure, will not have any impact on the pendency.Recently, a Supreme Court bench, led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, had underscored the spate of issues emanating due to absence of a legislative impact study before the new consumer protection law was notified in July 2020. Justice Kaul prodded the government into conducting a study even as the law was being enforced. This study threw up several problems with the new law. It recommended that the monetary jurisdiction of district and state consumer commissions should be reviewed.Justice Ramana also said that if people are unaware about their rights and entitlements, they cannot claim benefit from them. “People also need to know the scope and limitations of the roles ascribed to the different organs of the State. We need to clear the prevailing misconceptions. For example, many people in this country believe that it is the courts which make the laws,” he added.“We must remember that whatever criticism or obstacle that we may encounter, our mission to render justice cannot stop,” he said. “We have to march on in pursuing our duty to strengthen the judiciary and protect the rights of the citizenry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-backs-new-hierarchy-in-judiciary-101638035158174.html
27-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Nod on booster dose from Centre may come soon, says Karnataka minister||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said on Saturday the state government has sought the Centre’s approval regarding administering of booster dose against Covid-19. He said once approval comes, booster doses would be given to frontline workers on a priority basis, adding the nod may come in a week."We have made a request to the central government for the administering of booster doses. It will be administered to frontline workers on priority on getting approval. We may get approval in a week," Ashoka was quoted as saying by news agency PTI following a meeting with chief minister Basavarao Bommai over the pandemic situation in the state.The state government announced a number of precautionary measures, including mandatory testing for Covid-19 of international arrivals and heightened border checks in the wake of the detection of a number of clusters and the threat of a new Covid-19 variant, named omicron, looming large.Also read | Omicron scare: Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsAshoka further said another round of meetings will be held under the CM's leadership and separate guidelines will be issued for Christmas and New Year celebrations.Stating that no new variant cases have been reported in the state so far, he said, experts have told the state government that the new Omicron variant spreads five times faster than the existing ones.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nod-on-booster-dose-from-centre-may-come-soon-says-karnataka-minister-101638033340360.html
27-11-2021||India||Tripura govt asks police to review UAPA cases against 102 social media users||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has asked the director general of police to review cases where 102 social media users including advocates, journalists, and social activists were booked for sharing and speaking out online over alleged vandalism of religious structures that happened in October. The CM has also asked the police top brass to submit a report. Following the order from the chief minister’s office, DGP VS Yadav directed the Crime Branch to look into these cases. An official from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that stern action will be taken against those who attempted to spread rumours to disturb communal harmony in the state. If the review report finds no evidence against the accused people of spreading rumours of communal disturbances, the state might drop their cases. “There was a conspiracy to disturb law and order by posting fake photos and videos on social media a few days back. Tripura police booked 102 people in order to maintain harmony and bring the situation under control then and the CM has asked the DGP to review these cases,” said the official. Tripura police booked at least 102 social media account holders including 68 people with Twitter accounts under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act along with other charges for posting distorted news regarding communal violence in the state on November 3. Letters were also sent by the administration to these social media platforms to block these accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-asks-police-to-review-uapa-cases-against-102-social-media-users-101638033538733.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron: Why easing of international travel curbs has come under review | 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed government officials to review the plans for relaxing international travel restrictions amid worldwide apprehension over the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. Several countries have isolated South Africa, where the new variant has been identified first. This happens a day after India decided to resume regular international flight services from December 15.Here are 10 points to know regarding international travel after Omicron has been identified:1. South Africa, Botswana, Israel, Hong Kong reported cases of this new variant. On Saturday, the United Kingdom too confirmed two cases of this new variant.2. India has already put all these countries under "at-risk" list, which means people arriving from these countries or transiting through these countries will have to undergo rigorous screening upon arrival in India.Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scare3. As far as India's international flight resumption plan is concerned, the civil aviation ministry so far decided that 100% resumption will not take place in these "at-risk" countries. India will resume 75% of services in countries that have air bubble agreements with New Delhi and 50% in those which do not have the agreement.4. But this was decided before countries across the world started restricting flights from South Africa. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged PM Modi to stop flights from the affected countries, the number of which is only increasing.5. Unless the flights are absolutely restricted from the affected countries, the pressure of testing each and every passenger coming from these countries will mount on states. For example, Karnataka said more than 1,000 people have come from South Africa and all of them have been tested. Around 584 passengers came to Bengaluru from 10 high-risk nations. Two of them have tested Covid positive, but of Delta, not the new variant.6. Imposing a blanket ban again on international flights at a time when the pandemic-hit industry is trying to recover is a tough choice for countries.7. With the increasing threats of Omicron, inter-state travel restrictions are also making a comeback as Karnataka has again made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for people travelling to the state from Kerala and Maharashtra.8. The World Health Organization has appealed to countries in the South-East Asia region to scale up surveillance.9. Top US immunologist Dr Anthony Fauci observed that a lot of travel is involved in the spread of Omicron. Though there is no indication that the variant is present in the United States, anything is possible, Fauci said.10. A survey in India has revealed that the majority of people want the government to reconsider the resumption of international flights from December 15 amid the Omicron scare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-why-easing-of-international-travel-curbs-has-come-under-review-10-points-101638032303463.html
27-11-2021||India||Central team tours flood-hit areas of Andhra as heavy rain lashes few districts||Moderate to heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh since Friday evening, as a seven-member inter-ministerial team of the Central government began touring the rain-ravaged areas of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra on Saturday.According to the official bulletin from the AP State Development and Planning Society, Irugulam of Satyavedu block in Chittoor district bordering Tamil Nadu received rainfall of 7.2 cm in the last 24 hours. Since Saturday morning till 5 pm, it witnessed rainfall of 4 cm.There was rainfall of 2.3 cm in Chittoor town, 2.2 cm in Yadamarri block, 2.1 cm in Nagari and 2.0 cm in Puttur. Many other parts of the district received 1 cm to 1.9 cm in the last 24 hours.A weather bulletin from the India Meteorological Department, Amaravati said that south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions are going to witness light to moderate rain or thundershowers at a few places, while heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places. Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are likely to occur at isolated places in Rayalaseema.Another bulletin from the Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, said squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-60 km per hour is very likely over southwest Bay of Bengal. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into the above sea areas till December 1,” the bulletin said.On Saturday, the Central team headed by Kunal Satyarthi from the Ministry of Home Affairs, began its tour of the flood-affected areas, starting from Chittoor. The team also includes Abhey Kumar from the finance ministry, Dr K Manoharan from the department of agriculture, Srinivasu Bairy from the water resources department, Shivani Sharma from the ministry of power, Shravan Kumar Singh from the ministry of roadways and Anil Kumar Singh from the ministry of rural development.The Central team inspected the flooded farmlands, damaged check dams and national highways at various places in Chandragiri assembly and other constituencies in Chittoor district.Earlier, the team had an interaction with state government officials at a private hotel in Chittoor to get the version of the government. State revenue and disaster management principal secretary Usha Rani gave a power point presentation of the flood-hit areas and the damages incurred due to heavy rainfall between November 13 and 20.She explained how unprecedented rainfall ranging from 15 cm to 20 cm in Rayalaseema had destroyed road network in the region, besides causing breaches to several tanks constructed during the reign of Vijayanagara emperors.“The breach caused to Annamayya project in Kadapa district, led to inundation of several villages and the loss of over 20 lives, she said, adding that in all, 44 people had died and another 15 were still missing in Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur districts,” Usha Rani said, and asked for liberal assistance from the Centre towards relief and restoration work.The Central team asked the state government to submit a detailed sector-wise report of loss of properties, besides crop loss. “We shall tour the affected areas to get first-hand information about the losses and submit a report to the Centre for necessary action,” Satyarthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-tours-flood-hit-areas-of-andhra-as-heavy-rain-lashes-few-districts-101638030778386.html
27-11-2021||India||Odisha ASHA worker is among Forbes 21 powerful women of India||Had it not been for the efforts of Matilda Kullu, people in her village would still be resorting to black magic for health ailments rather than visiting the local hospital. The 45-year-old tribal ASHA worker from Odisha’s Sundargarh district has been featured in the Forbes India W-Power 2021 list along with names like banker Arundhati Bhattacharya and actress Rasika DuggalMatilda, who was appointed an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) for Gargadbahal village in Baragaon tehsil of Odisha’s Sundargarh district 15 years ago did not have it easy when she started her work.“People did not think of going to the hospital when they fell sick. When I used to advise people to go to the hospital, they used to ridicule me. I also had to bear the brunt of casteism,” she said. “It took years of work before I could make people understand the need to visit doctors instead of rushing to the local witch doctor.”As one of the 47000-odd ASHA workers in Odisha, Matilda’s hands have always been full with her daily workload comprising door-to-door to check immunization of new-borns as well as adolescent girls, ante-natal check-up, post-natal check-up, counselling of women on birth preparedness, breastfeeding and complementary feeding, and prevention of common infections including reproductive tract infection and sexually transmitted infection.Her day begins at 5 in the morning, as she rushes to finish her household chores - prepare lunch for the family of four, feeding the cattle - before hopping onto her cycle for door-to-door visits. When the pandemic began last year, Matilda’s schedule became more hectic as she got busy visiting 50-60 households every day to check on people suspected of having Covid symptoms.“Every day I would get out of home and visit families looking for Covid suspects and then inform the local primary health centre. People were scared of being taken for tests as there was a lot of stigma attached to a Covid patient last year,” said Matilda.Though her job entailed meeting people at their homes, a majority of ASHAs were not provided with personal protective equipment (PPE), or masks, gloves and sanitisers. After the first wave ebbed and vaccination started, Matilda said she had a tough time convincing villagers to get vaccinated.“As I have been working with people in my village for a long time, they listened to me and got vaccinated,” said Matilda, who rues that despite all the hard work she puts in, the remuneration is a measly ₹4500. “During the pandemic, the state government had given a one-time incentive of ₹2000 but now that has been withdrawn and we just get ₹4500.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-asha-worker-is-among-forbes-21-powerful-women-of-india-101638027358149.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: What Dr Anthony Fauci says about omicron Covid-19 variant and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron: 5 things Dr Fauci says about this new variant of Covid-19Scientists of the United States are actively communicating with their colleagues in South Africa to get more details about Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19, America's top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said. Read more.'A group of farmers…': Govt note on farm law repeal; 'Why rub it in,' asks CongIn the note on farm law repeal, sent to Parliament members, ahead of the winter session of Parliament starting from November 29, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has defended the three contentious farm laws and wrote "...only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws...", without making any departure from the earlier stance of the government. Read more.Judges to use utmost discretion in making courtroom comments: President KovindIndiscreet remarks by judges in the courtrooms can give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary, said President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday as he expressed pain at how disparaging remarks have been made against the most trusted institution of the judiciary of late on social media platforms. Read more.'What is the penalty? Is it written?': Furious Gavaskar lashes out at umpires for warning R Ashwin for his follow throughVeteran Indian spinner Ravichandran Ashwin was relentless with his efforts to get India the much-needed breakthrough on day 3 of the Kanpur Test. Read more.Aishwarya Rai once served food to 30 people herself, recalls Vishal Dadlani: 'There were no cameras for publicity'Musician Vishal Dadlani has revealed that Aishwarya Rai Bachchan once served food to 30 people who were on a tour with her, and Amitabh Bachchan. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-what-dr-anthony-fauci-says-about-omicron-covid-19-variant-101638025872374.html
27-11-2021||India||Tiger census in Sunderbans, due to begin from Dec 5 will turn paperless||The tiger census in the Sunderbans, scheduled to take off from December 5, will be completely paperless this year, forest officials in West Bengal said.The Sunderbans, formed by the River Ganges and River Brahmaputra, is the world’s largest and only mangrove delta inhabited by tigers. There are around 100 tigers each in India and Bangladesh over which the forest spreads.“For the first time, the tiger estimation in the Sunderbans will be held in a completely paperless manner. The tiger estimation will take off on December 5 this year and continue over the next two months till February 15, 2022,” said S Jones Justin, deputy field director of the STR.Till the last census, officials used to take down data in the field with pen and paper, this time it will be uploaded digitally through two apps – Polygon search and patrol app and MSTrIPES, a GIS-based patrolling module, will also be used.“MSTrIPES was used in tiger estimation in some national parks and tiger reserves in the last census too. In the Sunderbans, it will be done for the first time. We are trying to be do this exercise in a paperless manner as much as possible,” said a senior official of the National Tiger Conservation Authority.The census will take off next week with the installation of trap cameras in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Thereafter officials will undertake the sign survey and transect survey to study the habitat and prey abundance.“Later the cameras will be installed in the South 24 Parganas forest division. The entire exercise will continue till February next year,” said an official.This time officials plan to install 788 pairs of camera traps, compared to 600 pairs used during the last exercise.The Indian part of the Sunderbans comprises 102 islands out of which 54 are inhabited by humans. Tigers live in the remaining islands. Every year thousands of people enter the forest to collect honey and catch fish, crabs and prawns legally and illegally and get attacked by tigers and crocodiles. Many cases go unreported.The Sunderbans account for the highest number of tiger attacks in the country with around 30 people being killed between 2017 and 2019. Every year more than 100 people are mauled. But these are just official figures and the total numbers could be much more, both villagers and forest officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-census-in-sunderbans-due-to-begin-from-dec-5-will-turn-paperless-101638025617921.html
27-11-2021||India||K'taka intensifies curbs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, omicron variant scare||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday held a meeting with experts of the health and disaster department in view of the emergence of the omicron variant of the coronavirus and rising Covid-19 cases in the state, including some clusters in a few colleges. As part of the latest measures, it was decided that strict monitoring would be in place in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, besides tight recce on national highways and negative RT-PCR report for anybody coming from these two states.Inspection would be intensified at the international airport. Also, permission would be required to enter the city for those who test negative for the virus.Also read | Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsBesides, students staying in hostels will be tested again on the seventh day after a negative report. Recently, a number of students testing positive for Covid-19 in some of the schools of the state.Decisions taken at the meeting chaired by Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai | Those working in government offices and malls must receive both doses of vaccine. Arrangements to be made for vaccination in government offices and malls. #COVID19It was further decided hotels, restaurants, cinema halls, swimming pools, public libraries and zoo workers would have to receive both their doses against the virus. Tests against the virus would be increased for students of medical colleges and nursing colleges.Those working in government offices and malls must also receive both doses of vaccine. Arrangements will be made for vaccination in government offices and malls.Earlier, Bommai had said, "I have called a meeting of experts of health and disaster departments today in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala and clusters in a few colleges in Dharwad and Bengaluru."Karnataka reported 402 new cases and six deaths on Saturday. According to the state's health department, the state has 6,611 active cases of infection. Karnataka has recorded 29,94,963 infections since the onset of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-intensifies-curbs-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-omicron-variant-scare-101638023805421.html
27-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 28, 1974 — Jayaprakash Narayan launches movement in Haryana||Kurukshetra- Sarvodaya leader Jayaprakash Narayan declared at a large meeting here today (November 27) that the struggle for the defence of democracy in Haryana had begun now from the historic town of Kurukshetra. Mr. Narayan said democracy was in peril in Haryana and Chief Minister Bansi Lal was the symbol of this danger. Accepting the Chief Minister’s challenge to him for a longer visit to Haryana, Mr. Narayan said he would return soon to the State at the invitation of the people and tour Haryana for a longer while. Mr. Narayan said democracy was under the severest attack by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and those who had shown him black flags today were hired men. The Prime Minister, he said, was giving a “good lesson in democracy,” by preventing people from holding public meetings. Speaking for nearly 100 minutes to explain his fight in Bihar and elsewhere, Mr. Narayan said the people had seen Jawaharlal Nehru not fulfilling their dreams even after his 17-year rule, but the thought of his sacrifices and personality had prevented a revolt by the masses. The people were also under the Indira wave for some time and they gave her a massive mandate in the last Lok Sabba and the Assembly elections. She had by then also freed herself of the senior leaders in the Cabinet who, she had been complaining, were retarding the progressive measures. What was it that was now coming in the way of the Prime Minister to solve the peoples’ problems and remove unemployment and corruption. While half the colossal amount said to have been spent on developmental activities had gone into the pockets of corrupt politicians, officers and contractors all over the country, in Bihar only a quarter of the money had been actually spent for the people. Looking at a Sikh who, with a sword in his hand, was interrupting him continuously, Mr Narayan said the swords must remain in their sheaths as “ours would be a peaceful struggle.” If the present battle in India was won with the help of arms, the ultimate power would remain with those with the rifles. It would never percolate to the people as was evident in China. A violent revolution, he warned, would only bring the rule of a clique.Mr Narayan referred to the malpractices in elections and the Prime Minister’s ability in winning them with the help of “crores of rupees received from unscrupulous people after promising them licences, permits and other gains”. The Government was not prepared even to implement the recommendations of the joint committee of Parliament which had a majority of Congressmen and which had studied the subject. He said the gherao of Parliament by a million people in December was aimed at bringing to an end the electoral malpractices and focus attention on the peoples’ misery caused by widespread unemployment, the sky-high cost of living and the ever increasing corruption. A meeting of the co-ordination committee of the opposition parties has been called in New Delhi tomorrow to finalise the date of the gherao of Parliament. PTI adds: In his 120-minute speech heard in perfect silence. Mr Narayan made repeated references to the Haryana Chief Minister saying ‘’there is no difference between the Prime Minister and the Haryana Chief Minister, both of whom are bent upon strangulating democracy in the country. “They are repeatedly giving us sermons on democracy and accusing me of attacking democratic principles. But I want to ask both of them from which book on democracy they have learnt to obstruct people even from exchanging views.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-28-1974-jayaprakash-narayan-launches-movement-in-haryana-101638024298838.html
27-11-2021||India||Farm minister says crop-burning to be decriminalised, farmers suspend Parliament march||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said criminal charges would not be pressed against farmers burning their crop leftovers, a source of air pollution, while farm unions postponed a planned march to Parliament and asked the government to re-start a stalled dialogue process, fuelling hopes of a rapprochement between the two sides. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, on Saturday said it was suspending, until December 4, its plans to hold a large demonstration in the national capital during the oncoming winter session of Parliament following the government’s decision to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws. During a nationally televised address on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said his government would withdraw the three laws, following year-long protests by farmers who say the legislation would have jeopardised their livelihoods. Farm minister Tomar appealed to farmers on Saturday morning to end their agitation since the government was withdrawing the laws. Key farm leaders responded by saying they would wait till December 4 for a response on a letter written by them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, enlisting their demands that are yet to be met. “There is no point in farmers continuing their protests since the government has decided to repeal the farm laws. I request all farmers to return home,” Tomar told ANI, a wire agency. The government is set to move and pass a fresh law in Parliament to repeal its three farm legislations, enacted in September 2020, but farm unions are pressing ahead with a slew of other demands, including a legislation to guarantee minimum support prices (MSPs) for agricultural produce. “We will wait for the government’s response to our letter to the PM, in which we have listed all our rightful demands. The government must hold talks to sort out all remaining issues,” said Darshan Pal, a farm leader. Besides a statutory guarantee for MSP, the farmers want a parcel of land for a memorial to peasants who died during the year-long protests and all criminal cases slapped against farmers during the course of their agitation to be withdrawn. They have also sought changes to a proposed electricity bill to keep energy prices cheap for farmers and modifications to an anti-pollution law in force in the national capital region that includes provisions to penalise farmers burning paddy straw, the cause of deadly winter smog in north India. “The government has decided to decriminalise stubble-burning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to constitute a committee to hold discussions on the issue of crop diversification, zero-budget farming and making the MSP system more transparent and effective.” The agriculture minister said the committee would have representations from farmers and with this, farmers’ demand on MSP “stands fulfilled.” The three laws the government is set to revoke were aimed at easing restrictions on trade in farm produce, allowing food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. Farm unions say the legislation would have left them at the mercy of large corporations, eroding their bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. The SKM also demanded sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son had been arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. Farmers and the government have held 11 rounds of talks so far over their demands. The talks were called off after a deadlock during the last round held on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-minister-says-crop-burning-to-be-decriminalised-farmers-suspend-parliament-march-101638021837628.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: Now, Gujarat imposes curbs on passengers from ‘at risk’ nations||As fears over the new variant of Coronavirus ‘omicron’ sweeps the nation, the Gujarat government on Saturday made Covid-19 tests mandatory upon arrival for passengers arriving from countries categorised as 'at risk' by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The test has been made mandatory for passengers who are not fully vaccinated, a senior government official said."As per the letter issued to us on Friday by the Union Health Ministry, RT-PCR test is mandatory for all incoming travelers who do not have vaccination certificate," said additional chief secretary (health) Manoj Aggarwal.A PTI report said those who are fully vaccinated will also be screened at the airport and allowed to proceed if they do not show any symptoms of the infection.Also read | As omicron cases spread, WHO’s warning to southeast Asian countriesThe Union ministry has classified a total of nine countries as ‘at risk' following concerns being raised about the new variant of the virus, designated as Omicron.The countries designated 'at risk' include the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.The Centre has asked states to follow the November 11 guidelines issued in this regard. According to the latest rules, if travelers from countries categorised as 'at risk' (and with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines) are fully vaccinated, they will have to quarantine themselves for 14 days post-arrival.If they are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated, they will have to submit samples for Covid-19 test. Such passengers will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days, and will have to take another test on the eighth day of arrival in India.Also read | Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparingEarlier in the day, Karnataka and Maharashtra issued similar precautions to tackle the spread of the new variant that is said to be highly transmissible.The Maharashtra government has made it mandatory for domestic travellers to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT-PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, while all international passengers coming to the state would be governed according to the Union government’s directions.The Karnataka government said people arriving from affected countries will be subjected to an RT-PCR test on arrival in Bengaluru.‘Omicron’, first detected in Botswana in southern Africa on November 9, has since been reported in Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. The variant is known to be highly contagious and has a number of mutations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-now-gujarat-imposes-curbs-on-passengers-from-at-risk-nations-101638020679736.html
27-11-2021||India||'A group of farmers protesting': Govt note on farm law repeal; 'Why rub it in,' asks Congress||In the note on farm law repeal, sent to Parliament members, ahead of the winter session of Parliament starting from November 29, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has defended the three contentious farm laws and wrote "...only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws...", without making any departure from the earlier stance of the government."As we celebrate the 75th year of Independence -- Azadu ka Amrit Mahotsav, the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development," the note written by the agriculture minister read.Farmers defer tractor rally to Parliament over farm laws but protest will go onWhy rub it in especially when @PMOIndia has apologised to farmers. In the statement of Objects & Reasons of The Farm Laws Repeal Bill -2021 why write”Even though a Small Group of Farmers are Protesting against these Laws” demeans sacrifice of 700 odd Farmers who died struggling pic.twitter.com/CK86vcfokhCongress MP Manish Tewari reacted to the note and said that this demeans the sacrifice of the 700 farmers who died during the year-long protest against the farm laws. "Why rub it in especially when @PMOIndia has apologised to farmers. In the statement of Objects and Reasons of The Farm Laws Repeal Bill -2021 why write ‘Even though a Small Group of Farmers are Protesting against these Laws’ (sic) demeans sacrifice of 700 odd Farmers who died struggling," the MP wrote."The government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the Farm Laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums. Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce. Besides, farmers were free to select the avenues of their choice where they can get more prices for their produce without any compulsion," the note reads.The note also mentions that various governments during the last three decades have tried to initiate such reforms, but not in a comprehensive way.Repeal of the farm laws will be taken up by Parliament on the very first day of its winter session as Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised the protesting farmers in a speech on November 19. Farmers, however, are continuing with their protests and will not give up even if the laws are repealed, unless the government fulfils their demands on MSP, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said on Saturday. The proposed Parliament March of November 29 has been put on hold in a meeting of the farmers' organisation on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-group-of-farmers-protesting-govt-note-on-farm-law-repeal-why-rub-it-in-asks-congress-101638019303813.html
27-11-2021||India||Judges to use utmost discretion in making courtroom comments: President Kovind||Indiscreet remarks by judges in the courtrooms can give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary, said President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday as he expressed pain at how disparaging remarks have been made against the most trusted institution of the judiciary of late on social media platforms.President Kovind was addressing the judges of the Supreme Court and high courts who had gathered for the 72nd Constitution Day celebrations in the Capital.Having once been a lawyer practicing at the bar, the President said, “There is no doubt that you have set for yourself a high bar. Hence, it is also incumbent upon the judges to exercise utmost discretion in their utterances in the courtrooms. Indiscreet remarks, even if made with good intention, give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary.” He referred to a remark by Justice Frankfurter of the U.S Supreme Court who emphasized that the essential quality of judges is detachment, founded on independence. Quoting Frankfurter, the President said, “History teaches us that the independence of the judiciary is jeopardized when courts become embroiled in the passions of the day, and assume primary responsibility in choosing between competing political, economic and social pressure.” The judiciary, according to him, has conformed to the highest standards of conduct while discharging its responsibility and for this reason it remains in people’s view, the most trusted institution. President Kovind said, “It pains me no end, therefore, to note that of late there have been cases of some disparaging remarks against the judiciary made on social media platforms.” The President hoped this was an aberration and it would be short-lived. However, he wondered what could be behind this phenomenon, stating, “These platforms have worked wonderfully to democratize information, yet they have a dark side too. The anonymity granted by them is exploited by some miscreants.” He also emphasized about curbing pendency of cases and reducing cost of litigation adding, “The issue of pendency has ramifications for economic growth and development too. It is high time all stakeholders find a way out by keeping national interest above all. Technology can be a great ally in this process.”Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Supreme Court judges AM Khanwilkar and L Nageswar Rao also spoke on the occasion. Justice Khanwilkar said, “We need to rationalize and even prioritize case management apparatus” as courts are unable to deliver justice within reasonable time due to “clogging of dockets” and “tattered legal system”. He said that presently a common approach is adopted to deal with claims involving ₹one lakh or a high stakes matter involving ₹1 lakh crore, which is affecting the development of the country. Law minister Rijiju said that judiciary has a crucial role in development as many infrastructure disputes are pending adjudication in courts. “The role of judiciary in the adjudication of infrastructure disputes and keeping the larger national interests in mind is crucial for the flow of developmental trajectory and overall project costs,” he said. Realizing the need to augment judicial infrastructure, he further stated, “The present Government is sensitive to the needs of providing well equipped judicial infrastructure to subordinate judiciary to facilitate administration of justice in a manner that allows easy and timely delivery of justice to all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-to-use-utmost-discretion-in-making-courtroom-comments-president-kovind-101638017637087.html
27-11-2021||India||Will Covaxin, Covishield be effective against Omicron? ICMR expert explains||The emergence of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron in South Africa, reported from some other countries too, has triggered apprehension in India with Prime Minister Narendra Modi instructing officials to be proactive and review the guideline of international travel. Based on the information available so far, Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said mRNA vaccines against Covid might not be effective against Omicron. "mRNA vaccines are directed towards spike protein and receptor interaction. So mRNA vaccines need to be tweaked around this change already observed. But not all vaccines are similar. Covishield and Covaxin produce immunity through a different antigen presentation to our system," Dr Panda said to news agency ANI. Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparingThe World Health Organization has classified Omicron as a variant of concern though not much is known yet about this variant. It is believed to be more transmissible and immune-evasive, reports said.What scientists have so far observed in Omicron is structural changes, Dr Panda said. But more studies are required to confirm that the variant is deadlier than the other variants of Covid. "Structural changes have been observed in a newly reported emerging variant which is indicative of a possibility for adherence to cell, cellular receptors with an increased affinity, with the possibility of transmission," Dr Panda said. But whether the variant is getting transmitted really fast or is causing clusters of infection that require a little more time to come up needs to be examined. By examination, he meant laboratory-based observations, population-based studies, he said."WHO examined all this and we need to wait for some more time to figure out whether there is an increased clustering of infections happening or severe form of disease or excessive deaths. Taking all these into consideration, WHO has announced called it Variant of Concern," Dr Panda said.Scientists have already found that this variant has 10 mutations. The more a variant mutates, it might become more transmissible, but that does not make a variant deadlier, the expert said.No cases of the variant have been found in India so far and the Centre has already urged all states and Union territories to be on the guard. States are also bringing back some restrictions for international travellers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-covaxin-covishield-be-effective-against-omicron-icmr-expert-explains-101638016753778.html
27-11-2021||India||Set your house in order first: Trinamool's rebuttal to Congress ahead of Parliament session||The Trinamool Congress may skip the meeting of the opposition parties on November 29, news agency PTI reported, quoting Trinamool leaders aware of the development. The Congress should first coordinate among themselves and set their own house in order and then think of coordinating with other camps, a senior TMC leader privy to the party's decision told PTI on condition of anonymity. This comes as the Congress and the Trinamool are caught in a situation where political pundits are raising questions about whether TMC will lead to a 'Congress Mukt' India, following the recent Meghalaya coup.Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress will try to bring all opposition parties together in Parliament.While the Trinamool expresses its disinterest in coordinating with the Congress, the news report says that the party has no problem in coordination with other opposition parties. "We will raise several issues concerning the people's interest and will coordinate with them. We most probably will not attend the opposition parties' meeting convened by the Congress," the TMC leader, quoted by PTI, said.Trinamool will hold its national coordination committee meeting on November 29 at Mamata Banerjee's residence in Kolkata. Congress leaders lack the determination to take on the saffron camp, the TMC leader reportedly said.During her recent visit to New Delhi, Mamata did not meet Sonia Gandhi and when she was asked about this, she said it is not mandatory to meet Sonia Gandhi every time she is in Delhi. "They are busy with Punjab polls. Why should we meet Sonia every time? It is not constitutionally mandated," Mamata said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-your-house-in-order-first-trinamool-s-rebuttal-to-congress-ahead-of-parliament-session-101638012386563.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: How are states preparing to tackle omicron variant, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In the light of the discovery of omicron, several states in India have moved to implement precautionary measures against the latest variant of the coronavirus initially detected in South Africa. Read moreChildren can take part in the ongoing pilgrimage to the Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district without the mandatory RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state government has said. Read moreIndian spinner Axar Patel on Saturday pipped two legends of the game to script a massive record for the country with his fifth five-wicket haul in Test cricket. He achieved the feat during the third evening of the opening Test against New Zealand at Kanpur's Green Park stadium. Read moreActor Abhishek Bachchan will soon be seen as the middle class Bengali assassin in Bob Biswas. The film is a spin-off of 2012 movie Kahaani, directed by Sujoy Ghosh and starring Vidya Balan in the lead. Read moreExperiencing moderate rainfall this Saturday, the area around the Kodaikanal lake in Tamil Nadu looks too dreamy to not visit and Ankita Konwar's ‘parikrama' of it is perfect Saturday fitness inspo. Read moreVice President of India Venkaiah Naidu hit out at the western media for belittling the Indian govt on issues of secularism and free speech. The nation’s Vice President said that India is the most secular country in the world. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-how-are-states-preparing-to-tackle-omicron-variant-and-all-the-latest-news-101638010941838.html
27-11-2021||India||Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at Centre amid omicron Covid variant||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre over the new Covid-19 variant omicron from Botswana in southern Africa. Calling the variant a “serious threat”, Rahul said that bad figures of Covid-19 vaccination “can’t be hidden for long.”“New variant is a serious threat. High time GOI (Government of India) gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen. Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo,” Rahul tweeted.With the tweet, the former Congress party president attached an image that showed 31.19 per cent of eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated against coronavirus in India, with 6.8 million per day being the average rate of vaccination last week. According to the post, which credited a prominent media site and CoWIN portal as the sources, the required vaccination rate for 60 per cent of India’s population to be fully jabbed is 23.3 million per day.New variant is a serious threat. High time GOI gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen.Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo. #Omicron pic.twitter.com/3J7E8TEwXTAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW), more than 121 crore vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the country, of which, as many as 73,58,017 shots were jabbed in the last 24 hours. Furthermore, more than 134 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories (UTs) so far, and over 22.16 crore balance and unutilised ones are still available with them.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level review meeting to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic in India and the nationwide vaccination campaign. As per a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul and PM Modi’s principal secretary PK Mishra, among others.At the meeting, PM Modi stressed on the need to monitor all international arrivals, their testing based on guidelines, with a “specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” the PMO statement revealed.Also Read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, testsFirst detected in Botswana in southern Africa, the omicron Covid-19 variant has been termed a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Scientists have said that the variant appears to undergo multiple mutations – about 30 – in the coronavirus spike protein, which determines the virus’s transmissibility rate among people.Also Read | Omicron scare: Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsSeveral countries, including the US, UK and the 27-nation European Union (EU) have imposed travel bans on individuals arriving from the affected region of the Covid-19 variant. India too has released a list of many countries, including Israel and Hong Kong, from where travellers need to adhere to additional measures, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-vaccination-figures-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-centre-amid-omicron-covid-threat-101638011045968.html
27-11-2021||India||Two merchant vessels collide in Gulf of Kutch, no oil spill; Coast Guard on standby||Two merchant vessels collided in the Gulf of Kutch on the night of November 26. However, there was no report of any casualty or oil spill even as the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has been kept on standby in the vicinity and officials are monitoring the situation.The vessels -- MV Aviator and MV Ancient Grace -- are likely to have collided due to a navigational error, an ICG official said. “The ICG is monitoring the situation to prevent any possible oil spill,” the official added.Two merchant vessels, MV Aviator&MV Ancient Grace, have collided with each other in Gulf of Kutch. Prima facie, it appears the collision took place due to navigational error. Indian Coast Guard (ICG) is monitoring the situation for preventing any possible oil spill: ICG officials https://t.co/98sLHjhCCv"Collision betwn MVs Aviator and Atlantic Grace in GoK on 26 November night. No casualties, oil slick reported. @IndianCoastGuard Ships in the area incl. Pollution Control stand-by in vicinity & monitoring the situation," a Gujarat defence public relations officer said in a tweet.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-merchant-vessels-collide-in-gulf-of-kutch-no-report-of-oil-spill-101638010964563.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparing||In the light of the discovery of omicron, several states in India have moved to implement precautionary measures against the latest variant of the coronavirus initially detected in South Africa.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a two-hour-long meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation, especially omicron, and the vaccination drive in the country. He was briefed by top officials regarding the situation due to the variant.“PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to [be] more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking & social distancing. PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” his office said in a statement following the meeting.Also read | Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scareUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has already written to states and Union territories warning them of the evolving situation and said that all international travellers from and transiting through countries affected by the variant and their contacts should be tested rigorously.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also asked countries to adopt a risk-based and scientific approach even as several countries have already barred flights from some southern African countries.From demanding a travel ban to measures for scrutinising testing for the disease and emphasising on public health measures such as distancing, here is a look at how some states have responded to the situation.DelhiChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, ahead of the PM’s meeting, urged Modi to stop flights from countries that had reported cases of the Omicron variant.“With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” he tweeted.The Delhi government is also scheduled to meet on Monday to discuss action to be taken and Kejriwal had also called upon experts to share their opinions to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), according to news reports.MaharashtraMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that every passenger coming to Mumbai would be quarantined on arrival and their samples would be sent for genome sequencing.The state government also said that while it is mandatory for domestic travellers to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT-PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, all international passengers coming to the state would be governed according to the Union government’s directions, news agency ANI reported.KarnatakaState health minister K Sudhakar said they are in touch with the central health ministry regarding the new variant. He also said omicron is more contagious and said people arriving from affected countries will be subjected to an RT-PCR test on arrival in Bengaluru.If found positive, they will be asked to stay “in and around” the airport, he said and also said that home quarantine was also being made compulsory for people from those countries.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand government has emphasised intensifying testing and containment measures to stop the spread of the disease, CM Pushkar Singh Dhami said. The state has also directed local administrations to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour in public places and pushed for arrangements in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-from-urging-flight-ban-to-increasing-testing-here-s-how-states-are-preparing-101638009009498.html
27-11-2021||India||RT-PCR test not mandatory for children on Sabarimala pilgrimage: Kerala||Children can take part in the ongoing pilgrimage to the Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district without the mandatory RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state government has said.The Kerala government said in an order dated November 26 that parents and adults, accompanying the children on the Sabarimala pilgrimage will have to ensure that they carry soaps, sanitisers and mask and adhere to social distancing norms."The government is pleased to clarify that children are allowed to go on Sabarimala pilgrimage without RT-PCR test. Parents or adults accompanying the children shall ensure S.M.S. (soap/sanitizer, mask and social distancing) and they are accountable for the children's health issues," the order, which was tweeted by news agency ANI, said.Also read | Devotees allowed to visit Sabarimala in batches after temporary ban liftedHowever, the order signed by additional secretary B Surendran Pillai said adult pilgrims and staff deployed to Sabarimala will have to show either a two-dose vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative certificate within 72 hours.Hundreds of devotees have been trekking to the hill shrine to offer prayers to Lord Ayyappa since the temple opened on November 16 for the two-month-long annual mandalam and makaravilakku pilgrimage season.Devotees are being allowed to visit the Sabarimala temple through a virtual queue system as part of efforts to regulate the flow of pilgrims in view of the coronavirus pandemic and heavy rains. This system was in place last year as well.On Friday, Kerala reported 4,677 Covid-19 cases and 33 related deaths, taking the state’s tally to 51,12,789 and the death toll to 39,125, the health department said in a release.Active cases of Covid-19 stand at 49,459, out of which only 7.2 per cent are in hospitals, it also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-test-not-mandatory-for-children-on-sabarimala-pilgrimage-kerala-101638006133470.html
27-11-2021||India||Farmers defer tractor rally to Parliament over farm laws but protest will go on||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to put their proposed Parliament march on November 29 on hold as of now, but the ongoing protest will continue until the government holds talks with the farmers over minimum support price, the death of farmers during the protest and the Lakhimpur incident in which protesting farmers were mowed down by a minister's car.The announcement comes two days ahead Parliament sits for the winter session on November 29 and the farm laws will be taken up on the very first day of the session. The tractor march to Parliament was also scheduled on that day as the farmers asserted soon after PM Modi's announcement on November 19 that the protest is not being withdrawn.‘Farmer unions to be represented in MSP panel, urge farmers to leave’: TomarThe meeting of the farmers' union Samyukt Kisan Morcha which has been spearheading the year-long protest comes as agriculture minister Narendra Sing Tomar on Saturday appealed to farmers to return home as their demands have been met. On farmers' demands that all cases against the protesters have to be withdrawn and that the government has to compensate for the lives lost during the protest, Tomar said this falls under the jurisdiction of the respective state governments. "As far as cases registered during the protest are concerned, it comes under the jurisdiction of state governments and they will take a decision. State governments will decide on the issue of compensation too, as per their state policy," Tomar told news agency ANI.A leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha said PM Modu should direct the state governments and the railways to withdraw cases registered against farmers.The agriculture minister on Saturday said the Centre has decriminalised stubble burning which was one of the demands of the farmers. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said these are just words and demanded that the government should give in writing that stubble burning has been decriminalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-defer-tractor-rally-to-parliament-over-farm-laws-but-protest-will-go-on-101638006314236.html
27-11-2021||India||HT legal team bags 2 awards at 7th edition of INBA Annual Awards||HT Media Limited’s legal team, headed by Dinesh Mittal, has been awarded the “Legal Team of the Year 2021” by the Indian National Bar Association (INBA) on Constitution Day.Govind Vijay, the vice president and deputy general counsel of HT Media Group, was also given the “General Counsel of the year (Media) 2021” during the seventh edition of the INBA Annual Awards at Delhi’s Constitution Club of India on Friday.“During the Covid-19 pandemic, we moved from physically signing the agreement to virtual execution, where we used digital signatures, so we evolved as a legal function after putting technology into it to keep up with the changing times,” Vijay, who was awarded at the event, said.The event was attended by Union minister of state in the ministry of law and justice SP Singh Baghel, senior lawyers and judges from across the world, senior government officials, legal departments of Fortune 500 companies and international law firms.“We are Indians and on this day we should not forget our national language is Hindi and our Indian culture. The Constitution is all about rights and duties we need to abide by in our day to day life,” Baghel said.As many as 35 speakers shared their views at the round table conference and talked about their experiences on legal issues during the coronavirus pandemic.INBA also felicitated the legal fraternity leads in various sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-legal-team-bags-2-awards-at-7th-edition-of-inba-annual-awards-101638005063474.html
27-11-2021||India||Aircel Maxis case: P Chidambaram, his son Karti summoned by Delhi court||A Delhi court on Saturday issued summons on Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram and others after taking cognizance of a chargesheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Aircel Maxis case.Special judge MK Nagpal of Rouse Avenue Court had reserved his order on Monday in the case.All the accused mentioned in the chargesheet would have to appear before the court on December 20. The agencies have charged several individuals and firms accused in the case.Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the probe agencies had earlier informed the court that agencies had sent LRs (letter rogatory) to different countries and there were some developments in that regard. The CBI had also submitted that it was working on a new lead.The court, while asking for reports from the agencies, had said the allegations mentioned in the chargesheet appeared to be "quite serious in nature".The case, which is being probed by the CBI and ED, relates to alleged irregularities in grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval in the Aircel-Maxis deal.The FIPB approval was allegedly granted in 2006 when Chidambaram was the Union finance minister.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircel-maxis-case-p-chidambaram-his-son-karti-summoned-by-delhi-court-101638004799418.html
27-11-2021||India||Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scare||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked officials to review plans to ease restrictions on international travel in light of global concern over omicron, the recently-discovered variant of the coronavirus.The Prime Minister’s comments came after he chaired a high-level meeting, which lasted almost two hours, to review the public health preparedness and vaccination-related situation for Covid-19 in the country.As officials briefed PM Modi about omicron, its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries, its implications for India were also discussed, Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. “PM spoke about the need to be proactive in light of the new variant.”Also read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, tests“The PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to be more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking and social distancing. PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” the PMO said in the statement.“The PM also asked officials to review plans for easing international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence,” the statement said.Also watch | Covid Omicron variant: PM Modi issues instructions in 2-hour meeting amid alarm over new strain 
27-11-2021||India||‘Farmer unions to be represented in govt MSP panel, urge farmers to go home’: Narendra Tomar||Farmer unions will be represented in the committee announced by the Union government to discuss several related issues, including the minimum support price (MSP) system, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to constitute a committee to deliberate on the issues of crop diversification, zero-budget farming, and making the MSP system more transparent and effective. This committee will have representatives from the farmers' organisations,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying.“With the constitution of this committee, farmers' demand on MSP stands fulfilled,” he added.Also read | Govt to table farm repeal bill on Day 1 of winter session; Congress issues whipsTomar also confirmed that the bill to repeal the three farm laws would be tabled in Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session, scheduled to begin on Monday (November 29).On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal to take back the three contentious laws, against which the farmers union have been protesting for a year.While the farmers have said that the repeal of three laws is only a part of their many demands, Tomar said there was “no point” in continuing the protests after the announcement and urged them to leave.“After the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, there is no point in continuing farmers' agitation. I urge farmers to end their agitation and go home,” he said.The Union agriculture minister noted that the Centre has also accepted the unions’ demand for decriminalising stubble burning by farmers.State governments will decide on the issue of cases registered on farmers during the protests and also regarding the compensation to be provided to them, Tomar noted.“As far as cases registered during the protest are concerned, it comes under the jurisdiction of state governments and they will take a decision. State governments will decide on the issue of compensation too, as per their state policy,” he said.The remarks from Tomar came as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions that has spearheaded the demonstrations in Delhi’s borders, is set to meet on Saturday to discuss the future course of actions regarding the protests.“We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday,” news agency PTI quoted Saurabh Upadhyay, spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) as saying.The farmers’ agitation against the three laws completed one year on Friday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-to-be-represented-in-govt-msp-panel-urge-farmers-to-go-home-narendra-tomar-101638002589422.html
27-11-2021||India||'IT cell Farziwada': Nawab Malik asks if this fake photo is behind Narayan Rane's 'March prediction'||Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday said the BJP will form the government in Maharashtra by coming March. Sharing a photoshopped picture of Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis meeting Union home minister Amit Shah together, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik asked whether this fake image is the base of Narayan Rane's prediction that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will collapse by March, next year. यह है #BJP IT cell का फर्जीवाड़ा,क्या इसी फर्जीवाड़ा के आधार पर केंद्रीय मंत्री मार्च महीने में सरकार बनाने का दावा कर रहे हैं ? pic.twitter.com/t0sHzIbryFAs the minister shared the photo and the original one from where Sharad Pawar's photo has been lifted and pasted on the photo of Fadnavis meeting Amit Shah, many social media users pointed out that the shoddy editing is visible in the photoshopped image. Amid on-and-off speculation of cracks appearing among the partners of Maha Vikas Aghadi government which completed two years on Saturday, BJP leader Narayan Rane's claim created a stir. Without revealing more details, the Union minister said the alliance government in Maharashtra will not survive long. On being asked a timeline, the minister said the government could be toppled as early as March. " "Uddhav Thackeray is unwell, so I don't want to talk about him... But the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi govt will not be surviving for long in Maharashtra," Rane said. Toppling and forming a government is done in secrecy and it can not be discussed in public, the minister said, with all certainty.Though this is not the first time that the BJP predicted the MVA government's possible collapse, the Union minister's claim was enough to create a ripple as both the BJP and the NCP leadership were in New Delhi at the same time. Party officials, however, confirmed that there was no meeting in Delhi and they went to Delhi to attend different meetings.Calling these predictions baseless, Nawab Malik on Friday said, Narayan Rane's followers might have raised thousands of hens and goats in the last 23 years for sacrifice once their prayer of Rane becoming the CM once again comes true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-cell-farziwada-nawab-malik-asks-if-this-fake-photo-is-behind-narayan-rane-s-march-prediction-101638003081326.html
27-11-2021||India||Patna-bound GoAir flight makes emergency landing in Nagpur after engine glitch||A Patna-bound GoAir flight from Bengaluru with 139 passengers on board landed safely landing at Nagpur airport on Saturday after suffering a glitch in one of its engines, airport and airline officials said.Nagpur airport director Abid Ruhi told news agency PTI that flight G8 873 of GoAir, which has been rebranded as GoFlight, made a safe landing at 11.15am."The pilot of the GoAir flight contacted Nagpur ATC to inform that one of the engines of the plane is facing a problem, and made a request for an emergency landing at Nagpur airport," Ruhi told PTI.Also read | Domestic flights of GoAir, 3 other airlines to operate from T1 of Mumbai Airport"We made all requisite arrangements by declaring it as a full-scale emergency, which includes making available runways, fire tenders, doctors, ambulances and requires coordination with the police. Fortunately, the flight made a safe landing," Ruhi said.A spokesperson of Go First said that the flight from Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Nagpur due to a faulty engine warning in the cockpit, which “necessitated the captain to shut down the engine as a precautionary measure”.“Thereafter, the captain landed safely at Nagpur airport,” the Go First Spokesperson said in a statement.Also read | 'It was crazy': Engine failure forces emergency landing of US-bound flightThe spokesperson added that all passengers have been deplaned and served refreshments. Another aircraft has been arranged for the passengers, which will leave for Patna at 4:45pm. “The aircraft is being inspected by the engineering team.”“At GO FIRST, safety of its passengers and crew is of paramount importance and the airline sincerely regrets any inconvenience caused to the passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patnabound-goair-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-nagpur-after-engine-glitch-101638000367110.html
27-11-2021||India||Kejriwal urges PM to ban flights from nations affected by new Omicron variant||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Central government to suspend incoming flights from the countries affected by the new coronavirus variant, the B.1.1.529, named Omicron by the World Health Organization. “I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by [the] new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We should do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” the chief minister tweeted.Delhi government has also called a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday to discuss how to deal with the threat presented by the new coronavirus variant, first detected in South Africa.“In view of the threat from the new Covid variant from African countries, we have requested experts to make a presentation to DDMA on Monday and suggest what steps we should take. We will take all steps necessary to protect you and your family,” the chief minister tweeted on Friday. Scientists are still in the process to determine whether the new variant, also known as the B.1.1.529, is more transmissible or lethal than the previous ones, but it is found to have the most mutations of any strain yet identified. The WHO on Friday classified it as a “variant of concern”, and renamed it Omicron. The WHO said early evidence suggested an increased reinfection risk from the variant which was first reported to the organisation from South Africa on November 24 and was from a specimen collected on November 9.Also Read | Air pollution: CNG, e-vehicles allowed to enter Delhi from today. Details hereThe health ministry on Thursday directed all states and union territories to strictly screen and test international travellers from Botswana, South Africa, and Hong Kong which are among the countries where the new variant was detected. States were asked to send samples of international travellers found positive for genome sequencing. WHO has urged countries not to panic and cautioned against “hasty measures”, even as a slew of nations across the world reacted with alarm to the news. Several nations, particularly those in Europe, started banning flights from South Africa and neighbouring nations. Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents, BBC news reported. The US too has decided to block flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-urges-pm-to-ban-flights-from-nations-affected-by-new-omicron-variant-101637999875305.html
27-11-2021||India||Which states and UTs are among India's poorest? List here||NITI Aayog has published the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) report which measured “three equally weighted dimensions” of health, education and standard of living.India's MPI has three equally weighted dimensions, health, education and standard of living - which are represented by 12 indicators of nutrition, child and adolescent mortality, antenatal care, years of schooling, school attendance, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank accounts.The national MPI measure uses the globally accepted and robust methodology developed by the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the report said. It also captures multiple and simultaneous deprivations faced by households.Also read | Niti Aayog report: Sparks fly over poor ranking; NDA calls it bundle of lies, oppn rubs it in"The development of the National Multidimensional Poverty Index of India is an important contribution towards instituting a public policy tool which monitors multidimensional poverty, informs evidence-based and focused interventions, thereby ensuring that no one is left behind,” Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog’s vice chairperson, has said in his foreword to the report.Here is the list of the poorest and best performing states and UTs:Poorest statesBihar: 51.91 per centJharkhand: 42.16 per centUttar Pradesh: 37.79 per centMadhya Pradesh: 36.65 per centMeghalaya: 32.67 per centStates with the lowest poverty rateKerala: 0.71 per centGoa: 3.76 per centSikkim: 3.82 per centTamil Nadu: 4.89 per centPunjab: 5.59 per centPoorest Union territoriesDadra and Nagar Haveli: 27.36 per centJammu & Kashmir and Ladakh: 12.58 per centDaman & Diu: 6.82 per centChandigarh: 5.97 per centUnion territories with the lowest poverty ratePuducherry: 1.72 per centLakshadweep: 1.82 per centAndaman & Nicobar Islands: 4.30 per centDelhi: 4.79 per cent||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/which-states-and-uts-are-among-india-s-poorest-list-here-101637998029269.html
27-11-2021||India||Rampath Yatra Express: IRCTC flags off special train for pilgrimage to Ayodhya||The Rampath Yatra Express, connecting Maharashtra’s Pune to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, was flagged off on Saturday with an aim to promote pilgrimage tourism after the success of the Ramayana Express.The new special train will tour six pilgrim destinations associated with Lord Ram. These include Nandigram, Shringverpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot and Ayodhya, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) group general manager (West) Rahul Himalian told news agency ANI.“The full-circuit Ramayana Yatra adds Hampi, Nashik and Rameshwaram,” he added.The train will have AC class as well as sleeper coaches, IRCTC has said. The full package costs ₹14,490, including breakfast, lunch, dinner, stay, transport, and a guide. Interested passengers can book their train tickets on www.irctctourism.com."The launch of this train is aimed at promoting pilgrimage tourism, covering pilgrim sites in a tour of seven days and eight nights. It'll run with sleeper class and AC-3 tier," the divisional railway manager (DRM) of Pune division Renu Sharma said while speaking to ANI.The Indian Railways has also announced a new segment of special trains dedicated to the tourism sector and a set of around 190 theme-based trains called Bharat Gaurav trains. The fare of these trains would be decided by tour operators but the railways will ensure that there is no abnormality in the prices.The Indian Railways also recently resumed its catering service, serving hot cooked meals on train journeys as Covid-19 cases dropped significantly in the country. The announcement came just a few days after the Union civil aviation ministry announced the resumption of meals on domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rampath-yatra-express-irctc-flags-off-special-train-for-pilgrimage-to-ayodhya-101637992956827.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi meets top govt officials on Covid-19 situation and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officialsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a key meeting with top government officials to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India and the nationwide vaccination process to stem the course of the pandemic. Read morePaytm Q2 results: Net loss widens, company says maintained growth momentumOne97 Communications, the parent firm of digital payments company Paytm, announced the financial results of its second quarter (ending September 30) on Saturday, in which it said that its net loss widened by 8.4 per cent to ₹474 crore, from ₹437 crore a year ago. Read moreJal Jeevan Mission: Ladakh village at 13,000 feet gets clean drinking waterThe Jal Jeevan Mission reached a major milestone recently, when it provided clean drinking water to a remote village in Ladakh. The residents of Skampuk village in Leh's Nubra block now get potable water even in sub-zero temperature. Read moreWatch: R Ashwin's heated exchange with Nitin Menon after umpire warns spinner for running across him in follow throughSpinner R Ashwin was back at his animated best during Day 3 of the first Test between India and New Zealand. He was involved in a rather heated exchanged with umpire Nitin Menon for what is believed to be for running across him in follow through and obstructing his and non-striker's view. Read moreAntim The Final Truth box office day 1 collection: Salman Khan-Aayush Sharma's film opens at around ₹4.5 crAntim: The Final Truth, starring Salman Khan and his real-life brother-in-law Aayush Sharma as arch rivals, released in theatres on Friday. The film received positive reviews and collected around ₹4.25-4.5 crore on its opening day, as per early estimates. Read moreRahul Khanna's post-workout selfie serves weekend fitness motivation, Lara Dutta reactsIndian film actor and model Rahul Khanna's post-workout selfie is creating quite the havoc online, and making us want to get on the fitness bandwagon. With the arrival of the weekend, we all favour a bit of laziness over workouts. Maybe the star's photo will serve as the perfect weekend motivation for you too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-meets-top-govt-officials-on-covid-19-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101637996440930.html
27-11-2021||India||Explained: How NITI Aayog calculates the National Multidimensional Poverty Index||NITI Aayog, the government think tank, on Friday released the National Multidimensional Poverty Index (NMPI) baseline report that defines poverty as the deprivation in crucial and basic parameters of health, education and living standards.The report was based on the National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS-4), which was conducted between 2015 and 2016, and developed by the NITI Aayog in consultation with 12 ministries and in partnership with state governments and the index publishing agencies, namely, Oxford University’s Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).Here is how the think tank developed the report.Also read | Bihar poorest state, followed by Jharkhand and UP: Niti Aayog reportWhy NFHS-4 ?Data collected during the NFHS-4 (2015-2016) corresponds to the period before the full roll out of government schemes on housing, drinking water, sanitation, electricity, cooking fuel, financial inclusion, and other major efforts towards improving school attendance, nutrition, mother and child health, etc.“Hence it serves as a useful source for measuring the situation at baseline i.e. before large-scale rollout of nationally important schemes,” the government said in a statement on Saturday.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya), Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), POSHAN Abhiyaan and Samagra Shiksha were some of such welfare schemes that were listed by the Union government.Also read | Niti Aayog report: Sparks fly over poor ranking; NDA calls it bundle of lies, oppn rubs it inHow is the data used ?The national MPI 2021 is calculated using the household microdata collected at the unit-level for the NFHS-4 that is used to derive the baseline multidimensional poverty. This baselines denote the country’s standings before the full roll out of the aforementioned government schemes.Further, the country’s progress would be measured using this baseline in the NFHS-5, for which the data was collected between 2019 and 2020.The progress of the country with respect to this baseline will be measured using the NFHS-5 data collected in 2019-20.“The NFHS 5 2019-20 summary fact sheets for all States and Union Territories was released by IIPS and MoHFW on 24 November 2021. National MPI based on NFHS 5 of the data period 2019-20 will be computed when the unit level micro data for the same is released by IIPS and MoHFW next year,” the government said.Calculating MPIThe multidimensional poverty index is calculated using 12 indicators -- nutrition, child and adolescent mortality, antenatal care, years of schooling, school attendance, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank account -- that have been grouped under three dimensions namely, health, education and standard of living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-niti-aayog-calculates-the-national-multidimensional-poverty-index-101637995102276.html
27-11-2021||India||2 Warkaris killed, 24 injured in Pune after hit by mini-truck||Two devotees of lord Vitthal, also known as Warkaris, were killed and 24 others sustained injuries when a mini truck rammed into a tractor, crushing several devotees who were walking alongside the tractor at Kanhe village near Kamshet in Maharashtra’s Pune district, early on Saturday, police said. “Two people have died and 24 are injured in the accident. Two deceased are women and the entire group was walking from Khalapur towards Alandi,” said Vilas Bhosale, police inspector of Vadgaon Maval police station. The deceased were identified as Savita Valku Yeram (58), a resident of Umbre village in Khalapur and Jayashree Atmaram Pawar (58 ), a resident of Bhutivali in Karjat, both situated in Raigad district, according to the police. The injured have been rushed to multiple private and government hospitals in the surrounding areas. The incident happened around 6 am in Maval tehsil as the pilgrims were on their way to Alandi, a temple town located approximately 40 kms from Pune city, when the mini pick up truck rammed into the tractor carrying belongings of the Warkaris who were on walking along. Also Read: 3 held, 2 minors detained for petrol bomb attack in Pimple SaudagarAccording to Bhosale, Warkaris were coming on foot from Raigad district. “When they reached Sate Phata on old Mumbai-Pune highway, a mini-truck hit them, injuring 15 people,” he said. The police have detained the driver of the vehicle and started a probe, Bhosale added. Warkaris take annual ‘wari’ (pilgrimage) to Pandharpur town in Solapur district in the state, famous for its Lord Vitthal temple. The annual pilgrimage, which generally begins in June, culminates on the day of Ashadhi Ekadashi, which usually falls in the month of July||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-warkaris-killed-24-injured-after-hit-by-minitruck-101637995915079.html
27-11-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission: Ladakh village at 13,000 feet gets clean drinking water||The Jal Jeevan Mission reached a major milestone recently, when it provided clean drinking water to a remote village in Ladakh. The residents of Skampuk village in Leh's Nubra block now get potable water even in sub-zero temperature.The village is located at a height of 13,000 feet. What makes this achievement significant is that the people living all 105 households here are getting water which is not frozen. This has been made possible by an insulation jacket around the pipe."Earlier, we faced so many problems related to water supply during the winters. But now, it's so easy as under Jal Jeevan Mission, every household has a tap connection. Our problem has been solved," said Smarka Lamo, a young woman living in the village."We are very thankful to the central government," she added.The day temperature in Skampuk is recorded minus 3 degrees Celsius, and it plunges to minus 11 degrees Celsius during the night. Still, the people living here are facing no issues with water supply."We had to go to the river bank with donkeys to fetch drinking water. There was a handpump we used, but the water was not clean. But now it's all well and good since we have a tap near our doorsteps," said another woman.The Jal Jeevan Mission was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019. And in these 27 months, over 50 million families have been provided new tap water connections.Under the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme, every rural household is to be provided with a functional tap water connection by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-ladakh-village-at-13-000-feet-gets-clean-drinking-water-101637995426485.html
27-11-2021||India||PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a key meeting with top government officials to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India and the nationwide vaccination process to stem the course of the pandemic. The development comes at a time when concerns are rising over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, first detected in South Africa and widely deemed by global infectious disease experts as carrying frequent mutations and a faster transmission rate.
27-11-2021||India||Seminar on infrastructure building in Uttarakhand, HP border areas held||Amid the ongoing border issues with China, the Golden Key Division under the central command of Indian army, held a two-day seminar to discuss a roadmap for sustainable infrastructure development in the border areas of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, which share boundary with China .Speakers at the two day seminar included former defence secretary and governor of Chhattisgarh Shekhar Dutt, scientist from Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS)- Rajat Chatterjee, head of department, civil engineering in Indian Institute of Technology- Roorkee (IIT-R) Kamal Jain, Uttarakhand tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar, experts from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Forest Research Institute (FRI), University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) and officials from Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and the India Army. “The discussions during the seminar included various aspects of infrastructure development... Emphasis was also laid on the need for increased coordination between military, academia and the civic administration on the issue with best possible implementation of latest technologies while ensuring a holistic infrastructural development with focus on the border areas of the two states,” an army statement on the seminar said.On the first day of the seminar, the experts from WIHG, BRO, IIT-R and IIRS spoke on the technical and geological aspects of infrastructure development in the border areas of the two Himalayan states near the Line of Actual Control. Former defence secretary Dutt also “provided an insight on the Chinese infrastructure model in its Tibet Autonomous Region near the LAC.” Also Read: Uttarakhand village has begun sliding downhill due to construction, seepage, warn geologistsOn Friday, speakers from the army presented a “model infrastructure development plan” by the Golden Key division and stressed on the need for “coordinated efforts by all parties concerned for holistic development of the border areas while considering the aspirations of the local population and curbing their migration”. Lt Gen Gambhir Singh Negi (retd), commended Army for discussing a “vital subject”, and said, “Proper infrastructure has to be developed in border areas to enable quick response in case of a Chinese aggression at LAC.”“China in Tibet has an advantage due to the topography and better infrastructure. It can mobilise its troops from one point to another in a reasonable time while India can’t due to more difficult topography and less developed infrastructure. Hence, it becomes very important to develop not only roads but infrastructure for keeping the troops, arms, ration and other essential items at border areas so that our army can be better prepared and deliver a counter in case China attacks us in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh,” Lt Gen Negi (retd), added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seminar-on-infrastructure-building-in-uttarakhand-hp-border-areas-held-101637991654778.html
27-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh flood death toll mounts to 44; Tirupati gets heavy rain||The Andhra Pradesh government has said as many as 44 people have lost their lives and 16 are still missing due to floods after the unprecedented rain in the state even as officials said the situation was grim on Saturday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) office in Amaravati has said heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra, particularly Chittoor and Nellore in the next three to four days. The state government has put district authorities on a high alert due to possible breach of tanks that are already filled to the brim due to recent heavy rains, leading to the inundation of villages downstream.The statement issued by the state government on Friday said 1,990 villages in 119 mandals of the Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur, and Nellore districts were affected by the floods, of which 211 villages were completely inundated."The rains, which started after the first week of this month, continue to fall today. The rain began on the 16-17th. As never seen before in history, heavy rains inundated Rayalaseema," the statement said, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Heavy rain expected in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh today; IMD issues red alert"The streets of Tirumala and in the town of Tirupati, we have experienced heavy rain and vehicles being washed away. Four buses were stuck in the flood, where an RTC bus had fallen from the Nadaluru bridge, causing 10 people to succumb to death and the rest were rescued by SDRF teams. Ten others had died at Sivalayam, which is on the banks of the river," it added.The government also said the power supply in the four districts has been restored and is providing necessities to 95,949 flood-affected families. It has also announced the expediting the payment of compensation in respect of fully damaged and partially damaged houses by the floods."For those whose house was completely damaged, the government is sanctioning ₹1.8 lakh for a new house, along with compensation at the rate of ₹95,000," it said.Also read | More rain predicted for southern Andhra Pradesh"Compensation for dead cattle to be paid to the owners immediately. Also, orders to ensure Cattle are vaccinated. Cattle feed was also ordered to be distributed without shortage anywhere. An enumeration has been directed to be completed expeditiously in respect of crop compensation," it said, according to ANI.The state government has also directed district collectors to give immediate reports regarding the rehabilitation of roads and assess immediately upon receipt of these reports and prioritise and fund these tasks.Also read | Karnataka may get light rain for 5 days: IMDEarlier, the government decided to provide 25kg of rice, 1kg of red gram dal, palm oil 1litre per family, 1kg each of onions and potatoes for families in these affected districts.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of affected areas and reviewed the flood situation with the district collectors Saturday.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the CM over the phone and assured him of all help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-flood-death-toll-mounts-to-44-tirupati-gets-heavy-rain-101637990678031.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron: Arvind Kejriwal urges PM Modi to ban flights from affected countries||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from those countries which are affected by a new variant of coronavirus, omicron. The tweet comes just before PM Modi holds meeting to review the overall Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive.Also Read | All you need to know about the omicron variant"I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief said on Twitter.I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India https://t.co/5LpFULIHKbA number of countries, including the 27-nation bloc European Union, have suspended travel to south African countries, where the omicron variant believed to have emerged. The first case was detected in Botswana on November 9, and it has since spread to Hong Kong, Belgium and Israel.Australian became the latest country on Saturday to announce travel ban to nine African countries: South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi and Mozambique.India, for now, has not imposed any travel ban for flights from the affected region. The Union health ministry, however, directed states to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong - that have reported cases of the new variant so far.Experts say the omicron variant spreads faster than all the other known strains of the coronavirus and has more mutations that any of them. In fact, its 32 mutations are twice the number seen in delta, the world-dominant variant.PM Modi has held such review meetings in the past too. In the last such meeting on November 3, he met with the officials of districts where the vaccination coverage was low and the respective chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-kejriwal-urges-pm-modi-to-ban-flights-to-affected-countries-101637990013287.html
27-11-2021||India||India reports 8,318 new Covid-19 cases; death toll up by 465||India on Saturday recorded 8,318 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 21.14 per cent less than the previous day, taking the total number of infections to 3,45,63,749. At the same time, the death toll increased by 465 to 4,67,933, the data shared by the Union health ministry at 8am showed.The country's active cases stand at 1,07,019. Meanwhile, as many as 10,967 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries to 3,39,88,797. India has a recovery rate of 98.34 per cent now, the highest since March 2020, showed the government data.Although the new cases have dropped to a containable level in India, the Union health ministry on Friday directed states and union territories to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers in view of the omicron outbreak.Directions were issued for travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong - that have reported cases of the new variant so far.India's cumulative vaccination coverage against the viral disease has exceeded 1.21 billion, with more than 73.58 lakh administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry stated.Going by the weekly data, the country's positivity rate remained under one per cent (0.88%) for the past 13 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-318-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-up-by-465-101637987031497.html
27-11-2021||India||Haryana CM says law guaranteeing MSP ‘not possible’ as farmers press for key demand||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that it is not possible to draft a law guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers as it would put pressure on the government to buy their produce in case nobody else does. Notably, the statement from the veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader came on the day thousands of protesting farmers marked one year of the movement against three contentious pieces of agriculture legislation, also vowing to keep the movement alive to ensure the demand for MSP for a range of crops is guaranteed.Also Read | Rakesh Tikait: MSP our key demand, govt has time to think till winter sessionSpeaking to reporters who asked him about the demands of the farmers to regularise MSP, Khattar said, “Till now, no discussions have been held on this (on regularising MSP). Agricultural economists also have varied opinions.”“It does not seem possible to draft a law on this,” the ANI news agency quoted the Haryana chief minister as saying. “A law on MSP is not possible because if a law is made on this, then the onus will come on the government, in the sense that if their produce is not bought, then the government will have to buy it.”“The government does not require so much and to make a system on this is also not possible. We will buy as per the requirement,” he added.The Haryana chief minister on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in New Delhi, following which he made the aforementioned remarks.Several farmer unions, under the umbrella of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), have been spearheading nationwide protests against the three central farm laws since November last year. Although the Narendra Modi-led government recently announced that the contentious laws will be repealed, the farmers maintained that there are several demands pending, including those related to MSP for crops.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said a day ago that the “main demand” is the MSP and now that the government has time to think about the demands, the procedures undertaken in the forthcoming winter session of Parliament will influence the future of the farmers' protests. “The rollback of the three laws was beneficial for the common man,” Tikait said while addressing the farmers at the UP Gate. “Our demand is for a law guaranteeing MSP for a range of crops. The government has time to think and understand our demands till the winter session goes on in Parliament. The winter session will decide the future course of our agitation.”Meanwhile, the SKM will on Saturday take a call on the future course of action of the entire movement, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-says-law-guaranteeing-msp-not-possible-as-farmers-press-for-key-demand-101637983431370.html
27-11-2021||India||3 killed, 7 injured as truck hits bus from behind in Odisha||Three picnickers returning home were killed and seven others sustained critical injuries after a speeding truck hit their stationary bus from behind on the national highway in Odisha’s Khurda district early Saturday morning.Officials said the accident took place when some of the 18 picnickers from Gopalpur area of Ganjam district, returning from Maa Tarini shrine at Ghatagaon in Keonjhar district, got down from the bus to relieve themselves at Belapada chhaka under Banapur police station at about 3 am.“Some of the picnickers stayed in the bus while others went out to relieve themselves. A few moments later, a truck slammed the stationary bus from behind, which resulted in the death of two passengers on the spot and another one at the hospital. Those who had left the bus to relieve themselves were unhurt. The truck driver fled with the truck after the mishap,” said Balugaon sub divisional police officer Manas Barik.Also Read: Odisha constable tracks liquor dens by day. At night, he teaches poor childrenThe deceased were identified as S Loyidas (55), Gangadhar Maharana (45) and Asit Behera (28), all from Gopalpur area of Ganjam district.A team of fire services personnel rescued the injured and recovered the bodies. The seven who were critically injured have been rushed to MKCG Hospital in Berhampur town. Officials said they were trying to track the truck that hit the bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-7-injured-as-truck-hits-bus-from-behind-101637988714145.html
27-11-2021||India||Talks of new alliance, Cong not enthused but open to Chirag||While the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan consider an alliance for the election to 24 Member of Legislative Council (MLC) seats in Bihar, other Grand Alliance partners such as the Congress are weighing their options with a section in the party advocating going solo despite the debacle in recently concluded by-polls. The party has also denied it was involved in talks with the LJP, suggesting a disconnect with RJD national president Lalu Prasad’s unilateral announcement of talks with Chirag Paswan-led party. The RJD has even floated a seat distribution formula for the proposed alignment with the RJD contesting on 15 seats, Congress on 5, LJP (Ram Vilas) on 3 and Left on one seat. A few days back, LJP (Ram Vilas) state parliamentary party backed forming an alliance for the impending MLC elections and the decision was seconded by the national parliamentary party, which left it to party’s national president Chirag Paswan to take a final call. “It has been left to Chirag Paswan to decide the alliance with whichever party. We cannot say whether it will be with the RJD or the National Democratic Alliance (NDA),” said LJP (RV) spokesperson Ashraf Ansari. “A call is likely to be taken in this regard on November 28,” he added. The LJP failed to impress in the recently held by-polls for two assembly seats in a continuation of its dismal performance in 2020 assembly elections, when a single party candidate managed to win, only to later defect to the Janata Dal (United), leaving the party with no representation in either house. The Congress appears to be a divided house over the Grand Alliance opening its doors to the Chirag Paswan faction of the LJP. “I am not aware of any talks going on in this regard. Such major decisions are taken by party high command,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha. “First and foremost, no offer has come. Secondly, Lalu Prasad will not decide who Congress should align with. Our Bihar in-charge Bhakt Charan Das has not been approached,” said Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra. Mishra added that Chirag should “hold direct talks with the Congress” to discuss an alliance . Some other party leaders favoured re-establishing an independent identity in the state. “It is still three years to Lok Sabha polls and it is enough time to rebuild the party and go to polls on its own,” opined Anand Madhab, Congress spokesperson. Another Congress leader, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Those advocating ties with the RJD are doing so for their selfish interest as they want to push their near and dear ones to the legislative council with the help of the RJD,” . All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar, who recently held a press conference in Patna was also for organisational strengthening. “The by-elections taught us the lesson that we need to work on our organisation in Bihar. We are going to do that in the two and a half years that remain before the country goes to polls,” the former Union minister said. Also Read | Lalu Prasad Yadav admitted to AIIMS emergency dept, stable: Report “It is, however, for our top leadership to take a call on any future realignment with the RJD. A decision will be taken at an appropriate time, keeping in view the political scenario across the country,” said Anwar. The Left parties, which performed very well in the 2020 assembly elections to win 16 seats, are open to exploring this new alignment. “Any alliance against the BJP ... is always a welcome step. More the [number of] parties, the greater the strength. However, Chirag Paswan will first have to clear his stand with regard to the NDA. We will wait for his decision. Let things crystallise then we will comment on seats [sharing]. The recent development in the Mahagathbandhan (Grand alliance) with the Congress and the RJD fighting each other was not good,” said Kunal (known by single name), state secretary of the CPI (ML).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-of-new-alliance-cong-not-enthused-but-open-to-chirag-101637986194120.html
27-11-2021||India||PM Modi to chair meeting with top officials today to discuss Covid-19 situation, vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will hold a meeting with top officials regarding the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and to review the ongoing vaccination programme. The meeting is scheduled to commence at 10.30am.It comes amid concerns caused over the emergence of a new variant of coronavirus - the Omicron. The strain has already been categorised as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).PM @narendramodi will chair an important meeting on Covid-19 situation & Vaccination with top officials at 10:30 AM today.This would be the second such meeting by Modi in the month. Earlier on November 3, he met with the officials of districts where the vaccination coverage was low and the respective chief ministers.Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, principal secretary to PM PK Mishra, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul are scheduled to attend the meeting, according to news agency ANI.The meeting comes as India crossed the 1.21 billion doses mark on Saturday, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 1,210,658,262 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries, as of 8am on the day.On Saturday, 8,318 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 465 related fatalities were reported across the country. With this, the total confirmed infections so far reached 34,563,749 and the death toll climbed to 467,933, the ministry’s dashboard showed. Active caseload fell by 3,114 cases and stood at 107,019. Meanwhile, 969,354 samples were tested for the disease in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said and so far, 638,247,889 samples have been tested.As far as restriction measures regarding the new omicron variant is concerned, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to states and Union territories on November 25 warning of the new variant and asked for passengers from or transiting through the countries where the cases are detected be tested rigorously.“It is imperative that all international travellers travelling from and transiting through these countries and also including all other 'at risk' countries are subjected to rigorous screening and testing. The contacts of these international travellers must also be closely tracked and tested,” Bhushan said in his letter.“This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations and thus has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel,” he further warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-meeting-with-top-officials-today-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-vaccination-101637985326550.html
27-11-2021||India||As Elon Musk's Starlink offers internet services in India, govt issues warning||Starlink, the broadband internet system of the Elon Musk-founded SpaceX, is not licensed to offer satellite-based internet services in India, the Union government said on Friday and also advised the public to not subscribe to the services offered by the company, which are available for pre-booking.The Department of Telecommunications (DoT), under the Union ministry of communications, said that Starlink does not have the required licenses for a company to provide satellite based services in the country. “Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Government of India. has pointed out that 'Starlink Internet Services' is not licensed to offer satellite-based internet services in India being advertised to the public,” the ministry said in a statement.The government said that the company has started pre-selling or booking of their satellite based Starlink Internet Services in India and it was evident from the company’s website that users in the Indian territory could book internet services offered by Starlink.Also read | Elon Musk’s SpaceX ‘looking for two rockstars’ for Starlink India. Details here“For rendering satellite based services in India, requisite license(s) from Department of Telecommunications, Government of India are required. It is hereby informed to the public at large that the said company has not obtained any license/authorization for rendering satellite based internet services that are being booked on their website,” the ministry further said.Further, Starlink has also been asked by the government to immediately refrain from making their services available for booking in the country, until the required licenses are obtained.“Accordingly, the Government has asked the company to comply with the Indian regulatory framework for rendering the satellite based communication services and refrain from booking/rendering the satellite internet services in India with immediate effect,” the ministry said. “Given the fact that Starlink is not a licensee, the public is advised not to subscribe to Starlink services being advertised,” it added.Starlink was reportedly planning to explore collaboration with telecom companies in the country to expand their broadband services in the country, according to a report by news agency PTI earlier this month.The company intends to discuss with service providers after the NITI Aayog identified 12 Phase-1 aspiration districts, Sanjay Bhargava, Starlink Country Director India at SpaceX, told news agency ANI.Currently, the company is offering its services in select areas within the country for an amount of $99 that is fully refundable. The website also shows that the company is targeting coverage by 2022 and that availability is subject to regulatory approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-elon-musk-s-starink-offers-internet-services-in-india-govt-issues-warning-101637983184977.html
27-11-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar most polluted city in UP as AQI plunges in winter||With winter securing its grip in Uttar Pradesh, the cold air and dry weather have intensified the air pollution situation from Meerut to Muzaffarnagar as citizens continue to inhale the stagnant air laden with a high concentration of pollutants. The latest air quality index (AQI) rankings, issued on Saturday, showed that Muzaffarnagar is the second-most polluted (based on the concentration of pollutants in the air) city in the country. The situation in Meerut, too, has progressively gotten worse, the AQI rankings showed.Also Read | Air pollution: CNG, e-vehicles allowed to enter Delhi from today. Details hereThe average AQI in Meerut, during the past 24 hours, turned out to be 373 – which is in the ‘very poor’ category, making the city the tenth-most polluted in the country. In Uttar Pradesh, Meerut stood sixth in the air pollution ranking, while Muzaffarnagar, with an AQI of 423, came up first. According to experts cited by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, the sharp decline in temperatures due to approaching winter is likely to further worsen the air quality index in the coming days. As per the data, PM10 and PM2.5 particles are running high across all cities, around six to eight times higher than what is normal.AQI ranking in Uttar PradeshMuzaffarnagar: 423Noida: 394Hapur: 388Greater Noida: 386Ghaziabad: 378Meerut: 373Bulandshahr: 363Baghpat: 356Meanwhile, the overall AQI in the national capital, Delhi, slipped to 386 on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), which categorised the air as ‘very poor’. The PM10 was recorded at 360 and PM2.5 was recorded at 386 at 7:50am.Also Read | Amid ‘very poor’ Delhi air quality, expert lists suggestions to avoid pollutionSAFAR advised that everyone may experience health effects and a significant increase in respiratory problems. “The share of stubble burning (Count 274) related pollutants is 8 per cent in Delhi's PM2.5. Mixing layer height and wind are the dominant factors controlling air quality. From 29th significant improvement in AQI is expected due to high wind speed,” said SAFAR.As per SAFAR, the air quality will further deteriorate to AQI 428 in the “severe” category. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has once again decided to reimpose a ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court's directions. In view of an improvement in the air quality, the ban on construction and demolition activities was lifted last Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-most-polluted-city-in-up-as-aqi-plunges-in-winter-101637981226225.html
27-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh minister apologises for remarks about 'upper caste women'||A minister in Madhya Pradesh stoked controversy over comments made about women earlier this week. The remarks were on the caste lines, and did no go down well with the locals.The minister, Bisahulal Singh, later apologised for the remarks.Singh, who holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies in Madhya Pradesh government, said at an even on Wednesday that upper caste and influential people restrict their womenfolk to the household, so if we want social equality, then these women should be pulled out of their homes. The comments were reported by several news agencies and widely criticised on various social media platforms.Watch the video:#WATCH | Thakur-thakar (upper castes) keep their women confined to their homes & don't allow them to work in society. Women of Thakurs&other big people should be dragged out of their homes & made to work in society to ensure equality: MP Minister Bisahulal Singh in Anuppur(24.11) pic.twitter.com/46962n0Puj“This is what happens when you give Right message in Wrong Way/Language. People get Triggered and your message stays aside and you're rolled up in new controversy. So think before you speak,” said a Twitter user Jr Dixit."Words matter. Women participation in work is low in India and overall it just causes problems to society. Although, using harsh words should be avoided in things related to personal choice," another person posted on Twitter.Singh, however, said his remarks were misconstrued and that it was not his intention to hurt the sentiments of any particular community."I apologise if anyone's sentiments got hurt, but I didn't say it to degrade any community. My motive was to say that women of all backgrounds should do social service with equality. People twisted my words," said Singh.The minister explained that the family members of his party - ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - were absent, which is why he said that all of them should be brought out and come forward to work for the society and the party."I didn't talk about Thakur women or women of MP. I pointed to the people from our board and Brahmins from the district. I don't think I said anything wrong. If people are still hurt, I apologise," he added.Earlier too the minister had made controversial remarks about the wife of Congress candidate Vishwanath Singh Anjum, on which the Election Commission sought an answer from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-minister-apologises-for-remarks-about-upper-caste-women-101637980468984.html
27-11-2021||India||What FB got right and what it didn’t in the 2019 elections||Coming off a bruising scandal in the US involving political consultant Cambridge Analytica using its data to manipulate voter behaviour, Facebook pulled out all stops to get it right in India’s 2019 general elections. It managed to sail through the biggest elections in the world involving 900 million voters without a scratch, but information that has recently come to light shows that despite its eagerness to remain blameless, its efforts were sometimes lacking.As the polls scheduled to begin in April 2019 drew close, Facebook (now Meta Platforms) added resources to monitor and manage information flow through its platform, putting together 40 cross-functional teams with 300 members based in Delhi, Singapore, Dublin, and at its headquarters in Menlo Park, California. It wanted to avoid another scandal at any cost. Although India was the big one, the teams were also looking at elections in Indonesia and to the European Parliament.Over two years beginning January 2017, Facebook closely studied India and drew up a list of priorities for its Civic Integrity, Business Integrity, Misinformation, and Community Integrity teams. The efforts were not in vain. The company, according to internal documents reviewed by The Intersection and Hindustan Times, was thrilled that it stayed out of the headlines and even managed some good press. In a post-election internal review, one Facebook official wrote, “In spite of this being coined a WhatsApp election, the team’s proactive efforts over the course of a year paid off, leading to a surprisingly quiet, uneventful election period.”In reality, former Facebook officials told The Intersection and HT, Facebook’s priority was to avoid flak should anything go wrong in the elections. Not known until now was also that Facebook’s carefully erected systems could not capture many violations, as revealed by the Wall Street Journal and The Economic Times.Nevertheless, Facebook did take down large volumes of “bad” content around election misinformation, and acted against attempts at voter suppression, internal documents show.These excerpts are from disclosures made to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and provided to the US Congress in redacted form by whistleblower Frances Haugen’s counsel. The redacted versions received by Congress were reviewed by a consortium of news organisations, including The Intersection. The Intersection is publishing these stories in partnership with HT. This is the second in a series of stories.What Facebook enforcedWith the first day of polling 10 days out, Facebook made public what it called “coordinated inauthentic behaviour” (CIB) and civic spam on the platform. It shut down accounts and took down pages and groups run by the Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) targeting the Indian electorate. It shut down 687 pages, accounts that engaged in CIB and were allegedly “linked to individuals associated with an IT Cell of the Indian National Congress” and also removed 15 pages, groups and accounts that, it said, were “linked to a technology firm, Silver Touch, which managed several pages supporting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party”.“Initial press coverage drew parallels between the INC and Pakistan, though later reports were more balanced,” the Facebook official wrote assessing the impact of Facebook releasing the takedown data.The platform viewed the CIB takedown as proactively shielding election integrity. A former Facebook official said on condition of anonymity that it had an element of playing to the gallery. There was an expectation that Facebook would do something about elections in general. By going public with the CIB, the company was showing that it was transparent.It prepared for a second CIB in the midst of the elections. “As we prepared for a second round of CIB in the midst of the elections, the focus was on protocols and what constituted action under CIB. Also the question over whether there was a need to distinguish between foreign and domestic interference in these cases,” the Facebook official wrote in the memo titled India Elections: Case Study (Part 2).At the time, the company also paused civic spam takedowns globally because it could not clearly define violations of civic spam rules. Civic spam in Facebook-speak is usage of fake accounts, multiple accounts with same names, impersonation, posting malware links and using a content deluge to drive traffic to affiliated websites to make money.The second CIB takedown was never publicly disclosed or reported, lending more credence to the former Facebook official’s observation that it was a show for the public. CIB round two “was all exclusively domestic financially motivated (FMO) and politically motivated (PMO)” and was blocked for India. This meant no enforcement on any domestic-only (no foreign nexus) CIB case. It was “lifted a few weeks later”.Facebook proactively took down over 65,000 pieces of content since the start of polling that were aimed at voter suppression. As polls progressed, the company took down posts claiming that the indelible ink used to mark fingers was made out of “pig blood and so Muslims should skip voting to avoid its use”. It also took down posts that included “incorrect polling dates and times and polling locations” according to the Facebook official’s memo.A Meta spokesperson, in response to The Intersection and Hindustan Times’ questionnaire, said, “Voter suppression policy prohibits election-related and voter fraud – things that are objectively verifiable like misrepresentation of dates and methods for voting (e.g., text to vote). The content that requires additional review to determine if it violates our policy may be sent to our third-party fact-checkers for verification.”A “constant theme throughout the election” was misinformation regarding the failure of electronic voting machines (EVM), the official wrote in the memo. “While there were legitimate EVM failures that required re-polling in a few constituencies, there was also misinformation in the form of out-of-context videos claiming vote rigging... In total, Market Ops removed over 10,000 pieces of EVM malfunctioning misinformation.”The mess that was verificationTo strengthen the verification process, Facebook originally put in place a mechanism to mark political advertisers. This would typically include a mandatory disclosure for advertisers with a “paid for” or “published by” label. In February 2019, it also announced an offline verification process with boots on the ground and an OTP sent to the postal address. Facebook was to hire a third-party vendor for this. “These were clearly not scalable solutions, even if the intent was right,” said a Facebook official aware of the matter.Facebook later relied on phone-based verification, a person familiar with the matter said. But it reduced oversight. Some advertisers would get verified using burner phones. There would be no follow-up verifications despite it being part of the company’s transparency plans. Internally, questions were raised about the frequency to keep a check on these hacks, as once verified, the phones would get unanswered.Multiple former Facebook officials confirmed that the verification process was a “mess”, while also highlighting the struggles Facebook has in “executing things well globally”. One of them said, “People wanted ad transparency, but Facebook couldn’t get it out in time for the election and have all the things worked out.”The BJP benefited from this loophole, according to a Wall Street Journal report of August 2020. “Facebook declined to act after discovering that the BJP was circumventing its political ad transparency requirements,” it said, quoting sources. “In addition to buying Facebook ads in its own name, the BJP was also found to have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars through newly created organisations that didn’t disclose the party’s role. Facebook neither took down the ads nor the pages.”One of the officials The Intersection and HT spoke to said the company has since taken some steps, including mandatory verification using government-issued identification documents. “The biggest problem in India is that there are no standardised address formats,” the official said. According to another former official, the Election Commission of India should ideally be looking at a digitised database of “who is allowed to run political ads that a platform like Facebook can use to verify people, and anyone not in the database, can’t run the ads”.The Meta spokesperson added, “In India, based on learnings from the US and other countries, we tightened the disclaimer options available to advertisers and require additional credentials to increase their accountability. E.g. in case of an escalation, if we discover that the phone, email or website are no longer active or valid, we will inform the advertiser to update them. If they do not, they will no longer be able to use that disclaimer to run ads...”To disable or not to disable: That is the questionTo prevent India creating fresh legal obligations for social media companies, Facebook led the conversation around the need for a voluntary code of ethics during the silent period, the 48 hours before the polling date when canvassing is prohibited. This would have meant that Facebook would have had to disable all ads for two days in every phase.Instead, it shifted the onus of reporting ads violating the code to the Election Commission of India (ECI), and did not proactively disable ads as it did in the US. It took down only those ads flagged to it by ECI. Others slipped through and remained live on the platform.It on-boarded ECI “on to the Government Casework channel for escalating content which violated election laws”, noted the Facebook official in the memo. This channel, people familiar with the matter said, was primarily for flagging illegal content, although it did include some advertising. A Huffington Post investigation in May 2019, revealed that “a total of 2,235 advertisements worth approximately ₹1.59 crore ran in violation of the silent period” in the first four phases.Product and other teams (presumably in charge of revenues) at Facebook clashed over whether to block ads during the silent period or not. Facebook erred on the side of free speech, and contended that ads were another way for people to express opinion. Parties too wanted them running, and Facebook believed it was only fair to smaller parties. Internally, the firm considers political ads as “high risk, low reward”, because they bring in little money (in comparison to other types of ads people run on its platforms).Blocking would have required carving out the right geographical regions as per polling dates which were spread over a month and building digital fences around them to dynamically change the visibility of the ads. “Facebook hates being told how to build products,” said one of the former company officials The Intersection and Hindustan Times spoke to.Nayantara Ranganathan, an independent researcher and co-founder of Persuasion Lab, a project interrogating new forms of propaganda told The Intersection and Hindustan Times, “In choosing to serve an advertisement between two potential viewers, Facebook optimises for goals of the advertiser, engagement of users and growth of the platform. It is not such a stretch to expect Facebook to optimise for compliance with laws.” She added, “Ultimately, ads delivery is something that Facebook algorithms control, and it is very much possible to exclude by geolocation and dates.”Venkat Ananth is a co-founder at The Intersection published by The Signal, www.thesignal.co||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-fb-got-right-and-what-it-didn-t-in-the-2019-elections-101637975395829.html
27-11-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal heads to poll-bound Punjab again today, this time to support protesting teachers||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Partty (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will visit poll-bound Punjab again on Saturday, for the second time this week. According to AAP, Kejriwal will express support to protesting teachers in Mohali who have been pushing for regularisation of services of contractual teachers and other demands.Kejriwal will reach Chandigarh later in the day and begin his engagements, according to AAP.Kejriwal has been visiting Punjab frequently ahead of the assembly elections due next year. In the 2017 polls, AAP emerged as the second-largest party in Punjab winning 20 out of the total 117 seats.This time, the party hopes to capture power in the northern state, and AAP's senior leaders are concentrating on Punjab with this aim.Kejriwal earlier visited the Congress-ruled state for two days - on November 22 and 23 - during which he launched AAP's 'Mission Punjab'. The AAP chief had said that he will return to Punjab and focus on working for teachers.He had also announced eight guarantees for the teachers in Punjab. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, Kejriwal said that the first guarantee will be that all teachers will be given a suitable working environment.The other guarantees include: All contractual teachers to be regularised, changing the transfer policy to make it more transparent, stopping teachers from performing any non-teaching jobs, filling teaching vacancies, time-bound promotion to them and cashless medical facility for teachers and their family members.In the run-up to 2022 assembly elections, the AAP is facing competition from the ruling Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The AAP has already released its first list of 10 candidates for the elections, just days after sitting MLA from Bathinda Rural (reserved), Rupinder Kaur Ruby joined the Congress on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-heads-to-punjab-again-this-time-to-support-protesting-teachers-101637979254934.html
27-11-2021||India||What next of farmers' protests? SKM to decide future course of action today||A day after marking the first anniversary of the year-long farmers' protests at the border areas of the national capital, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of protesting unions – will on Saturday take a call on the future course of action of the entire movement, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav.The BKU, an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year under the SKM umbrella. The union's spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told the PTI news agency on Friday, “We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday.”Also Read | With end of farmers’ protest in sight after a year, gloom gives way to reliefThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh had gathered in large numbers yesterday at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri – with protesting unions saying that the day, which marks one year of their agitation against the three farm laws, will be remembered forever in history as one of the greatest moments of people's struggle.Taking to his Twitter handle, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait acknowledged that this one year of farmers' protest also marks one entire year of dedication, fight, and commitment. “It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness,” the senior leader tweeted in Hindi. “We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right.” He also posted photos of the one-year protest on the micro-blogging website, Koo.The BKU, an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year under the SKM umbrella. The union's spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told the PTI news agency on Friday, “We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday.”Also Read | With end of farmers’ protest in sight after a year, gloom gives way to reliefThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh had gathered in large numbers yesterday at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri – with protesting unions saying that the day, which marks one year of their agitation against the three farm laws, will be remembered forever in history as one of the greatest moments of people's struggle.Taking to his Twitter handle, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait acknowledged that this one year of farmers' protest also marks one entire year of dedication, fight, and commitment. “It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness,” the senior leader tweeted in Hindi. “We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right.”|#+|Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in a surprise address last week, announced that the three controversial farm laws would be withdrawn. Although farmer unions had welcomed the government's move, they said their protests would continue until the laws are totally withdrawn and other demands are met.Also Read | SKM to organise farmers’ Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on MondayThe Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 – the all-important draft legislation to withdraw the three contentious laws – has already been approved by the Union cabinet, and, according to an official bulletin, it will be introduced in Parliament on the opening day of the winter session on Monday.Meanwhile, the Opposition, too, is adamant to discuss the bill in the House to corner the government over the farm issues. The Congress has issued three-line whips in both the Houses, asking party MPs to be present on Monday; the party also plans to hold a meeting hours before the session begins with other opposing parties for “working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns”, people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-next-of-farmers-protests-skm-to-decide-future-course-of-action-today-101637977513499.html
27-11-2021||India||Heavy rain expected in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh today; IMD issues red alert||Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are expected to receive heavy rainfall on Saturday under the influence of a cyclonic circulation. A fresh low pressure area is expected to be formed by Monday, said the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) regional office in Chennai. It has issued a red alert for all the coastal districts till Saturday and an orange alert for adjacent districts.According to IMD forecast, a fresh spell of heavy rain will lash Thoothukudi, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Theni, Madurai and Pudukkottai in Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry from November 25-29.In view of this, the Union Territory of Puducherry has declared a holiday in all schools and colleges for two days.The IMD said that a cyclonic circulation lies over Comorin Area and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts and strong northeasterly winds are prevailing over Tamil Nadu coast and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh at lower levels.It further said that a fresh low pressure area is likely to form over south Andaman Sea around November 29. "It is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards in during subsequent 48 hours," the IMD said in its forecast on Friday."Squally wind (speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) very likely over Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar, along & off south Tamilnadu coast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal on 26th & 27th November. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas," it further said on Twitter.About Andhra Pradesh, the weather department said that the state's coastal areas, and Yanam and Rayalaseeman are likely to experience isolated heavy rainfall on Saturday. The intensity of the rainfall is likely to increase on Sunday and Monday."Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas," the IMD said in a tweet.During this northeast monsoon season, Tamil Nadu has received 61 per cent excess rainfall from October 1 till November 25. The excessive rainfall has caused havoc across the state including in Chennai since the first week of November.A six-member central team concluded a four-day visit to Tamil Nadu earlier this week to assess rain-related damages as the state has sought central aid to the tune of ₹4,000 crore for restoration work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-expected-in-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-today-imd-issues-red-alert-101637976398042.html
27-11-2021||India||Resident doctors call for nationwide protest over delay in NEET-PG counselling, to suspend OPD services from Nov 27||The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) have called for a nationwide suspension of out-patient department (OPD) services at hospitals starting Saturday, November 27, as a mark of protest against the alleged delay in conducting NEET-PG 2021 counselling.Resident doctors at hospitals like Ram Manohar Lohia, Lady Hardinge and some other hospitals in Delhi have joined the protest and announced to withdraw OPD services from November 27.In a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the resident doctors' group said that they have been "already over-burdened and exhausted" fighting at the frontline since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, and waited patiently till November 25 for some positive outcome on the Supreme Court proceedings over NEET-PG 2021 counselling.“However, there seems to be no respite to their physical and mental distress,” FORDA stated. The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that the counselling for NEET post-graduate medical courses will be further postponed by four weeks while it revisits ₹8 lakh annual income criteria for determining the EWS category for reservation in the admissions..The resident doctors have urged the Centre and the apex court to take note of their grievances and take necessary measures to fast-track the court proceedings on an urgent basis, expedite the NEET-PG 2021 counselling as well as the admission process for medical courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resident-doctors-call-for-nationwide-protest-over-delay-in-neet-pg-counselling-to-suspend-opd-services-from-nov-27-101637971641658.html
27-11-2021||India||Battle for UP: Priyanka Gandhi in Mahoba today, to address Congress rally||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress intends to leave no stone unturned in its preparations, with the party now shifting its attention to the Bundelkhand region of the state. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the general secretary of the grand old party, will on Saturday address a rally in Mahoba, where other prominent Congress leaders will also be present, according to reports citing a spokesperson of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee.Also Read | No justice for dalits, women, farmers and minorities in UP: Priyanka“After eastern Uttar Pradesh, Congress will now demonstrate its strength in western Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand,” the Congress man was quoted as saying, adding that a massive rally – led by Priyanka Gandhi – has been planned in Mahoba, “the land of heroes”.Notably, the Congress leader was earlier scheduled to arrive in Bundelkhand on November 23, but her visit was suddenly postponed and the rally was rescheduled to November 27 instead. In addition to other prominent leaders, the party also intends to ensure the presence of its workers and supporters from the Nyaya panchayat level at the rallies today.Mahoba itself remains the hotbed of political future in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had both addressed people from Mahoba earlier this month, galvanising the BJP supporters and workers and getting the saffron party's morale up and running for the elections. Now, Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders are looking to do the same for the opposing faction, and this will be followed up by a visit by Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on December 1.Also Read | Rebel Cong MLA says Priyanka Gandhi ‘politicised’ issues in Uttar PradeshAccording to reports, the chief of Congress' UP unit, Ajay Kumar Lallu, and other state leaders have been making personal visits to village units to ensure the attendance of ground-level workers and supporters at Priyanka Gandhi's rally on Saturday. While a considerable crowd is expected, it remains to be seen how Congress attempts to turn its fate around in poll prospects for the region.Congress hopes to recover its lost ground in Bundelkhand. The region had long ago been a stronghold of the grand old party, but later it gradually began losing grip on the consensus – as is evident from the election results of the past three decades. Now, the party has ramped up its efforts to win back the popular vote in Bundelkhand, with Priyanka Gandhi attempting to lead the efforts there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-for-up-priyanka-gandhi-in-mahoba-today-to-address-congress-rally-101637973213138.html
27-11-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Rajnath Singh to galvanise BJP booth presidents in Jaunpur||Rajnath Singh, defence minister and veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, will on Saturday address the booth unit presidents of as many as 16 districts of the party's Kashi regional unit at the TD College ground in the Jaunpur city area of Uttar Pradesh. According to reports, the Kashi unit of the BJP has made preparations to host around 29,500 booth unit presidents of the aforementioned 16 districts – a massive arrangement second only to the extensive meet conducted by Union home minister Amit Shah in Varanasi earlier this month in which he addressed the party in-charges of 403 legislative assembly segments ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls.The BJP has recently ramped up its efforts to galvanise the booth presidents of its regional units in UP, especially in the wake of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav inking a pact with the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and also joining hands with its old partner, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).Rajnath Singh will be conducting the meeting with the booth unit presidents to get the party's organisational chassis up and ready ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. At the November 12 meeting conducted by Amit Shah, it was said that all such sessions with booth unit presidents of regional units, to address the issues related to planning, arrangement, and coordination of the party's strategy for the 2022 polls, shall be completed by November end. Moreover, conventions of booth-level committees, divisional units, and in-charges of Shakti Kendras and Panna Pramukh shall also be conducted parallelly and completed by the end of the month.The party is also set to launch rath yatras which would traverse through important assembly segments in rural areas and connect with farmers, party leaders said. The rath yatras were also discussed at the BJP’s core committee meeting at the UP BJP headquarters in Lucknow. The meeting was attended by party chief JP Nadda who has now wound up his meetings with booth presidents in Gorakhpur and Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-rajnath-singh-to-galvanise-bjp-booth-presidents-in-jaunpur-101637970604552.html
27-11-2021||NA||Breaking: EU will not recognise Taliban regime, says report||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:EU will not recognise Taliban regime, says reportThe European Union will not recognise the Taliban regime, news agency ANI quoted European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen as saying on Saturday.In a statement, EU's President said, "European Union does not recognise the new regime, imposed through violence, but we need to prevent the imminent economic and social collapse that the country faces. We need to stand by the people of Afghanistan."Travellers arriving from other nations in Kerala undergoing testing, 7-day quarantine, says Veena GeorgeThe Kerala government on Saturday said travellers arriving from other countries in the state are undergoing a RT-PCR testing and 7-day quarantine as required. “As far as Kerala is concerned, we are constantly examining the presence of mutant virus in samples,” news agency ANI quoted Kerala health minister Veena George as saying.All 1,000 people who came from South Africa were tested for Covid-19, says Karnataka minister Karnataka minister R Ashoka on Saturday said that over 1,000 people, who came from South Africa, have been tested for Coronavirus, reported news agency ANI. “One more test will be done after 10 days for those who have already come to Bengaluru or somewhere,” he added.Delhi sees 27 fresh Covid-19 cases, one deathDelhi on Saturday recorded one more death due to Covid-19 and 27 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.05 per cent, according to health department data. With this, the death toll has climbed to 25,096 and the caseload stands at 14,40,834. Over 14.15 lakh patients have recovered from the viral disease, the health department bulletin said.Two cases of coronavirus omicron variant detected in BritainBritain on Saturday confirmed its first two cases of the new Omicron strain of Covid-19, both linked to travel from southern Africa, reported news agency AFP. "We have moved rapidly and the individuals are self-isolating while contact tracing is ongoing," Health Secretary Sajid Javid said in a statement. Read moreNepal makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for passengers arriving from South AfricaNepal on Saturday made a 7-day quarantine mandatory for air-bound passengers travelling from/via South Africa, news agency ANI quoted Nepal's ministry of health and population as saying.Karnataka CM holds emergency meet over 'omicron' variant of Covid-19Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held an emergency meeting on Friday over the new variant of Coronavirus ‘omicron’. Many officials, including state health minister Dr K Sudhakar, attended the meeting, reported news agency ANI.Heavy rains cause waterlogging in many areas in ChennaiTamil Nadu | Several areas in Chennai partially submerged in floodwater after torrential rains over the past few days Visuals from the Ashok Nagar area pic.twitter.com/IaerqUV80uSeveral areas in Chennai partially submerged in floodwater due to torrential rains over the past few days.Germany announces first suspected case of new Covid-19 variant, reports AFPA German regional official said Saturday that health authorities have identified the first suspected case in the country of the new Covid-19 variant, in a person who returned from South Africa, reports news agency AFP.2 dead during first winter storm in UK, reported APAt least two people have died in the UK after the year's first winter storm battered parts of the countries with gusts of nearly 100 mph (160 kph), reported news agency AP. The storm, which was named Arwen by the country's Met Office, hit parts of the north of England, Scotland and Northern Ireland particularly hard, causing road causing road closures, train delays, power cuts and high waves, the report further said.Maharashtra mandates full Covid vaccination for using public transport. Here are the new normsDelhi LG directs officials to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour, preparedness in hospitals amid Omicron scareDelhi LG Anil Baijal has instructed the chief secretary, police commissioner & officials concerned to ensure strict adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour in public places & functions and full preparedness in hospitals to handle any emergent situation: Govt sources pic.twitter.com/WVg2pZJf7tDelhi LG Anil Baijal has directed officials to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour and preparedness in hospitals to handle emergent situation due to new variant. On Monday, experts and representatives of civil aviation ministry to attend meeting with the DDMA and may decide on testing of passengers from international flights and quarantining those from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Hong Kong etc., reports ANI citing government sources.International passengers coming to Maharashtra to be governed according to Centre's directionsIf default found inside taxi/pvt transport 4-wheeler or inside any bus, along with individual defaulting Covid appropriate behaviour being fined ₹500; driver/helper/conductor shall be fined ₹500; owner transport agency in cases of buses shall be fined ₹1000:Maharashtra Govt pic.twitter.com/QX3q4YpT3VThe international passengers arriving at Maharashtra would be governed according to the directions issued by the Union government while domestic passengers are required to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, reports ANI. SKM demands Modi direct states, Railways to withdraw cases against protesting farmers"PM Narendra Modi should direct state governments and Railways to withdraw the cases registered against farmers during the protest," says a leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha pic.twitter.com/Bx1yLGfUp2SKM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should direct state governments and the Railways to withdraw cases registered against farmers during the protest, reports ANI citing a farmer leader.Farmers protest: SKM decides to postpone tractor rally to Parliament on first day of Winter SessionFarmers' body Samyukt Kisan Morcha, following a meeting today, decided to postpone the proposed tractor rally to Parliament initially planned for November 29, reports ANI citing farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh.Delhi court summons P Chidambaram, Karti Chidambaram in Aircel Maxis caseFormer Union minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram and others have been issued summons by a Delhi court in the Aircel Maxis case, reports ANI. The court took cognizance of the charge-sheets filed by the ED and the CBI in the matter.Delhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins AAP Delhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. pic.twitter.com/7OOiNHaZrZDelhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joined the Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of party leader and Delhi's deputy CM Manish Sisodia, reports ANI.Click here to read more‘Need to be proactive’: Modi as Omicron variant threat loomsPM Narendra Modi said that all international arrivals should be monitored, tested as per guidelines and with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’ because of the new variant following a meeting today. He also asked officials to review plans for easing international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence.“PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking & social distancing,” the PMO said in a statement.Click here to read moreKarnataka mandates home quarantine for passengers from countries infected by Omicron variantKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar said that people coming to the state from South Africa, Hong Kong, Israel, Botswana will be tested for Covid-19 upon arrival. If positive, they will be asked to stay in and around the airport and will also receive treatment if needed. Also, home quarantine has been mandated for such passengers, reports ANI.Children allowed to enter Sabarimala temple without RT-PCR test: Kerala govtChildren are allowed to go to Sabarimala pilgrimage without RT-PCR test report. However, all adults will require either full vaccination certificate or RTPCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours to enter the temple, said Kerala government.3 Kashmiris beaten up in Ranchi, 3 persons detained“Three Kashmiri persons were beaten up by a group of people following an altercation over removing a rickshaw parked on a street in Doranda area of Ranchi today. Both sides have given complaints. Police have detained three persons in the matter,” says Ranchi Police.Passengers deplaned safely, served refreshments: Go FirstGo First flight G8 873 from Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Nagpur due to a faulty engine warning in the cockpit which necessitated the captain to shut down the engine as a precautionary measure. Thereafter, the captain followed the standard operating procedures and landed safely at Nagpur airport, Go First spokesperson said.“All passengers have been deplaned and served refreshments. Alternate aircraft has been arranged to accommodate the passengers which will depart for Patna at 4:45 pm. The aircraft is being inspected by the engineering team,” the spokesperson stated.Rahul Gandhi calls new variant ‘serious threat’, takes dig at CentreNew variant is a serious threat. High time GOI gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen.Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo. #Omicron pic.twitter.com/3J7E8TEwXTCongress leader Rahul Gandhi raises concern over the new variant of coronavirus, demanding vaccine security from the government. He takes a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's picture on the vaccination certificate, says “Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo.”Those entering Mumbai from South Africa to be quarantined on arrival, says Mumbai MayorEach person entering Mumbai from South Africa to be quarantined on arrival, samples to be sent for genome sequencing, says Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Bengaluru-Patna GoAir flight makes emergency landing in Nagpur due to technical glitchBengaluru-Patna GoAir flight with 139 passengers & crew members on board makes an emergency land at Nagpur airport due to technical glitch, as per Abhid Ruhi, an official of Nagpur airport.Major fire breaks out at factory in SuratMajor fire breaks out at Rani Sati Dyeing Mill of Pandesara GIDC in Surat, Gujarat. 15 fire tenders have been rushed to the site for firefighting.Bill to repeal farm laws to be tabled on Day 1 of Parliament winter session: Agri ministerThe bill to repeal the three farm laws will be tabled in the Parliament on the first day of the winter session (on Nov 29), says Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Resident doctors at Safdarjung hospital stage protest over delay in NEET-PG counsellingResident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital stage protest as part of a nationwide strike called by Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) over the delay in NEET-PG counselling 2021. Read moreDelhi CM urges PM Modi to stop flights from countries where 'Omicron' variant detectedI urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India https://t.co/5LpFULIHKbDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urged PM Modi to stop flights from countries where cases of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron has been detected.11 Covid-19 cases at Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy in DehradunDehradun-based Forest Research Institute bars entry of tourists & local workers for a week following detection of 11 COVID cases at Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy located on its campus, says Institute Director Arun Singh Rawat.India reports 8,318 new Covid-19 cases, 21.14% less than yesterday; death toll up by 465India reported 8,318 new Covid-19 cases, 10,967 recoveries, and 465 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases stand at 1,07,019, while 10,967 people were discharged since yesterday.PM Modi to chair key meet on Covid-19 situation and vaccination with top officials todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a key meeting on the Covid-19 situation and vaccination status with top officials at 10:30am today. The meeting comes in the backdrop of an outbreak of the new coronavirus variant found in southern Africa.99 more students test positive for Covid-19 in KarnatakaNumber of Covid-19 cases in Dharwad's SDM College of Medical Sciences reached 281, with 99 people testing positive yesterday. Out of the 281 cases, only 6 patients are symptomatic, announced District Collector Nitish Patil.Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude hits AfghanistanEarthquake of 4.3 magnitude on the Richter Scale hits Hindu Kush region of Afghanistan, according to the National Center for Seismology.Delhi AQI remains ‘very poor’ at 386Delhi's air quality continues to be 'very poor' category, with AQI standing at 386. Meanwhile, transport vehicles running on CNG and powered by electricity have been allowed to enter Delhi form Saturday, when the lifting of ban announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) comes into effect. Read moreLalu Prasad Yadav hospitalised on complaint of fever   RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was admitted to AIIMS, Delhi on Friday after he complained of fever. His health condition is stable, ANI reported.WTO postpones in-person ministerial meeting over Omicron outbreakWorld Trade Organization (WTO) says it has postponed its in-person ministerial conference in Geneva over concerns regarding "an outbreak of a particularly transmissible strain of the COVID-19 virus".Speeding car overturns on RTR flyover in Delhi, driver hospitalisedA car overturned due to an overspeeding at the RTR flyover in Delhi early this morning. The driver has been hospitalised.Omicron is ‘most concerning’ variant of Covid-19 since DeltaThe B.1.1.529 variant is considered dangerous due to its increased transmissibility. Some have already dubbed omicron as the "most concerning" since the delta variant, which fuelled relentless waves of infection on every continent some months ago. Read moreNaxal killed by security forces during encounter in Chhattisgarh's SukmaA Naxal, identified as Madvi Bheema, Militia Commander, was killed in an encounter in a joint op of security forces in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district around 5.30 pm on Friday (November 26). One rifle, 1 IED weighing about 5 kg, 2 BGL shell and 20 electric detonators recovered, the CRPF informed.Law on MSP unlikely, says Haryana CM KhattarIt is not possible to draft a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) to farmers as it would put pressure on the government to buy their produce if no one else does, said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, as quoted by news agency ANI.Puducherry receives light showers; heavy rainfall likely todayPuducherry received light showers last night.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the union territory, along with Tamil Nadu and Karaikal area between November 25 and 29.Puducherry has already declared a holiday in all schools and colleges for two days in the region for the same reason.US imposes travel ban on 8 African nations over Omicron outbreakThe United States will bar entry to most travelers from eight southern African countries from Monday onwards, due to the rise of a potentially more-contagious new coronavirus variant identified in South Africa, President Joe Biden said on Friday.The travel restrictions, however, do not apply on flights carrying US citizens and lawful US permanent residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-27-2021-101637970304488.html
27-11-2021||India||Search for new world order prompted by global clutter||The idea of the New World Order has had more avatars than some of our Gods are blessed with.The idea of a world governed on the strength of predetermined order goes back to antiquity. What Cicero dubbed civis Romanus sum (I am a Roman citizen) carried a special meaning, and with it, certain privileges that transcended ethnicity. In a similar vein, China regarded itself as the Middle Kingdom that spanned what it regarded as the civilised world and was governed by a “mandate of heaven”.In the modern age, the idea of universal values had roots in Christianity as an organised religion and, again, in the notion of fraternity of true believers in Islam. Although the potency of the former has waned and even been submerged by secular ideals, the notion of pan-Islamism still enjoys wide sectional appeal, with extremists dedicated to the revival of an Islamic Caliphate.As a political doctrine, the idea of a global order found expression in the republicanism of the French Revolution. From Robespierre to Napoleon and those who manned the barricades in 1848 and 1871, there was a commitment to overthrow the ancient regime and replace it with the noble ideals that had found expression in the aftermath of the storming of the Bastille. The British Empire, which in sheer size was larger than the empire of the Caesars, was different. Despite the casual use of Civis Britannicus Sum and attempts to portray it as the epitome of decency, the sprawling empire, in the words of Nirad Chaudhury, merely “conferred subjecthood… but withheld citizenship.” In the ultimate analysis, its was a universalism based on territory and, consequently, proved unable to withstand the democratic impulses that mushroomed from the 1930s.The mantle of aspiring universalism found expression in the 20th century in two rival global powers — the United States and the Soviet Union. For more than four decades after the conclusion of World War II, Washington and Moscow waged an unrelenting Cold War that involved proxy wars, economic manoeuvring, and political one-upmanship in different parts of the globe. Both superpowers had illusions of universalism and sought to reforge the world in their own image. The Soviet Union projected its own version of socialism that removed deprivation, while the US was equally aggressive in selling democracy, free markets and, of course, the “American way of life”. The Americans won and with the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the Soviet bloc wilted.The collapse of the Soviet experiment was a momentous development and, for some of the more exuberant victors, it signalled the “end of history” and the emphatic success of the liberal democratic order.Predictably, it didn’t quite happen that way. The quests for a new world order defined by alternative notions of the good life, persisted. Even as President Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher were celebrating the end of the “evil empire”, there were warnings of an emerging war of civilisations. More important, there were spectacular technological advances that often served to nullify national boundaries and even the powers of the national state. And there was the spectacular rise and rise of China, the proverbial sleeping giant.The Communist regime in Beijing may have emerged from the ideological womb of Marxism-Leninism. However, first under Deng Xiaoping’s guidance and subsequently under Xi Jinping’s leadership it has sought to turn the balance of world power upside down. Today, China combines fierce nationalism with spectacular economic clout, technological and scientific expertise and, above all, a doctrine of world domination. China is seeking to recreate a 21st century version of the Middle Kingdom through a combination of money, subterfuge, and charm-and-snarl diplomacy. It is also doing so without getting directly involved in wars.The onward march of China — witness the growing literature on the subject “Will China rule the world?” — is also matched by the growing disorientation of the West. The belief in the inevitable decline of the West and the shift of the global centre of gravity to the East may, as of now, be work in progress. But it is proceeding at a rapid pace and inspiring a million mutinies. The Islamic world is in turmoil over the appeal of an ideology that is based on doctrinal certitudes and intolerance; the global upsurge of Green impulses seeks to save the planet from ecological self-destruction and an economic system centred on waste, pollution and overconsumption; and a Woke epidemic originating in the West but spreading globally seeks to repudiate historical inheritance and even conventional notions of gender.The global clutter inevitably prompts the search for a new world order, perhaps held together by cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies.Swapan Dasgupta is Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-for-new-world-order-prompted-by-global-clutter-101637966021639.html
27-11-2021||India||Karnataka: 91 candidates in the fray for MLC polls after 20 withdraw names||With 20 candidates, including JD(S)’ H U Isaq from Kodagu withdrawing their candidature for the legislative council election in Karnataka scheduled next month, there are now a total of 91 candidates in the fray, poll officials said on Friday.The biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies for 25 seats, due to retirement of sitting members, will be held on December 10.Today was the last day for withdrawal of candidature.Among the 20 candidates who withdrew their candidature, other than JD(S)’ Isaq from Kodagu, rest all were independents.While four candidates each withdrew in Dakshina Kannada and Bijapur, there were three in Belgaum, two in Shimoga and one each in Dharwad, Tumkur, Bangalore, Raichur, Uttara Kannada, Mysore and Kodagu.With Isaq withdrawing his candidature from Kodagu, the JD(S), that had fielded only seven candidates, now has only six in the fray. They are- N Appajigowda (Mandya), Anil Kumar R (Tumakuru), C N Manjegowda (Mysuru), Vakkaleri Ramu (Kolar), H M Ramesh Gowda (Bengaluru Rural), Suraj Revanna (Hassan).The election has been necessitated as the term of office of the 25 MLCs will end on January 5, 2022.The counting of votes will take place on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka91-candidates-in-the-fray-for-mlc-polls-after-20-withdraw-names-101637954869443.html
27-11-2021||India||Five illegal Bangladeshi immigrants held in Bengaluru: Karnataka minister||BengaluruFive illegal Bangladeshi immigrants were nabbed in the city on Friday, Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said, terming such entrants as a threat to national security and assuring that the state government was taking efforts to identify those bringing them in. Official sources said the City Crime Branch,with the assistance of other agencies,traced and arrested the Bangladeshis from Kadugodi area here, following which a case was registered against them under the Foreigners Act.“Today our CCB have taken five illegal Bangladeshi immigrants into custody.... further investigations are on regarding how they came or were brought in. They were arrested in Bengaluru,” Jnanendra said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, illegal immigrants are a danger to national security and hence they are being nabbed.“Our government has taken special caution regarding illegal immigrants. Police have been directed to make a list of illegal immigrants in their police station limits and bring them to our detention centre,” he added.Responding to a question, the Minister, while conceding that there are reports of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants working as labourers in coffee estates and building construction workers, said “our aim is to finish the forces that are bringing them in. So our police are investigating to identify the source.” “Very soon they too will be nabbed and we will try to extract information on how many illegal immigrants they have brought in and where all they are placed. Then they will be brought to the detention centre, from where they will be deported,” he said.The danger is many of these illegal immigrants have Aadhar and ration cards, Jnanendra said, adding that, there is a network that is working on making these documents available to them, especially in Assam and other border states. “We have brought this to the notice of the Centre and the respective states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-illegal-bangladeshi-immigrants-held-in-bengaluru-karnataka-minister-101637954748097.html
27-11-2021||India||More rain predicted for southern Andhra Pradesh||Even as south coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh are limping back to normal following last week’s torrential rains, the India meteorological department on Friday predicted more rains in the region till December 2.Scattered rainfall was reported in parts of Chittoor, including the temple town of Tirupati for a couple of hours on Friday morning with Nagari town bordering Tamil Nadu recording a maximum of 2 mm rainfall. The Tirupati international airport at Renigunta also recorded scanty rainfall of 0.5 mm rainfall till Friday evening.However, a weather forecast bulletin from the MeT office in Amaravati said heavy to very heavy rainfall may be witnessed in parts of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra, particularly Chittoor and Nellore in the next three to four days. The state government has put district authorities on a high alert due to possible breach of tanks which are already filled to the brim due to recent heavy rains, leading to inundation of villages downstream.Meanwhile, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy told the state assembly on Friday that his government was taking up all the relief and rescue measures without delay in the flood-affected areas.Making a statement on the last week’s floods in the state, he said Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Nellore districts were badly affected by heavy rains and floods like never before. He said that all the district authorities were involved in relief works and were being supervised by ministers and elected representatives of the respective areas.Reddy said the flash floods were caused due to unprecedented heavy rains in a short span of time, which led to the flooding of villages downstream of Pincha and Annamayya reservoirs on Cheyyeru following a breach to its bund. In a span of a few hours, almost 51 mandals of Kadapa district received an average rainfall of 10.7 cm. Heavy rains lashed Seshachalam Hills in Tirupati and other parts of Chittoor district.“By the wee hours of November 19, the inflows to Annamayya reservoir crossed 3.2 lakh cusecs, while its discharge capacity was only 2.17 lakh cusecs, which resulted in a breach to the project, causing unfortunate damage. He said that the officials have alerted the villages and immediately taken over the rescue operations by shifting 400 families to safe places and providing shelter to 900 people in relief camps, saving hundreds of people with their efforts,” he said.A total of 1,990 villages in 119 mandals of four districts were affected by the floods, of which 211 villages were completely inundated causing a death toll of 44 people and while 16 are still missing. He said 1,169 houses were completely damaged and 5,434 houses were partially damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-rain-predicted-for-southern-andhra-pradesh-101637954629200.html
27-11-2021||India||Direct flight to Morocco will boost bilateral trade: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Friday said that direct flight connectivity between the state and Morocco will boost trade relations.“Direct flight connectivity between the state of Karnataka and Morocco will boost trade relations and transactions will be benefitting both,” Narayan said on Friday.Participating in the roadshow organized by the AMDIE (a Moroccan Investment and Export Development Agency) in partnership with the Embassy of Morocco to promote “Morocco Now” aiming to attract investments from Karnataka in Morocco, he said: “The state of Karnataka is keen on strengthening bilateral trade relations.”Appreciating the initiative taken up by the AMDIE, Narayan said, “Both Karnataka and Morocco, should get mutual benefit from the massive human resources that exists in the global city of Bengaluru.”“Morocco has huge potential in the tourism sector and Karnataka has been a pioneer in emerging technologies. Morocco should consider providing tax rebates to companies from the state which are keen on investing in Morocco,” he said. Morocco is working on opening a consulate in BengaluruMorocco’s Ambassador to India, Mohamed Maliki on Friday said his country is working on opening a consulate in Bengaluru, as part of a plan to increase its presence in India.A high-level trade delegation from the Kingdom of Morocco, led by Maliki, is on a six-day visit to India, beginning with Bengaluru, to increase bilateral trade between two countries, through ‘Morocco Now’ – the national brand that promotes investments and exports, a release said.In Bengaluru, the delegation will engage in a series of meetings with the Government of Karnataka officials, industrialists and other professionals, it said, adding that ‘Morocco Now’ roadshows will also be held in Mumbai and New Delhi with a series of similar meetings in these cities as well.“We have a national plan to increase our presence in India. We currently have consulates in Mumbai and Kolkata and are working on opening one in Bengaluru. Our aim is to grow together and have India as one of our top 10 partners by 2025. We have outsourced visa services whereby potential investors can apply in cities wherever they are and multiple visas for a period of one year will be processed within 3 to 5 days,” Maliki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-flight-to-morocco-will-boost-bilateral-trade-karnataka-minister-101637954569962.html
27-11-2021||India||Army kills Pakistani terrorist, foils infiltration bid in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir||The Army killed a Pakistani terrorist and foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesperson said on Friday. The terrorist was identified as Mohammad Arif of Matrian village in Khuiratta area of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Late Thursday night, Pakistani terrorists attempted an infiltration bid along the LoC in Bhimber Gali sector. However, alert Indian Army troops successfully foiled the infiltration attempt and killed a terrorist.” The body of the terrorist, along with weapons and ammunition, was recovered, he added. Intelligence officials said the slain terrorist would help terrorists from Pakistan cross the border and enter Kashmir. “He used to guide Pakistani terrorists in small groups into this side of the LOC. Late on Thursday night, he was again guiding a group of three to four terrorists into Poonch when alert soldiers noticed the movement and opened fire killing him on the spot. The group immediately fled back,” said an intelligence official on condition of anonymity.The official informed that Arif was responsible for successful of small groups of terrorists into J&K for nearly two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-kills-pakistani-terrorist-foils-infiltration-bid-in-poonch-district-of-jammu-and-kashmir-101637954509398.html
27-11-2021||India||Police are protectors, not persecutors, observes Kerala high court||In the wake of a law student’s suicide in Kochi over allege dowry harassment and indifferent attitude of a police officer, the Kerala High Court orally observed that if there is a prompt action against the erring official the entire force will fall in line.Justice Devan Ramachandran made this observation while hearing another petition filed by a youth in Kollam alleging police harassment and handcuffing at the station for seeking the receipt of a complaint he filed. The court expressed serious concern over growing number of complaints regarding police harassment and observed “God, help our state”.“Unless police officials feel that they are accountable for their actions, nothing will change in this state. They all know it will take years for any action is initiated against them, that is why they are behaving like this,” the court observed. The court directed the state to clarify why criminal proceedings were not initiated against the officer who handcuffed and kept the youth at the gate of the police station.“A police station is a public office, not a terror field. They are protectors, not persecutors. Any man, woman or child should feel free and confident to walk into a police station at any time,” it observed. The court also wondered how and why police believed they could do whatever they want and get away with it.“If the state takes swift and strict action against a police officer, just one is enough, the entire force will change its attitude. Till then this will continue; people will be chained, killed and even forced to commit suicide,” it observed. The petition will be taken up again on December 10 and the government has been asked to produce details of action taken against the official.The case relates to a Dalit youth, KV Rajeev, who complained that he was allegedly handcuffed to a hand rail at Thenamala police station in Kollam two months back and slapped another case for obstructing police after he sought a receipt of the complaint he lodged. After the case triggered protests two officers were suspended.On Friday, the station house officer of Aluva in Ernakulam district was suspended in connection with the suicide of a law student after her parents and opposition parties alleged that his inept handling led to the death of the 22-year-old on Monday. The student had left behind a suicide note in which he blamed her husband, in-laws and police officer CL Sudheer for her death. Her husband and in-laws were arrested on Wednesday but no action was taken against the officer which led to a big protest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-are-protectors-not-persecutors-observes-kerala-high-court-101637954508042.html
27-11-2021||India||Farm laws’ repeal raises hopes of steel plant workers in Vizag||The recent announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi repealing the three controversial laws on agriculture succumbing to pressure from the year-long agitation by farmers has given a ray of hope the workers of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam.Thousands of workers of the RINL, a corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, have been agitating for the past 10 months against the Modi government’s decision to privatise the steel plant as part of its policy of disinvestment in public sector undertakings across country to raise ₹2.5 lakh crore.On Friday, the steel plant workers under the banner of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samithi (Struggle committee for protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant), took up a novel programme, “Vanta-Vaarpu” – cooking on the roads, in protest against the steel plant privatisation move.The workers erected makeshift kitchens on the roads at several places Ukku Nagaram (Steel City), Kurmannapalem junction, Pedagantyada and Telugu Talli statue etc and took up cooking of food as part of the agitation.“The Centre has taken a wise decision to repeal the controversial farm laws under pressure from the farmers who have been agitating for the last one year. On the same lines, the Modi government should withdraw the proposal to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant also,” struggle committee convenor J Ayodhya Ramu said.Stating that the workers of the steel plant have been agitating for the last 288 days, Ramu said their struggle would continue till the Modi government withdraw its move to privatise the steel plant. He said all sections of people and all the political parties, barring the Bharatiya Janata Party, extended support to the agitation.The committee also wrote a letter to Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday requesting him to take up the issue with the Centre once again and prevail upon it to withdraw the privatisation move.“We are thankful to the government for adopting a resolution in the state assembly in the past, requesting the Centre to drop the proposal for the 100 per cent strategic disinvestment in the steel plant in the form of privatisation. We are also thankful to you for writing twice to the Prime Minister in this regard. It is time to bring pressure on the Centre again to withdraw its privatisation plan,” the committee said in its letter to the chief minister.It reminded that the Centre had decided to repeal the farm laws under pressure from the agitating farmers all over the country. The struggle against steel plant privatisation, too, has the support from all sections of people and the political parties. Yet, the Centre is going ahead with the privatisation move by appointing legal and transaction advisors, the committee said.“Under these circumstances, we request you to write yet another letter to the Prime Minister again, explaining him our commitment to continue the agitation and requesting him to drop the privatisation move so that the only major steel plant in the state is protected,” the committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-raises-hopes-of-steel-plant-workers-in-vizag-101637954329044.html
27-11-2021||India||Karnataka may get light rain for 5 days: IMD||Bengaluru: While Bengaluru city didn’t record any rainfall in the past 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department has predicted light rainfall in the city and several areas in the south interior and coastal regions of Karnataka from Friday to Wednesday. .According to a communication from the IMD, a cyclonic circulation prevails over southwest Bay of Bengal off south Sri Lanka coast and there are strong north-easterly winds over Tamil Nadu coast and south coastal Andhra Pradesh. “Under their combined influence, light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days,” read the communication.The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has stated that rain will be recorded over Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mysuru, and Mandya districts, and dry weather is likely to prevail over the remaining districts of the state. “However, we have not predicted any heavy rainfall in the state in the coming days. According to us, only scattered light rainfall will occur,” said a KSNDMC official.No seismic activity in the state: KSNDMCMeanwhile, KSNDMC issued a statement clarifying no seismic activity was reported in the state after a loud mysterious sound was heard in the vicinity of Bengaluru on Friday between 11.50 am and 12.15 pm. KSNDMC said that it had received reports of the sound associated with mild vibrations by the local residents were received from Hemmigepura, Kengeri, Gnanabharathi, Rajarajeswari Nagar, and Kaggalipura, Bengaluru.“The data was analysed from our seismic observatories for any seismic signatures /possible earthquake signals during the said time period. The seismographs show no signatures of local tremor/earthquake,” read the statement.The clarification led to speculations that it could have been another sonic boom created by a fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force. Indian Air Force of Hindustan Aeronautical Limited, however, didn’t respond to queries regarding the sound.In July this year, residents of several areas of Bengaluru, including Sarjapur, JP Nagar, Benson Town, Ulsoor, ISRO layout, and HSR layout, claimed they heard a loud boom sound, which was later thought to be sonic boom which is the sound generated by an object moving faster than sound. Such a phenomenon created a shock wave that turns into a loud sound. While it was thought that the ‘sonic boom’ might have been created by any of their flights. HAL, however, said none of its flights made the sound. In May last year, a similar sound was heard and was thought to be produced by a Sukhoi 30 which was on a sortie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-may-get-light-rain-for-5-daysimd-101637954327920.html
27-11-2021||India||Odisha constable tracks liquor dens by day. At night, he teaches poor children||Bhubaneswar: An Odisha excise department constable during the day, Debendra Samarath routinely checks cannabis plantations and raids illicit liquor dens in the Kodinga area of Nabarangpur district as part of his job.But once he is done with his day job, 25-year-old Samarath heads to an under-construction house in the village. This is where he gives free lessons to nearly 70 children from the village. As children crowd around the makeshift classroom, he teaches them mathematics, science, literature and English. There are almost no holidays in this school. And no one seems to mind.It is his effort to ensure that the poor children in the district’s Karchamala village have a fair chance at a good life. As good as it can be in this remote village of a district that reported the state’s lowest literacy rate in the last decadal census.“I always wanted to be a teacher. But I had to join the excise department as I did not want to remain unemployed. But after work, I am back to what I love doing most - teaching. My goal is no children should be deprived of education due to lack of money,” said Samarth, who started taking classes in an under-construction structure. The owner, Sitaram Pujari, let him use it for holding classes three years ago.Samarath had to abandon his education because his family could not afford it. He dropped out of college and initially started selling fruits, like his father and would teach children in the evening.Last year, he landed himself a job with the excise department as a contractual employee on a monthly salary of ₹12,000. He took the job. But Samarath’s heart was somewhere else, he said and continued teaching the village children after work.“I want to give more time to the students but I am unable to do so because of the job responsibilities. Whatever free time I get, I devote it for teaching these students,” he said.But time isn’t all that the excise constable spares for the children. Samarath indicated he ends up spending 10% of his salary on buying the notebooks and books of the children he teaches.Odisha’s excise commissioner Ashish Singh, a 2004 IPS officer, said young people such as Samarath should be role models for everyone. “No work can be as noble as that of a teacher. I am proud that one of our employees is teaching poor kids of his village after office,” said Singh.Teacher shortage is considered the bane of Odisha’s education system. According to the UNESCO 2021 State of the Education Report for India, Odisha has 68,717 government schools which require 28,816 more teachers. It said 67% of teaching posts in rural areas are lying vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-constable-tracks-liquor-dens-by-day-at-night-he-teaches-poor-children-101637954209232.html
27-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh heritage building Minto hall renamed after BJP icon||Madhya Pradesh chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that popular heritage building Minto Hall in Bhopal will be named after BJP’s founder member late Kushabhau Thakre. Addressing BJP leaders in a state executive committee meeting, Chouhan said: “It’s our land, our soil, our stone, our building and hard work of our labourer but name is of Minto. Many MLAs reached this assembly with the contribution of Thakre ji. Thakre ji empowered the party [BJP] in MP so now it will be named after Thakre.” Minto Hall was constructed in 1909 by Nawab Sultan Jahan Begum. The fourth and the last begum of Bhopal named the heritage building as ‘Minto Hall’ to felicitate Lord Minto, the then Viceroy of India. Minto Hall was used as the state legislative assembly hall after India gained independence. The hall was renovated in 2018 as a convention centre and has a restaurant and bar. BJP state president VD Sharma said the Hall would be developed as per ideology of Thakre, including the closure of the bar.A historian from Bhopal, Rizwan Uddin Ansari said, “BJP leaders can’t change the history so they are changing the name. The building has a heritage importance and very popular for unique architecture which is fusion of Nawabi culture and British colonial era. Will they change the architecture too because that will also remind us about British and Nawabs? ” he asked.(With agency inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-heritage-building-minto-hall-renamed-after-bjp-icon-101637954150306.html
27-11-2021||India||New Covid variant: Karnataka tightens screening of international flyers||Bengaluru: In view of the discovery of the new variant of Covid-19, the Karnataka government has mandated rigorous screening and testing of international arrivals from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, officials said.The National Centre for Disease Control has reported that multiple cases of Covid-19 variant 8.1.1529 have been reported in these countries.“This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations, and thus, has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel,” said Union secretary for health and family welfare Rajesh Bhushan in a letter written to the states on Thursday.Taking note of the development, in a circular issued in Bengaluru on Friday, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anil Kumar has asked all officials concerned to conduct meticulous implementation and rigorous monitoring of the three-pronged surveillance strategy.The implementation plan consists of screening and testing of international travellers and their contacts, routine sentinel surveillance and surge surveillance, and timely sending of RT-PCR positive samples to designated INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories (lGSLs).“It is imperative that all international travellers coming from and transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong, and also including all other at-risk countries identified by the Centre, are subjected to rigorous screening and testing as per guidelines,” the circular stated.“The contacts of these international travellers should also be closely tracked and tested as per the guidelines. It should also be ensured that the samples of such international travellers testing positive for Covid-I9 should be sent to designated IGSLs for genome sequencing, and these samples should be sequenced on priority at IGSLs,” it added.Karnataka achieving 90% coverage of the first dose of the vaccine in the state was viewed as a sign of relief by officials of the health department and health experts. Even though the second dose coverage is only 57% , the first dose coverage was perceived as a reasonable shield against a potential third wave. But with the new variant of the virus recovered in South Africa, experts in Karnataka say it is time to rethink the strategy.Dr Vishal Rao, member of the state Genomic Surveillance Committee and chief of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology and Robotic Surgery at HCG Cancer Centre, said that the government should consider providing a booster shot to people. “We will know more about the virus in the coming days, but what we can do now is the focus on vaccination. We should ramp up the existing vaccination process, while starting a process of giving a booster shot,” he said.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday instructed the deputy commissioners of all districts to intensify the Covid-19 vaccination drive to improve state’s coverage of second dose. The chief minister said this while holding a video conference with deputy commissioners of the districts to review the progress of Covid vaccination drive.“The state has achieved 90 per cent coverage of the first dose and the extent of coverage of the second dose stands at 57 per cent. The second dose coverage should touch 70 per cent by the end of December,” Bommai said.On Thursday, two hostels in the SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad, Karnataka, were closed after 66 students had initially tested positive for the disease. With 116 more people, mostly students, testing positive for Covid-19, total caseload reached 182 cases on Friday, according to official data.“ 300 students have been tested so far and the remaining 100 are also undergoing tests. By evening their results are also likely. Also, there are about 3,000 staff members, who will be tested. Those testing positive will be quarantined and given treatment,” said deputy commissioner of Dharwad, Nitish Patil.“Those who have tested positive will not be allowed to come out and those who are awaiting test results are also quarantined, so precautionary measures have been taken to avoid any further spread,” Patil had also said.All students and staff, who fall under the health workers category, of the college have been fully vaccinated against the disease, however, their records are being verified, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-variant-karnataka-tightens-screening-of-international-flyers-101637954149084.html
27-11-2021||India||After reuniting with child, Anupama says will start fresh stir||Days after reuniting with her child, former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI) Anupama Chandran on Friday announced a fresh agitation from December 10 seeking action against officials who allegedly teamed up with her parents in the much-highlighted Kerala adoption case. The day also serves as World Human Rights Day.Talking to newsmen in the state capital, Anupama said the government is scared to take action against “guilty officials” and sought the release of the inquiry committee report conducted by the state women and child welfare director T V Anupama. “Health minister Veena George said she is yet to go through the report. CPI (M) district secretary A Nagappan reiterated there was no lapse on the part of child welfare council secretary Shiju Khan and others. It seems the government has no plan to take action against erring officials,” she said. She further lamented that there is no end to the vilification and hate campaign against her and her husband K Ajith on social media. “The attack against my husband and I continue unabated. New theories have been floated to defame us. I think cyber warriors won’t indulge in hate campaigns without the knowledge of the party,” she said. She reiterated that her father C S Jayachandran, a senior leader of party trade union wing CITU, child welfare committee chairperson N Sunanda, Shiju Khan and other officials were part of a conspiracy to give away her child while she was making frequent rounds to get her baby back. “My struggle will only be complete after officials who were part of this conspiracy are punished,” she said, adding that she will approach the Union government if the state failed to ensure justice to her. She also questioned the continued silence of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government didn’t comment on the issue. Anupama’s and Ajith’s one-year-old child was given up for adoption to a couple from Andhra Pradesh in August this year, and was brought back and handed over to her on Nov 24. In the second week of October, Anupama claimed that the newborn baby was forcibly taken away by her father Jayachandran on the third day of her delivery and handed it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (SCCW)-run orphanage last year. The child was later given up for adoption in a hurry, in violation of several rules, she alleged. With her father holding an influential position in the ruling-Communist Party of India (Marxist), Anupama alleged that she approached the local police station, DGP, child welfare committee and party leaders, but justice failed to get justice. Jayachandran, however, main tained that the baby was born out of wedlock and hence, shifted to a government-run children’s home with Anupama’s consent. While he claimed his daughter had signed on stamp paper, Anupama said she signed under duress. The police filed a complaint on October 20 against six people, including Anupama’s parents, based on her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-reuniting-with-child-anupama-says-will-start-fresh-stir-101637954147875.html
27-11-2021||India||Allegations on tender nexus stir political slugfest in Karnataka||In 2012, SR Jindal, one of India’s well-known industrialists, was among the key speakers at Karnataka’s flagship Global Investors Meet (GIM). His speech was critical of the administration, then led by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) DV Sadananda Gowda, at an event that was meant to showcase the conducive atmosphere in the state to attract investments.“The single window system in the state had many backdoors and ventilators,” he said at the event, packed with renowned industrialists and business personalities from around the world. Such has been the reputation of Karnataka among investors that nothing moves without “commission”. The Karnataka State Contractors Association’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging contractors being harassed to pay 25-30% of the total tender cost even before the work begins has brought to light a close nexus between elected representatives and their stooges in the state while stirring up a political slugfest between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. The letter, dated July this year, was released on Thursday, in which one section of contractors levelled allegations against the government (present and past) and officials in Karnataka who end up getting most of the tenders in public works. Relatives and kin are known to benefit from some of these tenders, which range from smallest contracts to big-ticket projects that are often referred to as “kickbacks”. The Congress on Thursday night had met Karnataka governor Thawarchand Gehlot and asked for immediate removal of the BJP government over corruption allegations. “Government departments, that too in irrigation, works approved have been increased by two-fold. I will shortly release documents on this soon. Why was a suo moto case not filed based on the allegations of a government-approved orgnaisation?” state Congress president , DK Shivakumar said in a post after meeting the Governor.Terming the allegations of corruption by the Congress as “laughable”, chief minister Basvaraj Bommai said that works allotted during the former’s regime too will be investigated. “Considering Congress party’s special interest about the percentage in tenders of civil works, tenders approved during their regime too would be subjected to probe,” Bommai said on Friday. His statements come even as raids by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continue across several parts of the state, unearthing crores in assets from mid-level officials, including those hidden in their drain pipes. “The letter to (the) Governor reflects the percentage culture that prevailed during the previous Congress regime towards the Contractors. It is the Congress leaders who are the creators of percentage culture. It is Congressmen who have been increasing it(percentage) periodically,” Bommai said. Allegations of corruption against the BJP government in the past have come from within the own party as well. KS Eshwarappa, a senior BJP leader and minister for rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR), had shot off a letter to the governor in April, alleging that tenders from within his department were being allotted by circumventing due process and the minister himself. AH Vishwanath, the BJP MLC in June, had alleged that tenders worth nearly ₹21,500 crores in the irrigation department were being allotted without even calling for one. Income Tax department officials conducted raids after this complaint, in which they questioned a personal secretary of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, forced to step down in July over similar allegations. A contractor, requesting anonymity, shared that money has to be paid for every single tender to several stakeholders that include elected representatives, senior and junior officials, and many others in proportion to the quantum of work or value. A 2017 survey by the Centre For Media Studies had concluded that Karnataka was the most corrupt state in the country – a survey that then Siddaramaiah dismissed as “not credible” even though he conveniently stuck to other reports that hailed the state’s progress in several other sectors. The piling allegations of corruption against Bommai, who replaced Yediyurappa, are not going down well for the BJP in a state which it calls the ‘gateway’ to southern India. “These are not allegations made by the Congress but by their (BJP) own leaders who have held important positions,” Priyank Kharge, a former minister said on Firday. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said “na khaoonga, na khaane doonga” and even alleged that Congress was a 10% (commission) government. However, the contractors association allege nearly 40% goes off in payments to elected representatives and officials in the BJP government. “This government is not working for public welfare but for individual interests,” Kharge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allegations-on-tender-nexus-stir-political-slugfest-in-karnataka-101637954029245.html
27-11-2021||India||Naidu’s wife seeks a ‘value-based’ society||A week after Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu broke down before the media over alleged humiliation from YSR Congress Party members in the state assembly, his wife Nara Bhuvaneshwari on Friday appealed to the people not to indulge in character assassination of others. In a statement, Bhuvaneshwari, daughter of legendary actor, TDP founder and former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, NT Rama Rao, expressed her gratitude to all those who protested against the unsavoury comments made against her in the assembly. “I cannot forget how every one of you stood by me and responded to the incident, as if the humiliation was meted out to your own mother, sister and daughter. I am thankful to everybody,” Bhuvaneshwari, also a managing trustee of NTR Memorial Trust, said. Stating that her parents had brought their children up with values, Naidu’s wife said she and all her siblings were still following those values. “Everybody should strive for creating a value-based society and stand by those who are in distress and troubles,” she said. Bhuvaneshwari said she hoped nobody else should face the kind of humiliation meted out to her. “Nobody else should behave disrespectfully towards others and indulge in their character assassination,” she asserted. On November 19, Naidu broke down at a press conference after walking out of the state assembly in protest against the alleged abusive comments against his wife by the ruling YSRCP members during a debate on the women empowerment. He announced that he was boycotting the House for the rest of the present term and vowed to return to the assembly only after becoming the chief minister again. He wept in front of the media stating that the YSRCP members had resorted to assassination of his wife’s character. Since Naidu’s announcement, the state has been witnessing a political slugfest between the TDP and the YSRCP members. While the TDP leaders and cadre staged demonstrations and dharnas across the state, Naidu, who toured flood-affected areas of Kadapa, Chittoor and Nellore districts, raised the issue of the YSRCP humiliating his wife at every public interaction. He alleged the YSRCP was deriving “sadistic pleasure” from the incident. A day after the incident, Naidu’s brother-in-law and TDP lawmaker from Hindupur assembly constituency, Nandamuri Balakrishna, along with his siblings, held a press conference and condemned the alleged abusive comments made by YSRCP members in the assembly. The NTR family members also warned the YSRCP of dire consequences, if such incidents are repeated. The YSRCP, however, shot back against the TDP cadre and NTR family. YSRCP general secretary and MP V Vijay Sai Reddy on Thursday said that Naidu was trying to gain political mileage by raising a non-issue. “Nobody made any comments against Naidu’s wife. In fact, the TDP chief himself is taking his wife’s name in public for his petty political gains,” he had said. He wondered whether Naidu was touring the flood-affected areas to console the affected people or gain sympathy for himself from the people in the name of humiliation to his wife. “There is no need to damage his character. He is damaging his own image. His mind is polluted with venomous thoughts,” Reddy added. State civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateshwara Rao, one of the YSRCP members who allegedly made the abusive comments against Bhuvaneshwari, on Thursday said that family members of NTR were innocent and blindly believing whatever Naidu was saying. “They are like a sheep that believes its own butcher. They backed him even when Naidu had dethroned their own father from the chief minister post,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidus-wife-seeks-a-value-based-society-101637954028137.html
27-11-2021||India||Chennai on red alert, braces for heavy rains||Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for coastal Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, after heavy rains lashed Chennai since the night of November 26. The IMD predicted that situation will remain same for the next two days. In the next 24 hours, thunderstorms with heavy rain are likely to occur in Chennai and adjoining districts and heavy to very heavy rain is likely in the next 48 hours, said S Balachandran, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), at a press conference in Chennai, and added a red alert was issued for two days for all the coastal regions. IMD said heavy rainfall is due to a persisting cyclonic circulation over Comorin and adjoining Sri Lanka, extending up to 1.5km above sea level, and another low pressure is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal on November 29. On November 25, Chennai on an average received 55 mm rainfall and on November 26, up to 4.30pm, the city received 32.5 mm of rainfall, IMD data showed. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is operating more than 750 heavy duty pumps across the city to drain rain water. “Since Chennai is facing frequent rains, we have not dismantled our existing pumping network infrastructure,” commissioner of GCC, Gagandeep Singh Bedi said, and added we are expecting a significant amount of rainfall of 100mm. Bedi said GCC have directed all the pump operators to remain on duty near the motors to remove instant inundation, adding that all the four-wheeler subways are operational except for the two-wheeler subway in Rangarajapuram which is being used for letting out water from West Mambalam. Chief minister M K Stalin inspected flood-affected areas in Chennai, including Pulianthope, along with Bedi. Two heavy spells in the earlier weeks of November had already caused havoc for residents in the city. During the Northeast Monsoon spell from October 1 till November 25, Chennai and adjoining districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu received excess to large excess of rainfall—more than 56% and 67% respectively, as per IMD. GCC identified localities that were heavily flooded and made temporary measures in the last 10 days to divert stagnant water to the nearest canals, said Bedi. However, people continued to suffer with water stagnation. “We just cleaned our entire apartment and it’s flooded again,” said S Balu, a West Mambalam resident in Chennai, and added that this is not just rain water, it’s [flooded water is] also mixed with sewage and we are worried of getting waterborne infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-on-red-alert-braces-for-heavy-rains-101637953727785.html
27-11-2021||India||TMC eases one-person-one-post rule for Kolkata civic polls; fields 45% women nominees||With the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party gearing up for their second battle since the March-April assembly polls in which the saffron camp could win only 77 of Bengal’s 294 seats, the ruling party on Friday evening sprang a surprise by nominating 45% women and 23 minority community members in its list of 144 candidates for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls. The significant aspect of the TMC’s battle plan for the Kolkata civic polls was Mamata Banerjee’s decision to relax the one-person-one-post policy and nominate six members of the legislative assembly (MLA) of whom four were councillors in the outgoing board. The most prominent among them is transport minister and former Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim, an old and trusted aide of the chief minister. The polls for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation are scheduled to be held on December 19.The TMC controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended during the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a stop-gap measure, the government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators. For example, Hakim continues as head of the KMC’s administrative board. The list was announced after a three-hour long meeting at the chief minister’s south Kolkata residence. It was attended by all senior leaders, including TMC national secretary Abhishek Banerjee, and the party’s election strategist Prashant Kishor who made some crucial recommendations, party leaders said. The TMC now controls 126 of the KMC’s 144 seats and is expected to repeat its performance because of being in power, according to political observers. TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandopadhyay said: “We had 126 councillors in the last KMC board. Of them, 87 are being re-nominated. Six will however not contest from their old wards this year. Thirty-nine of the old councillors have been dropped but they will be used for orgnisational work.”“Among the nominees, 80, or around 55%, are men and 64, or roughly 45%, are women. Nineteen nominees are from the scheduled caste communities while 23 are minority community members. Two are Christians. All sections of the society are being represented,” Bandopadhyay added. “I will follow the instructions of the party. I grew up working for the people,” said Hakim, refusing to comment on the decision to go against the one-person-one post policy that Mamata Banerjee announced earlier this year. Alongside the MLAs, the TMC also fielded new Lok Sabha member Mala Roy who earlier proved to be an efficient councillor from the Kalighat area where the chief minister lives. However, Shantanu Sen, a Rajya Sabha MP, was not fielded again. “There is nothing to feel bad about this. The party is projecting new faces. It is our policy,” said Sen who represented a ward in north Kolkata. “Mamata Banerjee heard all the leaders and cleared the list,” said TMC secretary general and minister Partha Chatterjee. “The party took the decision to re-nominate some MLAs because it wants to utilize them. After the polls, the winners will decide who will be the next mayor,” he added. Three TMC MLAs who got re-nomination are Atin Ghosh, Debasish Kumar and Debabrata Majumdar. Kumar became an MLA for the first time this year. Two other MLAs were also included in the list but their names were not announced till 8 pm. Though engaged in a similar exercise, the BJP could not release its list with party leaders indicating that the names might be announced during the weekend. The Left Front, however, released its list, leaving 17 of Kolkata’s 144 seats for Congress and other non-Left parties whom it called “friendly allies” without specifying names. “In these 17 seats, we will support parties or alliances that are against the TMC and BJP,” Kallol Majumdar, secretary of the CPI(M)’s Kolkata district committee, said while releasing the list and the Left Front’s election manifesto that promised better civic amenities, empowerment of women and environment-friendly projects. The CPI(M) is contesting around 90 seats. Since their formal alliance ended with the assembly polls, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose earlier said there will be no state-level talks on alliance anymore but local leaders from the Congress and the Left parties were free to have electoral understanding in their respective areas if they felt it was necessary to stop the BJP and TMC. “We have told the state Congress that they can have an understanding with the Left parties at the local level,” said Chowdhury who is in Delhi to attend the winter session of the Lok Sabha. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday cautioned state election commissioner Saurabh Das and said he should not play any partisan role during the coming elections in the state’s 120-odd municipalities and corporations. Das was summoned to Raj Bhawan on Tuesday afternoon when the governor also wanted to know why simultaneous polls in all civic bodies were not being planned by the state election commission (SEC). The BJP has already moved the Calcutta high court with the same demand and the case will be heard next week. “It may pertinently be recalled that the SEC itself had mooted the idea of simultaneous elections to all the municipalities earlier. The overwhelming political inputs are for the same. There does not appear to be any rationale for any deviation thereof. It is imperative at your end to ensure that the Constitutional mandate is regarded both in letter and spirit, and I am sure you will bear this in mind,” Dhankhar wrote in a letter to Das on Tuesday. The state government wanted to hold the polls in phases, starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19. The government also recently announced that the Howrah Corporation Zone will be split so that a new civic body can be formed at Bally. However, till Friday the governor did not sign the bill that the state assembly passed to give effect to this decision. The state election commission has already announced the schedule for the Kolkata civic polls. A decision regarding Howrah can be taken only after the court hears the BJP’s petition and the governor signs the bill, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-eases-one-person-one-post-rule-for-kolkata-civic-polls-fields-45-women-nominees-101637953489128.html
27-11-2021||India||Four of Dalit family in Prayagraj killed, teen allegedly gang-raped; 8 held||The brutal murder of four members of a Dalit family in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district over a land dispute sparked protests in the region on Friday with politicians making a beeline to the victims’ village and local residents alleging police negligence. Police said the four members – a 50-year-old man, his 47-year-old wife, 17-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son – were found dead on their beds inside their home in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning by relatives. Eight of the 11 accused named in the FIR were arrested, police added. “The deceased family had filed an SC/ST case against some people of the village itself,” said Sarvashresth Tripathi, deputy inspector general of police, Prayagraj. He said autopsy report suggested that the victims were assaulted with an axe.A written complaint to the police by one of the relatives of the victim mentioned a land dispute and alleged that members of an upper-caste family had issued physical and verbal threats to the Dalit family in the past. But local residents alleged that the family had approached the local police station to lodge an FIR but were rebuffed.“The allegation of not taking any action in earlier cases is also alleged by the family of the deceased. Keeping all these in mind, action is being taken, some people have also been taken into custody. An axe was found near their bodies, it looks like they were hit by that axe only,” Tripathi added.The bodies of the four members were handed over to their kin after post-mortem examination on Friday. When the bodies arrived at the village, local residents staged a protest demanding compensation, immediate arrest of the accused, a gun licence and lease of land to the family. Senior officials declared immediate financial assistance of ₹16.50 lakh, police security and a gun licence to the next of kin of the deceased’s family. Police said viscera and vaginal swabs were preserved for detailed examination. Based on a complaint by a kin, police registered an FIR against 11 persons for murder and rape under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Police also suspended three policemen, including the station house officer of the local station, for laxity in connection with the incident. Late in the evening, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of the victims. “The women in the family are living in terror and are scared that they may face harassment again,” she said.Questioning the administration’s silence over the matter, she added that the women in the family were mocked by the police when they went searching for help.“What happened to Arun Valmiki in Agra, what happened in Hathras and what is happening here? If Dalits are continually being tortured, what is the point of celebrating Constitution Day? Why isn’t the administration doing anything?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-dalit-family-in-prayagraj-killed-teen-allegedly-gang-raped-8-heldpolice-101637952827681.html
27-11-2021||India||Govt to table farm repeal bill on Day 1 of winter session; Congress issues whips||The government is set to introduce the all-important repeal bill to withdraw the three farm laws on the opening day of the winter session on Monday. The Congress plans to hold a meeting hours before the session begins with other Opposition parties for “working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns”, people familiar with the matter said.An official bulletin on Friday said the repeal legislation will come to the Lok Sabha on the opening day of the winter session. The Opposition is adamant to discuss the bill in the House to corner the government over the farm issues. The Congress has issued three-line whips in both the Houses, asking party MPs to be present on Monday.Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, has written to many Opposition leaders, reminding them of the unity in the last session that was largely washed out. “I express my sincere thanks for your support and cooperation in meetings of floor leaders of all Opposition parties convened by me during monsoon session which facilitated Opposition unity in raising topical issues.”“Winter session commencing from 29 November is very crucial for all of us,” he wrote, adding, “I am convening a meeting of floor leaders of all Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha on Monday for once again working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns....”LS Speaker Om Birla said topics for discussion would be decided in the Business Advisory Committee meets. A Parliamentary functionary said the Centre has not “communicated so far whether they want a debate on the repeal bill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-table-farm-repeal-bill-on-day-1-of-winter-session-congress-issues-whips-101637952527700.html
27-11-2021||India||Centre to consider nodal officers to regulate social media content||The ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) is considering designating nodal officers for issuing directions for the takedown of “unlawful” content as prescribed by the new social media and intermediary guidelines, officials familiar with the matter said. “One of the proposals under consideration is having a nodal officer who will be the authority to issue directions for takedown of content,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “The standard operating procedures will help clarify the confusion around who issues the direction from a particular ministry.” The government has been working on the standard operating procedure (SOP), which it is supposed to outline as part of the new social media guidelines which came into effect in February. The procedures are being vetted by a committee of officials from Meity, and ministries including information and broadcasting and law and justice. The procedure has been a key demand made by the platforms as they seek clarity on who can issue takedown orders for content hosted on their sites. The official added that even as the government works on the SOP, the rules for removal of unlawful content are clear. “An intermediary, on whose computer resource the information is stored, hosted or published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or publish any unlawful information, which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India; security of the State; friendly relations with foreign States; public order; decency or morality; in relation to contempt of court; defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the above, or any information which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force,” states the relevant section in the new social media and intermediary guidelines, which came into effect on February 25.A second official said that the procedures will help clarify, especially in central ministries, who can ultimately issue orders for content removal. “Take for instance the ministry of women and child development, the procedures will help outline who is the designated authority, whether it is NCPCR (National Commission for Protection of Child Rights) or WCD (Women and Child Development) or some other department under the ministry that ask a social media platform to take action against content,” this person added on condition of anonymity.The first official said that since the expertise of what constitutes unlawful content lies with the particular ministry, the proposal to have a designated official was being considered. So far, content removal on platforms is done by a designated officer appointed by the central government, who can issue orders for blocking content under section 69(A) of the information technology Act. A bifurcation in the new guidelines has also created a parallel mechanism to enable the ministry of information and broadcasting to issue orders under the same section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-consider-nodal-officers-to-regulate-social-media-content-under-new-guidelines-101637952468006.html
27-11-2021||India||Zero rejection of vaccines during quality testing since Jan: Experts||There has been zero rejection of Covid-19 vaccine out of over 1,000 batches that underwent quality testing before their market release since January this year, said experts involved in the exercise at the country’s only government vaccine testing laboratory at the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Himachal Pradesh’s Kasauli, adding that the results should help instil confidence in people regarding the quality of indigenously manufactured jabs against the coronavirus disease. The lab, which tests 22 vaccines in all, has noted a 0.2% general rejection rate for vaccines during quality testing. “We haven’t rejected any samples of Covid-19 vaccines on account of not meeting quality standards so far. We do batch-wise testing for potency, sterility, biochemical or abnormal toxicity etc before approval is given for release in market for commercial use. The samples for testing from ready batches are provided by the manufacturer,” said Dr Arun Bhardwaj, director, CDL in Kasauli. Data shared by CDL Kasauli show that till November 23, a total of 1,049 batches of Covid-19 vaccine have been released comprising approximately 1,521 million vaccine doses. “Zero rejection rate during quality testing speaks volumes about the quality of Covid vaccines being manufactured in the country; and that also should take care of any vaccine related hesitancy in the minds of people,” said Dr S Eswara Reddy, joint drugs controller, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The latest batch that the laboratory cleared was of Zydus Healthcare’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. According to Bhardwaj, seven batches of ZyCoV-D with total of 237,530 doses have been cleared for market release so far. “We are mandated to establish safety, efficacy, and quality of vaccines. Rejection of vaccine samples for pre-release quality testing is a rare occurrence anyway; in terms of percentage the rate of rejection would be around 0.2%, which is minuscule. However, if a sample fails quality tests for whatever reasons, then the entire batch from which the sample was taken has to be discarded or recalled if the testing was done based on a complaint regarding the quality of the product,” said Bhardwaj. Testing currently takes place of six manufacturers of Covid vaccines: Serum Institute of India for Covishield, Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, Zydus Healthcare for ZyCoV-D, Panacea Biotec and Gamaleya Research Institute for Sputnik V, and Biological E for Janssen. The number of doses in a batch may vary based on the manufacturing capacity of the vaccine manufacturer; for example, a batch of SII’s Covishield vaccine would have around four million doses, and a batch of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine would have anywhere around 400,000-800,000 doses. Since testing is a destructive process and vials that are tested for quality cannot be reused; therefore, testing of all vials in a batch is not possible. “Vials are picked up randomly from each batch for testing, and only after each of the batches clear quality test, the company is provided a certificate that allows the product to be released in market for commercial use,” said Bhardwaj. In case a sample fails the quality test, the manufacturer is intimated and invited over to CDL for another round of testing. “The manufacturer personally witnesses another round of quality testing that is conducted to substantiate the results of round one. If the sample fails again then the manufacture is made to sign a document and asked to investigate the root cause,” he added. The central lab usually tests at least 7,000 batches in a year of different vaccines, including those that are imported into the country, for quality. “This year we will most likely be touching 8,000 batches. This year has been busy,” said Sushil Kumar Sahoo, deputy assistant director, CDL, Kasauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-rejection-of-vaccines-during-quality-testing-since-jan-experts-101637952407712.html
27-11-2021||India||172 dead this month, IMD warns of more rain in south till December 2||Torrential showers marooned towns, cut off villages, and killed five people in Tamil Nadu on Friday, pushing the death toll in the state to 68, as officials warned of more rainfall likely to lash southern India till December 2.Since November 1, 172 people have died in the five southern peninsular states with Tamil Nadu accounting for the maximum, followed by Kerala at 48, Andhra Pradesh at 44, and Karnataka at 12. Telangana, which has also been hit by heavy rainfall, has not reported any rain-related deaths in November.The deluge is due to a cyclone circulation in the Comorin area extending up to 1.5km above sea level, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, adding that another low pressure area was likely to form in the south Bay of Bengal on November 29. This will be the fourth such weather event in the region since November 1.IMD’s rainfall data released on Friday said that between November 1 and November 25, south Peninsular India recorded 143.4% excess rains, with Karnataka and Kerala receiving more than 110% of the normal. Tamil Nadu, which normally receives less rainfall this season than states on the western coast, recorded 70% excess rainfall during the north-east monsoon season, which started on October 1.Friday’s rain disrupted life in southern Tamil Nadu districts such as Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam. Thoothukudi recorded extremely heavy rainfall of 250mm in the past 24 hours.“Water is up to the hip level on Attur road which has now been blocked,” said S Gunaseelan, a resident of Udangudi in Thoothukudi.Heavy rainfall was also reported from temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh. Bengaluru and southern Karnataka received moderate to heavy rainfall.Tami NaduOn Friday, IMD issued a red alert to the entire coastal belt of Tamil Nadu comprising 18 districts and an orange alert for districts adjoining the coastal regions. Rainfall lashed 37 of the state’s 38 districts with schools and colleges shut in most places.The five deaths were reported from Ariyalur, Dindigul, Sivganga and Thiruvanammali, said state minister for revenue and disasters, KKSSR Ramachandran. He added that 10,503 people were evacuated to state-run relief camps.Across the state, people stocked up on food but sheets of stagnant water threw normal life out of gear. “We just cleaned our entire apartment and it’s flooded again,” said S Balu, a West Mambalam resident in Chennai.“And this is not just rain water, it’s also mixed with sewage. Our motor sump is submerged so our tanks don’t have a drop of drinking water. We are worried of getting water borne infections,” he said.Arterial roads were inundated even as Great Chennai Municipal Corporation officials said they were getting ready for heavy rainfall during the weekend. “We have asked all the pump operators to remain on duty near the motors to remove instant inundation,” said commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi.On Thursday, after Thoothukudi (11.8 cm), the highest rainfall was recorded in the districts of Tirunelveli (8 cm), Nagapattinam (7.6cm).However, the rainfall reduced on Friday in Thoothukudi to 0.2 mm. Chennai received about 3 cm rainfall.“The rains have reduced today in Thoothukudi during the day but we have still issued a red alert because it’s already flooded and more rains are expected overnight and tomorrow,” deputy director of RMC, V Puviarasan, said.Thoothukudi remained marooned for the second day in a row and roughly 1,000 homes were damaged. Due to heavy rain in Thamirabarani catchment area, water release from the Servalaru-Papanasam dam was increased to 20,000 cusecs, said Thoothukudi district collector K Senthil Raj.Andhra PradeshThe south coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh limped back to normal on Friday following days of torrential rainfall. But moderate showers was reported from several areas and the IMD predicted more rainfall in the region till December 2.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told the state assembly that his government was taking up all the relief and rescue measures without delay in the flood-affected areas and camps were being set up for people. He also said that 1,990 villages in four districts were affected by the floods on November 18 and 19, of which 211 villages were completely inundated. AT least 44 people had died and 16 were still missing. He said 1,169 houses were completely damaged and 5,434 houses were partially damaged.KeralaSeveral any parts of Kerala, especially southern districts, received scattered to heavy rainfall on Friday. The state received the highest rainfall in six decades this year -- surpassing even the deluge in 2018 that caused the worst floods in a century and killed 482 people.IMD said the state received 3593.3mm rainfall till November 25, surpassing the 2018 tally of 3518. 9mm.KarnatakaBengaluru didn’t record much rainfall in the past 24 hours but the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said there will be rain in Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mysuru, and Mandya districts.“However, we have not predicted any heavy rainfall in the state in the coming days. According to us only, scattered, light rainfall will occur,” said a KSNDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/172-dead-this-month-imd-warns-of-more-rain-in-south-till-december-2-101637952349324.html
27-11-2021||India||Justice long overdue in 26/11 attacks: US||As India observed the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Friday remembered the “resiliency of Mumbaikars” and said it is long overdue for the perpetrators to face justice.Also remembering the six Americans who were killed in the terror attacks, Blinken tweeted: “Thirteen years have passed since the 26/11 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. On today’s anniversary, we remember the victims, including six Americans, and the resiliency of Mumbaikars. It is long overdue for the perpetrators to face justice.” On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.India and several other countries, including the US, the UK and France, have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad. The United States tried and punished David Headley, a Pakistan-American, who had visited India to scout the targets hit by the attackers. He is currently serving a 35-year jail term. Tahawwur Rana, a Canadian-Pakistani, was also sentenced in the US to 14 years of imprisonment for providing support to LeT. Pakistan has dragged its feet prosecuting Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed and Zaki-ur-Rahman, the man who directly led the operations, even as India has shared detailed evidence with Islamabad on a number of occasions. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already completed its probe against all the perpetrators and shared detailed evidence with Pakistani authorities several times, but there has been no response till date. Saeed was arrested and released several times by the Pakistan government, prompting the former Donald Trump-led US administration, on one occasion, to warn of “repercussions”. He was finally sentenced to 10 years in jail in 2020 in two terror cases. Saeed, who carried a US bounty of $10 million for his arrest, had openly challenged the US to arrest him.Rahman, likewise, was finally tried and convicted in January this year for of terror financing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-long-overdue-in-26-11-attacks-us-101637952229488.html
27-11-2021||India||Maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue on December 6||India and Russia announced on Friday that they will hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin in New Delhi on December 6.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak began. His decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.This will be 21st annual summit between the two sides, though the meeting could not be held last year because of the pandemic. It comes at a time when the Russian leadership is wary about India’s increasingly stronger ties with the US, while the Indian side has been upset by a perceived uptick in Pakistan-Russia relations.“The leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries. The summit will afford an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues of mutual interest,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The Russian foreign ministry said in a statement that Putin plans to discuss further development of bilateral ties. The leaders will exchange views on topical global issues, including working jointly within G20, Brics and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), it said.The last annual summit was held during Modi’s visit to Vladivostok in September 2019. This will also be the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders since their discussions on the margins of the Brics Summit in Brasilia in November 2019.Modi and Putin had agreed during a telephone conversation on April 28 to launch a 2+2 dialogue. India currently has 2+2 ministerial dialogues only with Australia, Japan and the US. The agenda for the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 dialogue on December 6 will cover political and defence issues, the external affairs ministry said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will represent the Indian side. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and defence minister Sergey Shoigu will visit New Delhi during December 5-6 for the dialogue.“The establishment of a new mechanism of 2+2 dialogue is expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries,” the external affairs ministry said.The Russian side said the 2+2 dialogue is expected to focus on key regional and international topics, including the “situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments on Afghanistan and Syria”. The ministers will also exchange views on interaction within SCO and the Russia-India-China (RIC) mechanism.Putin’s visit and the 2+2 dialogue are under considerable scrutiny as they are coinciding with the delivery by Russia of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems. Russian officials said in mid-November that deliveries of the S-400 systems have begun and are proceeding on schedule.The two countries signed a $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems during Putin’s last visit to India in October 2018. India has signalled its determination to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics at each other’s bases.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that defence cooperation is an important part of the India-Russia relationship but declined to comment on specific deals.“Regarding the CAATSA waiver, India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, and India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We also pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are guided by our national security interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maiden-india-russia-2-2-dialogue-on-december-6-101637952227607.html
27-11-2021||India||10 arrested for attacking Dalit man’s wedding procession in Rajasthan||Jaipur At least 10 people were arrested after they allegedly pelted stones at a Dalit man’s wedding procession because he rode a mare in the Pawta area of rural Jaipur on late Thursday night, Rajasthan Police said on Friday. Soon after the incident, in which 12 people received injuries, a local Congress MLA demanded suspension of the entire staff of the Pragpura police station for failure to provide protection to the wedding procession, which was under police protection. “Some mischievous people of a community had objected to a Dalit man riding a mare in marriage. The victim family members had given a complaint prior to the marriage. A police team was deployed but some people still pelted stones at the procession,” said Shiv Shankar Sharma, station house officer, Pragpura police station.In the complaint, the groom’s family named 20 people, of which 10 have been arrested, Sharma said, adding that a case under sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. A hunt is on to arrest 10 others named in the complaint, he said. An official said the alleged perpetrators belonged to the Rajput community.Police had provided protection to the marriage procession at Kairodi ki Dhani gram panchayat as the bride’s family had apprehended trouble, police said. However, when the procession was moving through an upper caste neighbourhood, some people pelted stones at it, police said. Sharma said the local administration, including the subdivisional magistrate and police, had held meetings with people from various community and asked them to maintain law and order. “Everyone had assured of cooperation, but still the incident happened,” the SHO added. A relative of the bride, Nitendra Manav, claimed it was the failure of police as the incident took place despite prior intimation and in the presence of the police. Manav said the groom, who is a government teacher, had expressed his wish to ride a mare. The bride’s father had written letters to the Rajasthan chief minister, the director general of police (DGP) and also to the local administration, seeking security suspecting untoward incident. Congress MLA Khiladi Lal Bairwa, meanwhile, demanded suspension of the entire staff of the police station. In a letter to the CM, he said that despite informing police 15 days prior to the marriage, the incident happened, and the staff of the station should be suspended. He also urged to set up a special court for speedy action atrocities against Dalits. Upper-caste anger against Dalits riding horses in wedding processions is decades-old and stems from caste prejudice. In 2018, a Dalit man in Uttar Pradesh wrote to ministers and started a statewide stir to ride a horse for the first time in his village’s history after upper-caste members objected to it. Reportedly, In a similar incident occurred in Bundi few days back on November 22, three grooms riding a mare were objected by upper caste people. They performed a toran (ritual) by sitting in a car and even police was deployed to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-arrested-for-attacking-dalit-man-s-wedding-procession-in-rajasthan-101637952171332.html
27-11-2021||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks compensation scheme for hate crime victims||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court, seeking a fair investigation and trial on a complaint by a senior citizen who claimed that he was abused and tortured in an alleged hate crime in Noida in July this year.The plea, filed by the victim, Kazeem Ahmed Sherwani of Delhi’s Zakir Nagar area, has also sought a victim compensation scheme for persons affected by hate crimes, and demanded action against police personnel who refuse to register such cases. The plea came up for hearing on Friday before a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar.The 62-year-old, in his petition, alleged that on July 4, he was waiting for an Aligarh-bound bus at Noida’s Sector 37 when he was offered a ride by a group of men. The men, however, abused, harassed and tortured him on account of his Muslim identity, he claimed. He added that police refused to register and also dissuaded him from pursuing the case when he visited a nearby police station.Sherwani claimed that it was only after he approached the National Human Rights Commission that police asked him to submit his complaint. While the cops at Noida sector 37 registered his complaint, on July 31, they claimed that the petitioner was “politicising” the issue, he said.“The petitioner was attacked because of his beard, and ostensible Muslim identity. The incident of that day has left the petitioner and his family completely traumatised, because it attacked their very identity as equal citizens of this country,” the petition, filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rehman, said. “The attack, according to him, besides harming the fundamental right to equality (Article 14) and liberty (Article 21), also violated the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion under Article 25,” it added.The petitioner, who was represented by senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, urged the court for a fair and impartial investigation, and demanded security by Delhi Police, alleging harassment by Uttar Pradesh Police over the matter in the past. “If hate crimes are permitted to occur with impunity, and without prompt legal action, the promise of the Constitution makers will be broken,” the petition, filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rehman, said. “This is not a lone case, but one of several cases where similar hate crimes, including public beatings and lynching, have taken place across several states, but where victims have been discouraged, without even a preliminary investigation, to frame the offence as a ‘hate crime, and the police have discouraged them from filing FIRs,” it added. The petition also cited a 2018 judgment of the top court in the Tehseen Poonawala case, where it had laid down guidelines for dealing with instances of mob lynching and hate crimes. The petitioner sought an action taken by Uttar Pradesh Police on his complaint in compliance with the 2018 decision.Taking note of his complaint, the bench allowed a copy of the plea to be served to the counsel for state of Uttar Pradesh and directed the matter to be heard along with petitions raising similar issues of hate speech, that are listed before Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana, on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-compensation-scheme-for-hate-crime-victims-101637952170209.html
27-11-2021||India||More women take part in polls than men: CEC Chandra||Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra on Friday said that women’s participation in Indian elections “exceeded that of men and stood at more than 67% in the 2019 General Election”, and that the Gender gap, which was -16.71% in 1962, has not only closed but reversed to +0.17% in 2019. “India has witnessed a 235.72% increase in female electors since the 1971 elections,” Chandra added, while addressing an international webinar on Enhancing Electoral Participation of Women, Persons with Disabilities and Senior Citizen Voters: Sharing Best Practices and New Initiatives, organised by Election Commission of India (ECI). The CEC briefed participants about the various initiatives undertaken by the Commission to enhance women’s participation in elections and make electoral practice more accessible and inclusive. “(This) is an excellent opportunity to learn from the best practices and experiences of other election management bodies to identify and work towards removing barriers to ensure truly accessible, inclusive and participative elections,” Chandra said, according to a press statement by the ECI.He also spoke about steps undertaken by ECI, such as using postal ballots, providing voting facilities at the doorstep to senior citizens, wheelchair facilities at polling booths, volunteer assistance, Braille EPIC cards, and braille signage in EVMs etc. “In the last five state assembly elections, 4.5 times higher electors participated in the electoral process through postal ballots and there is scope for widening the outreach and facilitation efforts,” Chandra said.Election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, along with more than 100 delegates from 24 countries, four international organisations and 20 diplomats, participated in the webinar.Pandey said that “technology has been a game changer in election management and has had a significant impact upon the electoral landscape vis-a-vis accessibility”, said the ECI statementThe webinar was organised to mark the completion of two years of the EC helming the Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-women-take-part-in-polls-than-men-cec-chandra-101637951987597.html
27-11-2021||India||India to resume regular international flights from December 15||India will allow the full schedule of regular international flights to resume with all countries that are considered “not at risk” from December 15, according to an official order issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Friday. Flights to and from countries that are considered “at risk” can operate at 75% of the schedule if there is an air-bubble agreement in place with India, and at 50% if there isn’t. Scheduled international passenger flights to and from India were suspended in March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The matter has been reviewed and the competent authority has decided to resume the scheduled commercial international passenger services to/from India with effect from 15 December 2021,” the order by office of MoCA said. Flights to nations not classified as “at-risk” can resume to full capacity entitlement according to bilateral air service agreements.Countries under the “at-risk” category will need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. Countries “at risk” include the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. India has air-bubble pacts with 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE and France.This arrangement will, however, come to an end from December 14. “Resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services with effect from 15 December, 2021 would imply reversion to bilaterally agreed capacity entitlements and termination of air-bubble arrangements. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the capacity entitlements shall be as per the category of countries based on enlistment of countries as “at-risk” from time to time by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW),” the document said.Flights to these “at-risk” countries can resume at 75% of the full capacity entitlements under bilateral air-service agreements if there is an air-bubble agreement with that country. At least seven flights a week would be allowed. In case of “at-risk” countries with whom India did not have an air bubble agreement, only 50% of pre-Covid operations of Indian or foreign carriers, or 50% of bilateral capacity entitlements will be allowed. Special passenger flights have been operating since July last year under air bubble arrangements with 31 countries. Under an air bubble agreement, airlines of both countries can operate special flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-regular-international-flights-from-december-15-101637951928915.html
27-11-2021||India||Tripura civic elections: TMC urges SC to defer counting of votes||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday moved the Supreme Court, seeking a probe by a court-monitored panel into alleged large-scale violence during the municipal polls in Tripura.Alleging “absolute mayhem” during the elections on Thursday, senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the party, sought an urgent hearing into the matter and also urged the court to postpone the counting of votes. “Horrendous scenes have been recorded by us on video. This court had directed unhindered access to media at polling booths. But what we saw was absolute mayhem. Our candidates were not allowed to enter polling booths to cast votes, no central armed paramilitary forces (CAPF) were available and the ‘two constables to each candidate’ rule was flouted. This is not done. It is a complete violation of this court’s order. It is a very serious situation and we require an urgent hearing,” Sibal, who appeared before a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, said.On Thursday, a three-judge bench comprising justice Chandrachud and justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, had directed the Union ministry of home affairs to provide two additional companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to secure the polling booths during the Tripura municipal polls after the TMC and CPI (M) alleged that their candidates and supporters have not been allegedly allowed to cast their votes and that there is a serious breach of law and order.Taking note of Sibal’s request for an urgent hearing, justice Chandrachud said it may not be possible as the court is sitting in a different combination of judges on FridayAs Sibal requested for a special sitting on Saturday, the judge said he would consult the other two judges and seek their availability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-elections-tmc-urges-sc-to-defer-counting-of-votes-101637951927683.html
27-11-2021||India||Constitution Day: PM Modi, CJI Ramana stress need for judiciary and government to complement each other||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana struck a common chord on Friday when they stressed on the need for the judiciary and the government to complement each other in the realisation of constitutional goals.Speaking at the 72nd Constitution Day event in the presence of justices and jurists, Modi said: “The government and judiciary are twins as they are born out of the same Constitution. As the nation looks towards the 100 years of Independence in the next 25 years, the government and judiciary must strive with common goals and common mind to meet the aspirations of the people through collective responsibility while keeping with separation of powers.”He noted that while colonialism that once ruled India no more exists, the colonial mindset still prevails by which developed countries try to block development of progressive countries like India in the name of freedom of expression and other forms and lately, citing environment and carbon emissions. “No country exists today as a manifest colony of another country, but this does not mean the colonial mindset has ended…An attempt is being made today by the developed world to block the progress of developing countries and environment is being hijacked for this purpose,” sadi Modi. CJI Ramana, whose speech preceded the PM’s, also emphasised that all three organs of the state – executive, legislature and judiciary – are repositories of constitutional trust and it is wrong to assume that securing justice is the job of judiciary alone. “The executive and the legislature must work in conjunction with the judiciary to ensure complete justice as envisaged under the Constitution,” justice Ramana said.At the same time, he added: “The Laxman Rekha drawn by the Constitution is sacrosanct. There are times when courts are compelled to pay attention to unresolved grievances, in the interest of justice. The intention behind such limited judicial interventions is to nudge the executive, and not to usurp its role…. Attempts to project such interventions as the targeting of one institution by another are totally misplaced.” He maintained that motivated public interest litigation (PILs) should be discouraged, but there is enormous good done under this jurisdiction as even a letter by a common man yields to effective orders from the top court.The CJI also spoke about the existence of colonialism in the prevailing laws and called for “Indianization of the judiciary”. With the Prime Minister and Union law minister Kiren Rijiju in attendance, justice Ramana termed the issue of attack on judges as a matter of “grave concern”, stressing on central agencies and government to not only ensure protection of judicial officers from physical attacks but in the media as well, particularly social media. Other judges of the Supreme Court – justices UU Lalit and Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud -- spoke underlining the significance of awareness among people about the Constitution and their rights enshrined under it, and the issue of pendency of cases was brought to the fore by attorney general KK Venugopal. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju appreciated the role of judiciary during the pandemic in keeping the courts functional through virtual platform thus enabling hearing of over 15 million cases by high courts and district courts and over 150,000 cases by Supreme Court alone. Vikas Singh, the president of Supreme Court Bar Association, the body of lawyers practising in the Supreme Court, also spoke on the occasion, highlighting the need for a law to bring transparency and regulate collegium-mandated appointments of high court and Supreme Court judges, and called for a law to ensure lawmakers convicted for heinous offences are debarred for life from contesting polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-pm-modi-cji-ramana-stress-need-for-judiciary-and-government-to-complement-each-other-101637951868728.html
27-11-2021||India||Param Bir appears before Thane police, court cancels NBW||A day after he appeared before the Mumbai police crime branch for inquiries, former police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Friday appeared in the Thane Nagar police station for inquiries in connection with an extortion case registered against him. Singh also appeared before the Thane sessions court, which cancelled a non-bailable warrant issued against him. Singh’s lawyer Rajendra Mokashi said he remained present before the court in between his questioning by police, and also provided a surety of ₹15,000.A senior officer with the Thane Police confirmed that Singh reached the police station at around 10.30 a.m. on Friday for inquiries in a case registered against him by businessman Ketan Tanna in July this year. Singh was questioned from morning till late evening, the officer said.The other accused in the case include deputy commissioner of police Deepak Devraj, assistant commissioner of Police NT Kadam, retired cop Pradeep Sharma, senior police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and gangster Ravi Pujari. Tanna alleged that the accused cops extorted crores of rupees from him and his friend, businessman Sonu Jalan, in 2018. Jalan had been arrested in connection with a betting racket by the Thane crime branch’s anti-extortion cell in the same year.Officials in the known said that Singh was questioned in connection with the allegations made against him, as well as the original case filed by the AEC against Jalan, in which the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) had been invoked. In the presence of senior officers, including deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Avinash Ambure, Singh was asked about the invoking of the MCOCA as well as other evidence against Jalan.“He also appeared before the Thane Sessions Court, which had issued a non-bailable warrant against him last month, at around 3.30 p.m., and the court cancelled the warrant. Subsequently, he came back to the police station, and the questioning resumed,” an officer said.After several hours of questioning, Singh finally left the police station at around 7 p.m. The Supreme Court has granted him blanket protection from arrest in the cases registered against him. Officials said that he might have to be called again for inquiries.Singh is facing a total of five extortion cases in Maharashtra, two of them in Thane. The Thane police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe these two extortion cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-appears-before-thane-police-court-cancels-nbw-101637951747347.html
27-11-2021||India||Dynastic politics a threat to healthy democracy: PM Modi on Constitution Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit out at political dynasts on Friday during Constitution Day celebrations, and said parties controlled by the same family for generations posed a threat to a healthy democracy.In his speech in Parliament’s Central Hall, the PM also warned against the tendency of “forgetting and glorifying convicted corrupt people”, invoked Dr BR Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi, and tore into opposition parties without naming anyone.“In the form of family-based parties, India is heading towards a kind of a crisis, How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?” he asked.“A party run by one family generation after generation and the family controlling the entire system of the party is the biggest threat to a healthy democracy,” he added.At the event, which 13 opposition parties boycotted, President Ram Nath Kovind called opposition forces as “the most important element of democracy”.“Without an effective Opposition, democracy becomes ineffective. It is expected that the government and the Opposition, despite their differences, continue to work together in the best interests of the citizens,” he said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, said legislatures should be guided by dialogue and debate and not be rendered dysfunctional through disruptions.Constitution Day celebrates November 26, 1949 when the Indian Constitution was formally adopted by the Constituent Assembly. The Constitution came into effect on January 26, 1950, marking Republic Day.PM Modi reminded people about their sense of duty, and maintained that Gandhi had tried to prepare the nation for the duties while he fought for the rights in the freedom movement. “It would have been better if the duty had been emphasised after the country’s independence. In the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, it is necessary for us to move forward on the path of duty so that our rights are protected”, the PM said. Modi also remembered the Mumbai terror attacks and described 26/11 as “such a sad day for us”.While several political outfits in India are tightly controlled by families, the PM made it clear that he targeted the Congress. “More than one person from a family joining the party on the basis of merit does not make the party dynastic. Problems arise when a party is run by the same family, generation after generation,” he said.PM dubbed political dynasts as “a matter of concern for people devoted to the Constitution and for those who believe in democracy.” He argued that spirit and every section of the Constitution is hurt” when political parties shed their democratic character.Modi’s sharp attack came after the Congress-led Opposition boycotted the official celebrations of the Constitution Day in Parliament. Congress leaders don’t rule out a wider context of the comment in the backdrop of the upcoming series of electoral battles in five states.The Congress defended its decision. “We protested to remind our country that the Constitution is not being respected. The Constitution is being undermined and parliamentary democracy is being undermined, insulted with the enactment of the laws bypassing any parliamentary scrutiny, which is creating enormous problems,” said Anand Sharma, Congress’s deputy leader in Rajya Sabha.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla expressed distress over the boycott. He said, “If the Opposition had any issues, they could have spoken to me. A function which is chaired by President of India, should be kept above politics.” He added that “dialogue and discuss is the only way forward. All agenda are discussed in Business advisory committee that has leaders from various parties.”Last week, addressing the legislative presiding officer’s conference in Shimla, the PM had spoke of duty and had said that for the next 25 years — till 100 years of Independence — legislators must work to fulfil their national duties.On Friday, the PM maintained that “today is the day to pay homage” to the “far-sighted great personalities” like Gandhi, Ambedkar, Rajendra Prasad and all those who made sacrifices during the freedom struggle. He added that “today is the day to salute this house”.President Kovind said that lawmakers as “defenders of the dignity of the Parliament” must have only one priority: “working for the welfare of all the people of their constituencies and for the interest of the nation.”He also said that it’s natural for ruling and Opposition sides to compete, but the competition must be for doing “better things for the public good.”Naidu voiced concern over disruptions in Parliament proceedings and said the people’s mandate to the government should be respected.“We need to have more meaningful, productive use of our time in Parliament. We need to recognise the exalted place that Parliament occupies in public perception,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dynastic-politics-a-threat-to-healthy-democracy-pm-modi-on-constitution-day-101637951629015.html
27-11-2021||India||26/11 attacks anniversary: Politicians pay tributes to martyrs||New Delhi Political leaders from across the country on Friday paid tributes to the victims and security personnel who lost their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.President Ram Nath Kovind led the country in paying homage to the bravehearts who made supreme sacrifice to protect the country. “The nation will always be grateful for the bravery and sacrifice of the security forces who laid down their lives in the line of duty,” he posted on Twitter. Remembering all those who lost their lives in the attacks, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted: “On the 13th anniversary of the November 26th terror attack on Mumbai, we remember the innocent lives we lost. My tributes to everyone who lost their lives in those attacks. Our security forces displayed exemplary courage during the 26/11 attacks. I salute their bravery and sacrifice.” External affairs minister S Jaishankar said he will “never forget” the terror attacks.Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal paid tribute to jawans, policemen and citizens who lost their lives. “Considering the nation as paramount, this country will always be indebted to all the brave soldiers who sacrificed their lives in this attack,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a two-minute video of the photographs of all the security forces who lost their lives in the attacks. “They protect the country by staying away from the family in difficult weather at the border. Save the lives of the innocent by risking his life in terrorist attacks. They don’t care about their life; they only care for their country. It is the pride of the family, of the village, of the country - such as the soldiers of my country,” the former Congress chief tweeted.“Salute to the heroes of 26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttack. Jai Hind!” he added. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said “this country will always be indebted to its brave martyrs”. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating in a Mumbai hospital after spine surgery, also remembered the 26/11 martyrs. In a tweet, he said the terror attack was a clear example of the “cowardly mindset” of terrorists.Former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted: “26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttack - the horrific incident which we will never forget. Our solidarity with families who lost their loved ones in that gruesome attack. Salute to the bravehearts who made supreme sacrifice to protect the nation. The entire country will remain indebted to them.” On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2611-attacks-anniversary-politicians-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-101637951627718.html
27-11-2021||India||Cannot cast doubt on Covid vaccination, its efficacy: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the country cannot afford any laxity in vaccinating its population against Covid-19, and that the top court would be extremely circumspect in casting any doubt on efficacy of the inoculation programme by correlating or linking deaths with vaccines.“This (vaccination) is a matter of highest national importance. We cannot afford the price of laxity at such a crucial juncture. You have to vaccinate people to protect them, protect their lives right now,” said a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud. The bench, which also comprised justice AS Bopanna, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought an investigation into deaths and other adverse events reported soon after certain people were administered the vaccine. The plea, filed by Ajay Kumar Gupta, a doctor, and four others, also demanded compensation for those dying or experiencing serious adverse events within 30 days of vaccination. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the petitioners, complained that India has abandoned active surveillance, and there is no mechanism for reporting adverse events occurring soon after vaccination. He said there were at least 900 separate newspaper reports about death of people immediately after inoculation.The bench, however, retorted: “After a person has taken Covid vaccine, every death cannot be attributed to vaccine. You cannot correlate these deaths to vaccination. Death can occur due to several other reasons, including pre-existing diseases. Vaccination doesn’t control other diseases.”It added: “Look at the enormous benefit of vaccination. WHO has been advocating it. People worldwide are getting benefitted. We should not be casting doubt on vaccination.”Gonsalves, on his part, tried to convince the bench that he was not trying to create doubts about vaccination but was concerned about lack of a monitoring mechanism wherein people were not getting checked after adverse events occur. To this, the bench again responded: “The world has seen a pandemic of an unseen nature. Every country is vaccinating its people. We cannot cast any doubt on our vaccination programme.”Gonsalves, however, stressed the contention that other countries across the globe were doing active surveillance while India jettisoned it. “We cannot make a policy on this. We have to look at all this as a nation... When there are guidelines in place why should the court intervene at this crucial stage,” responded the bench.The health ministry has a set surveillance protocol to deal with Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), that is followed across Covid vaccination centres. There are AEFI committees formed at the district, state and central level to monitor such cases. District committees document the cases and report to state committees, which in turn, send the case file to the national AEFI committee to examine cases.The committees consist of senior doctors from various disciplines such as cardiology, neurology, paediatrics, medicine etc.Protocols are also in place for systemic investigation and causality assessment of serious AEFIs, which doesn’t end at hospitalizing the recipient, rather it needs to be established whether the reaction was caused by vaccination or something else. The court finally decided to the seek assistance of solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta before taking a final call on the fate of the PIL. The bench asked Gonsalves to serve a copy of the petition on the office of the SG, who has been appearing in all the cases relating to vaccination policy before the top court, and fixed the matter after two weeks. “There is something in our mind. We will take a call,” remarked the bench while adjourning the case. India has reported 0.004% overall adverse events so far, according to data on the CoWIN dashboard. The national AEFI committee experts have linked three deaths to Covid-19 vaccines. A majority of AEFIs are minor in nature: pain, mild swelling at injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea, giddiness and mild allergic reactions such as rashes etc.The PIL, filed through advocate Satya Mitra, has also demanded disclosure of all information related to the phase 1, 2 and 3 trials of the vaccines in use and to further direct the public authorities and all private establishments to make the vaccine purely voluntary as per the instruction of the Union of India.It also asked for obtaining the consent of those getting vaccinated. “Informed consent is a fundamental principal both for clinical trials as well as for the administration of the vaccine. Nowhere in the country are people being informed both orally and in written form regarding the serious adverse events that could happen after the administration of the vaccine,” said the plea. “Checking the effect on the person vaccinated for a few minutes after the vaccination (maximum 30 minutes) is tantamount to criminal negligence since the adverse events can happen at varying period of time including extended periods of time and even lifelong. The criminal conspiracy lies in the manufacturer and the government entering into an arrangement whereby the adverse events are hidden,” the plea alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-cast-doubt-on-covid-vaccination-its-efficacy-supreme-court-101637951507226.html
27-11-2021||India||Isro’s Gaganyaan missions set to resume next year||The two unmanned flights under the Gaganyaan mission will happen next year with the first as soon as January, said Union minister of state for the department of space Dr Jitendra Singh. The third, carrying an Indian crew will happen in 2023, the minister added.India’s first manned flight was originally scheduled to happen before India completed 75 years of Independence on August 15, 2022 as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, but the mission was delayed by the coronavirus pandemic which affected the manufacturing and testing of systems and subsystems as well as the training of the crew (in Russia).Singh is hoping that the manned flight coincides with the country’s deep-sea mission. “The timing should be such that we send a man to space just as we send a man 5,000 metres down in the ocean. The deep ocean exploration mission was running a little behind, but now it has caught up and we have already tested a module,” said Singh.A module developed under the Samudrayaan mission of the Ministry of Earth Sciences was submerged to 600 metres depth off the Chennai coast in October end. An unmanned module will first be tested at the depth of over 5,000 metres before humans are sent in it.“Our unmanned vehicle is now ready to go. Around a year or year-and-a-half after the unmanned mission we will be ready to send humans,” the minister said.This declaration comes even as the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has been lagging behind on its routine launches such as that of earth observation satellites on account of the pandemic. India has conducted only four launch missions in the last two years. In comparison, China has conducted at least 40 missions this year itself, setting a global record.All of Isro’s big ticket missions such as the launch of the first solar mission Aditya L-1, space observatory XPoSat, and the third lunar mission Chandrayaan-3 have been deferred. As HT reported earlier, the space agency is unlikely to finish the three missions – two Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) and one Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) mission carrying earth observation satellites – that were planned for this year after the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-gaganyaan-missions-set-to-resume-next-year-101637951386637.html
27-11-2021||India||SII resumes Covid vaccine export under Covax||Serum Institute of India (SII) has resumed exports of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to the international vaccine sharing programme COVAX, the company announced on Friday. “The first batches of Covishield vaccine left the SII manufacturing facility in Pune earlier today, for distribution to low- and middle-income countries via the COVAX mechanism. SII’s supply of doses via COVAX is expected to increase substantially into Quarter 1, 2022,” SII said in a statement. To bolster its Covid-19 vaccine output further, SII said it will bring into production other vaccines under licence. These include Covovax, from the US-based company Novavax, which received its first emergency use authorisations from regulators in Indonesia and the Philippines this month. Further regulatory reviews are pending for Covovax in India and with the World Health Organization (WHO), and Novavax has also submitted several additional regulatory filings for its vaccine around the world. “I want to thank our workforce for their superhuman efforts in achieving this major milestone, with 1billion doses of Covishield now produced by SII. We started to invest at-risk in COVID-19 vaccine production back in March 2020 and Serum Institute colleagues have worked tirelessly ever since to get these life-saving doses to people. It’s a huge moment to begin exports again, for us, our partners at COVAX and the low- and middle-income countries we support. The world has largely depended on the low-cost, high-quality pharmaceuticals and vaccines that India has traditionally exported, so we are delighted to support the global vaccination effort once more,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, in a statement. “I also want to thank our global partners including AstraZeneca, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Gavi, UNICEF and the WHO for their unwavering patience and confidence in our ability to keep on track. With these global collaborations and new COVID-19 vaccines such as Covovax entering our production lines, we can be more hopeful that WHO’s target to vaccinate 70% of the world’s population by the middle of next year can be met. Beyond this, we will continue to work hand in hand with our global partners on our promising programmes in HPV and malaria and we will continue to fight health inequality globally by making vaccines more accessible and affordable,” he added. CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance that leads the COVAX facility, created for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines globally, called it an important development. “The resumption of supplies from Serum Institute of India is an important development for COVAX as it enters its busiest period yet for shipping vaccines to participating economies. While COVAX’s portfolio is now much more diversified than it was earlier this year when we received our first SII deliveries, COVISHIELD remains an important product which has the potential to help us protect hundreds of millions of people in the months ahead,” said Seth Berkeley, CEO, Gavi. For supplying to low-and middle-income countries, Indian vaccines are preferred as these are cost-effective, easy to transport in terms of cold chain maintenance, and easy to administer. “…It is a much-needed critical support that can help countries of the world to be protected and to recover from the pandemic. As long as the pandemic lingers, its adverse effects will continue on essential services such as health, education and protection for children and young people. The vaccines sharing through COVAX can help tackle the crisis,” said Yasumasa Kimura, Unicef India Representative. “The global society and countries are dependent on each other to emerge from the pandemic, together. India’s recent move to share doses is an encouraging one. We are keen to see the plan in action and other countries benefiting from it. We commend the scientists, health workers, the government and people of India for their support to vaccine equity,” Kimura added. India halted Covid vaccine exports in April this year after it faced severe second wave, and opened up vaccination for all adults. In September, the government announced it would begin exports in the last quarter as country’s substantial eligible population would be vaccinated against the viral disease by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-resumes-covid-vaccine-export-under-covax-101637951268480.html
27-11-2021||India||‘Proud of your bravery’: Shah honours forces on 26/11 anniv||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday paid tributes to those who lost their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks and lauded the efforts of security forces who bravely fought the terrorists.Shah said a grateful nation will always be indebted to the sacrifices of those who died and called the 2008 terror attacks a “cowardly” act.“Heartfelt tributes to those who lost their lives in the Mumbai 26/11 terror attacks,” the home minister tweeted.Hailing the courage of the security personnel, he said, “The whole nation will be proud of your bravery. A grateful nation will always be indebted to your sacrifice.”Friday marked the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks carried out in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, in which 166 people were killed and another 238 were injured. Considered among the deadliest terror strikes in India, the attack was carried out by 10 terrorists who were sent to India by Pakistan-based outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba’s (LeT) top leadership that worked with Pakistan’s spy agency, ISI, and other outfits.India and several other countries, including the US, the UK and France, have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad.Jamaat-Ud-Dawa and Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed continues to run his organisation and carry out anti-India activities. India shared detailed evidence with Pakistan on a number of occasions, but Islamabad refused to cooperate.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already completed its probe against all the perpetrators and shared detailed evidence with Pakistani authorities several times, but there has been no response till date.It is now hopeful of getting Tahawwur Hussain Rana, a Pakistani-Canadian citizen currently held in the United States. The US authorities have already expressed their willingness to extradite Rana, a former Pakistan army physician, to India once his 14-year jail term ends there.The agency teams visited the US twice since 2018 to pursue his extradition. During these visits, the US department of justice (DoJ) said that they are convinced with India’s charges against 59-year-old Rana, who helped co-conspirator David Coleman Headley in reconnaissance of targets in Mumbai and allegedly planned attacks at National Defence College (NDC) and Chabad House.Headley, a US citizen and a resident of Chicago who carried out reconnaissance of the targets in Mumbai, entered into plea bargain with the US, due to which he cannot be extradited to India. However, India’s request for extradition of Rana on the charges forgery and criminal breach of trust as he used his firm for making documents of Headley in Mumbai, has already been accepted by the US prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).Officials who didn’t want to be named said that the process slowed down in last one year due to Covid-19 but it is likely to be finalised in 2022.FBI arrested Rana in Chicago on October 18, 2009 for providing material support to the conspiracy to commit terrorist acts involving murder, kidnapping and maiming outside the US, including Mumbai and Copenhagen.He was convicted in 2013 by the Chicago court of conspiracy to provide material support to a plot from October 2008 to October 2009 to commit murder in Denmark, including a plan to behead employees of Danish newspaper Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten and throw their heads on to the street in Copenhagen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-of-your-bravery-amit-shah-honours-forces-on-26-11-mumbai-attacks-anniversary-101637950970845.html
27-11-2021||India||CBI gets nod to prosecute retired Allahabad HC judge in corruption case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has received permission to prosecute justice Shri Narayan Shukla, now retired, of the Allahabad high court in the corruption scandal involving Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.The sanction enables the agency to submit its charge sheet in court detailing the charges and evidence against Shukla in the case where bribes were allegedly paid to secure a favourable court order by the institute.Shukla, who retired from the service in July 2020, is accused of taking a bribe for passing an order that favoured the Lucknow-based medical college, which was disbarred in May 2017 from admitting students by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the country’s medical education regulator.HT was first to report on November 12 that the federal anti-corruption agency’s request for prosecution sanction against Shukla was pending. A senior CBI officer, without divulging the exact date, confirmed that the Centre’s sanction was recently communicated to the agency.Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act bars the trial court from taking judicial note of a charge sheet filed against a public servant unless the government has granted its sanction for prosecution.Shukla was investigated for criminal conspiracy, sections of the prevention of corruption act which deal with accepting bribes, and criminal misconduct along with retired Odisha high court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, and Palash Yadav of Prasad Education Trust, an intermediary, Bhawana Pandey and another alleged middleman Sudhir Giri.A charge sheet was filed in July 2019 against Quddusi in a separate case pertaining to Prasad Institute. He is currently out on bail.A second officer, requesting anonymity, said the agency examined several people in the past two years to conclude its investigation and added that there is strong evidence against all the accused persons.According to CBI, the Lucknow-based medical college was debarred by MCI from admitting students for academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19 due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of required criteria along with 46 other medical colleges.The MCI decision was initially challenged by Prasad Institute before the Supreme Court. CBI’s FIR said a conspiracy was hatched and the petition was withdrawn from the top court, and a writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on August 24, 2017.It added that Quddusi and BP Yadav of Prasad Trust met justice Shukla on the morning of August 25, 2017, at his residence in Lucknow, which is when the bribe is believed to have been exchanged. CBI alleged the petition was heard the same day by the division bench of the high court comprising justice SN Shukla and a favourable order was passed.Former Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ordered an investigation against Shukla on a complaint by Uttar Pradesh advocate general Raghvendra Singh alleging judicial malpractice. A three-member committee comprising then Madras high court chief justice Indira Banerjee, then Sikkim high court chief justice SK Agnihotri and Madhya Pradesh high court judge PK Jaiswal, found Shukla guilty of judicial irregularities in January 2018 after which his impeachment was recommended to the President of India.Shukla, who was a sitting judge at the Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC at the time, was debarred from entering the court premises and all the judicial and administrative work was taken away from him.Later, in July 2019, former CJI Ranjan Gogoi gave permission to CBI to file a case in the matter. Gogoi also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending Shukla’s removal. Shukla eventually retired in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-gets-nod-to-prosecute-retired-allahabad-hc-judge-in-corruption-case-101637950727233.html
27-11-2021||India||Mukul Sangma elected Trinamool Congress’ parliamentary party leader||Two days after he quit the Congress along with 11 other party MLAs, former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma was on Friday named the parliamentary party leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state.The unanimous decision was taken during the first parliamentary party meeting of the TMC held at Sangma’s residence. All the legislators led by the former CM are flying to Kolkata on Saturday to meet West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other senior TMC leaders.Friday’s meeting, which was attended by all the 12 MLAs, also elected Umroi legislator George B Lyngdoh as the opposition chief whip and Mawsynram legislator Himalaya M Shangpliang as secretary.The move comes after the Trinamool Congress became the principal opposition party in the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly after the former Congress legislators joined it. Prior to switching sides, Sangma was the leader of the opposition in the Meghalaya assembly.Addressing party members, Sangma thanked everyone for reposing faith in him as a leader. He assured them that he would carry forward the aspirations of the people in fulfilling the mandate given to the MLAs.Following the meeting, Shangpliang told journalists that the 12 MLAs reiterated their commitment to work hard and would be reaching out to the people of the state. “In totality, we have decided that all of us will contribute to the development of the state,” he affirmed.Shangpliang also informed that the newly formed parliamentary party will meet the chairperson of the TMC, Mamata Banerjee on November 29. “Our leader (Sangma) is leading us as a delegation to Kolkata to meet the chairperson of TMC on Monday. We are going to have detailed discussions on the future of the party in our state,” he said.Earlier in the day, the former Congress legislators were formally welcomed into the TMC family by its national leaders and top emissaries of party supremo Mamata Banerjee - Manas Ranjan Bhuiya and Moloy Ghatak, both senior cabinet ministers in West Bengal.Welcoming them, Bhuiya said, “We have come to greet you and pay our respects to you for standing beside the leadership of the Trinamool Congress to fight forces that are trying to destabilise the country; Forces that are here to destroy the democratic fibre of the Indian democracy, and all democratic norms.”The West Bengal Minister for Water Resources, Investigation and Development said, “We are tremendously happy that the very tall leader Mukul Sangma, a former Chief Minister and equally tall leader Charles Pyngrope, the former Speaker and our esteemed MLA colleagues have come together to work for the people under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee in the TMC family, even as he underscored, “Their presence, leadership and experience will surely encourage the people of Meghalaya to come along with us and together work towards a truly brighter tomorrow.”Moloy Ghatak the Law Minister of West Bengal said, “In Meghalaya the TMC has become the main opposition party. Under instructions and guidance of our leader Abhishek Banerjee, we have come to Meghalaya to formally hand over the party flag to our legislators of Meghalaya who have joined us to strengthen the party further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-sangma-elected-trinamool-congress-parliamentary-party-leader-101637947306935.html
27-11-2021||India||Can’t forget wounds of 26/11 attack: Modi||India cannot forget the wounds of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday even as the external affairs ministry summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat to demand the expeditious trial of those responsible for the carnage in the country’s financial hub.The attacks on Mumbai by a 10-member squad of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists, which began on November 26, 2008, resulted in the deaths of 166 people, including 26 foreign nationals. Pakistani authorities arrested seven LeT operatives, including operations commander Zakiur Rahman Lakhvi, but there has been little headway in their trial. “India can’t forget the wounds of the Mumbai attacks. Now, today’s India is combating terrorism with a new policy and new ways,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi, in a brief video on the attacks posted on Twitter by the external affairs ministry. “I pay my homage to all those who died in the Mumbai attacks. Many brave police personnel were martyred in this attack. I also pay homage to them,” Modi added. A senior diplomat of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi was summoned by the external affairs ministry and handed a note verbale, or unsigned diplomatic correspondence, “reiterating India’s call for an expeditious trial in the Mumbai terror attacks case”. The note also called on the Pakistan government “to abide by its commitment to not allow territories under its control for terrorism against India”, according to a statement from the foreign ministry. “It is a matter of deep anguish that even after 13 years of this heinous terror attack, the families of 166 victims from 15 countries across the globe still await closure, with Pakistan showing little sincerity in bringing the perpetrators to justice,” the statement said.“The 26/11 terrorist attack was planned, executed and launched from Pakistani territory. The former Prime Minister of Pakistan had gone on record and admitted that the terrorists were sent from Pakistan’s soil,” the statement added, in a reference to former premier Nawaz Sharif. “We once again call on the government of Pakistan to give up double standards and to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of the horrific attack to justice. This is not just a matter of Pakistan’s accountability to the families of the innocent victims who fell to terrorists, but also an international obligation,” it said. “The government of India will continue to make every effort to seek justice for the families of the victims and the martyrs,” it added. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that India and the world expect Pakistan to take firm steps on the demand for action. The video posted by the external affairs ministry said the victims of the terror attacks “from India and across the world await justice”. It included images of the assault on Mumbai’s iconic Taj Mahal Palace Hotel and tributes to security personnel killed in the attacks. Footage of world leaders such as former UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon condemning the attacks and paying tribute to victims during visits to Mumbai were included in the video. Among the leaders featured in the video were former US President Barack Obama, the duke and duchess of Cambridge, Belgium’s King Philippe, and UK foreign secretary Liz Truss. The foreign ministry’s statement said the government and people of India remembered victims of the “dastardly attack” on the 13th anniversary of the event. The President, the Prime Minister and the external affairs minister, in separate messages, expressed firm solidarity with the families of victims. A memorial event was organised by Maharashtra government at the Police Memorial in Mumbai. Fifteen policemen and two National Security Guard (NSG) commandos were killed in the operations against the terrorists.Indian missions in the 14 countries whose nationals were killed in the Mumbai attacks also organised memorial events for the victims and reminded the world of the continuing global threat of terrorism. Senior government representatives from the host governments, relatives of victims and survivors were expected to participate in these events. All but one of the 10 LeT attackers were killed, and Ajmal Kasab was captured alive. After initially refusing to accept his nationality, Pakistan acknowledged Kasab as a citizen. He confessed about his training by LeT and was subsequently convicted and hanged in 2012. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India’s experience with Pakistan’s counter-terrorism investigations since 26/11 suggests that Islamabad has “only engaged in a cosmetic crackdown on anti-India terror groups”. He added, “While public activities of these groups may have declined, their networks and ties with the military establishment remain intact. Moreover, with the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan, it is likely these groups will now scale up their anti-India activities, while remaining invisible to avoid global scrutiny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-says-india-can-t-forget-wounds-of-26-11-attacks-mea-summons-pak-diplomat-101637915203398.html
27-11-2021||India||Heavy rain forecast in Puducherry, schools to be closed till Nov 27: Minister||The Puducherry government announced on Friday that all schools and colleges in the Union Territory (UT) will be closed till Saturday because of heavy rainfall predicted by the weather bureau.“All schools and colleges in Puducherry will be closed today and tomorrow (26 and 27 November) due to heavy rains,” the UT's education minister A Namassivayam said in a statement.The directive comes a day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu till November 29 (next Monday).“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during 25th to 29th November,” IMD said in a tweet on Thursday.The weather department also said that squally wind with speed reaching 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph is likely over the southwest Bay of Bengal, Comorin area and the Gulf of Mannar along and off south Tamilnadu coast on Friday. Fishermen have been advised to not venture into these areas.In Tamil Nadu, a red alert has already been issued for five districts of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam.Schools in the Thoothukudi district will remain closed on Friday as heavy rainfall inundated railway stations and the Arulmigu Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur municipality, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday. Train services to and from Thoothukudi have also been cancelled.In Madurai, the district collector also declared a holiday for all schools as heavy rainfall caused waterlogging in several parts of the city.Meanwhile, the IMD on Thursday sounded a light to moderate rainfall alert in 12 districts of Tamil Nadu including Sivaganga, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Tiruchirapalli and Thanjavur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-forecast-in-puducherry-schools-to-be-closed-till-nov-27-minister-101637896505727.html
27-11-2021||NA||Maharashtra govt to give ₹50,000 as ex gratia payment to kin of Covid victims||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:33 students test positive for Covid-19 at Bengaluru school, reports ANI citing officialAt least 33 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at The International School in Bengaluru, news agency ANI quoted Bengaluru district health officer as saying. “They're asymptomatic. 2 of them taken by their parents to Nagpur & Hyderabad, cross notification sent to the States. Campus sealed,” the official added.10 cops injured as violence spreads on French Caribbean islands, reports AFPAt least 10 police officers were injured and several journalists shot at on the French Caribbean island of Martinique overnight Thursday to Friday as protests sparked by Covid-19 vaccine measures spread, reports news agency AFP.Congress' Mukesh Goel to join AAP on Saturday, reports ANISenior Congress leader Mukesh Goel to join Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday, people familair with the matter told news agency ANI.Maharashtra to give ₹50,000 as ex gratia payment to kin of Covid victimsThe Maharashtra government on Friday announced that it will give ex gratia of ₹50,000 to the kin of people who died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra over the last 20 months. The state has reported as many as 1,40,891 deaths since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.Merck’s latest trial data show its Covid-19 pill is less effective: ReportMerck & Co. said updated results showed its Covid-19 pill reduced the risk of hospitalization or death among adults with mild to moderate disease by 30%, less than a previous estimate and well below a rival treatment from Pfizer Inc, reported Bloomberg.Booster doses will be required: AIIMS Delhi Covid-19 Task Force “Booster doses will be required & immediate studies are needed, based on age groups & different patients. In Israel, vaccine effectiveness after the booster dose rose from 40% to 93%,” news agency ANI quoted chairperson of the Covid Task Force in AIIMS Delhi, Dr Naveet Wig, as saying.Israel bans arrivals from most of Africa over new coronavirus variant, reports ReutersIsrael has imposed a travel ban on most African states, after reporting cases of a new coronavirus variant first detected in South Africa, reports Reuters.Serum Institute of India resumes Covid-19 vaccine exportsSerum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, on Friday said it has resumed exports of Covishield vaccine to low- and middle-income countries with the first batch of consignment leaving its Pune facility.Hundreds of years of dependence pushed India into several problems: PM Modi"Hundreds of years of dependence pushed India into several problems. The India that was once called a golden bird was suffering from poverty, starvation & diseases. In that background, the Constitution always helped us in taking forward the nation,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, while addressing Vigyan Bhavan on the occasion of the Constitution day.Fire breaks out in Durg Express near Jhansi, 3 coaches detached for firefighting operationsFire has broken out in Durg Express near Jhansi. At least three coaches have been detached for firefighting operations, people familiar with the matter said on Friday. Two fire tenders are currently at the spot, and medical vans have been rushed from Agra and Gwalior. Russian President Putin to visit India on December 6, reports ANI citing Russian embassyRussian President Vladimir Putin will visit India on December 6, 2021. During his visit, Putin and PM Modi will exchange views on topical issues on the international agenda, including joint work within the G20, BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, news agency ANI quoted the Russian embassy as saying.India to resume int'l flights from Dec 15, bars 14 countriesThe Centre will resume regular international flights from December 15, barring 14 countries, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Read moreWHO urges countries to apply 'risk-based' approach for travel measuresThe World Health Organisation has recommended countries to apply 'risk-based' approach when implementing travel measures amid fears over new Coronavirus variant detected in South Africa.Israeli PM meets health experts over new Covid-19 variant, warns of ‘state of emergency’Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett met health experts on Friday to discuss how best to respond to a new variant of coronavirus that has been detected in South Africa. "We are currently on the verge of a state of emergency," Reuters quoted Bennett as saying.CBI to prosecute former Allahabad HC judge in bribery caseThe Central Bureu of Investigation on Friday received sanctions to prosecute former Allahabad High Court judge Narayan Shukla in a bribery case.WHO to meet today to designate new variant B.1.1.529: ReportThe World Health Organisation is convening an experts' meeting from Geneva at midday (1100 GMT) on Friday to assess the new Covid-19 variant B.1.1.529 amid growing concern, Reuters quoted WHO spokesperson Christian Lindmeier as saying.Israel detects case of new Covid variant from South AfricaThe Israeli health ministry announced on Friday that the country has reported a case of the new Covid-19 variant from South Africa. Israel is the third country apart from Hong Kong and Botswana to report cases of this variantAfter UK, Germany to ban most travel from South Africa over new Covid variant#BREAKING Germany to ban most travel from https://t.co/Ub898AU3Jp over new Covid variant: minister pic.twitter.com/ptCekg4nHzNo cases of B.1.1.529 Covid variant cases in India so far: ReportNo cases of the B.1.1.529 variant of the coronavirus have been reported in India so far, reports ANI citing official sources. ‘Mark of disrespect’: Union minister slams oppn skipping Constitution Day eventUnion minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Friday targeted the Congress and other opposition parties for boycotting the Constitution Day event at Parliament, which was attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others. Read moreTMC urges SC to postpone counting of Nov 25 Tripura civic pollsTripura civic polls: TMC approaches Supreme Court urging to postpone the counting of votes of municipal elections held on Nov 25. TMC alleges violation of SC's orders for free & fair municipal elections. TMC says people weren't allowed to vote,seeks probe by court-monitored panelThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday urged the Supreme Court to postpone the counting of votes for the municipal elections held in Tripura on Thursday. The TMC alleged that people were not allowed to vote. Constitution Day a salute to our Parliament, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday Constitution Day is a salute to Parliament, where many of the country's political leaders brainstormed to give India its Constitution. Read moreSC issues notice on NGO's plea challenging appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissionerThe Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to an NGO that challenged the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner. Constitution a modern version of ‘The Gita’ for us, says Om BirlaThe Constitution of India is like a modern version of 'The Gita' for us that motivates us to work for the nation. If each one of us commits to working for the country then we can build 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat': Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla pic.twitter.com/ryADDHljBDLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Friday that the Indian constitution is a modern version of the Gita. Delhi chief secy appointed as election commissioner for municipal pollsDelhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev has been appointed as the election commissioner for municipal polls in the city, news agency ANI reported on Friday. Sensex plunges over 1,300 points, Nifty below 17,200Sensex plunges more than 1300 points, Nifty below 17,200Heavy rain forecast in Puducherry, schools to be closed till Nov 27: MinisterThe Puducherry government announced on Friday that all schools and colleges in the Union Territory (UT) will be closed till Saturday because of heavy rainfall predicted by the weather bureau. Read moreIndia's daily Covid-19 rises again with 10,549 new cases; active cases up by 193India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again on Friday after 10,549 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,555,431, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. The active cases have increase by 193 and stand at 110,133. PM Modi greets citizens on Constitution Day, shares part of Ambedkar's speech at Constituent AssemblyBest wishes to our citizens on Constitution Day. On this special day, sharing a part of Dr. Ambedkar’s speech in the Constituent Assembly on 4th November 1948 in which he moved a motion for adoption of the Draft Constitution as settled by the Drafting Committee. pic.twitter.com/pviZNrKsGdPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted citizens on the occasion of Constitution Day and shared a part of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar's speech at the Constituent Assembly. Chhattisgarh CM likely to meet PM Modi; farmers, mill workers issues on agendaChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him about the problems mill workers and farmers of the state are facing. Baghel will be accompanied by all members of his cabinet. Read moreDelhi's air quality in very poor categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 339 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-IndiaAccording to data shared by SAFAR-India, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) is at 339 in the ‘very poor’ category. Constitution Day today: History, celebrations, significanceNovember 26 is observed as Constitution Day or ‘Samvidhan Diwas’ every year, which commemorates the adoption of the Constitution of India. On November 26, 1949, the Constitution was adopted and it came into effect on January 26, 1950. Read moreK'taka CM tells officials to intensify vaccination drive to improve 2nd dose coverageKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed officials to intensify vaccination drive against Covid-19 to improve 2nd dose coverage. Read moreUK to increase global military presence, says defence ministryThe United Kingdom will step up its military presence in the world, according to a plan, released by the defence ministry on Thursday."More of the Army will be deployed across the globe, more of the time. Greater forward deployment will improve our ability to anticipate crises and be ready to compete beneath the threshold of open conflict," according to the Future Soldier modernisation plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-26-2021-101637885416298.html
