28-11-2021||India||Allahabad high court grants bail to Sharjeel in AMU speech case||The Allahabad high court on Saturday granted bail to activist Sharjeel Imam in a sedition case filed against him for an alleged inflammatory speech made at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on January 16 last year. The bail was granted by justice Saumitra Dayal Singh of the Allahabad HC in the FIR lodged against him at Aligarh’s Civil Lines police station, in which he was accused of spreading hatred towards the government and the Indian armed forces by creating enmity between communities. He was also accused of endangering the unity and integrity of the nation. Sharjeel was arrested on January 28, 2020, from Bihar’s Jehanabad district.A detailed bail order is awaited, Nikhil Mishra, counsel for the applicant said.Sharjeel, however, is likely to remain in jail in connection with the Northeast Delhi riots. He was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the riots.Communal clashes broke out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-grants-bail-to-sharjeel-in-amu-speech-case-101638123923255.html
28-11-2021||India||States issue guidelines, review travel curbs over Omicron threat||Many state governments have issued fresh advisories to health officials and may reimpose restrictions on travel even as the central government on Sunday asked provincial authorities to be more vigilant against the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus. No cases of Omicron, dubbed a variant of concern by the World Health Organization last week, have been reported from India so far. The variant is spreading rapidly across the world, and there have been several instances reported from Africa, Europe and parts of Asia. The Uttar Pradesh health department on Sunday issued an advisory to all chief medical officers in the state, asking them to focus upon travellers coming from or transiting through countries where cases of the new variant have been reported, as well as their contacts. Travellers coming from ‘at risk’ nations should be rigorously screened and monitored according to guidelines of the Union health ministry, the advisory said. All incoming passengers from ‘at risk’ countries needed to tested. Those testing positive will have to stay in home isolation for 10 days and inform their health status to officials at the integrated Covid command centre, the advisory said. In Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a high-level meeting on Sunday and said the state will prepare a list of people who have come to Madhya Pradesh from foreign countries in the past one month. “These people will be tested and also the suspects will be kept under observation. Genome sequencing h will also be done,” he said. Tamil Nadu’s health department has appointed nodal officers in each of the four international airports in the state (Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy) to coordinate with airport staff on screening and testing passengers on arrival. RT-PCR tests are being done for all international arrivals at Chennai airport. “We are monitoring those arriving from South Africa and transiting from there,” the state’s health minister M Subramanian told reporters on Saturday after inspecting Chennai airport.“With respect to Chennai airport, we are intensively monitoring passengers from South Africa, China, Hong Kong and Israel, and ensuring that they 100% home quarantined and (will) retest them after 8 days,” he said, adding that authorities will keep a record of passengers who have arrived after double vaccination. Since October 21, as many as 55,090 RT-PCR tests were conducted among passengers at Chennai airport, of which three tested positive for Covid-19. Most samples were of the Delta variant that swept through India in a devastating wave earlier this year. The Maharashtra government in a notification on Saturday said domestic air travellers will have to be either fully vaccinated or carry an RT-PCR test report valid for 72 hours. Simultaneously, all international passengers arriving at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport from “countries of concern” will be made to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, and if found positive, will be sent to an institutional quarantine centre while their samples would be sent to the city’s genome sequencing lab, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). All passengers would have to provide their travel history of past 15 days on arrival, officials said. The BMC is also setting up a call centre for testing and institutional quarantine for international passengers.Karnataka has requested the central government to ban flights from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, where the new strain has been found. It has made it mandatory that international travellers will be allowed to leave the airport only after testing negative for Covid-19. If they test positive, they will be quarantined. State authorities has increased vigil in the Kerala and Maharashtra borders, and only those who have negative test certificates with two doses of vaccines will be allowed to cross over into Karnataka, officials said.The Karnataka government has also issued an advisory asking schools and other educational institutions to suspend social and cultural events for two months. The government has said that people who work in malls, cinemas and other public spaces should not be allowed to report to their respective jobs until they get both shots of a Covid-19 vaccine. In Kerala, the government has stepped up surveillance in all four international airports and urged overseas visitors to undergo quarantine for seven days. “The state has taken all precautions as per the guidelines of the union health ministry. We will keep a strict tab on people who are on quarantine after coming from abroad,” said state health minister Veena George. Those coming from affected countries, including people with negative RT-PCR reports, will have to take a test again as they arrive in the state, she said.No advisories were issued in the states of Bihar, Punjab and West Bengal, even though officials there said they were monitoring the situation. “So far there is no case of omicron in Punjab. We are on an alert in case of any such case is found in the state. Testing is being increased at airports,” said Dr. Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer on the pandemic. “Though there is no such case in the state as of now, we are alert and will put in place whatever arrangements require to be done to contain it,” Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey told reporters in Madhubani on Saturday.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is in charge of the state’s health department, has asked all officials to be on the alert. “The health secretary has convened an emergency meeting with chief medical officers from all state-run hospitals on Monday and a special cell is being opened at the infectious diseases hospital at Beliaghata in Kolkata,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Sunday that “hope for the best and be prepared for the worst” and added that so far no such variant has surfaced in Haryana.The Odisha government has announced that people arriving in the state from foreign countries will have to undergo a mandatory quarantine for 10 days. “The foreign returnees will have to stay under quarantine for a period of 10 days to prevent further spread of Covid-19 infections in the state,” said Rama Raman Mohanty, director of medical education and training.Passengers from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana will be screened at the Biju Patnaik International Airport in order to curb the possible transmission of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. As Bhubaneswar is the entry point for international travellers in the state, there is a need for screening of passengers coming from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana, Mohanty said.As per the government’s revised guidelines against the new mutant, returnees will undergo a COVID-19 test at airports. Their swab samples will be sent for genome sequencing if anyone tests positive.In a video conference with district officials from Bhubaneswar on Sunday, chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra advised all block officials, ward members, and anganwadi and health workers to gather ground reports of Covid-19 infections in their areas and immediately take action if any cases are detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-issue-guidelines-review-travel-curbs-over-omicron-threat-101638123509186.html
28-11-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Concerns over Omicron, GDP numbers to come||The Omicron conversation has just begun, and the big question that everyone is asking is, will the new variant — first reported by South African scientists to the World Health Organization (WHO) — create as much havoc as the Delta variant. It is quite likely that just as it happened on Saturday and Sunday, the discussion over Omicron and its possible effects on India will be discussed this week too. Meanwhile, India has another major question to tackle regarding Covid-19. The government’s expert panel, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, is likely to meet sometime next week to take up key issues regarding Covid-19 vaccination, including the matter of immunising children against Covid-19, a policy on administering booster dose, etc. This week is not going to be easy for public health policy experts and all those that are involved in creating the mechanism for India’s fight against the latest variant. The first and second waves saw the economy – and hence, the GDP – take a massive hit. Just when the numbers were showing a recovery, it is hoped that Omicron does not rock the boat. Data on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the July-September quarter, the central government’s monthly accounts and the index of eight core industries for October will be released on November 30. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection figures for November – which correspond to transactions in October – will be released on December 1. November’s data on Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for manufacturing will also be released on December 1 and that for services will be released on December 3.GDP grew 20.1% in the June quarter. This has to be read with the fact that there was a 24.4% contraction in the June 2020 quarter because of a lockdown imposed to curb Covid-19 infections. June 2021 GDP was still below the pre-pandemic level: 9.2% less than the June 2019 quarter. Growth figures for the September quarter will similarly have to be read with the caveat that there was a 7.4% contraction in September 2020.The GDP data will show how India’s economy was recovering in the immediate aftermath of the second wave of the pandemic in the country. The rest of the indicators are of higher frequency and will show a more recent picture. Data from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) showed that both revenue and capital expenditure of the central government had picked up pace in September. Year-on-year growth in revenue and capital expenditure was 45.7% and 83.1% in September. The corresponding numbers for the April-September period were 6.3% and 38.3%. GST collections were ₹1.3 lakh crore in October, the second highest since the tax was rolled out in 2017.Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) numbers similarly show recovery continuing. The PMI for manufacturing grew for the second consecutive month in October. It was 52.3 in August, 53.7 in September, and 55.9 in October. A PMI value above 50 signifies expansion in economic activity compared to the month before. Services PMI was 58.4 in October, the highest since July 2011.The index of eight core industries has however been moderating after July. In May, when the second wave peaked, it was 125.4, but increased to 134.7 by July. It had decreased to 126.7 in September. Year-on-year growth in the index was 4.4% in September compared to 11.5% in August. The states, too, are going to be busy. Kerala will move the Supreme Court this week questioning new RBI directives to regulate co-operative banks. It is another blow on federal structure, said CM Pinarayi Vijayan. The High Court is expected to take up Kerala education minister V Sivankutty and five others’ plea on Dec 2 pleading to discharge them from the assembly violence case. Election for lone RS seat on Monday and with ruling LDF enjoying brute majority in the assembly it would be cakewalk for Jose K Mani. Union home minister Amit Shah will visit Jaipur on December 5. Shah will address party‘s working committee meeting, and thereafter a mass gathering of elected representatives. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is expected to appoint close to a dozen parliamentary secretaries and also a list of political appointments. On November 30, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will inaugurate construction work of crucial Jorhat-Majuli bridge over the Brahmaputra river. Another important day for Assam will be when the regional committees to study border disputes between Assam and Meghalaya at six points along the interstate boundary to submit their reports. This week will see the anniversary of India’s worst ever industrial accident – Bhopal Gas Tragedy. The bigger tragedy? It’s been 37 years since the gas leak, but the survivors are waiting for their long-pending demand to be heard. In West Bengal, the BJP had moved a petition before the Calcutta high court demanding simultaneous civic polls across Bengal. The state election commission has gone ahead and declared polls in Kolkata on December 19. The High Court will take up the matter on Monday, November 29. All political parties will start campaigning for the Kolkata civic polls in the coming week with the BJP planning to declare its list of candidates on Sunday. Southwards, Tamil Nadu is preparing for another round of heavy rains as the IMD has forecast another low pressure to form on November 29. The principal opposition the AIAMDK will hold its executive committee meeting, a key decision-making body of the party. This meeting is likely to discuss the ensuing local body polls as well as the factor V K Sasikala who is continuing to be politically active in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-concerns-over-omicron-gdp-numbers-to-come-101638123382850.html
28-11-2021||India||Telangana on high alert over Omicron, but says infra in place to tackle possible surge||The Telangana government is on high alert to meet any eventuality in the wake of reports of a possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic triggered by Omicron, a new variant of the virus which has been first reported in South Africa, state government officials said on Sunday.Following a direction from the Central government, Telangana state health minister T Harish Rao held a high-level meeting to review the preparedness for the situation arising out of the new variant.Director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said there was no need for people to panic over the new variant of Sars-Cov-2, as the government machinery was fully prepared to handle the surge in Covid-19 infections.“All that the people should do is to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing of masks, maintaining of physical distancing and regular sanitisation. They should not let their guard down under any circumstances,” Rao said.The director said a high alert had been sounded at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, though there were no direct flights from South Africa to Hyderabad. The number of positive cases for Covid-19 was stable in the state and there was no sudden increase in infections, he said.“We have enough manpower at the airport and international passengers are being screened. We are also conducting RT-PCR tests at the airport and arrangements are also being made to keep passengers who test Covid-19 positive under 14-day quarantine. So far not a single Omicron case has been reported in India,” Rao said.He further said the state government had taken a series of measures to improve infrastructure like adding more hospital beds, developing medical oxygen lines to hospital beds and creating infrastructure for paediatric Covid-19 cases, across all government hospitals, so as to prepare for any possible third wave.On an average, Telangana has been witnessing 100-150 cases per day for the last few weeks. While 90 per cent of eligible individuals have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, 45 per cent have received the second dose.“Still, there are nearly 25 lakh people in Telangana who have missed-out on the second dose of the vaccine. They all should get their second dose of vaccine at the earliest,” the director of public health said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-on-high-alert-over-omicron-but-says-infra-in-place-to-tackle-possible-surge-101638122903457.html
28-11-2021||India||CPI (M) leader booked for party worker’s rape in Kerala||Kerala police on Sunday booked 12 people, including a ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) branch secretary and youth wing leader, for allegedly raping a woman party worker and circulating her visuals on social media.Party Kottali (Pathanamthitta) branch secretary P S Sajimon has been identified as the main accused in the case, and police have booked him under Section 375 (rape) and others under Section 509 (insulting modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of the IT Act. Youth wing leader P Nassar has also been booked for similar charges while ten others, including two municipal councillors from Thiruvalla and a lawyer, have been charged for circulating the visuals on social media, a police official said.“We have recorded the statement of the victim, and search is on for the accused,” a senior police officer of the Pathanamthitta district said.In her complaint, the woman alleged that she was given juice laced with sedatives when she was travelling with Sajimon and Nassar in a car for a party event. She was then assaulted, the police said.She also complained that they both tried to blackmail her and sought ₹2 lakh from her for not releasing the video clips.A section of the party leaders said the complainant was expelled from the party last week over indiscipline in connection with the ongoing organisational elections. They suspect her latest move was part of it. Party district leaders are yet to react to the latest incident.However, an official of the party said there were serious allegations of sexual assault against the main accused Sajimon, which were hushed up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-leader-booked-for-party-worker-s-rape-in-kerala-101638122783120.html
28-11-2021||India||Tripura results shows people's trust in BJP's developmental politics: Shah||The BJP on Sunday asserted that its massive win in the Tripura local body polls shows people's trust in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's policies and welfare programmes and is also a reflection of their trust in the "double engine" government's commitment to the state's development.The BJP uses the expression "double engine government" to denote it being in power at the Centre and in a state and claims that this helps in the state's progress.Home Minister and senior party leader Amit Shah said, "Gratitude to our sisters & brother of Tripura for choosing BJP in the local body elections. The results are a clear testimony of people's unwavering trust in BJP's politics of development. This will further strengthen our resolve to serve the great land of Maa Tripura Sundari."Party president J P Nadda said its win in the polls is a victory of nationalist and pro-development forces and lauded Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb and the state party leadership for the "historic" and massive win.People have rejected fissiparous forces and those inclined to violence and controversy besides insulting Tripura, he claimed.Congratulating Deb and state leaders, hardworking workers on the huge victory, Shah said the BJP under the guidance of Modi will continue to work towards the welfare of the state.The ruling BJP on Sunday swept the civic body elections in Tripura, having won all the seats of the 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and clinching several other urban local bodies.The opposition TMC and CPI(M) failed to open their account in the AMC.The saffron party secured all the wards in the 15-member Khowai Municipal Council, 17-seat Belonia Municipal Council, 15-member Kumarghat Municipal Council and nine-member Sabroom Nagar Panchayat, state election commission officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-results-shows-people-s-trust-in-bjp-s-developmental-politics-shah-101638121561894.html
28-11-2021||India||After Lithuanian woman, 2 more Europeans test Covid-19 positive in Vrindavan||Three Europeans have tested positive for Covid-19 in the pilgrim town of Vrindavan since Friday, a health official said on Sunday.A woman from Lithuania was the first to be found infected with Covid-19. Two nationals from Spain and Switzerland have also tested positive on Sunday.All three had arrived in India on or near about November 15 and were at the same Vrindavan Ashram, which has now been declared a containment zone. Their samples are being sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing, the official said, adding that samples of 44 others who were in contact with them at the Ashram are being tested.“Earlier, a woman from the Republic of Lithuania, aged about 30 years, had tested positive for Covid-19. She arrived in India on November 15 and was staying at Girdhar Dham, Sheetal Chayya Mandir in Vrindavan. She tested positive on Friday. Samples of those coming in her contact, mainly foreigners, at the ashram were subjected to testing,” said Dr Bhoodev, the deputy chief medical officer (deputy CMO) at Mathura. Vrindavan is in Mathura district of western Uttar Pradesh.“A woman from Spain, aged 47 years, and a man from Switzerland, aged 44 years, also tested positive at the same ashram. They were also in India since the last fortnight,” the deputy CMO said.“On Sunday, it was revealed that the man from Switzerland, who tested positive for Covid-19, has already moved away from the ashram and is being traced,” he stated. Vrindavan, about 150 kilometres from Delhi, is among the favourite destinations of Krishna devotees from abroad as it is dotted with a series of Krishna temples and ashrams. The health department has made arrangements for sample testing of these devotees arriving from overseas.On November 20, a footwear manufacturer from Agra tested positive after returning from Poland. But 50 others at his shoe factory tested negative. The samples of the footwear manufacturer have been sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing and the reports are awaited, said Agra chief medical officer Dr AK Srivastava.The first Covid-19 positive case in Uttar Pradesh had been reported from Agra on March 2, 2020. That patient had returned from Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lithuanian-woman-2-more-europeans-test-covid-19-positive-in-vrindavan-101638121581835.html
28-11-2021||India||Omicron: 5 measures by India to contain spread of new variant detected in Africa||The Omicron variant of coronavirus has raised concerns worldwide due to its worryingly high number of mutations which might help it spread quickly than any other variant and even evade antibodies from prior infection or vaccination. While India has not outrightly imposed travel bans on the south African countries in the wake of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, it has announced a slew of measures to contain its spread.After the World Health Organization (WHO) designated the new virus variant first detected in South Africa, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting and asked officials to review the plans to ease international travels. Following the high-level review by PM Modi on Omicron, an urgent meeting was chaired by the home secretary on Sunday in which various precautionary measures were discussed. The focus of the measures was international arrivals.Here are the five measures announced by government in view of Omicron:The countries in the 'at-risk' category are: South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel, and European nations including Britain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-5-measures-by-india-to-contain-spread-of-new-variant-detected-in-africa-101638120564752.html
28-11-2021||India||'When BJP-supported people insulted freedom movement': Congress slams PM Modi in veiled dig at Kangana||Taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mann ki Baat on Sunday where he talked about India's freedom struggle, the Congress on Sunday said the Prime Minister was silent when people whom BJP patronises insulted the freedom movement of India. "Now through his empty talks on the freedom fight on Mann ki Baat, he won't be able to gain people's trust," the Congress tweeted from its official handle on Sunday, in a veiled dig at Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for her controversial comments on the freedom struggle. जब भाजपा के सहारा पाने वाले लोग आजादी के आंदोलन को अपमानित कर रहे थे, तब प्रधानमंत्री मौन थे।अब मन की बात में खोखली बातें करके वो जनता का विश्वास हासिल नहीं कर सकते। pic.twitter.com/lOwdtQtnOKTalking about Jhansi and Bundelkhand, PM Modi on his Mann ki Baat said the contribution of Jhansi and Bundelkhand in India's freedom struggle is known to everyone. This region has given the country Ranu Laxmibai, Jhalkari Bai and also Major Dhyan Chand.Without naming Kangana Ranaut, the Congress in its tweet slammed the actor and her comments that India got true freedom in 2014, which triggered outrage against the actor and several complaints have been filed against her. "If we get freedom as a 'bheek', is it even freedom? What the British left behind in the name of Congress... They were the extension of the British...,” she said.Defending her comment, she later questioned which war was fought in 1947 that led to freedom. "...1857 I know but which war took place in 1947 I am not aware, if someone can bring to my awareness I will give back my Padma Shri and apologise also… please help me with this," the actor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-bjp-supported-people-insulted-freedom-movement-congress-slams-pm-modi-in-a-veiled-dig-at-kangana-101638120223160.html
28-11-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates newly appointed Czech Republic PM Petr Fiala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to newly appointed Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala. He further said he looked forward to working with Fiala to further enhance ties between the two countries.Czech President Milos Zeman on Sunday swore in Fiala as the country's new Prime Minister following last month's parliamentary election. The swearing-in ceremony was performed by Zeman from a plexiglass cubicle after testing positive for Covid-19.Congratulations, Excellency Petr Fiala, on your appointment as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I look forward to working with you for further enhancing India-Czech ties.@P_Fiala"Congratulations, Excellency Petr Fiala, on your appointment as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I look forward to working with you for further enhancing India-Czech ties," Modi wrote in a tweet.Fiala is leading a bloc of five centre and centre-right opposition parties that won an election in October, ousting the incumbent premier Andrej Babis and his allies.The 57-year-old Fiala, who has led the conservative Civic Democratic Party since 2014, served as that country's education minister between 2012-13.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-newly-appointed-czech-republic-pm-petr-fiala-101638120008141.html
28-11-2021||India||2 cops scheduled to be on duty during Prez visit test positive for Covid: Report||At least seven government officials, including two Uttarakhand Police personnel, were quarantined on Sunday after they were found to be Covid-19 positive, news agency ANI reported. The Uttarakhand government said that all of them have been quarantined.President Ram Nath Kovind, who is currently in Uttarakhand, earlier attended the first convocation ceremony of the Patanjali University.A LiveHindustan report, however, said that 19 policemen who were on special duty tested positive for Covid-19. These officials were removed before the arrival of President Kovind. The report also highlighted that earlier 400 policemen of Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri were tested before they embarked on their duties as the President visited Parmarth Niketan. The district officials said that the people who came in close contact with the policemen will be quarantined.Uttarakhand governor Gurmeet Singh, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Garhwal MP and former chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat also accompanied President Kovind and the First Lady as they attended the Ganga Aarti late Sunday morning.President Kovind in his address to graduating students highlighted the importance of Yoga. “People can be seen doing Anulom-Vilom pranayama in the waiting rooms of railway stations and airport lounges today. Yoga belongs to all and is meant for all. It is a system to keep our mind and body healthy,” the President was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The government stepped up measures in a bid to curb cases as Omicron poses a fresh threat. The health ministry announced a slew of restrictions earlier on Sunday to curb the threat emanating from the new variant which already has led to nations imposing travel bans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cops-scheduled-to-be-on-duty-during-prez-visit-test-positive-for-covid-report-101638119359839.html
28-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 29, 1951 — British troops to be withdrawn from Canal towns of Ismailia, Port Said and Suez||Ismailia All British troops will be withdrawn from the three main Canal zone towns of Ismailia, Port Said and Suez under an agreement reached with the Egyptian authorities today. The Egyptian Government announced in Cairo it had decided to take over the “liberation battalions” waging guerilla warfare against British troops holding the Suez Canal because “dangerous” elements had infiltrated into them. The announcement said these elements were considered “dangerous for internal security.” The British Ambassador, Sir Ralph Stevenson, left Cairo today for the Canal zone on what the Embassy called “a periodical visit to maintain contact with British Service chiefs there.” About 2.500 British Air Force reinforcements have now been sent to the Suez Canal zone, the Air Ministry said in London last night. Half of them are constructional workers and the others are tradesmen to replace Egyptian technicians and labourers who have walked out. Evacuation of R.A.F. families is proceeding rapidly and only 200 of the 900 families to be pulled out remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-29-1951-british-troops-to-be-withdrawn-from-canal-towns-of-ismailia-port-said-and-suez-101638118822381.html
28-11-2021||India||BJP records landslide victory in Tripura civic polls, TMC comes in second||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered a landslide victory in the Tripura civic polls that were held in 14 urban bodies, including the Agartala Municipal Corporation, results of which were declared on Sunday. The BJP won all the 51 seats in AMC besides sweeping 11 other urban bodies, according to the State Election Commission. The civic polls were conducted on 222 seats out of a total of 334 seats on November 25 and recorded a turnout of 81.54%. Out of a total 222, BJP won 217 seats. They won the remaining 112 seats uncontested prior to the polls. Trinamool Congress came in second, winning a single seat at Ambassa Nagar Panchayat and another seat in the panchayat was bagged by royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s party TIPRA Motha. The CPM got three seats in three urban bodies including Ambassa and Kailasahar Municipal Councils and Panisagar Nagar Panchayat. “This victory is historic. People of Tripura people from both the majority and minority communities have voted in favour of development under our Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The people have given the correct answer by casting their votes and also replied to those who hatched conspiracies to insult and demean our state,” Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said after the results were declared.Trinamool Congress leader Rajib Bhattacharjee said, “BJP would not have won if fair polls had been conducted. However, the Trinamool Congress has emerged as the opposition party bagging the second highest number of votes despite large scale booth-rigging, false voting and violence unleashed on our supporters.” The CPM earlier, sought fresh polls in five municipal bodies and boycotted the counting in these areas on Sunday. The Teliamura Municipal Council was put under Section 144 from Sunday afternoon after at least 12 people including three police personnel and Trinamool Congress men were attacked by some unidentified miscreants.“Some unidentified miscreants attacked our vehicle while we were escorting polling agents and candidates to their homes. Three people among them sustained minor injuries,” a police official said.He further added that the police resorted to mild baton charge to disperse the mob, in which nine people including three police personnel and six miscreants were injured. Later, the local administration imposed Section 144 in the area till further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-records-landslide-victory-in-tripura-civic-polls-tmc-comes-in-second-101638116121623.html
28-11-2021||India||Launched with much fanfare, PMC’s 24x7 water project runs into work-flow trouble||Launched with much fanfare, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now struggling to execute one of its ambitious project - 24x7 water scheme – with work moving ahead with snail’s speed amid litigations and delay by contractor. To give equal water supply to the city and stop water leakages, PMC had decided to execute this project in 2018 with proposal including to shift the old water pipelines on almost 1,600km length and building more than 100 new water tanks to ensure equitable water supply to every household. However, the consultant of the project has already left the job and refused to work with Pune Municipal Corporation while the two contractors are appointed to do this work. The consultant, who was appointed against the consultation fee of ₹18 crore, pulled out in September citing delay in work. The consultant had the option of leaving the project due to force majeure as per a clause in the contract.Later two firms already roped in for executing the project Larsen & Toubro and another being Jain Irrigation were recently asked by civic body to carry forward the work. Earlier, the PMC had stopped the work of Jain Irrigation but as the company challenged this decision with arbitrator, who ruled in favour of private firm, the PMC reappointed the firm to carry out remaining work. ‘It is true that the work was undergoing at got slow pace few days ago mainly due to Covid-19 pandemic as there was a shortage of labours and material. Now the work is in progress and the construction for almost 70 to 80 water tanks has been completed. Even the 500km new water pipeline has also got laid with overall project is 40 per cent complete,” said Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol.The project’s original deadline is March 2023. With only 16 months remaining for the completion date, the project’s pace must be increased, observed opposition leaders. The project includes constructing 103 water tanks in various parts of the city. The PMC was raising funds through municipal bonds to implement the project that includes supply, installation, commissioning and operation of the 24x7 water supply system mainly to reduce water loss and ensure equitable water supply to the cityMohol said, “We had earlier stopped the contractor to do work due to delay. But as he challenged the decision, which came in his favor, PMC appointed him again. For such mega projects, many hurdles came when actual work starts and we are overcoming on it, step by step.” According to PMC executive engineer Nandkishor Jagtap who is in charge for this project, even as consultant has left the job but, it would not affect the work. “We have all the drawings with us. Now the progress of work is good.” Opposition parties Congress and Nationalist Congress Party have raised objections on this project and the delay that is being caused. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Many water tanks have still not been linked with water connections. Even after laying water pipeline, the roads were not reinstated properly.”Recently standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne had organized the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar’s visit at Laxmi Road and other peth areas and pointed out errors in the works. Congress leader Aba Bagul blamed that on pilot basis the water meters are installed but they are not working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/launched-with-much-fanfare-pmc-s-24x7-water-project-runs-into-work-flow-trouble-101638115701291.html
28-11-2021||India||Chennai: Schools and colleges to remain shut tomorrow as rain inundates city||As Chennai and its suburbs continued to grapple with inundation due to incessant downpour, schools and colleges will remain shut on Monday in the Tamil Nadu capital and 10 other districts.With surplus water being released from reservoirs, a number of submerged roads and subways remained closed for traffic on Sunday. Traffic diversions were enforced at several places and barricades put up to caution road users.There were also disruptions in the state-run local bus services, but suburban railway services were unhindered. Vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were found stranded on a number of inundated stretches with reservoirs, including Poondi and Chembarambakkam that cater to the drinking water needs of Chennai, releasing over 10,500 cusecs of surplus water amid continuous rains in catchment areas.Tamil Nadu: Continuing rainfall inundates roads in several areas of capital ChennaiHoliday has been announced in schools and colleges in Chennai and 10 other districts for tomorrow pic.twitter.com/fHKMzhltS5The authorities said the release of surplus water from Poondi dam in Tiruvallur district was stepped up (from an initial 4,253 cusecs to about 8,000 cusecs) in a phased manner upto about 12,000 cusecs by evening.As many as 54 inflatable boats were deployed in Chennai for rescue and relief work, besides excavators and heavy duty pumps being put to service. Police personnel helped shift affected residents from the flooded Perumbakkam-Ezhil Nagar suburb to a relief centre.Officials said flood water was drained from a large number of localities and fallen trees were also removed.Meanwhile, rain water entered several houses in low-lying areas off Urapakkam and Guduvancherry and electricity connection was switched off in such places.The flood waters have brought insects and tadpoles into homes and vacant plots serve as breeding grounds, some residents said.On Sunday, Chennai and suburbs that fall under Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts received heavy rains and over 2,000 people living in low-lying and flooded areas had yo be evacuated to temporary relief centres.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-schools-and-colleges-to-remain-shut-tomorrow-as-rains-inundate-city-101638115125497.html
28-11-2021||India||Cong leader Manish Tewari criticises fellow partyman Chowdhury on Twitter||Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Sunday shared screenshots of his Twitter timeline clarifying that he had criticised the government over the China issue.The clarification came after Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury's jibe that Tewari should focus on China and its recent activities on the border instead of the Mumbai 26/11 attacks."Dear Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury dada, the screenshots of the tweets addressed to Defense Minister Rajnath Singh below hope address your concern and criticism also. The continued incursions by China and the response of NDA/ BJP Government to them do form a substantial part of my book," Tewari tweeted.Chowdhury had earlier slammed Tewari for criticising the then United Progressive Alliance government for its response to the 26/11 Mumbai terror strike in his upcoming book '10 Flash Points; 20 Years - National Security Situations that Impacted India'.Chowdhury said, "instead of the 26/11 attacks, Tewari should focus on China and its recent activities along the country's border.""He (Manish Tewari) should be focusing more on China that has captured many of our areas in Ladakh and built villages in Arunachal Pradesh," Chowdhury said to ANI.An expert from Tewari's upcoming book reads: "For a state that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength; it is perceived as a symbol of weakness. There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done," an excerpt from the book read."It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India's 9/11," it added.Citing Tewari's book, BJP had earlier launched an attack on Congress and stated that the excerpts from the publication show that the then UPA government was insensitive, useless and was even not concerned about national security.Mumbai had come to a standstill on November 26, 2008, when 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists who entered the city via sea route from Pakistan carried out a series of coordinated shootings and bombings that injured over 300 and claimed the lives of 166 people in India's financial capital.The attacks took place at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) railway station, Cama Hospital, Nariman House business and residential complex, Leopold Cafe, Taj Hotel and Tower and the Oberoi-Trident Hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leader-manish-tewari-criticises-fellow-partyman-chowdhury-on-twitter-101638112496212.html
28-11-2021||India||'Petty and shameful': Shashi Tharoor reacts to cancellation of Munawar Faruqui show in Bengaluru||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday slammed the cancellation of comedian Munawar Faruqui's show in Bengaluru which led the comedian to issue a statement on social media that he's done with all this and wants to bid adieu to his art, as the artist has lost to hatred. "This is deplorable. Stifling freedom of expression takes many forms but threatening a stand-up comedian's venue is petty and shameful," the Congress leader tweeted.After his shows were cancelled in Mumbai and Goa following the resistance of right-wing outfits, the comedian on Sunday said the Bengaluru show which was organised as a contribution to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's charitable organisation sold 600 tickets. The show also had a censor certificate, proving that there was nothing problematic in the stand-up act that the comedian was going to perform on Sunday. This is deplorable. Stifling freedom of expression takes many forms but threatening a stand-up comedian's venue is petty and shameful. https://t.co/6JXW2x58ACFollowing the complaints by Sriram Sena and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, the inspector of the Ashokanagar police station in the city under whose jurisdiction the Good Shepherd Auditorium falls wrote a letter to the organisers on Saturday to call off the event as the comedian is a controversial figure. "It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure..... Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh," the inspector said in his letter.On January 1, Faruqui was arrested by the Indore Police in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and was in jail for almost a month. He, however, said he was arrested before he started that show and old videos were used against him as evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petty-and-shameful-shashi-tharoor-reacts-to-cancellation-of-munawar-faruqui-show-in-bengaluru-101638112008418.html
28-11-2021||India||PM Modi says this 'delicious' fruit from Arunachal Pradesh is a ‘must have’ in homes||A day after Union minister Kiren Rijiju launched certified organic kiwis from Arunachal Pradesh in the national capital, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the fruit is a “must have” in homes. On Saturday, Rijiju posted on Twitter that people will forever keep demanding fresh kiwis from Arunachal Pradesh once they taste it, adding that the organically produced fruits will create huge commercial opportunities for progressive farmers.Responding to the tweet, PM Modi said, “A must have in your homes! Arunachal Pradesh Kiwis are delicious.”A must have in your homes! Arunachal Pradesh Kiwis are delicious. https://t.co/1HZCvwGCh3Last year, Arunachal Pradesh became the first state to obtain organic certification for Kiwi under Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North East Region. The fruit that once grew wild in the region has become the only certified organic fruit of their kind in the country after Arunachal Pradesh farmers, over the years, slowly recognised its commercial value.Rijiju said that the kiwis of Arunachal Pradesh are of the finest qualities in the world and is available for supply to multinational companies, retailers and individuals.“A great moment for me as certified organic Kiwi fruit from Arunachal Pradesh is launched at New Delhi. The High quality fresh kiwi fruits of Arunachal Pradesh are made available for supply to MNC, retailers and individuals,” he tweeted.The central government in collaboration with horticulture institutes has been working on value chain creation for kiwis due to its tremendous commercial potential. The commercial cultivation of kiwis has been extended from the Sub - Himalayan Regions of India to the mid-hills of Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Nilgiri Hills, according to the ministry of agriculture & farmers welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-this-delicious-fruit-from-arunachal-pradesh-is-a-must-have-in-homes-101638111642615.html
28-11-2021||India||Sec 144 imposed in Mathura after Mahasabha threat to install idol in mosque||The Mathura district administration has imposed prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 following an announcement by the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha that it will install a Lord Krishna idol at the deity's "actual birthplace", which it claims is in a mosque close to a prominent temple here."Nobody will be allowed to disturb the peace and tranquillity in Mathura," District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said.The clampdown comes even as another right wing organisation, the Narayani Sena, has said it will take out a march from Vishram Ghat to Sri Krishna Janmasthan, demanding the "removal" of the mosque.Section 144 of the CrPC prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area.Police said they have detained Narayani Sena secretary Amit Mishra in Mathura Kotwali, while the outfit claimed its national president Manish Yadav has been detained in Lucknow.Chahal said he, along with Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover, reviewed the security around both the religious places, the Katra Keshav Dev temple and the Shahi Idgah.He said the Mahasabha had requested permission to install the idol at the mosque but it was turned down.Question of granting permission to any event that may potentially disrupt peace does not arise, Chahal added.Hindu Mahasabha leader Rajyashri Choudhary had earlier said her organisation will install the idol of Lord Krishna in the Shahi Idgah after a "maha jalabhishek" to "purify" the place on December 6.The date marks the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, the site of a temple-mosque dispute, in 1992.The Mahasabha's threat to perform the ritual inside the Shahi Idgah comes at a time when the local courts are hearing a series of petitions seeking the "removal" of the 17th century mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sec-144-imposed-in-mathura-after-mahasabha-threat-to-install-idol-in-mosque-101638111058029.html
28-11-2021||India||Youth of Kashmir ready to take up arms out of anger, says Omar Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Sunday said militancy was growing again in the valley from where it had been wiped out during his rule. The National Conference vice president said that while his government was thinking about doing away with the AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) that grants special powers to the military, now the situation was such that nobody felt safe even in Srinagar, let alone remote areas.And, he said, these militants were not from outside, but they were the youth of Kashmir ready to take up arms out of anger and other reasons.Addressing a gathering in Doda, Abdullah said the Central government has said militancy would be wiped out with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to the erstwhile state, but one of slain militants killed recently in Srinagar had taken up arms in 2019. “Then how come there are militants even now?” he said.#WATCH | Militancy is growing again in the areas from where it was wiped out during our rule. These militants have not come from outside, but they're the youths of Kashmir who are ready to take up arms due to anger & other reasons: National Conference leader Omar Abdullah in Doda pic.twitter.com/0GkNUcoOs8The former chief minister is on an eight-day tour of Chenab Valley region comprising Ramban, Doda and Kishtwar districts of Jammu and Kashmir.Abdullah further said that it was told that after the repeal of Article 370, big industrialists would bring investment in Jammu & Kashmir and that a lot of employment opportunities will be created. “Nothing happened. Locals are not getting employment in even ongoing projects,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Saturday, the NC leader pledged to fight till his last breath for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and statehood as he visited the family of a youth from Ramban district who was among the four persons killed in a controversial encounter in Srinagar on November 15.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-of-kashmir-taking-up-arms-out-of-anger-says-omar-abdullah-101638110950869.html
28-11-2021||India||NHAI proposes Gorakhpur-Siliguri expressway, awaits Bihar’s nod||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has proposed the alignment of another expressway that would run from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh to Siliguri, West Bengal via Bihar. The authority would prepare the detailed project report once the greenfield alignment is approved by the Bihar government, said a senior officer familiar with the proposal. Chief general manager, NHAI, Patna regional office, Sadre Alam said that they had submitted the portion of alignment of Gorakhpur-Siliguri expressway, passing through various districts of Bihar, to the road construction department (RCD) for discussion and approval early this month. “A formal discussion with senior RCD officials is, however, awaited,” said Alam. RCD minister Nitin Nabin said the proposal to build a new 650km expressway from Gorakhpur to Siliguri was in the initial stage of implementation. “It is great to know that the Union ministry of road transport and highways has been keen to boost road infrastructure in the state. If the proposal gets the Centre’s approval, the people of Bihar would benefit from it. It would ease the vehicular traffic from east to west part of the state,” said Nabin. A senior officer of NHAI said that around 450km stretch of the proposed expressway of four/six-lane configuration would pass through Bihar. It will be part of the Bharatmala project. “As proposed, the road will enter Bihar from Gopalganj and exist from Kishanganj, crisscrossing Siwan, Chapra, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Supaul, Saharsa and Purnia. The NHAI has gone ahead with the proposal after the MoRTH gave its nod to the project,” said the officer, adding that estimated spending on this project could be around ₹6000 crore. Once executed, this would be the fourth expressway that would benefit the people of Bihar. Earlier, the RCD started land acquisition for the Amas-Darghanga expressway, while the proposal for two expressways—from Buxar to Bhagalpur, and from Raxaul to Kolkata via Patna - are under different stages of clearance with the Central government. RCD officials said that the Gorakhpur-Siliguri expressway proposal might be discussed during the meeting of state RCD minister Nabid with Central minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi on December 6. They said that the state government has also listed the issues affecting the construction of Munger-Mirjachauki via Bhagalpur highways and strengthening of Ram-Janki Path (from Sitamarhi to Janakpur in Nepal), which is part of the Ramayana Circuit in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-proposes-gorakhpur-siliguri-expressway-awaits-bihar-s-nod-101638110781940.html
28-11-2021||India||Kerala CPI(M) leaders charged with alleged sexual abuse of party worker||The Kerala police on Sunday booked 12 people, including a ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) branch secretary and youth wing leader, for allegedly sexually abusing a woman party worker and circulating visuals in social media, police officials said.“We have recorded the statement of the complainant and search is one for the accused,” a senior police officer of the Pathanamthitta district said. Party Kottali (Pathanamthitta) branch secretary PS Sajimon and youth wing leader P Nassar have been charged with sexual assault while ten others were booked for circulating these visuals, police said. In her complaint, the woman, also a party leader, alleged that while she was travelling with them in a car for a function she was given juice laced with some sedatives and was assaulted when she fell unconscious. She also complained that both tried to blackmail her and sought ₹two lakh for not releasing the video clips. Among ten others booked, two are municipal councillors of Thiruvalla and a lawyer, police said adding that a case was registered after preliminary inquiry. Police said all accused are absconding.Meanwhile, a section of the party leaders said the complainant was expelled from the party last week for indiscipline in connection with the ongoing organizational elections and they suspect her latest move was part of it. Party district leaders are yet to react to the latest incident. Party insiders said earlier also there were some serious sexual assault allegations against the main accused Sajimon but they were hushed up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cpi-m-leaders-charged-with-alleged-sexual-abuse-of-party-worker-101638109465818.html
28-11-2021||India||People of Tripura gave clear message: PM Modi on BJP's win in local body polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the people of Tripura gave a clear message through the civic poll verdict -- that they preferred politics of good governance over anything else.Lauding the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) massive win in the local body polls Modi said these blessings gave him and the party greater strength to work for the welfare of each and every person in the hill state. “I would like to thank the people for their unequivocal support to the Tripura BJP,” he said.The ruling BJP won all the seats of the 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), besides being declared winners in several other urban local bodies. The opposition Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) failed to open their account in the AMC.BJP national president JP Nadda his party's massive win in Tripura revealed people's trust in the PM's policies and welfare programmes and is also a reflection of their trust in the "double engine" government's commitment to the state's development.In a series of tweets, Nadda said the BJP's win in the polls is a victory of nationalist and pro-development forces and lauded chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and the state party leadership for the "historic" and massive win.People have rejected fissiparous forces and those inclined to violence and controversy besides insulting Tripura, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-tripura-gave-clear-message-modi-on-bjp-s-win-in-local-body-polls-101638107430369.html
28-11-2021||India||Reviewing decision to resume international flights, SOPs on testing: Centre||The Centre on Sunday said it will review its decision to resume scheduled commercial international flights as well as the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on testing and surveillance of incoming international passengers, especially for those countries identified as ‘at risk’ category. The decisions were taken following a high-level review meeting chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla over the new Covid-19 variant of concern ‘Omicron’. On November 26, after a gap of 20 months, the ministry of civil aviation issued an order saying that it will allow scheduled international flights from December 15 to and from all countries considered “not at risk” with effect from December 15, 2021. The ministry said that passengers from countries in “at risk” category would require to follow additional measures following their arrival in India, including testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Currently, Indians are flying to and from India under air bubble arrangements that allow passengers of two countries to fly with some restrictions. The countries kept in ‘at risk’ category are – the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. People familiar with the development said on Sunday the rising concern over the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, has prompted the government to review the decision. Cases of the new variant have now been reported from Botswana, Hong Kong, South Africa, the UK, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands etc. The new variant is believed to be more transmissible and immune-evasive. It was on Friday designated as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organization. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the overall global situation in the wake of the Omicron variant was comprehensively reviewed and various preventative measures were discussed during Sunday’s meeting, according to a spokesperson. The ministry added that genomic surveillance for variants will be further strengthened and intensified, and health officials at airports and ports will be sensitized for strict supervision of testing protocol at entry points. “Closer watch on the emerging pandemic situation within the country will be maintained,” it said. Among those who attended the meeting on Sunday were Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, Dr Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and senior officers from health, civil aviation and other ministries. The Union health ministry has also alerted states and union territories asking them to step up testing, vigilance, containment and vaccine coverage. India registered 8,774 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday and 621 related deaths in the last 24 hours, with active cases of Covid-19 at 105,691 remaining the lowest in 543 days, according to the ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reviewing-decision-to-resume-international-flights-sops-on-testing-centre-101638105680769.html
28-11-2021||India||R-Day not far, tractors & farmers present: Rakesh Tikait's warning on MSP law||Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday the government of India should mend its ways and bring a law guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, failing which he warned of a major stir on the next Republic Day.Stating that the farmers of the country have had to deal with a lot this year, Tikait said, “January 26 (Republic Day) is not far, and four lakh tractors and farmers all are present."#WATCH | In Mumbai, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait says, "Govt of India should mend its ways and bring a law on MSP. Otherwise, January 26 (Republic Day) is not far, and 4 lakh tractors & farmers all are there." pic.twitter.com/sBMoJ9N1rITikait made the statement ahead of a kisan mahapanchayat organised in Mumbai wherein farmer leaders called for the defeat of the BJP in all the upcoming assembly elections, while vowing to continue the fight for an MSP law. The farmer leaders also reiterated their other demands, including withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment bill and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The mega conclave of farmers was held under the banner of Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) at Azad Maidan in south Mumbai on the eve of the beginning of the Parliament session. At the gathering, Tikait said the central government was cheating the farmers and there was a need to remain alert. “The government is yet to come to talking terms. This regime is dishonest and deceitful. It wants to show the farming and labour communities in bad light,” the farmer leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.  He further said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a supporter of the MSP when he was the chief minister of Gujarat and wanted a nationwide law to ensure that farmers' interests were guaranteed.Accusing the Modi government of running away from a debate over the issue, he said, "The Centre should bring a law to guarantee MSP to farmers. There are several issues related to the agriculture and labour sectors that need attention and we will travel all over the country to highlight them," he said.Tikait also demanded that financial aid be given to the kin of farmers who died in the year-long protest against the Centre's three agri marketing laws.The mahapanchayat, held on the occasion of the death anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule, hailed the farmers' victory over the Centre withdrawing the three farm laws and vowed to fight for remaining demands, a press release said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-not-far-tractors-farmers-present-rakesh-tikait-s-warning-on-msp-law-101638104393113.html
28-11-2021||India||Fresh curbs on Karnataka schools as fears of third wave of Covid-19 loom large||The Karnataka government on Sunday issued fresh directives for educational institutions, imposing restrictions on social, cultural and academic events after a rise in Covid-19 cases in some such establishments across some parts of the southern state.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government said that in light of the recent clusters of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru, Bengaluru and Dharwad, certain restrictions are being imposed.“All social and cultural events in educational institutions may be postponed for two months. Conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions, wherever possible, may be postponed. Alternatively, it could be conducted in hybrid mode i.e. with minimal physical attendance and with more persons attending through virtual mode,” according to the advisory issued by TK Anil Kumar, the additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department on Sunday.The order came at a time when the Bommai government was relaxing restrictions in schools and other places to bring back some semblance of normalcy after almost 18 months of pandemic-induced lockdowns.The new restrictions apprehending the possibility of a third wave of infections have sparked fears among the population who are apprehensive of more lockdowns that would bring on the burden of financial hardships and endanger their livelihoods.The Bommai government had gone ahead and resumed physical classes for pre-primary students from November, despite opposition from various quarters including a significant section of parents and guardians who were apprehensive of the move since the children who are not eligible for vaccination are vulnerable and may contract the coronavirus that remains just as potent as it was at the beginning of last year.In the wake of the new Covid-19 variant ‘Omicron’ that has been detected in South Africa, the state government on Saturday made it mandatory for people arriving from affected countries to take the RT-PCR test upon landing in the city. Home quarantine has also been made mandatory for these passengers.“Earlier international passengers were tested but asked to go home and quarantine themselves. Now test them there itself (airport) and allow them to leave after they test negative,” Bommai said on Sunday.The Karnataka government on Saturday reintroduced restrictions and issued fresh directives including making it mandatory for people working in malls, cinemas and other public places to be allowed in only if they have been vaccinated with both shots of the Covid-19 vaccine.Bommai on Sunday said that these new strains were found in South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong but there were no cases detected so far in Karnataka.“We haven’t seen that strain in Karnataka but in places like Dharward, Mysuru and Bengaluru hostels we have seen spurts of cases spreading rapidly making them clusters. We have to take precautions,” Bommai said.He said that these hostels have been declared as containment zones with restrictions imposed and directions to increase testing on the premises.“Health care professionals may also conduct conferences, seminars, CME sessions, etc., virtually for a few more months to send a positive message to professionals in other fields, in the larger interest of public health,” Sunday’s advisory by the government read.The Karnataka government had also eased restrictions on several other fronts, allowing for the organising of fairs.The Bommai government continues the practice of imposing restrictions on the public even as electioneering for the December 10 MLC polls continues unchecked.Bommai said that for the MLC elections there are no big public meetings and that only about 50-100 people are present. However, he said that all people attending these meeting should follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Bommai said that measures were being taken to increase vaccination coverage. He said that there were around 80 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses available in the state and around 91% of the eligible population were administered at least one dose but conceded that this was reaching saturation levels. He said that around 58% of the population had received both doses and the government will aggressively pursue measures to increase coverage to at least 70% by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-curbs-on-karnataka-schools-as-fears-of-third-wave-of-covid-19-loom-large-101638101900277.html
28-11-2021||India||BJP sweeps Tripura civic polls, TMC & CPI-M fail to open account in most bodies||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday made a clean sweep in the civic body elections in Tripura winning all the seats in 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and was declared in several other urban local bodies.The opposition Trinamool Congress and Communist Party of India - Marxist (CPI-M) failed to open their account in the AMC, the Election Commission said.The saffron camp secured all the wards in the 15-member Khowai Municipal Council, 17-seat Belonia Municipal Council, 15-member Kumarghat Municipal Council and nine-member Sabroom Nagar Panchayat, commission officials said.The ruling BJP swept the civic body elections in Tripura, having won all the seats of the 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC). The opposition TMC and CPI(M) failed to open their account in the AMC: State Election CommissionThe party also swept the 25-ward Dharmanagar Municipal Council, 15-seat Teliamura Municipal Council and 13-member Amarpur Nagar Panchayat. In the Sonamura Nagar Panchayat and Melaghar Nagar Panchayat, the BJP won all the 13 seats.The BJP also bagged the 11-member Jirania Nagar Panchayat. The party secured 12 seats of Ambassa Municipal Council, while the TMC and the CPI-M won one seat each and another went to an independent candidate. The BJP also won 16 seats of Kailashahar Municipal Council where the CPI(M) got one. In Panisagar Nagar Panchayat, the BJP emerged victorious in 12 seats, while the CPI(M) bagged one.The saffron party had fielded candidates for all the 334 seats of Agartala Municipal Corporation, 13 municipal bodies and six Nagar Panchayats in the state where its nominees won in 112 places uncontested.Elections to 222 seats were held on November 25. The ruling BJP is locked in a battle with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, which is foraying into the northeast and elsewhere to establish itself as a national party, and with the CPI(M), which the saffron camp had dethroned from power in the state some years ago.The TMC, which alleged vote-rigging and intimidation in the elections, had demanded countermanding of the entire polls. The CPI(M) had sought fresh elections in five municipal bodies, including the AMC. Both parties had claimed that the authorities remained silent spectators as BJP supporters attacked political rivals and rigged the elections. The saffron camp, however, denied the charges.Reacting to the party’s performance, BJP vice president Dilip Ghosh said in Kolkata the results of Tripura civic polls have exposed the "hollowness" of TMC's claims of having made inroads into the northeastern state. He said people there have faith in the saffron party.Describing TMC workers campaigning in Tripura as "hired people", Ghosh told reporters his party shares a "strong bond" with the residents of that state. "The civic poll results are on expected lines. The TMC did not have any chance to open its account in Tripura, they only made noises. This verdict shows hired people from West Bengal cannot help a party create a base in a state, which has faith in the BJP," Ghosh added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sweeps-tripura-civic-polls-tmc-cpi-m-fail-to-open-account-in-most-bodies-101638099732559.html
28-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi's tweet leads to speculations on social media and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi tweets 'keep faith, hatred won't win'. Social media interpretsThough Rahul Gandhi did not specify any context for his tweet, social media users linked his statement with comedian Munawar Faruqui's hint that he will quit comedy. Read more here. ‘Up to them’: Congress on TMC not attending Opposition meeting on Nov 29The Congress on Sunday said that it was up to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) party if it reportedly decided not to attend the meeting of opposition floor leaders called by the grand old party's Mallikarjun Kharge. Read more here.Survey shows 30% women across 14 states, UTs justify men beating their wives Data from the NFHS-5 showed that more than 75% women respondents across three states justified men beating their wives in - Telangana (84%), Andhra Pradesh (84%) and Karnataka (77%). Read more here. Salman Khan asks fans to not bathe Antim posters in milk, says 'give it to poor kids'Salman Khan has shared a video of his fans bathing a huge poster of his film Antim: The Final Truth in milk. He has requested them to stop the practice. Read more here. IND vs NZ: Shreyas Iyer achieves big record, becomes first Indian debutant to reach impressive landmarkShreyas Iyer scripted history on Sunday afternoon in the ongoing Test between India and New Zealand in Kanpur. Read more here. Are electric vehicles reliable? Check what this study saysThe study points that electric cars are increasingly becoming complex and therefore vulnerable to reliability issues. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-s-tweet-leads-to-speculations-on-social-media-and-all-the-latest-news-101638098807974.html
28-11-2021||India||‘This is the end’: Munawar Faruqui cancels show after Bengaluru Police deny permission||A show by comedian Munawar Faruqui, scheduled to be held on Sunday in Bengaluru, was cancelled after alleged threats by right-wing groups in the city. The comedian took to Twitter and posted, “Aaj Bangalore show cancel ho gaya (Under the Threat of venue vandalism) We sold 600+ tickets”.Faruqui’s show was scheduled to be held on Sunday evening at Good Shepherd auditorium for the second time in two months. The comedian added that this was the 12th show of his that has been cancelled due to similar threats across the country.Faruqui said that his team had also reached out to late Kannada cinema actor Puneeth Rajkumar for the show the proceeds of which would be used for charity.“We agreed to not sell the show in the name of charity as suggested by the noble organisation,” Faruqui said.According to the venue operators, the police issued a letter on Saturday asking them not to go ahead with the show as the person (Faruqui) would speak “against communities” and would be vulnerable to vandalism by several groups.“It is learned that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure as he had made controversial statements. Many states have been banned his comedy shows,” according to a letter from the Ashok Nagar Police Station, dated November 27.The show “could create chaos and could disturb the public peace and harmony which may further lead to Law & order problems,” the letter stated. The police suggested that the operators of the Good Shepherd auditorium cancel the show.“When sentiments are hurt, it is natural that there are actions and reactions. Even the youth should keep in mind these sentiments and act accordingly. This is a societal question. Society needs morality. Can we live without morality? No, we cannot. Relationships and peace are maintained by this morality,” Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on October 13. His justification of moral policing sparked off protests across the state.Faruqui said that he was put in jail for a joke he never cracked and the show in Bengaluru had nothing “problematic” in it. “This is unfair,” he posted.“I think this is The End,” he said, hinting at quitting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-the-end-munawar-faruqui-cancels-show-after-bengaluru-police-deny-permission-101638099260719.html
28-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi tweets 'keep faith, hatred won't win'. Social media interprets||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday posted a cryptic tweet in which he said hatred will not win. "Have faith. Don't give up, don't stop," the Congress leader wrote with the hashtag 'we stand united'. Though the Congress leader did not specify any context for his tweet, social media users linked his statement with comedian Munawar Faruqui's hint that he will quit comedy after his Bengaluru show scheduled on Sunday was cancelled over law and order issue.  नफ़रत नहीं जीतेगी- विश्वास रखिएहार नहीं माननी, रुकना नहीं है।#StayUnitedIn a post summing up what he faced in the past few days, comedian Munawar Faruqui on Sunday wrote he's done and probably will bid adieu to his art form after his 12 shows got cancelled in the last two months. On January 1, Faruqui was arrested from a show in Indore on allegations of hurting Hindu sentiments. Faruqui claimed he was arrested before he began the show and the videos produced as evidence were from his earlier shows. After spending a month in jail, he was released on bail. Hatred won, artist lost, the comedian said as he signed off saying what he faced has been unfair. "Putting me in the jail for the joke I never did to cancelling my shows which has nothing problematic in it. This is unfair. This show has gained so much love from people in India irrespective of their religion. This is unfair. We do have censor certificate of the show and it's clearly nothing problematic in the show!" Munawar wrote.
28-11-2021||India||TN govt says IIT-M deviated from protocol, state song must be played during all events||The Tamil Nadu government has taken an exception to the state invocation song supposedly not played as per protocol during the convocation of the centrally-run IIT-Madras. Higher education minister K Ponmudi has written a letter to IIT-Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi on the issue.The state minister has asked him to ensure that the state’s invocation song (Tamil Thai Vazhthu) is played by the institute during all its functions. The minister in his letter dated November 24, said, “...it is disheartening to learn that in the recently concluded convocation the State Invocation Song “Tamil Thai Vazhthu” was not sung in the event, a deviation of the well-established protocol.”The song, written by scholar Manonmaniam Pillai and set to tune by musician MS Viswanathan, is played at the beginning of all government functions in the state and the national anthem is played at the end of the function. “I would like to point out that the invocation song is sung in all the state and Central government functions in Tamil Nadu including the functions where higher dignitaries, like (the) President of India and Prime the Minister participate,” Ponmudi said in his letter. “I, therefore, request you to ensure that the “Tamil Thai Vazhthu” invocation is sung in all the functions of the institution including convocation in future.”IIT-M held its 58th convocation virtually on November 20 in which Olympic badminton medallist PV Sindhu was the chief guest. 1,962 students graduated and as many as 2,425 degrees, including joint and dual degrees, were awarded to students on the occasion. It included the highest number of PhDs awarded in an academic year – 392.Ponmudi went on to point out that IIT-M was established in 1959 in 250 hectares of land provided by the then state government of Tamil Nadu. “From that time onwards, the Government of Tamil Nadu has been contributing through various means for the growth and development of the institution and the present government is also very keen on continuing the same support,” he said. He added that IIT-M has recently written a letter to the Principal Secretary to Government, Higher Education Department seeking ₹10 crores support from the state government to establish a National Facility for Cryo-Electron Microscopy which is currently under examination.In 2018, a controversy broke out after a video showed the junior Sankaracharya of Kanchi Mutt, Vijayendra Saraswati, sitting through the state’s song at an event in Chennai which was criticised by present chief minister M K Stalin who was then the opposition leader of the DMK. HT has reached out to IIT-M for a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-says-iit-m-deviated-from-protocol-state-song-must-be-played-during-all-events-101638096681515.html
28-11-2021||India||Survey shows 30% women across 14 states, UTs justify men beating their wives||The latest findings of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) revealed that at least 30% of women respondents across 14 states and Union Territories justified women getting beaten by their husbands under certain circumstances.Data from the NFHS-5 showed that more than 75% women respondents across three states justified men beating their wives in - Telangana (84%), Andhra Pradesh (84%) and Karnataka (77%).Women respondents from states like Manipur (66%), Kerala (52%), Jammu and Kashmir (49%), Maharashtra (44%) and West Bengal (42%) justified men beating their wives. The NFHS in its survey questioned, “In your opinion, is a husband justified in hitting or beating his wife?”. More than 30% women from as many as 14 states and Union Territories said, “Yes’.The most common reasons put forth by these respondents were neglecting the house or children and being disrespectful towards in-laws among other reasons like suspicion of being unfaithful, being argumentative, refusal to have sex, going out without informing the husband, neglecting the household and not cooking good food.Women respondents in Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Gujarat, Nagaland, Goa, Bihar, Karnataka, Assam, Maharashtra, Telangana, Nagaland and West Bengal highlighted that ‘disrespect to in-laws’ is the primary justification towards men beating their husbands. Only 14.8% women respondents from Himachal Pradesh justified husbands beating their wives. The number of women respondents is high in Telangana where as much as 84% respondents felt such behaviour is fair.More than 81.09% male respondents from Karnataka justified beating their wives compared to 14.2% in Himachal Pradesh.Amita Pitre, lead specialist, Gender Justice: Oxfam India while speaking to news agency PTI said that the organisation while working with women found that harmful gender social norms help justify violence against women and girls. “All the reasons cited to justify violence on women are a product of these norms: if she neglects the house or children, if she refuses to have sex with the husband, if she doesn't cook food properly. All these define how women should behave in society,” Pitre was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Pitre highlighted that it is important that women move away from such men if gender-based violence against women has to stop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-shows-30-women-across-14-states-uts-justify-men-beating-their-wives-101638095695758.html
28-11-2021||India||18 dead in Bengal road accident; Mamata, Amit Shah tweet condolence messages||Eighteen people were killed and six injured when the goods carriage in which they were travelling collided head-on with a truck in the Hanskhali area of Bengal’s Nadia district around 2 am on Sunday, police said. The passengers of the good vehicle were residents of Bagdah in North 24 Parganas district. They were travelling to the crematorium at Nabadwip in Nadia with the body of a septuagenarian woman. “Since the accident took place in the dead of the night there were no eyewitnesses. The truck was coming from the opposite direction. The vehicles collided head-on. Eighteen people have so far died. They were carrying the body of an old woman for cremation. Police have started an investigation,” said Sayak Das, Superintendent of Kalyani Police. The truck was filled with stones. The accident took place in the Simultala area. The driver of the goods vehicle, who died, might have been tired and could not spot the truck due to fog, said a police officer who did not want to be named. “I spoke to the driver’s assistant. He said the driver might have fallen asleep,” said Bidhan Chandra Das, one of the passengers of the vehicle who had a miraculous escape. “Five of the deceased were members of the septuagenarian woman’s family. The rest were her relatives and neighbours,” he added. The injured were shifted to a local hospital. Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed their condolences to the bereaved families. “Heartbroken to hear about the road accident in Nadia. I offer my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. May God give them the strength to get past this difficult time. Government of West Bengal will extend all necessary assistance and support to the kin of the victims. We are beside you in this sad hour,” tweeted Banerjee. “The road accident which took place is extremely unfortunate. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident. May God give them the strength to overcome the loss. I wish for the speedy recovery of the injured people,” tweeted Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-dead-in-bengal-road-accident-mamata-amit-shah-tweet-condolence-messages-101638096499916.html
28-11-2021||India||Omicron forces India to review December 15 resumption of scheduled international flights||The Union home ministry on Sunday said that decision on the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passengers service will be reviewed as per evolving global scenario. The government will also review the standard operating procedure on testing and surveillance of the incoming international passengers, especially those travelling from countries listed in the ‘at risk’ category.The decision was taken after an urgent meeting chaired by the home secretary on Sunday.Earlier this week, the ministry of civil aviation issued an order allowing scheduled international flights to and from all countries considered “not at risk” with effect from December 15, 2021. The ministry said that passengers from countries in “at risk” category would require to follow additional measures following their arrival in India, including testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The rising concern over the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, however, has prompted the government to review the decision.The Union home ministry spokesperson said that the overall global situation in the wake of the Omicron variant was comprehensively reviewed and various preventative measures were discussed during the Sunday meeting. The ministry added that genomic surveillance for variants will be further strengthened and intensified, and health officials at airports and ports will be sensitised for strict supervision of testing protocol at entry points.“Closer watch on emerging pandemic situation within the country will be maintained,” it said.Dr V K Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, Dr Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and senior officers from health, civil aviation and other ministries were present in the meeting.The new variant of concern, first identified in South Africa, has now been detected in several countries, triggering concerns over the alarming transmission rate. Two cases of Omicron was detected in Australia on Sunday even as more countries are moving towards tightening travel restrictions to curb the virus transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-review-date-of-resumption-of-scheduled-international-flights-101638096190911.html
28-11-2021||India||Congress reacts to Trinamool not attending Opposition meeting on Nov 29, says ‘up to them’||The Congress on Sunday said that it was up to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) party if it reportedly decided not to attend the meeting of opposition floor leaders called by the grand old party's Mallikarjun Kharge on November 29 ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session.“We invite every party in the opposition for exchange of views before the start of Parliament session. But it is up to them (TMC) whether to attend or not,” news agency ANI quoted leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as saying. The comments from Chowdhury came even as the TMC attended the all party convened by the Union government earlier in the day.Ahead of the Winter Session of Parliament that is set to begin on Monday (November 29), Congress veteran and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge called for a meeting of the opposition parties to discuss the issues to be raised in Parliament during the upcoming session.Also read | Expected PM Modi to attend all-party meeting: Mallikarjun Kharge“All the opposition parties I think should come to the meeting on Monday to create consensus over the issues to be raised in the Parliament. The issues that are on priority shall be discussed in the meeting,” ANI quoted Kharge as saying on Sunday.However, the TMC has decided to skip the meet, amid the growing rift with Congress. “TMC will not attend the meeting of opposition floor leaders called by Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge tomorrow, but definitely will attend both the meetings one chaired by the Prime Minister and another by the Rajya Sabha Chairman,” ANI reported citing a TMC leader. The party also said that it would raise several issues in the house.When asked about the TMC’s decision to not attend the meeting Kharge said, “We will try to convince everyone to join the opposition meeting,” ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-reacts-to-trinamool-not-attending-opposition-meeting-on-nov-29-says-up-to-them-101638095587287.html
28-11-2021||India||Karnataka resident doctors call for indefinite strike from Nov 29 over 3-point demand||An association of resident doctors in Karnataka on Sunday called for a statewide indefinite strike from November 29 over its three-point demand. Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) said in a release that resident doctors will be withdrawing all the elective services including outpatient departments (OPDs) and elective operation theatres (OTs) in all the medical colleges affiliated with it.The association has reiterated its three-point demand, urging the government to consider restructuring the academic fees according to the 2018-19 academic year; payment of Covid-risk allowance; and timely payment of stipend to postgraduates and interns.In May, the Karnataka government announced a Covid allowance of ₹10,000 per month from April 2021 for all resident doctors. The association said that the funds have not been released by the government even after six months, terming it a "blatant disregard" towards the doctors serving on the frontlines.Highlighting an almost 400% hike in academic fees, the association stated that matter was made even worse by forcing them to pay up the entire sum upfront without any concession during “these troubling times”. It added that innumerable symbolic protests, letters to concerned authorities and a pan-state protest bore no fruitful result.“It is unfortunate to note that the assurance given by Minister of medical education has not been fulfilled. The intent to address the issue is clearly not visible as resident doctors were excluded from the package of Covid-risk allowance announced recently by Government of Karnataka," the statement read."We are left with no option but to display our dissent in this regard with a PAN-KARNATAKA indefinite strike from NOV 29th 2021, comprising of withdrawal of all the elective services including OPDs and Elective OTs (Excluding emergency services) in all the medical colleges affiliated with KARD,” it added.KARD is an association of house surgeons, postgraduates, and super speciality residents of government medical and dental colleges in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-resident-doctors-call-for-indefinite-strike-from-nov-29-over-3-point-demand-101638094924024.html
28-11-2021||India||Challenge accepted: Sisodia issues list of 250 Delhi schools to compare with those in Punjab||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday issued a list of 250 government schools for review of education reforms in the national capital and sought a list of 250 government schools of Punjab from the state’s education minister Pargat Singh. This comes a day after Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday accepted Singh’s challenge for a debate on the education system of the two states. Education minister Pargat Singh said he will also give a list of 250 government schools in Punjab in a day or two. “I have asked the school education department officials to prepare the list,” he said. Inviting Singh to Delhi, Sisodia said that they’d visit the schools in Delhi and discuss the education system and reforms in the presence of the media. Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio in Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government, also asked Singh to release a list of 250 government schools in Punjab which would allow the media and people of Punjab to judge the quality of education in both Delhi and Punjab.“I am issuing a list of 250 Delhi government schools where massive improvements have happened in the past 5 years. These schools are till class 12. Both results and infrastructure have improved here over the past five years,” said Sisodia, during a press briefing on Sunday. He said that the list of schools included schools from where over 50 students qualified for the NEET exam and schools where students had qualified for JEE mains and JEE advanced. “The list includes schools where 50 students from the same school have qualified for the NEET exam. There are schools where 5 kids from the same school have qualified JEE Mains and schools from where 70 students have qualified for JEE advanced. With humility and respect, I’d like the Punjab education minister to visit these schools so that we can discuss the reforms in schools,” said Sisodia. He sought that the Punjab education minister issues a similar list of 250 schools where the government had worked on improving infrastructure and education quality and from where students had qualified for NEET and JEE. “Punjab education minister had asked for a list of 250 schools from us. I am hoping that by today evening, he will issue a list of schools in Punjab so that both of us can visit schools in respective places and see the reforms at both places. People in Punjab can judge whether the Delhi model of education is better or the so-called model in Punjab,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenge-accepted-sisodia-issues-list-of-250-delhi-schools-to-compare-with-those-in-punjab-101638092480658.html
28-11-2021||India||'Hatred won, artist lost': What happened to comedian Munawar Faruqui||Comedian Munawar Faruqui on Sunday posted a statement on Instagram, styled like an open mic, which ended with the comedian signing off perhaps for the last time, as he wrote, 'This is the end. Good bye! I am done'. Hatred won and the artist lost, the comedian said recounting how his 12 shows have been cancelled in the last two months because of threats. The latest was the cancellation of his Bengaluru event which was scheduled on Sunday. Bengaluru Police confirmed that they have denied him permission as "Munawar Faruqui" is a controversial figure."It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure..... Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh," the inspector of the Ashokanagar Police station said in his letter.
28-11-2021||India||Ready for any discussion in Parliament permitted by Chairman, Speaker: Pralhad Joshi||Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Sunday the Narendra Modi-led government was ready for any discussion without any disruption permitted by the Chairman and Speaker of the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, respectively, during the winter session.Talking to reporters after a customary session-eve meeting, Joshi said 31 parties participated in the talks. “As many as 42 leaders from various parties participated in a constructive discussion. The govt is ready for any discussions permitted by the Chairman and the Speaker without disruptions,” Joshi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said several issues, including inflation, fuel price hike, farmers' concerns and Covid-19, were raised at the meeting.He further said that the parties had expected the Prime Minister to attend the meeting, but that did not happen. “For some reason, he didn't attend the meeting. The government has withdrawn the farm laws, but the PM had said he could not make the farmers understand. It means these laws may be brought back in some other form in future,” the senior Congress leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Besides Kharge, other prominent opposition leaders who were present at the customary session-eve meeting were Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Anand Sharma from the Congress, TR Baalu and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Sharad Pawar from the NCP, Vinayak Raut from the Shiv Sena, Ramgopal Yadav from the Samajwadi Party, Satish Mishra from the BSP, Prasanna Acharya from the BJD and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), however, walked out of the meeting, claiming it was not allowed to speak.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-discussion-in-parliament-permitted-by-chairman-speaker-pralhad-joshi-101638091423831.html
28-11-2021||India||Manish Sisodia warns Delhi residents on new covid variant, Omicron||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the government was concerned about the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, and had asked various departments to accelerate the enhancement of infrastructure in the capital. “In the context of the new covid variant, both worry and fear are important. The government is also concerned about the new variant. We have called for the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting. At the same time, the health department and other administrative departments are on high alert once again. We have alerted everyone and asked them to enhance the infrastructure with an accelerated speed now,” Sisodia said during a press briefing on Sunday. The new variant of SARS-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – has been named Omicron by World Health Organisation (WHO). The variant, B.1.1.529, was first reported from South Africa to the WHO, which has tagged it as a ‘variant of concern’.Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s high-level meeting held on Saturday to review the present Covid situation, the Union health ministry has alerted all states and Union territories to buckle up and enforce intensive containment, active surveillance and maximum vaccine coverage. Also Read: Gautam Gambhir receives another threat letter, third one in a weekRequesting people to avoid unnecessary interactions, Sisodia said one should assume that the variant might be present in the city already. “Even if one person with the new variant enters Delhi, it will not take much time to spread. We should assume that someone with the variant might have entered Delhi and the virus might be spreading among some people. However, we pray that this is not the case,” said Sisodia. On Saturday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from the countries affected by the omicron variant. “I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by the new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We should do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief wrote on Twitter.The new variant, believed to be more transmissible and immune-evasive, has prompted countries to impose travel restrictions. Apart from Botswana, Hong Kong, South Africa, the new variant has now been detected in the UK, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, Isreal, the Netherlands etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-warns-delhi-residents-on-new-covid-variant-omicron-101638091039317.html
28-11-2021||India||Kejriwal urges Modi to stop flights from regions affected by Omicron variant||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to flights from regions affected by the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Highlighting the “selfless service” of millions of Covid-19 warriors that helped India battle the deadly waves of coronavirus disease pandemic, Kejriwal said the government should take action from preventing the spread of the new variant of the virus.The omicron variant of the coronavirus, considered to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, has made its way to several European countries and Australia.“We should do everything possible to prevent the new variant of concern, recently recognised by WHO, from entering India. A number of countries, including the European Union, have suspended travel to the affected regions,” Kejriwal wrote, urging the Prime Minister to stop flights from affected regions with immediate effect. He feared that a “delay in this regard may prove harmful, if any affected person enters India.”ALSO READ | Omicron: 5 things Dr Fauci says about this new variant of Covid-19The new variant, which finds its origins in South Africa, have been classified a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organisation. Several countries have tightened their travel norms as suspected cases of Omicron variant are emerging rapidly. The new variant has now been detected in the United Kingdom, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands and Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-urges-modi-to-stop-flights-from-regions-affected-by-omicron-variant-101638086557382.html
28-11-2021||India||Expected PM Modi to attend all-party meeting: Mallikarjun Kharge||Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said several issues, including inflation, fuel price hike, farmers' concerns and Covid-19, were raised at the all-party meeting held on Sunday ahead of the winter session of Parliament.The senior Congress leader said all the parties demanded that a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) be formed.He further said that the parties had expected Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend the meeting, but that did not happen. “For some reason, he didn't attend the meeting. The government has withdrawn the farm laws, but the PM had said he could not make the farmers understand. It means these laws may be brought back in some other form in future," the senior Congress leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We also demanded that the government give compensation worth ₹4 lakh to each family of those who passed away due to coronavirus. Compensation should also be given to farmers who lost their lives during the farm laws protest,” he added.Besides Kharge, other prominent opposition leaders who were present at the customary session-eve meeting were Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Anand Sharma from the Congress, TR Baalu and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Sharad Pawar from the NCP, Vinayak Raut from the Shiv Sena, Ramgopal Yadav from the Samajwadi Party, Satish Mishra from the BSP, Prasanna Acharya from the BJD and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), however, walked out of the meeting, claiming it was not allowed to speak.AAP leader Sanjay Singh said he walked out as he was not allowed to raise issues related to farmers, especially on a law on MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expected-pm-modi-to-attend-all-party-meeting-kharge-101638089805008.html
28-11-2021||India||PM Modi stresses need to conserve nature, uses this viral photo as case in point||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday picked up several places in the country, including a river in Meghalaya, to praise citizens for taking steps towards preserving and conserving nature.“There are many states in our country and there are many areas where people have preserved the colours of their natural heritage and have kept the lifestyle of living in harmony with nature alive even today. This is an inspiration to all of us too,” PM Modi said during his Mann Ki Baat programme.“Whatever natural resources are around us, we should save them, bring them back to their actual form. In this lies in the interests of all of us as well as in the interest of the world,” he added.As a case in point, the Prime Minister talked about the now-viral image of a boat that seemed to be floating on Meghalaya's Umngot River, which the Jal Shakti ministry has said is one of the cleanest rivers in the world.One of the cleanest rivers in the world. It is in India. River Umngot, 100 Kms from Shillong, in Meghalaya state. It seems as if the boat is in air; water is so clean and transparent. Wish all our rivers were as clean. Hats off to the people of Meghalaya. pic.twitter.com/pvVsSdrGQEThe boat with five people on board appears to be flying mid-air as the water of the river, located about 100km from Meghalaya’s capital of Shillong, is so clean and transparent that even the boulders at the bottom can be seen.“I have been watching on social media the picture of a flying boat in Meghalaya that is becoming viral. This picture catches our attention at the very first sight itself. Most of you must have certainly seen it online,” PM Modi said during the 83rd episode of the month radio programme.Also read | 'Brave mothers of these heroes': PM Modi's tribute on Mann Ki Baat“When we look closely at this boat floating in the air, we come to know that it is moving on the river water. The water of the river is so clear that we can see its bed and the boat seems to be floating in the air.”PM also highlighted that apart from the schemes and initiatives brought in by the government, people's efforts also help conserve and protect our natural resources.Also read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Australian Krishna devotee from PerthHe also gave the examples of the Noon River in Uttar Pradesh’s Jalaun and the Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu where people came together to bring in change.“My dear countrymen, when we conserve nature, in return nature also gives us protection and security. We experience this in our personal life as well…Friends, nature poses a threat to us only when we disturb her balance or destroy her sanctity. Nature nurtures us like a Mother and fills our world with vivid colours too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-stresses-need-to-conserve-nature-uses-this-viral-photo-as-case-in-point-101638088694946.html
28-11-2021||India||Centre alerts states over omicron variant, asks to continue monitoring hotspots||In the wake of the new Covid variant, omicron, triggering apprehension across the world, the Centre has alerted states and Union territories and asked to step up testing, vigilance, containment and vaccine coverage. In a letter written to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said states need to continue monitoring the Covid hotspots. In a proactive stance, the countries from where the variant of concern has been found as already been identified by the Centre as "at-risk" countries for additional follow up measures of international travellers coming to India, the health ministry said. The new variant, believed to be more transmissible and immune-evasive, has prompted countries to impose travel restrictions. Apart from Botswana, Hong Kong, South Africa, the new variant has now been detected in the UK, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy, Germany, Isreal, the Netherlands etc.After UK, these countries report cases of omicron variant of coronavirus"lt is essential that the disease surveillance network in the country is geared up for rigorous follow up of all international travellers from all countries especially countries designated as "At Risk". There is already a reporting mechanism for obtaining past travel details of passengers coming through international flights this should be reviewed at your level and the protocol provided by this Ministry should be strictly ensured including testing on disembarkation of international travellers coming from "At Risk" Countries and sending allpositive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG Labs in a prompt manner," the health secretary wrote in his letter.Emphasising the need to strengthen testing infrastructure, the health ministry observed that the overall testing, as well as the proportion of RT-PCR tests, have declined in some states. "ln the absence of sufficient testing, it is extremely difficult to determine the true level of infection spread. States must strengthen the testing infrastructure and strictly implement the testing guidelines," Rajesh Bhushan wrote.States should continue monitoring Covi hotspots, areas where arecent cluster of positive cases have emerged. "ln all such "hotspots", saturation testing and sending of positive samples quickly for genome sequencing to designated INSACOG Labs must be ensured," the ministry wrote. States should also aim at achieving a positivity rate of below 5%, the ministry stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-alerts-states-over-omicron-variant-asks-to-monitor-hotspots-continuously-101638088518952.html
28-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi pays tribute to armed forces on Mann Ki Baat and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Brave mothers of these heroes': PM Modi pays tribute to armed forces on Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the country’s armed forces ahead of the 50th-anniversary celebrations of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war next month. Read moreOmicron coronavirus variant makes its way to Australia, cases detected in SydneyThe omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is being considered to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, has now made its way to Australia, health authorities of the country said on Sunday. Read more'In Indian conditions, you cannot solely depend on defense and fours, sixes': Ex-batter slams Rahane's poor techniqueIt is safe to say that stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane's spot is in heavy danger, if it already wasn't, following his poor show with the bat in the first India-New Zealand Test in Kanpur. He scored 35 and 4 in the two innings, respectively, to draw heavy criticism from both fans and experts. The latest to join the bandwagon is former batter VVS Laxman. Read moreHiccups and Hookups review: Swipe right on Lara Dutta, Prateik Babbar’s light-hearted fam-jamHiccups and Hookups is a light-hearted, colourful series which is not just about everything sex. Yes, there is a lot of making-out involved but Lionsgate Play’s first original Indian production is also, essentially, a family drama. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor is ready to party in style in shimmery black powersuit and we are in loveIt may be too early to start deciding what to wear for a Christmas or New Year's Eve bash with your friends, but if you are like us, it is never too early to take inspiration from our favourite Bollywood stars. And actor Janhvi Kapoor has a perfect look to help you make heads turn at the next party you will attend. Read moreTale about man going back to school at the age of 77 inspires people. WatchIt is never too later to learn. And this video of an 81-year-old man perfectly shows that. Shared on Twitter, the post showcases how he went back to school at the age of 77 to fulfill his lifelong dream of learning. There is a chance that his story will leave you inspired. Read moreSukhbir Singh Badal on Punjab CM's misdeeds, PM Modi's strongman image and moreAhead of Punjab polls, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal cleared the air on the speculations of forming an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-armed-forces-on-mann-ki-baat-and-all-the-latest-news-101638084199832.html
28-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: BJP sweeps 8 municipal bodies, leading in 6; TMC finishes second in Agartala Municipal Corporation||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday swept eight out of the 14 municipal bodies in Tripura and is leading in the remaining six of them, according to the counting reports till 12pm.In Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), the party got 58,221 votes while the Trinamool Congress (TMC) finished at a distant second with 22,295 votes. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) finished third with 15,960 votes. The BJP has in total won 46 wards of the AMC, according to the latest update.The counting of votes began at 8am on the day amid tight security measures provided by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the state police unit.As many as 222 out of the total 334 seats in the state, across six nagar panchayats, seven municipal councils and the Agartala Municipal Corporation, went to the polls on November 25 that saw a voter turnout of 81.54 per cent.In the remaining 112 seats, the BJP has already been declared the winner as they remained uncontested by other parties.The election has been fraught with allegations of violence and malpractices by the two main opposition parties in the northeastern—the TMC and the CPM.The BJP contested its first civic polls in the state after forming the government there in 2018. The counting began positively for the BJP earlier in the day, after it was leading in Ambassa, Jirania, Teliamura and Sabroom seats, news agency ANI reported citing the State Election Commission.The BJP’s national vice president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday told reporters his party shared a “strong bond” with the people of Tripura. Ghosh said the results have exposed the “hollowness” of the opposition TMC’s claims about making inroads into the state, news agency PTI reported.He said that the TMC will not be able to make any gains in the eastern state “unless the BJP decides against fielding candidate from any seat.”“The civic poll results are on expected lines. The TMC did not have any chance to open its account in Tripura, they only made noises. This verdict shows hired people from West Bengal cannot help a party create a base in a state, which has faith in the BJP,” PTI quoted the BJP leader as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-bjp-sweeps-8-municipal-bodies-leading-in-6-tmc-finishes-second-in-agartala-municipal-corporation-101638083888149.html
28-11-2021||India||PM Modi lauds growth of start ups in India on Mann Ki Baat||In his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India has become home to high valuation start-ups with more than 70 such firms achieving unicorn status, and the funds they pulled in from investors within and outside the country was unimaginable till a few years ago. Unicorns are start-ups that have a valuation of more than $1 billion.The PM said the number of start-ups and unicorns were on the rise even in small cities in the country. “Till 2015, there were just 9 to 10 unicorns, but now, India is flying high in the world of unicorns. According to a recent report, a big change has come this year itself; in just 10 months, a Unicon was made in India every 10 days,” PM Modi said.He said it was a big achievement for our youth in the midst of the pandemic. “Today there are more than 70 start-ups in India that have a valuation of more than $1 billion. Everyone has noticed the success of our start-ups and the investors backing it has received from all over the country and abroad…one could not have imagined it a few years ago,” the PM said. The government of India earlier started a flagship programme known as Startup India to facilitate funding, investment, tax exemptions and industry- academia incubation for startups in sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, healthcare and education. Also Read: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Australian Krishna devotee from PerthEncouraging the youth to become job creators, he said in a country with high young population, three attributes, namely, ideas and innovation, passion to take risks and can-do spirit were the three things that created success stories. “A few years ago, if anyone wanted to start a new company or business, family elders used to advise against that. They would ask the person to take up a job instead for job security, salary and a hassle- free existence. However, today if someone wants to start a company, people around are excited and supportive. People today are trying to become job creators not just job seekers,“ he said. The PM also referred to BR Ambedkar’s anniversary on December 6 and said discharge of our duties will be a fitting tribute to him.“Babasaheb Ambedkar devoted his entire life to discharging his duties for the country and society. We must never forget that the basic spirit of our Constitution expects all of us to discharge our duties. So let us take a pledge that in the Amrit Mahotsav we will try to fulfil our duties with full devotion; this will be a tribute to Baba Saheb,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-lauds-growth-of-start-ups-in-india-on-mann-ki-baat-101638083778739.html
28-11-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, Modi salutes ‘brave sons and mothers’ of India’s defence sectors. Read full text of 83rd episode here||Addressing the nation on his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday saluted India’s armed forces ahead of the 50th-anniversary celebrations of the 1971 war which will take place next month. Notably, this is the second last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ episode of the year.Speaking on the 83rd episode of his 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme, the prime minister threw light on the significance of places like Jhansi and Bundelkhand in India's freedom struggle. Modi also talked about how India is a “leader in the field of start-ups, highlighting the rise in the number of unicorn firms in the country.Here’s the full speech:My dear countrymen, Namaskar. We are connecting once again today for Mann Ki Baat. Two days later, the month of December is commencing…and with the onset of December, we psychologically feel “O…the year has concluded!” This is the last month of the year and one starts sketching out plans for the New Year. This month itself, the country also celebrates Navy Day and Armed Forces Flag Day. All of us know that on the 16th of December, the country is also celebrating the golden jubilee of the 1971 War. On all these occasions, I remember the country’s Armed Forces…I remember our brave hearts. And especially, I remember the brave mothers who give birth to such bravehearts. As always, this time too, I have received numerous suggestions from all of you on the Namo App and MyGov. Considering me to be a part of your family, you have also shared your lives’ joys and sorrows. In that, there are many young people; students as well! I really feel good for the fact that this Mann Ki Baat family of ours is continually growing…connecting with hearts and connecting through goals too. And our ever deepening bonds are creating a surge of a flow of constant positivity within us.My dear countrymen, Ojaswi from Sitapur has written to me that he enjoys discussions touching upon the Amrit Mahotsav, a lot. He listens to Mann Ki Baat with his friends and is continuously trying to know and learn more about the Freedom Struggle. Friends, the Amrit Mahotsav, along with learning, also inspires us to do something for the country. And now, throughout the country, whether it’s common folk or governments; from Panchayats to Parliament, the resonance of the Amrit Mahotsav is palpable…programmes in connection with the Mahotsav are going on successively. One such interesting programme was held in Delhi recently. In the programme, ‘Azadi Ki Kahani – Bachchon Ki Zubani’, children narrated stories connected with the Freedom Struggle from the core of their hearts. The special element in that was – along with India, students from Nepal, Mauritius, Tanzania, New Zealand and Fiji too participated in that activity. Our country’s Maharatna, ONGC too is celebrating the Amrit Mahotsav in a slightly different manner. These days, ONGC is organizing study tours to oil fields for our students. In these tours, youth are being imparted knowledge on ONGC’s Oil Field Operations…with the objective that our budding engineers be able to contribute their bit to nation building efforts with full zest and fervor.Friends, keeping in view the contribution of our tribal communities in attaining Freedom, the country has also celebrated the ‘Janajati Gaurav Saptah’. Across different regions of the country, programmes related to that were held. In the Andaman-Nicobar archipelago, people from tribal communities such as Jarwa and Onge vibrantly displayed their culture. Miniature Writer Ram Kumar Joshi ji from Una, Himachal Pradesh too has done some remarkable work…on tiny postage stamps, he has drawn outstanding sketches of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. On the word ‘Ram’ written in Hindi, a brief biography of both the great men has been inscribed. Some friends from Katni, Madhya Pradesh have conveyed information on a memorable Dastangoi, story-telling programme. In that, memories of the indomitable courage and sacrifice of Rani Durgavati have been rekindled. One such programme took place in Kashi. A three-day Festival was organized in honour of illustrious luminaries such as Goswami Tulsidas, Sant Kabir, Sant Ravidas, Bharatendu Harishchandra, Munshi Premchand and Jaishankar Prasad. In different periods, all of them played a major role in fostering public awakening in the country. You might be aware…in the last episodes of Mann Ki Baat, I had referred to three competitions – one was on writing patriotic songs; one on drawing Rangolis on events connected with patriotic fervor and the Freedom movement and one on scripting lullabies that nurture dreams of a grand India in the minds of our children. I hope that you certainly must have sent in your entries too for these competitions…you must have made plans as well…you must have discussed it among friends too! I hope you will promote this programme in every corner of India with wholehearted enthusiasm.My dear countrymen, in this discussion, I now straightaway take you to Vrindavan. It is said about Vrindavan that it is a tangible manifestation of God’s love. Our saints too have remarked:“Yeh aasa dhari chitta mein, yeh aasa dhari chitta meinKahat jathaa mati morVrindavan sukh rang kau, Vrindavan sukh rang kauKaahu na payau aur”Meaning, We all refer to the glory of Vrindavan, according to our own capabilities…but the inner joy of Vrindavan, its inherent spirit…nobody can attain it in its entirety…it is infinite. That is exactly why Vrindavan has been attracting people from all over the world. You will find its mark in every corner of the world.There is a city in Western Australia – Perth. Cricket lovers must be well acquainted with the place since cricket matches are often held there. In Perth, there is an art gallery called Sacred India Gallery. This gallery has been set up in the beautiful region of Swan Valley and it is the result of the efforts of a resident of Australia Jagat Tarini Dasi ji. Jagat Tarini ji is actually an Australian…born and brought up there, but she came to Vrindavan and spent more than 13 years here. She says that though she returned to Australia…came back to her own country…but she could never forget Vrindavan. That’s why, in order to stay spiritually connected with Vrindavan, she created Vrindavan in Australia itself. Making her art a medium, she set up a marvelous Vrindavan.. People who come here get an opportunity to view myriad artefacts. They get to see glimpses of the most famous pilgrimage centres of India – the traditions and culture of Vrindavan, Navaadweep and Jagannathpuri. Here, many an artwork related to the life of Bhagwan Shrikrishna has been exhibited. There is an artifact as well, that displays the Govardhan Parvat, held aloft by Bhagwan Shrikrishna on his little finger, with people of Vrindavan taking refuge beneath. Indeed, this matchless endeavour on part of Jagat Tarini ji brings to the fore the power of Krishna-Bhakti. I extend my best wishes on this effort of hers.My dear countrymen, I was just referring to the subject of Vrindavan, built at Perth, Australia. There’s an interesting history as well…in that, Australia shares a bond with our Jhansi, Bundelkhand. Actually, when the Queen of Jhansi Laxmibai was fighting a legal battle against the East India Company, her lawyer was John Lang. John Lang was originally a resident of Australia. Staying in India, he fought Rani Laxmibai’s case. All of us know of the huge contribution of Jhansi and Bundelkhand in our Fight for Freedom. Veeranganas, brave hearts such as Rani Laxmibai and Jhalkaribai hailed from here…this region has given to the country legendary sports persons like Major Dhyanchand too.Friends, it is not necessary that bravery should be displayed only on the battlefield. When bravery becomes a vow and it expands, then many feats start getting accomplished in every field. Mrs. Jyotsna has written a letter to me about very such valor. There was a traditional river in Jalaun – Noon River. Noon, used to be the main source of water for the farmers here, but gradually the Noon river reached the verge of extinction, the little existence that was left of this river, in that it was turning into a drain. Due to this, problems in irrigation had also arisen for the farmers. The people of Jalaun took the initiative to change this situation. This very year in March, a committee was formed for this. Thousands of villagers and local people spontaneously volunteered to join this campaign. The panchayats here started working together with the villagers, and today in such a short time, and at a very low cost, the river has come back to life again. So many farmers are benefiting from this! Apart from the battlefield, this example of bravery shows the determination of our countrymen, and it also tells that if we take a resolve, nothing is impossible and that is why I say - ‘Sabka Prayas’...everyone's effort.My dear countrymen, when we conserve nature, in return nature also gives us protection and security. We experience this in our personal life as well and one such example has been presented by the people of Tamil Nadu on a large scale. This is the example of Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu. We know that coastal areas are many a time prone to land submersion. There were many such small islands and islets in Thoothukudi too, which were increasingly in danger of submerging in the sea. The people here and the experts found the mitigation from this natural disaster through nature itself. These people are now planting Palmyra trees on these islands. These trees stand firm even in cyclones and storms and give protection to the soil. Through this now a new confidence has arisen in saving this area.Friends, nature poses a threat to us only when we disturb her balance or destroy her sanctity. Nature nurtures us like a Mother and fills our world with vivid colors too.I have been watching on social media the picture of a flying boat in Meghalaya that is becoming viral. This picture catches our attention at the very first sight itself. Most of you must have certainly seen it online. When we look closely at this boat floating in the air, we come to know that it is moving on the river water. The water of the river is so clear that we can see its bed and the boat seems to be floating in the air. There are many states in our country ; there are many areas where people have preserved the colors of their natural heritage. These people have kept the lifestyle of living in harmony with nature alive even today. This is an inspiration to all of us too. Whatever natural resources are around us, we should save them, bring them back to their actual form. In this lies the interests of all of us ; interests of the world.My dear countrymen, when the government makes plans, spends the budget, completes the projects on time, people feel that it is working. But in the many works of the government, amidst the many schemes of development, things related to human sensitivities always give a different kind of joy. With the efforts of the government, with the schemes of the government, the way a life changed... what is the experience of that changed life? When we hear this, we too are filled with empathy. It also gives satisfaction to the mind and gives inspiration too to take that scheme to the people. In a way, it is just 'Swant: Sukhay', joy to one’s own soul and that is why today in "Mann Ki Baat" two such friends are also joining us who have won a new life through their zeal. They got their treatment done with the help of Ayushman Bharat scheme and have started a new life. Our first friend is Rajesh Kumar Prajapati who had an ailment of the heart - heart disease.So let's talk to Rajesh ji -Prime Minister - Rajesh ji Namaste.Rajesh Prajapati – Namaste Sir Namaste.Prime Minister - What was your disease Rajesh ji? You must have gone to some doctor, just explain to me what the local doctor must have said... you must have also gone to some other doctor? Then you would not have been able to take the decision or would have taken, what all used to happen?Rajesh Prajapati – Ji the problem was with my heart Sir. I used to have a burning sensation in the chest, Sir, then I showed it to the doctor. The doctor at first said “Son, maybe you have acid”... so I got treatment for acid quite some time, when I did not benefit from it, then showed it to Dr. Kapoor, then he said son, the symptoms you have will become clear by angiography, then he referred me to ShriRam Murthy. Then we met Amresh Agarwal ji, so he did my angiography. Then he said “Son, there is blockage in your vein”, so I said sir, how much will it cost? Then he said that there is a card of Ayushman which PM ji made. Then I said sir, I have it with me. Then he took that card of mine and all my treatment has been done with that card. Sir and this card that you have made in a very good way and for us poor people is very convenient. And how can I thank you!Prime Minister - What do you do Rajesh ji?Rajesh Prajapati - Sir, presently I am doing a private job. SirPrime Minister - And how old are you?Rajesh Prajapati - I am forty nine years old, Sir.Prime Minister - You got heart trouble at such a young age?Rajesh Prajapati - Yes sir what to say now!Prime Minister – In your family, earlier did your father or mother have such a thing?Rajesh Prajapati - No sir, nobody had sir, this has happened first with me only.Prime Minister - This Ayushman card, Government of India gives this card. This is a big scheme for the poor, so how did you come to know of it?Rajesh Prajapati - Sir, this is such a big scheme, poor people get a lot of benefit from it and are so happy sir. I have seen in the hospital how many facilities people get from this card when they tell the doctor that they have the card. Sir, the doctor then says, okay bring that card and I will treat you with the same card.Prime Minister – Ok, if you did not have the card, how much expenses the doctor had told you?Rajesh Prajapati - The doctor had said that son, it will cost a lot if the card is not there. So I said sir, I have the card, so he asked me to show it immediately, so I showed it immediately. All my treatment was done with the same card, not a single penny of mine was spent, all the medicines have also been issued through the same card.Prime Minister - So Rajesh ji, you are satisfied now, your health is fine?Rajesh Prajapati - Sir, thank you very much sir, may you live so long that you always remain in power and our family members are also happy with you, what to say!Prime Minister: Rajesh ji, don't wish me for being in power, I am not in power even today and I don't want to be in power in future also. I only want to be in service; for me this post, this Prime Ministership, all these things are not at all for power, brother, they are for service.Rajesh Prajapati: Service is what we need... what else!Prime Minister: See this Ayushman Bharat scheme for the poor in itself…Rajesh Prajapati: Yes Sir, it is a very nice thingPrime Minister: But see Rajesh ji, you do one thing for us, will you?Rajesh Prajapati: Yes, absolutely Sir!Prime Minister: See what happens - people do not know about it, you should take on a duty, find out how many poor families are around you, and how you benefited from it, how did you get help? Do tell them!Rajesh Prajapati: Will absolutely tell Sir.Prime Minister: And do tell them that they should also get such a card made because the family does not know when a problem may come and it is not right that the poor remain bothered on account of medicines today. Now, because of money they do not take medicine or do not seek the remedy of the disease then it is also a matter of great concern, and what happens to the poor as you’ve had this heart problem, for many months you would not have been able to work.Rajesh Prajapati: I could not walk ten steps, I could not climb stairs Sir.Prime Minister: So Rajesh ji, by becoming a good friend of mine, you can explain this Ayushman Bharat scheme to as many poor people as you can. By the way, you can help the sick people, see you will also be satisfied and I will be very happy that come on Rajesh ji's health not only became fine but Rajesh ji got the health of hundreds of people better. This Ayushman Bharat scheme, it is for the poor, it is for the middle class, it is for the common families, so this information must be conveyed to every house by You !Rajesh Prajapati: Will definitely convey Sir. I stayed there for three days in the hospital, Sir, so many poor people came to the hospital and told them about all the facilities ; if there is a card, it will be done for free.Prime Minister: Alright, Rajesh ji, keep yourself healthy, worry a little about your body, take care of the children and wish you a lot of progress. I wish you all the best.Friends, we listened to Rajesh ji, now Sukh Devi ji is joining us. A knee problem had bothered her a lot, let us first listen from Sukhdevi ji about her plight and then how succour came to her, let us understandModi ji - Sukhdevi ji Namaste! Where are you speaking from?Sukhdevi ji - from Danadpara.Modi ji - Where does this lie?Sukhdevi ji - in Mathura.Modi ji - In Mathura, then Sukhdevi ji, one has to say Namaste and say Radhe-Radhe as well!Sukhdevi ji - Yes, Radhe-Radhe!Modi ji - Well I heard that you were suffering. Have you had any operation? Can you tell what is the matter?Sukhdevi ji - Yes, my knee was damaged, so I have had an operation in Prayag Hospital |Modi ji - how old are you Sukhdevi ji?Sukhdevi ji – My age is 40 years.Modi ji - 40 years ! And named Sukhdevi ! And Sukhdevi got sick?Sukhdevi ji – I got sick when I was about 15-16 years old.Modi ji - OMG! Your knees got affected at such a young age?Sukhdevi ji – What is that called.. arthritis – gout pain in the joints, the knee got worse due to that.Modi ji - So from the age of 16 to 40, you did not get treatment for this?Sukhdevi ji - No, it was treated. Small time doctors who kept on giving medicine for pain, this is that desi medicine, this is that medicine. Quacks! I was able to walk with them but the knees got worse, I had only walked 1-2 kilometers and then my knees got worse.Modi ji - So Sukhdevi ji how did the idea of ​​ operation come about? How did you manage the money for it? How did all of this happen?Sukhdevi ji - I have got the treatment done with the Ayushman card.Modi ji - So you had got an Ayushman card?Sukhdevi ji - Yes.Modi ji - And there is free treatment for the poor with Ayushman card. Did you know this?Sukhdevi ji – There was a meeting in the school. From there, my husband came to know and he got the card made in my name.Modi ji - Yes.Sukhdevi ji - Then I got the treatment done by card, and I did not spend any money. I have been treated by the card itself. It has been a great treatment.Modi ji – Good. If there was no card, how much cost did the doctor say earlier?Sukhdevi ji - 2.5 lakh rupees, three lakh rupees. For 6-7 years I’ve been on the cot! I used to say that oh God call me, I don’t want to live!Modi ji : you were on the cot for 6-7 years! Good God!Sukhdevi ji - Yes.Modi ji - Oho!Sukhdevi ji – Couldn’t get up at all!Modi ji - So now your knee is better than before?Sukhdevi ji - I walk around a lot. I roam! I do kitchen work! I do housework! I cook for the children.Modi ji - So the card of Ayushman Bharat has really made you Ayushman, blessed with long life.Sukhdevi ji – Thank you very much! Because of your scheme, I got cured, I got back on my feet.Modi ji - So now even the children must be happy ?Sukhdevi ji - Yes. The children used to face a lot of trouble. Now if the mother is upset, naturally the child will also be upset.Modi ji - Look, our health is the biggest happiness in our lives, that everyone should get this cheerful life is the essence of Ayushman Bharat. Sukhdevi ji, I wish you all the very best, Radhe-Radhe to you once again.Sukhdevi ji - Radhe - Radhe, Namaste!My dear countrymen, in every country with a large youth population, three aspects matter a lot. Sometimes, it becomes the true identity of the youth. The first aspect is - Ideas and Innovation. The second is the spirit of taking risks and the third is the Can Do Spirit, that is, the determination to accomplish any task, no matter how adverse the circumstances be - when these three things combine, phenomenal results are produced, miracles happen. These days, all we hear about from every corner is about Start-up, Start-up, Start-up. It is true, this is the era of start-up, and it is also true that in the world of start-up, India is leading in a way in the world today. Start-ups are getting record investment year after year. This sector is progressing very fast. The reach of start-ups has increased even in small towns of the country. These days the word 'Unicorn' is in vogue. You all must have heard about it. 'Unicorn' is a start-up whose valuation is at least 1 Billion Dollars, that is more than about seven thousand crore rupees.Friends, till the year 2015, there used to be hardly nine or ten Unicorns in the country. You will be very happy to know that now India is flying high even in the world of Unicorns. According to a report, a big change has come this year. In just 10 months, a unicorn is being raised in India every 10 days. This is also a big thing because our youth have achieved this success in the midst of the corona pandemic. Today there are more than 70 Unicorns in India. That is, there are more than 70 start-ups that have crossed the valuation of more than 1 billion. Friends, due to the success of Start-Ups, everyone has noticed them and the way they are getting support from investors from all over the country and abroad. Perhaps, just a few years ago no one could have imagined this happening.Friends, Indian youth are also contributing to the solution of global problems through start-ups. Today we will talk to a young Mayur Patil, he along with his friends have tried to put forward a solution to the problem of pollution.Modi ji - Mayur ji Namaste.Mayur Patil - Namaste Sir ji.Modi ji - Mayur ji how are you?Mayur Patil - Just fine sir. How are you ?Modi ji - I am very happy. Ok tell me...You are in the start-up world.Mayur Patil - JiModi ji - and doing the ‘best’ out of the ‘waste’...Mayur Patil - JiModi ji - And for the environment too, tell me a little about yourself. Tell us about your work and how did you get the idea behind this work?Mayur Patil - Sir, I had a motorcycle when I was in college. Its mileage was extremely low and emissions were very high. It was a two stroke motorcycle. Thus, in order to reduce the emissions and increase its mileage by a bit, I started trying. Sometime in 2011-12, I managed to increase the mileage by about 62 kilometres per liter. From there, I got the inspiration to make something that can be mass produced, so that it can be of benefit to many people. So, in 2017-18 we developed its technology and used it in 10 buses of the Regional Transport Corporation. We then checked the results and found that we managed to reduce emissions by forty percent in these buses.Modi ji - Hmm! Now this technology which you have developed, have you got its patent registered?Mayur Patil - Haan Ji! It has been patented. This year, it came to us through a patent grant.Modi ji - And what is your plan to scale it further? How are you doing that? With the result of the buses being received, many other pieces of information must have come out too. What are you thinking of next?Mayur Patil - Sir, under the aegis of Start-Up India..NITI Aayog has launched the Atal New India Challenge. From there we got the grant and on the basis of that grant, we just started our factory where we can manufacture air filters.Modi ji - So how much grant did you get from the Government of India?Mayur Patil – 90 LakhsModi Ji – 90 LakhsMayur Patil - JiModi ji - and your work is done with it.Mayur Patil - Yes, it has started now. It is in the process.Modi ji - How many of your friends are doing all of this together?Mayur Patil - We are four people Sir.Modi ji - And all four used to study together earlier and from that you got an idea to move forward?Mayur Patil - Ji! Ji! We were still in college. And in college we thought about all of this and it was my idea that I should at least reduce the pollution of my motorcycle and increase the mileage.Modi ji - Ok, so if we reduce pollution and increase mileage, how much is the average money that can be saved?Mayur Patil – Sir, we tested the mileage on the motorcycle, and increased its mileage from 25 Kilometers per liter to 39 Kilometers per liter, that is there was a gain of about 14 kilometers... And 40 percent carbon emissions were reduced. When we tested on the Regional Transport Corporation buses, there was an increase in fuel efficiency by 10 percent and the emissions reduced by 35 to 40 percent.Modi ji - Mayur, I enjoyed talking to you and do congratulate your friends on my behalf…. You found a solution to the problem that you had in college life and now the path chosen by all of you is providing solutions in solving environmental issues and you have taken up cudgels to address it. And it is the power of the youth of our country that they take up any big challenge and look for avenues. I wish you all the best. Thank you very muchMayur Patil - Thank you Sir! Thank you!Friends, a few years back if someone used to say that he wants to do business or wants to start a new company, then, the elders of the family used to answer that – “Why don’t you want to do a job, have a job bhai! There is security in the job, there is salary. The hassle is also less. But, if someone wants to start their own company today, then all the people around him are very excited and also fully supportive. Friends, this is the turning point of India's growth story, where people are now not only dreaming of becoming job seekers but also becoming job creators. This will further strengthen India's stature on the global stage.My dear countrymen, today in 'Mann Ki Baat' we talked about Amrit Mahotsav. We discussed how our countrymen are fulfilling new resolutions in this AmritKaal and also mentioned the stories related to the valour of our Army in the month of December. In the month of December, another big day is ahead of us from which we take inspiration. This day is the death anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on 6th December. Baba Saheb had devoted his entire life in rendering his duties for the country and society. We the countrymen should never forget the basic spirit of our Constitution, that our Constitution expects all of us to discharge our duties - so let us also take a pledge that in the Amrit Mahotsav, we will try to fulfill our duties with full devotion. This shall be our true tribute to Baba Saheb.Friends, we are now entering the month of December. It is natural that the next 'Mann Ki Baat' of 2021 will be the last 'Mann Ki Baat' of this year. We will start the journey again in 2022 and yes, I keep expecting a lot of suggestions from you and will keep doing so. How are you bidding farewell to this year, what are you going to do in the new year, please do tell and yes!... Don't forget that Corona has not gone yet. It is the responsibility of all of us to take precautions.Many many thanks!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-modi-salutes-brave-sons-and-mothers-of-india-s-defence-sectors-read-full-text-of-83rd-episode-here-101638082246327.html
28-11-2021||India||'Brave mothers of these heroes': PM Modi pays tribute to armed forces on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the country’s armed forces ahead of the 50th-anniversary celebrations of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war next month."The country celebrates Navy Day and Armed Forces Flag Day in December. We all know that on December 16, the country is celebrating the golden jubilee year of the 1971 war,” PM Modi said while addressing the 83rd episode of his Mann Ki Baat radio programme."On this occasion, I want to remember our armed forces, our soldiers. Especially, the brave mothers who gave birth to these heroes," he added.Also read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Australian Krishna devotee from PerthThe Prime Minister also referred to the anniversary of BR Ambedkar on December 6 and said all of us must fulfil our duties as a tribute to the chief architect of the Indian Constitution. “Babasaheb Ambedkar devoted his entire life to discharge his duties for the country and society. We must never forget that the basic spirit of our Constitution expects all of us to discharge our duties,” he said. “So let us take a pledge that in the Amrit Mahotsav we will try to fulfil our duties with full devotion this will be a tribute to Baba Saheb.”Also read | Mann Ki Baat Highlights: ‘Covid not gone yet’ warns PM ModiThe Prime Minister also highlighted the significance of places like Jhansi and Bundelkhand in India's freedom struggle. "Heroes like Rani Lakshmibai and Jhalkari Bai belongs from here. These regions have also gifted us Khel Ratna like Major Dhyan Chand," PM Modi added.Mann Ki Baat is the Prime Minister's monthly radio address broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brave-mothers-of-these-heroes-pm-modi-s-tribute-on-mann-ki-baat-101638081881721.html
28-11-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Australian Krishna devotee from Perth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked about an Australian woman, who runs an art gallery in the Swan Valley of Perth city, as he addressed the nation in the 83rd edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi said Jagattarini Dasi, who joined the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) in 1970, spent more than 13 years in Uttar Pradesh's Vrindavan before going back to her country.“She says though she has returned to Australia she could not forget Vrindavan. And that is why she remained in touch with Vrindavan and its spiritual joy. She made a Vrindavan in Australia by making art her medium,” PM Modi said.Visitors to her Sacred Art Gallery in Perth get to see her art and glimpse the traditions and cultures of India’s well-known pilgrim towns of Vrindavan, Nabadweep and Puri, he said.Jagattarini Dasi was a leading actor in Australia before she joined Iskcon founded by Abhay Charanaravinda Bhaktivedanta Swami or Srila Prabhupada in 1970, according to the movement’s website.“In 1983 she moved with her family to Sri Vrindavan Dhama, and they spent the next 13 years teaching in Bhaktivedanta Gurukula. In her spare time, she regularly journeyed by local transport to significant holy places throughout the outlying Braja District,” the website said.Jagattarini Dasi, her husband Bhurijana and her family have been based in Perth since 1996.“Jagattarini Mataji continues to draw her artistic inspiration from Vraja Dhama, and since 1998 she has been working with a variety of mediums producing miniature three-dimensional diorama exhibits, depicting Krishna’s nectarean Vrindavan pastimes,”“She is establishing these dioramas within a project known as Gopinatha Dharma, which is meant to attract souls to the glories of Sri Vrindavan Dhama.”PM Modi said the amazing effort of Jagattarini “indeed shows us the power of Krishna Bhakti”. “I wish her all the best in this work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-talks-about-australian-krishna-devotee-from-perth-101638076828525.html
28-11-2021||India||Pass condolence resolution for farmers who died: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Ahead of the Parliament’s Winter Session beginning on Monday, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking a condolence resolution in the House for farmers who lost their lives during the year-long protests against the three central farm laws.In a letter to Birla on Saturday, Chowdhury asked for the House to unanimously pass the condolence resolution as a “mark of respect” towards the demise of the farmers during the agitation.“On the eve of the coming Parliament Session, I would sincerely request you that as a mark of respect towards our annadata, the House may unanimously pass a condolence resolution for the farmers who lost their lives during the farmer agitation,” news agency ANI reported quoting an excerpt from the letter.Also read | Farmers to hold rally in Mumbai's Azad Maidan today, MVA may joinThe protesting farmers’ unions and the opposition parties have said that hundreds of farmers have died during the agitation against the Centre’s three contentious laws.Meanwhile, the Centre is set to introduce the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement earlier this month of his government’s decision to roll back the three contentious laws. On Saturday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar too confirmed that the bill would be tabled on the first day of the session (Monday).In February this year, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi led his party members to observe a two-minute silence to mark the death of farmers, during Parliament’s Budget Session, according to news reports.In a separate letter, Chowdhury also urged Birla to initiate the process of appointing a deputy speaker to the house.“I wish to draw your kind attention to a very important provision of the Constitution,” he wrote, quoting Article 93 of the Constitution that deals with the appointment of the Speaker and deputy speaker to the House.“In view of the above, I would request you to please initiate the process of appointment of the Deputy Speaker as it would also help you in the smooth conduct of business in the House,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pass-condolence-resolution-for-farmers-who-died-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-writes-to-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-101638077217640.html
28-11-2021||India||5000 school teachers, staff not vaccinated in Kerala||The Kerala government is considering taking action against around 5,000 school teachers and non-teaching staff in the state who have chosen not to take an anti Coronavirus vaccine, mostly owing to their religious believes, state education minister V Sivankutty said on Sunday, citing the need to provide schoolchildren a protected environment against Covid 19. “We have started collecting data on this. There is a standing instruction that unvaccinated teachers will not be allowed to take classes. Teachers are role models and the government views their attitude seriously,” said the minister. There are around 160,000 school teachers and 25,000 non-teaching employees in the state. “Children’s safety is our main concern. We can’t justify action of these unvaccinated teachers. We will give [them] some more time [to comply] otherwise the government will act against them,” the minister said in the state capital. He said besides their beliefs, some of the reluctant lot skipped vaccination citing their poor health. Majority of these unvaccinated school employees are from north Kerala districts. Many health activists and teachers’ organisations have suggested organising a proper awareness drive to fight against vaccine hesitancy. “A modern society can’t accept this. Some of the religious states like Saudi Arabia and Vatican are carrying out the jabbing exercise strictly. No religion supports such an attitude,” said public health expert Dr Pamanabha Shenoy. Some of the teachers’ organisations too have decried the rejection of vaccination . “All teachers should take jabs and we will support any initiative in this regard,” said Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association leader M Salahuddin. Many urged religious leaders to give an open call supporting vaccination. Also Read | RT-PCR test not mandatory for children on Sabarimala pilgrimage: KeralaMistrust or aversion towards vaccines, especially in Muslim-majority areas, is not a new phenomenon in Kerala. Even before the pandemic outbreak, the Left Front government led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), had instructed all educational institutions to make basic vaccination compulsory for enrolling children in schools. In 2017, the government constituted a 17 member expert panel headed by Dr B Ekbal to chalk out a comprehensive health policy. One of the key recommendations of the panel was to make vaccination compulsory for children. While enrolling children, parents will have to produce details of vaccines administered to their wards. In Kerala, among the eligible population, 96% have received the first dose of the anti-Covid 19 vaccine and 65% have received both the doses, according to the health ministry data. The state has been among the worst Covid-19 affected states in the country with 39,679 infected related deaths, second only to Maharashtra. On Saturday, the state reported 4,741 Covid cases taking its active caseload to 48,501.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5000-school-teachers-staff-not-vaccinated-in-kerala-101638080178336.html
28-11-2021||India||Watch LIVE: PM Modi addresses nation on 83rd edition of Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation on Sunday, November 28, through his Mann Ki Baat radio programme. This is the 83rd edition of the monthly broadcast, which is held on the last Sunday of every month. The programme today comes in the backdrop of rising global concerns regarding omicron, a new variant of the coronavirus first detected in South Africa, that has alarmed world governments due to its rapidly mutating and highly infectious nature.The 83rd episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister credited India's healthcare workers for making the nationwide inoculation campaign against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a success and also for crossing the significant milestone of administering one billion vaccine doses.Watch the 83rd edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-83rd-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-101638076514793.html
28-11-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: ‘Covid not gone yet’ warns PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the 83rd edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday.In his address, Modi saluted the country's soldiers ahead of the Navy Day and National Flag Day to be celebrated next month. He also saluted the security forces ahead of the golden jubilee of the 1971 war. Mentioning the Ayushmann Bharat health mission, he said the scheme was for the “poor, middle class and ordinary” families. He also interacted with a beneficiary of the scheme and called upon more people to reap its benefits and spread awareness about it among others. India was in a way, a “leader” in the field of start-ups, Modi said and highlighted the number of Unicorn companies in the country. He said that the country's youth were providing solutions to global problems through their innovations. Follow all the updates here:‘Corona is not gone yet' cautions ModiIn his closing note, Modi cautioned that the Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet and it was the responsibility of everyone to take precautions against the disease.PM Modi mentions BR Ambedkar's death anniversary on Dec 6“In the month of December another big day comes for us from which we can take inspiration. It is the death anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on December 6. Baba Saheb had devoted his entire life to discharge his duties for the country and society. We countrymen should never forget that the basic spirit of our constitution expects from all of us to discharge our duties,” Modi said. Indian startsups providing solutions to global problems through their startups, says ModiModi said that there are over 70 startups in India that have crossed the valuation of more than 1 billion. “Many Indians are providing solutions to global problems through their startups,” he said.‘India leading the world in field of startups’: Modi“This is the era of startup and it is also true that today in the field of startups in a way India is leading the world. Year after year starts ups are getting record investments. This sector is growing at a very fast pace. Even in small cities of the country the reach of start ups has increased. Now-a-days the word Unicorn is very much discussed,” said PM Modi.‘Shows the zeal of people’, says Modi about revival of Noon river in Jalaun, UP, by localsJyotsna from UP personally wrote to me sharing the wonder of Jalaun’s Noon river which was slowly drying down.The locals with support from the panchayat worked together to revive this river that shows the zeal of the people that where there is a will,there is a way:PM #MannKiBaatModi said that Jyotsna from UP wrote to him sharing the efforts of locals to revive the Noon river in Jalaun, Uttar Pradesh and said it “shows the zeal of the people that where there is a will, there is a way.”Modi says ‘interesting history’ between Australia and Bundelkhand's Jhansi, mentions Rani Laxmi Bai's lawyer John Lang“When Jhansi's queen Laxmi Bai was fighting a legal battle against East India Company, her lawyer was John Lang, who was an Australian. He stayed in India and fought a case on behalf of Rani Laxmi Bai,” said Modi.‘Bliss of Vrindavan is infinite, attracts people from around world’: Modi“Vrindavan attracts people from all around the world. No one can fathom the bliss of Vrindavan, its infinite,” PM Modi said.PM praises ‘Azaadi Ki Kahaani Bacchon Ki Zubani’ programme in Delhi“Delhi recently celebrated ‘Azaadi Ki Kahaani Bacchon Ki Zubani’ with children through beautiful poems in which children from Nepal, Mauritius, Tanzania, New Zealand and Fiji also participated, putting forth their creativity and India’s history in the most dynamic way,” Modi said. Modi remembers soldiers, their families ahead of Navy Day, National Flag Day“In the next 2 days we will be stepping into the last month of the year 2021 in which we will be celebrating Navy Day and National Flag Day. I would like to salute the brave sons and mothers who have been involved in the defence sector,” said PM Modi.WATCH | PM Modi addresses 83rd Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the 83rd edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme. Click here to watch livePM Modi to address Mann Ki Baat programme at 11am#MannKiBaat programme commences at 11 AM today. Do tune in. pic.twitter.com/TxOsTPXSzVPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 83rd edition of Mann Ki Baat radio programme at 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-pm-modi-to-address-83rd-edition-of-radio-programme-shortly-101638076743495.html
28-11-2021||India||Gautam Gambhir receives another threat letter, third one in a week||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP and former Indian cricketer Gautam Gambhir allegedly received a threat letter from ‘ISIS Kashmir’ on Sunday, officials of the Delhi police familiar with the development said.This was the third such threat that the BJP leader received, four days after the terrorist group allegedly sent two letters within a gap of a few hours. The terrorist group mentioned Delhi Police in the mail that they have sent to Gambhir on Sunday, news agency ANI mentioned on Twitter.Last Wednesday, the cricketer-turned-politician approached the Delhi police claiming he received death threats through an email from ‘ISIS Kashmir’ . He urged the police to register a First Information Report and provide him with enhanced protection. Following the incident, the security around Gambhir house in the national capital was beefed up, and a probe was ordered.In a letter to Shweta Chauhan, the deputy police commissioner (central) of Delhi police, Gambhir claimed the threat email read, “We’re going to kill you and your family.” However, within hours of the first email, Gambhir claimed to have received another email that purportedly contained a video footage from outside his residence attached to it.A probe by the cyber cell and the special cell of Delhi police reportedly traced the earlier email to an IP address in Pakistan's Karachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-gambhir-receives-another-threat-letter-third-one-in-a-week-101638076029407.html
28-11-2021||India||India logs 8,774 new Covid-19 cases; active cases go down, deaths up by 621||India on Sunday registered 8,774 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 621 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s cumulative infections to 3,45,72,523 and the death toll to 467,933, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Active cases of Covid-19 at 105,691 remained lowest in 543 days, data shared by the Union health ministry also showed.Recoveries climbed by 9,481 in a single day, taking India’s recovery rate to 98.34 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry stated. Active cases of Covid-19 account for less than 1 per cent of the total infections at 0.31 per cent, it also said.As per the weekly data, the positivity rate, at 0.85 per cent, has also remained below one per cent for the past 14 days.As many as 121.94 crore vaccine doses have been administered over the past one day under the Centre’s nationwide vaccination drive, the data showed.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a proactive approach and a review of plans for easing international travel curbs in view of the Omicron outbreak around the world. The prime minister urged citizens to be cautious while asking states to move quickly to take precautionary measures and remain vigilant.The new strain of coronavirus was first identified in South Africa.The Union health ministry has also directed states and union territories to begin rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through countries including Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong which have reported cases of the new variant.Two South African returnees in Bengaluru on Friday tested positive for the viral infection and their samples sent for further tests to determine the exact variant,  a Karnataka state official had told news agency PTI.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization, which already termed omicron as a “variant of concern”, also asked countries in the southeast Asian region to scale up surveillance, strengthen public health and social measures, and enhance vaccination coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-8-774-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-go-down-deaths-up-by-621-101638073546740.html
28-11-2021||India||Several areas in Chennai flooded after record rain, intensity to reduce today||Several areas in Chennai continued to receive rain on Sunday leaving many areas flooded after the capital city of Tamil Nadu witnessed rainfall overnight, prompting authorities to issue warnings and evacuate people from low-lying areas.Some areas such as Guduvancherry, Mannivakkam and Varadarajapuram were among those which were flooded, reports said, adding several residents were evacuated in boats.Twitter users posted pictures and videos of inundated areas as reports of sewage water flowing on roads and into homes also came in.Meanwhile, near Chettinad health city Kelambakkam. pic.twitter.com/niEgyQ37U7Also read | IMD issues orange alert for south Andhra Pradesh, north Tamil Nadu districtsAccording to data, Chennai has recorded 1000mm of rain in a month for the fourth time for any month and the third time in November in 200 years. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin also tweeted about the relentless rain on Saturday as he inspected inundated areas in Chennai and monitored relief initiatives.Tamil Nadu minister for revenue and disaster management KKSSR Ramachandran said on Saturday the state received about 60.33cm rainfall from October 1 and till November 27 as against the usual 34.57cm. An IMD official told PTI Chennai registered 106cm rainfall during the same period even as 60cm is normal.Also read | Three die in Tamil Nadu; IMD warns of heavy rainfall on SundayThe India Meteorological Department has said that a cyclonic circulation is lying over the Comorin area and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts in the lower levels and strong northeasterly winds are prevailing over Tamil Nadu coast and south coastal Andhra Pradesh at lower levels to the north of the circulation.“The circulation is likely to emerge in the Arabian Sea on 29th November and move northwestwards thereafter. Under its influence, light to moderate fairly widespread or widespread rainfall very likely over Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal, Kerala & Mahe and Lakshadweep area and Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam, Rayalaseema during next 3 days and decrease thereafter,” IMD said in its bulletin on Saturday.An independent weather blogger said that rain is expected in the interior, west and south Tamil Nadu on Sunday. “Reduction in rains in Chennai likely compared to previous 2 days and lets see how clouds form later tonight. Vortex may likely form in Gulf of Mannar and heavy rains chance exist for South TN,” Pradeep John said in a tweet.The state government said in a release on Saturday 653 people have been housed in six relief centres in Chennai and 825 packets of food were distributed to them.More than 8,500 cusecs of surplus water was released from reservoirs, including Poondi that cater to Chennai's drinking water, needs in view of the rainfall in catchment areas, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-areas-in-chennai-flooded-after-record-rain-intensity-to-reduce-today-101638072734575.html
28-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: MVA may join farmers' rally in Mumbai's Azad Maidan today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers to hold rally in Mumbai's Azad Maidan today, MVA may joinFarmers leaders have said as many as 50,000 farmers are expected to join the rally scheduled at Azad Maidan in Mumbai on Sunday, a day ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session. Read moreIMD issues orange alert for south Andhra Pradesh, north Tamil Nadu coastal districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for coastal districts in south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu as the rain continued in the two southern states with the activity expected to reduce over Tamil Nadu by the end of this month. Read more'Will have to definitely work on his technique': Pathan slams India batter for poor outing during IND vs NZ 1st TestFormer left-handed batter Pathan criticized Shubman Gill for his technique and for failing to end the day's play unbeaten. Read moreChhorii actor Mita Vashisht never knew she won award for Drishti: 'I read it online 20-25 years later'Mita Vashisht, who plays Bhanno Devi in latest horror film, Chhorii, has come a long way in her more than 30-year-long career but still believes in doing her homework for every single character she plays. Read moreNora Fatehi is a 21st-century bohemian bride in hand-embroidered lehenga for new pic: See hereActor Nora Fatehi and her collaborations with ace-couturiers Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla have always been timeless and eclectic. The diva's past ethnic looks designed by them is proof enough of the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mva-may-join-farmers-rally-in-mumbai-s-azad-maidan-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638069991400.html
28-11-2021||India||National Cadet Corps celebrates 73rd anniversary of its raising||The National Cadet Corps (NCC), the youth wing of the Indian Armed Forces and the largest uniformed youth organisation in the world, is observing the 73rd anniversary of its raising on Sunday, November 28.According to reports, cadets all across the country will attend celebratory events, participating in marches, blood donation camps, and other social welfare programmes. In addition to marking an important day for the establishment of the armed forces, the multifaceted activities held on this day also contribute to the all-around self-development of the young cadets and, according to the NCC, shape them into responsible citizens of tomorrow.Also Read | R-Day Parade 2022: 59 cadets of Lucknow NCC selected for inter group competitionThe NCC, with its headquarters in New Delhi, is open to school and college students on a voluntary basis as a ‘tri-services organisation’, comprising the army, the naval, and the air wings.Although officially founded through the Act of 1950, its history can be traced back to the ‘University Corps’, which was created under the Indian Defence Act 1917 with an objective to make up for personnel shortage in the Indian Army. The NCC also expanded later on to include the Girls Division in 1949 to provide equal opportunities to women willing to serve the country's defences.Meanwhile, the Indian Army held a ‘Pre-Republic Day’ camp from November 18 to 27 to select a vibrant and strong contingent to represent the Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh directorates in the upcoming Republic Day parade in January. NCC cadets from all districts of J&K and Ladakh attended the camps at various places to include Machil, Tangdhar, Gurez, Rangreth Srinagar, Poonch and Nagrota during these four days.As many as 250 cadets from all the districts of the Union territories of J&K and Ladakh attended the camp, according to a statement by the Indian Army on Saturday.“Rapid Antigen Test of all the staff and cadets was conducted by the team of doctors of BMO, Nagrota on November 18, 2021,” it added. “During the camp, the cadets underwent basic training like PT, drill, weapon training, firing, map reading and grooming to instil confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-cadet-corps-celebrates-73rd-anniversary-of-its-raising-101638067951334.html
28-11-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for south Andhra Pradesh, north Tamil Nadu coastal districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for coastal districts in south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu as the rain continued in the two southern states with the activity expected to reduce over Tamil Nadu by the end of this month.Nellore and Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh along with Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Villupuram, Puducherry, Cuddalore, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Karaikal in Tamil Nadu have all been issued orange alerts for the day.An orange alert usually indicates heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning.Also read | Central team begins tour of flood-hit areas of Andhra amid rainsMeanwhile, IMD also said that a cyclonic circulation lies over the Comorin area. Under the influence of this, along with the strong northeasterly winds prevailing over Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast, light to moderate fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, Lakshadweep area, IMD said. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over south coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam and Rayalaseema is expected during the next three days. The rainfall is forecast to decrease thereafter, according to the weather bureau.The reduction in rainfall will come as a much-needed reprise to the two southern states that have been battered by continuous rain in the past few days. Earlier this week, the Andhra Pradesh government said as many as 44 people lost their lives due to the floods in the state while 16 more people remained missing, news agency ANI reported.In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin tweeted that Chennai witnessed over 1,000mm rains in a single month for only the fourth time in the past 200 years, citing experts. He thanked key workers involved in relief works in the state and also urged officials to remain alert as more rainfall has been predicted in the coming days.For Monday, the IMD has issued orange alerts to Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, YSR Kadapa, and Anantapuramu districts in Andhra Pradesh and Kanyakumari, Thirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts in Tamil Nadu and the Idukki district in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-south-andhra-pradesh-north-tamil-nadu-coastal-districts-101638069497623.html
28-11-2021||India||Counting of votes for Tripura civic polls on amid enhanced security||Counting of votes for Tripura civic polls started at 8am on Sunday amid tight security provided by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), state police and Tripura State Rifles. The civic polls were conducted on 222 out of the total 334 seats on November 25 with 81.54% voter turnout. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has already been declared winner on the remaining 112 seats that were uncontested by other parties. In the remaining 222 seats, as many as 785 contestants are in the fray after 36 candidates withdrew their nominations. The elections were fought mainly between the three parties - the BJP, the Trinamool Congress and the CPI(M).“ The counting of votes in connection with the election to the municipal and Nagar Panchayats 2021 for 6 Nagar Panchayats, 7 Municipal Councils and the Agartala Municipal Corporation will be conducted in 13 counting centers all over the state. In this regard adequate police arrangement has been made for each counting centre. For maintenance of law & order during counting of votes, three-tier security arrangement has been made for each counting centre by deploying CAPF as well as State Police and Tripura State Rifles,” said a statement issued by Tripura police on Saturday evening. Also Read: Tripura man kills his family, cop with a shovelSoon after the polling, opposition Communist Part of India (Marxist) alleged large scale booth capturing and violence during the exercise and demanded that polls in five municipal bodies and parts of three others were countermanded and conducted afresh,or else, they would boycott counting in the five municipal bodies. The Trinamool Congress also alleged booth capturing and demanded conduct of fresh civic polls. The BJP, however, said it was confident that the counting will be done peacefully and appealed to its supporters to resist any attempt to stir unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-of-votes-for-tripura-civic-polls-on-amid-enhanced-security-101638069677122.html
28-11-2021||India||Freshers' party turns Covid-19 super-spreader in Karnataka, at least 281 infected||At a time when the entire world is ill at ease over Omicron—the new variant of the coronavirus said to be capable of rapid transmissibility and mutations—a college party-turned-super spreader event in Karnataka has drawn sharp criticism from all quarters.Around 281 individuals, who either attended the party or were infected via people who did, have so far tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), making the event the first “super spreader” ever since the second wave of the pandemic broke out.However, the situation is not dire just in Karnataka; several other states have also reported a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in recent days.Here's a brief summary of the latest situation:Karnataka: Freshers' party turns into ‘super spreader’ event, infects 281The freshers' party, held 10 days ago at the SDM Medical College in Dharwar city – about 450km from Bengaluru – has now turned into a super spreader incident, according to a report by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan. Initially, 66 students and staff who attended the party were found infected with the virus; however, the number of cases directly or indirectly ranging from this event has now gone up to 281.According to the district collector, the Covid-19 test reports of as many as 1,822 suspected patients are yet to arrive. Meanwhile, the medical college has sealed two of its hostels and shut its premises for the weekend.Rajasthan: 12 school children test positive for Covid-19As many as 12 kids at a private school in Rajasthan's Jaipur were found infected with Covid-19 last Tuesday. Notably, 19 children have so far been reported to be infected with the virus across the state ever since the schools reopened from November 15 with full capacity. Moreover, Covid-19 claimed the life of a two-and-a-half-year-old boy on November 17, the first such death in the state after nearly three months.Punjab: Covid-19 spreads to government schoolsAs many as 14 students at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Punjab's Hoshiarpur district were found infected with the coronavirus earlier this month. Within a week 13 others students of another government school tested positive for Covid-19 as well.Both these schools have been shut down and the infected students isolated. The Hoshiarpur district collector also said that similar tests are being conducted across nearby villages, too, to ascertain the extent of the spread of the infection.Odisha: 56 infected at government medical collegeAround 56 students and staff members at one of the major medical colleges in Odisha’s Sambalpur have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Five other patients were also found on the campus of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Science and Research on Friday. Several hostels and staff quarters on the college campus have been now made into cantonment and buffer zones to stem the tide of the infection.Twenty-six students of the Government (SSD) Girls' High School in the state's Chamakpur region under the Mayurbhanj district also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “The situation is under control and is being monitored by our medical team. The health condition of the students is stable,” Rupavanoo Mishra, Mayurbhanj’s chief medical officer, told the ANI news agency.At least 53 students of a girls’ high school in Sundargarh district tested positive for Covid-19 on November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freshers-party-turns-covid-19-super-spreader-in-karnataka-at-least-281-infected-101638064019723.html
28-11-2021||India||World's tallest railway bridge pier to come up in Manipur||The Indian Railways is constructing the world's tallest bridge pier in Manipur which is a part of 111 km long Jiribam-Imphal railway project.The ambitious project in Manipur is part of the 111 km long Jiribam-Imphal railway line to connect the capital of Manipur with the broad gauge network of the country.The bridge, which is being built at a pier height of 141 metres, will surpass the existing record of 139 meter of Mala - Rijeka viaduct, Montenegro in Europe."With the completion of the project, the 111 km of distance will be covered in 2-2.5 hours. Presently, the distance between Jiribam-Imphal (NH-37) is 220 km, which took about 10-12 hours of travelling. After the construction, the bridge crossing Noney valley will become the world's highest pier bridge," Sandeep Sharma, Chief Engineer of the project told ANI.The Indian Railways is constructing the world's tallest bridge pier in Manipur which is a part of 111 km long Jiribam-Imphal railway project.The ambitious project in Manipur is part of the 111 km long Jiribam-Imphal railway line to connect the capital of Manipur with the broad gauge network of the country.The bridge, which is being built at a pier height of 141 metres, will surpass the existing record of 139 meter of Mala - Rijeka viaduct, Montenegro in Europe."With the completion of the project, the 111 km of distance will be covered in 2-2.5 hours. Presently, the distance between Jiribam-Imphal (NH-37) is 220 km, which took about 10-12 hours of travelling. After the construction, the bridge crossing Noney valley will become the world's highest pier bridge," Sandeep Sharma, Chief Engineer of the project told ANI.|#+|He further said that the work on the bridge will be completed by December 2023."The first phase which extends for 12 km has already been commissioned. nearly 98 per cent of the work is complete on the second phase and by February 2022, it will be ready. The third phase from Khongsang to Tupul will be completed by November 2022. The fourth and the last phase of the bridge which extends from Tupul to Imphal valley, will be completed by December 2023," he said.The official also informed that the 111 km project consists of 61 per cent of tunnels.According to the Chief Engineer, the total anticipated cost of the bridge is ₹374 crore.Speaking about the hurdles that are being faced in the construction of the bridge, Sharma said, "Landslides often occur on NH-37 during monsoon, which is the only route to this place. From April to October, there is immense rainfall here. During that time, it is difficult to work here. There are also some problems related to insurgency, which creates a problem sometimes."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worlds-tallest-railway-bridge-pier-to-come-up-in-manipur-101638058848881.html
28-11-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi to address 83rd edition of monthly radio programme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the 83rd edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, on Sunday, according to updates posted by his office on Twitter.The radio programme is usually aired on the last Sunday, and on November 28, too, the tradition will continue with the programme being broadcast on the entire network of the All India Radio (AIR), Doordarshan, and also on the AIR News and mobile app.“Tune in at 11 AM tomorrow. #MannKiBaat,” tweeted Prime Minister Modi from his official handle on the microblogging website a day ago.In his last Mann Ki Baat address to the nation in October, the Prime Minister credited India's healthcare workers for making the nationwide inoculation campaign against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a success and also for crossing the significant milestone of administering one billion vaccine doses.In the 82nd edition of his monthly radio programme, Modi said the success of the vaccination drive demonstrated India’s capability and the power of joint effort.“Our healthcare workers through their hard work and determination have set a new example,” he had said. “I knew that they would leave no stone unturned in vaccinating people…After administering 100 crore vaccine doses, the country is moving ahead with a new energy and vigour.”The 83rd edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday comes in the backdrop of rising global concerns regarding omicron, a new variant of the coronavirus first detected in South Africa, that has alarmed world governments due to its rapidly mutating and highly infectious nature.On Saturday, PM Modi chaired a key meeting with top government officials to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India and the nationwide vaccination process to stem the course of the pandemic.Also Read | PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officialsNo cases of the omicron variant of the coronavirus have, however, been reported in India yet, according to the central government, although concerns still run high. The central government has added several countries – including South Africa, Hong Kong and Bostwana – to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on entry, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-to-address-83rd-edition-of-monthly-radio-programme-today-101638060174164.html
28-11-2021||India||Ahead of Parliament's winter session, PM Modi to chair all-party meet today||Ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session on Monday, the Narendra Modi-led central government has called an all-party meeting, to be chaired by the Prime Minister, on Sunday to discuss the agenda for the session and other important businesses.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chairman of the Upper House of Parliament, has convened a meeting of Rajya Sabha floor leaders in the evening to discuss the proceedings of the Winter Session.Also Read | Key Bills likely to be tabled during winter session of ParliamentSuch meetings are often convened to ensure smooth functioning of the House ahead of the commencement of the actual Parliament session.The opening day proceedings of the seventh session of the 17th Lok Sabha will be quite significant politically, this time since the central government is set to introduce The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 – all-important draft legislation to withdraw the three contentious agricultural laws that spurned the year-long protests by farmers' unions at the border points of Delhi.However, even though the bill to repeal the three contentious laws has been approved by the Union cabinet and will likely pass the Lok Sabha in the forthcoming Winter Session, it might not be enough to appease the protesting farmers, who still demand guaranteed prices for crops – a minimum support price (MSP) for their harvests.Marking one year of “dedication, fight, and commitment” with respect to the farmers' protests, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said earlier this week that guaranteed MSP still remains one of the key demands for the movement and as such, the decisions taken by the government in the upcoming Parliament session will influence the future of the farmers' struggle.Meanwhile, the Opposition, too, is adamant to discuss the bill in the House to corner the government over the farm issues. The Congress has issued three-line whips in both the Houses, asking party MPs to be present on Monday.The party also plans to hold a meeting with other opposing parties an hour before the winter session begins to work unitedly in raising “critical matters of peoples’ concerns”, and to finalise the strategy for both Houses to highlight the “failure of the central government, especially on three farm laws” and rising inflation and others burning issues.Also Read | Ahead of Parliament’s winter session, VP Naidu urges lawmakers to rethink before disrupting HouseNotably, the bill to remove the three farm laws, that is to be introduced in the upcoming Winter Session, states: “To enable the farmers to sell their produce at higher prices and benefit from technological improvements, farmers have been provided access to agriculture markets which will help them increase their income. With this objective three farm laws...were enacted, as a part of the government's endeavour to improve the condition of farmers including small and marginal farmers.”It also says that even though “only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the farm laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums”. Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to farmers, new avenues were provided for the trade of their produce, the proposed legislation states.The Winter Session is set to start on Monday, November 29, and will work till December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-parliament-s-winter-session-pm-modi-to-chair-all-party-meet-today-101638056175886.html
28-11-2021||NA||India revises guidelines for international passengers amid Omicron alarm||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:India makes negative RT-PCR test report, 14-day travel details mandatory for international passengers from Dec 1The Union health ministry has revised guidelines for international arrivals in India which will come into effect from December 1. Under the revised guidelines, international passengers entering India have to submit 14-days travel details and upload negative RT-PCR test report on Air Suvidha portal before the journey.Travellers from 'countries at-risk' will need to take the Covid test post-arrival and wait for results at the airport, according to health ministry guidelines.If tested negative, they have to undergo home quarantine for seven days followed by a re-test on the eighth day. If the test again yields a negative result, they will have to further self-monitor for the next seven days.“Travellers from countries excluding those 'countries at risk' will be allowed to leave airport and shall self-monitor health for 14 days' post arrival. A sub-section (5% of total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival,” the guidelines state. Read full story hereTejashwi says Lalu Yadav's sugar level fluctuatingRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav said that his father and party chief Lalu Prasad was taken to AIIMS, Delhi after he complained of fever and weakness. The Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly said that Lalu Yadav's sugar level is fluctuating.Indians can leave Israel as long as flights are available, says Israeli AmbassadorIsraeli Ambassador to India Naor Gilon said that Indians can leave Israel as long as flights are available. Amid tightening travel restrictions over the Omicron variant, Gilon said only permanent residents can enter Israel."So Indians who have been working, living, studying in Israel already can come in, no problem with that," he added.After BJP sweeps Tripura civic polls, PM Modi says 'clear message' from peopleThe people of Tripura have given a clear message - that they prefer politics of good governance. I would like to thank them for the unequivocal support to @BJP4Tripura. These blessings give us greater strength to work for the welfare of each and every person in Tripura.Magnitude-7.5 earthquake strikes northern PeruThe US Geological Survey said a strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.5 has struck northern Peru. While the magnitude was extremely strong, the 112-kilometre depth could reduce damage and casualties, reported Associated Press. The epicenter was of the quake was 42 kilometers north northwest of the coastal city of Barranca.BJP sweeps Tripura civic body polls; TMC, CPI(M) fail to open account in Agartala Municipal CorporationThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has swept the civic body elections in Tripura, winning all the seats of the 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), the state election commission declared. The opposition Trinamool Congress and Communist Party of India (Marxist) failed to open their account in the AMC.Meeting of NDA parties' floor leaders in both Houses begins at ParliamentThe meeting of NDA parties' floor leaders in both Houses began after the conclusion of the BJP Parliamentary Executive Committee meeting at Parliament in New Delhi.Karnataka govt suggests postponing all social & cultural, academic events in educational institutionsKarnataka government has suggested educational institutions postpone all social, cultural, and academic events for two months over Covid clusters in some districts.PM Modi condoles deaths in Nadia road accident, prays for recovery of injured"Extremely pained by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Nadia, West Bengal. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi tweeted.Union health secy asks all states to boost containment, vaccination after Omicron alarmUnion Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to all States/UTs over the Omicron variant of Covid-19, asks them to enforce intensive containment and active surveillance measures and also increase coverage of vaccination.All-party meeting convened ahead of Parliament winter sessionPM Modi chairs the all-party meeting convened by the government today, ahead of winter session of the Parliament.Earthquake of 5.1 magnitude jolts PeruAn earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 jolted 28 km west of Callao, Peru at 0632 GMT on Sunday, according to the US Geological Survey.The epicenter, with a depth of 64.45 km, was initially determined to be at 12.0305 degrees south latitude and 77.3749 degrees west longitude, news agency ANI reported, quoting Xinhua.Karnataka makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra, KeralaKarnataka government has issued guidelines for travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala. “Production of RT-PCR negative report (irrespective of vaccination status) not older than 72 hours at entry point is mandatory for those arriving from Kerala & Maharashtra. Students who have arrived from Kerala in last 15 days to undergo mandatory RT-PCR test,” the government said.Maldives bans travellers from 7 African nations over Omicron Covid variantMaldives said it was barring travellers from seven African countries from Sunday over concerns about the new Omicron variant of COVID-19, reported Reuters.Travellers will not be allowed into Maldives from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia, Lesotho and Eswatini, its health ministry said in a statement.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai to chair high-level meet over air pollutionDelhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a high-level meeting on Monday to review air pollution situation in the capital, news agency PTI quoted officials.BJP steers Tripura civic polls, wins 29 out of 51 wardsBJP has won from 29 wards out of 51 wards bagging majority in Agartala Municipal Corporation, as per State Election CommissionTripura civic polls: BJP wins 8 municipal bodies, leads in remaining 6The BJP made a clean sweep in eight municipal bodies and are leading in rest six civic bodies.The saffron party got 58,821 votes in Agartala Municipal Corporation while Trinamool Congress is in the second position with 22,295 votes and CPM in the third position with 15,960 votes.Mamata Banerjee condoles deaths in Nadia accident, assures assistance to kinWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee offers condolences on the loss of lives in the Nadia road accident."Government of West Bengal will extend every necessary assistance and support to the kin of the victims," she says.Israel closes borders to all foreigners over Omicron outbreak, reports AFPIsrael closes borders to all foreigners over Omicron variant of Covid-19, reports news agency AFP.UPTET 2021 cancelled due to paper leakCiting "unavoidable reasons", Uttar Pradesh-Teachers Eligibility Test (UP-TET)-2021 examination has been cancelled following information of paper leak. UP government will conduct the exam again within a month. Investigation to be conducted by UP STF, basic education minister Satish Dwivedi announced.He said that fresh date for the test would soon be announced.Omicron coronavirus variant makes its way to Australia, 2 confirmed cases in SydneyTwo cases of the new omicron variant of coronavirus disease reported in Sydney, Australia.Mann Ki Baat: ‘Bliss of Vrindavan is infinite, attracts people from around world’, says Modi“Vrindavan attracts people from all around the world. No one can fathom the bliss of Vrindavan, its infinite,” PM Modi said. Follow live updates hereMann Ki Baat: PM Modi to address the nation at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation in the 83rd episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' at 11am today.Tripur civic polls: BJP wins wards 18, 35 of Agartala Municipal CorporationThe BJP's Tushar Kanti Bhattacharjee and Abhishek Dutta win from Ward number 35 and Ward number 18 of Agartala Municipal Corporation respectively, reports ANI.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to hold Covid-19 review meeting today, reports ANIMaharashtra chief minsiter Uddhav Thackeray will hold a Covid-19 review meeting today with all Divisional Commissioners and Collectors.India reports 8,774 new Covid-19 cases, deaths up by 621India reported a daily rise of 8,774 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the country's tally to 3,45,72,523. A total of 621 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, while the active cases dropped significantly.Pakistani national detained for crossing over to India handed over as goodwill gestureOne Pakistani national who inadvertently crossed over into Indian territory was handed over to Pakistan Rangers by BSF on 27th November as a goodwill gesture and on humanitarian grounds. The man had crossed international border (IB) and was detained on 26th November, BSF Punjab Frontier told news agency ANI.25 students of Odisha school test positive for Covid-19Twenty five students of Govt (SSD) Girls' High School, Chamakpur, Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19.The situation is under control & is being monitored by our medical team. The health condition of the students is stable, said Dr Rupavanoo Mishra,Chief District Medical Officer, Mayurbhanj.Union parliamentary affairs minister to meet floor leaders at 9:30am todayAhead of the winter session of Parliament, a meeting of Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi with floor leaders of political parties is scheduled to take place in Parliament at 9:30 am today.The Winter Session will commence on Monday, November 29.No fog conditions in Delhi today: IMDNo fog conditions reported at 5:30am today. Shallow fog with visibility in the range of 500-1000m is being reported in Delhi. Moderate fog with a visibility of 200m reported in Lucknow and Gaya, states India Meteorological Department.Kisan mahapanchayat: Farmers to discuss MSP demand, other issues in Mumbai today“In the 'Kisaan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat' (to be held today in Mumbai), all farm-related issues including demand for all crop MSP, implementation of Swaminathan report, unemployment and other issues will be discussed,” says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait.BSF, Assam police recover Yaba tablets worth ₹12.96 crore in KarimganjBorder Security Force (BSF) and Assam Police apprehended one person and recovered 2.59 lakh Yaba tablets from him in a joint operation in Karimganj district of the state on Sunday. According to BSF, these tablets are worth ₹12.96 crores in the market.Himachal Pradesh CM announces new pay scale for state govt employees“New pay scales for the state govt employees will be effective from January 1, 2016. The pay of January 2022 will be payable in February 2022 as per revised pay scales,” announced Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.“All the pensioners and family pensioners will be given revised pension and other pensionary benefits with effect from January 1, 2016,” he added.At 141 metres, world's tallest railway bridge pier coming up in ManipurThe Indian Railways is constructing the world's tallest bridge pier in Manipur which is a part of 111km long Jiribam-Imphal railway project.The ambitious project will connect the capital of Manipur with the broad gauge network of the country. The bridge, which is being built at a pier height of 141 metres, will surpass the existing record of 139 meter of Mala - Rijeka viaduct, Montenegro in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-28-2021-101638056859480.html
28-11-2021||India||HC upholds right to dissent while rejecting book ban plea||The right to dissent is the essence of a vibrant democracy, the Delhi high court has said in its order dismissing a plea to ban Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s book. The freedom to express ideas freely cannot be permitted to be overshadowed, the court of justice Yashwant Varma said in its order released late Friday evening.On Thursday, the high court had dismissed a plea by a lawyer Vineet Jindal seeking a ban on Khurshid’s book, titled Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times, which had triggered outcry from certain quarters, particularly over the fact that the author had compared a “robust version” of Hindutva to the jihadist Islam of terror groups such as the Islamic State (IS) and the Boko Haram.Justice Varma said that the “fundamental and precious right guaranteed by our Constitution can neither be restricted nor denied merely on the perceived apprehension of the view being unpalatable or disagreeable to some”.“The right to dissent or to have and express a contrarian view with respect to current affairs or historical events are the essence of a vibrant democracy….The freedom to freely express ideas and opinions cannot be permitted to be overshadowed by the ominous cloud of being non-conformist,” the judge said in his order.The court said that “a democracy governed by the rule of law would be placed in serious peril if creative voices were stifled or intellectual freedom suppressed or suffocated”.“In the considered opinion of this court, the freedom of speech and expression as conferred and guaranteed by Article 19 of the Constitution must be zealously protected by Courts unless it is conclusively established that the work would fall foul of the constitutional or statutory restrictions on the exercise of that right which apply…The freedoms guaranteed by Article 19 are not liable to be freely expressed only if they fall in line with a majoritarian view,” the court said in a six-page order.While rejecting the plea, the court quoted Voltaire and said, “While I wholly disagree of what you say, I will defend to the death your right to say it.”The petitioner had said that the book violates “the fundamental right guaranteed under articles 19 and 21” of the Constitution. Other than seeking a ban on the sale, purchase and all forms of circulation, the petition also asked the court to ensure that it is not published henceforth in any form – neither print nor digital.On Thursday, the court had observed that what it could do if people are feeling so sensitive.“Ask people not to buy the book or read it. Tell people it is badly authored, read something better”…“Why don’t you tell people not to buy the book? What can we do if people are feeling so sensitive? No one is asking them to read it,” the judge had remarked.Khurshid’s house was vandalised in Nainital in Uttarakhand after the release of the book, with parts of it set on fire by mobs. Kumaun police had booked 21 people in connection with the incident.Khurshid’s book on the Ayodhya verdict was released last week. It explored the apex court’s landmark judgment on the Ayodhya dispute.On November 17, a trial court had refused give interim relief to stop publication, circulation and sale of the book based on a complaint by Hindu Sena president Vishnu Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-right-to-dissent-while-rejecting-book-ban-plea-101638052460459.html
28-11-2021||India||Can India shape the regional, global geopolitical landscape?||The difference between a major power and a smaller player is that the former is able to shape the environment within which it operates. The latter must take the geopolitical landscape it confronts as a given and to which it must constantly adjust the best it can. In one case, there is a degree of independent agency. In the other, very little.Since its independence in 1947, India has always tried to position itself as a shaper rather than as a taker. It has not always been successful, but it has never given up on its aspiration to be one of the architects of the evolving regional and global geopolitical landscape. The ability to be a shaper depends upon where India stands in the metrics of power, that is, its economic and military capabilities, and in today’s world, its technological prowess. It also depends upon the quality of its diplomacy, or the ability to mobilise its available power to persuade others to follow its lead. Where does India stand in this respect?For emerging powers like India, it is a period of significant change, even disorder, that throws up spaces for expanding one’s geopolitical footprint and enhancing influence. But there are also risks because one’s existing zones of influence may be encroached upon by other powers taking advantage of the same flux in interstate relations. For India, the subcontinent is obviously the primary locus of influence and its ability to shape a larger regional or global domain will depend upon its success in managing and consolidating its periphery. India is both a continental power and a maritime power. Both will need attention.While we live in a world of extraordinary and unprecedented flux, the opportunities to expand India’s strategic space and interests outweigh the risks. There are elevated risks which must be dealt with, but they should not induce a defensive mindset, or worse, a siege mentality. Nor should optical agility substitute for substantive, intensive and sometimes painstaking work to locate promising opportunities, and leverage them to India’s advantage. Much of this must be done without the pressure to win domestic or foreign acclaim.India is a participant in several fora of major powers like the G20, the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), the SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization), the Quad (composed of India, the US, Japan and Australia), and is an active player at the United Nations. These are platforms that contribute to the shaping of the emerging regional and global orders in multiple domains.India should make best use of them to shape emerging global governance regimes conducive to its own interests. Its current participation in the various norm-setting working groups and informal mechanisms associated with these platforms is thin and needs to be greatly enhanced in numbers and quality . This is the ground zero where the new global order is being shaped.How should India balance its continental vis-à-vis maritime interests? It is clear that contested land borders with hostile adversaries, China and Pakistan, demand a posture of holding the line, deploying capabilities that make it costly for them to engage in provocative behaviour and hostile action. We are currently not in a position to reverse the occupation of Indian territory that has already taken place.We have a significant advantage as a maritime nation with open seas to the west, south and east of India. This is the natural space for expanding our geopolitical footprint. Holding the line in the north and west and expanding in the maritime domain all around the peninsula should be our overall strategy. Our resource allocation for defence must reflect this strategic choice.If India remains anchored in the subcontinent, it cannot aspire to an optimum regional or global role. But the neighbourhood first policy has not been backed by a major investment of human and material resources. Even though it is difficult to insulate the neighbourhood policy from domestic politics, it is imperative that this is pursued with diligence. A broad political consensus should be evolved on this score.With China intruding into the subcontinent with its larger resources, India has to make a greater commitment towards realizing a densely interconnected and economically integrated subcontinent with India as its engine of growth. India has assets in terms of cultural affinity, proximity and ability to provide public goods, which China cannot match. Pakistan will eventually have to be part of this project. Its co-option into a Chinese-dominated Central Asian system is not in India’s long-term interest.In bilateral and multilateral negotiations, India is often painted as a perennial naysayer and an obstructionist. On other occasions, it is flattered by being cast in the role of a critical player in whose hands rests the fate of the world. Both these stratagems are designed to put India under intense psychological pressure, generating a compulsion not to be seen as a spoiler, or conversely to be tempted into playing a larger than life role on the international stage.We must not fall prey to this cynical game. We should determine what our interests are and then decide how we package them for the conduct of our diplomacy. The package must not become a substitute for substance.These are some of the ways in which we should endeavour to shape the world around us.Shyam Saran is a former Foreign Secretary and a Senior Fellow at CPR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-india-shape-the-regional-global-geopolitical-landscape-101638048987763.html
28-11-2021||India||25% of India’s population still poor, says Niti Aayog||A quarter of India’s population is still poor, according to the first National Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) released by the NITI Aayog onThursday, but the situation has improved since then, officials said.Bihar has the highest proportion of people who are poor (51.91%), followed by Jharkhand (42.16%), Uttar Pradesh (37.79%) and Madhya Pradesh (36.65%), the index showed. Kerala, Goa, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu and Punjab have registered the lowest poverty rate among all states and are at the bottom of the index.On Saturday, the NITI Aayog officials said that the index is based on the National Health Family Survey for 2015-16 (NFHS-4) data and preliminary findings from the NFHS-5 suggests improvement in some of the key indicators of the index.India ranks 66 out of 109 countries in the Global MPI 2021.The national MPI 2021 has been developed by NITI Aayog in consultation with 12 ministries and in partnership with state governments and index publishing agencies – Oxford University’s Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative, and United Nations Development Programme.The national MPI-2021 is a measure to define poverty based on assessment of three crucial parameters – health, education and standard of living – on 12 indicators such as nutrition, years of schooling, access to cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, etc.Bihar has the highest number of malnourished people, while Uttar Pradesh topped the list of state and Union territories in child and adolescent mortality, the index showed.NFHS-4 data has been used to derive an idea of baseline multidimensional poverty to know the situation on ground before the full rollout of various central government schemes, the NITI Aayog official said.“NFHS-4 precedes the full roll out of (central government’s) flagship schemes on housing, drinking water, sanitation, electricity, cooking fuel, financial inclusion, and other major efforts towards improving school attendance, nutrition, mother and child health, etc. Hence, it serves as a useful source for measuring the situation at baseline, that is, before large-scale roll out of nationally important schemes,” NITI Aayog said in a statement on Saturday.Preliminary findings of NFHS-5 show improvement in several indicators, officials said. For instance, in Bihar, there is significant reduction in deprivation in electricity. As per the MPI-2021, 39.86% of households have no electricity, but as per the NFHS-5 provisional estimate, it has significantly reduced to 3.70%.“The NFHS-5 data suggest improvement in access to clean cooking fuel, sanitation, and electricity which translates to reduction in deprivation. These improvements indicate an overall direction of significant reduction in the incidence of multidimensional poverty in the forthcoming index based on NFHS 5 (2019-20) household micro data. The national MPI based on NFHS-5 of the data period 2019-20 will be computed when the unit level micro data for the same is released by IIPS and ministry of health and family welfare next year,” NITI Aayog said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-of-india-s-population-still-poor-says-niti-aayog-101638041167194.html
28-11-2021||India||Woman raped, killed in Kurla, 2 arrested: Mumbai police||Mumbai: Two people have been arrested for the rape and murder of a woman whose decomposed body was found on the terrace of a vacant residential building in Kurla, Mumbai police said on Saturday. “The two accused are being questioned. Both were known to the woman,” police said.The body was found on the top of the 13-storey building on Thursday evening by some boys who had arrived there to shoot a video, police added. An officer from Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station told HT, “Soon after they discovered the body, the boys informed the police control room after which we were intimated and a team was sent to the spot.” The deceased woman appears to be between 20 and 24 years of age, the officer said.“After completing the formalities, an accidental death report was registered and the body was sent for post-mortem. The autopsy report issued on Friday revealed that the victim was sexually assaulted and murdered by slitting her throat with a sharp weapon,” the officer said, adding that they are now checking if any person matching her description was reported missing in the nearby areas. A case under sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered, police said. The officer said, “We have also circulated the photo of the deceased woman in the area and to other police stations.” The officer said they are also checking CCTV footage of the nearby areas to ascertain if any camera has captured the movement of the deceased. A senior police officer said the case has been solved and both the accused were in custody..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-raped-killed-in-kurla-2-arrested-mumbai-police-101638041039253.html
28-11-2021||India||Aircel Maxis case: Delhi court summons P Chidambaram, son Karti||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Saturday summoned former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti after taking cognizance of the separate charge sheets filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Aircel Maxis case.The case, which is being probed by the two central agencies, relates to the alleged irregularities in the grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval in the Aircel-Maxis deal in 2006 when Chidambaram was the finance minister during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. The CBI and the ED have alleged that as the finance minister, Chidambaram granted approval to the deal beyond his capacity, which benefitted certain persons and he received kickbacks in return. Special Judge MK Nagpal noted that there was sufficient evidence to summon Chidambaram and the other accused in the corruption and money-laundering cases.“Therefore, in view of the above and even despite pendency of some further investigation on certain aspects, as stated in the complaints, and non-execution of the pending LRs [letters rogatory] , this court is of the considered opinion that sufficient grounds exist to take congnizance and for proceeding further against all the fourteen accused persons being prosecuted through these complaints for commission of the offence of money-laundering as defined by Section 3 of the PMLA and made punishable by Section 4 of the said Act,” the judge said.Chidambaram’s counsel could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircel-maxis-case-delhi-court-summons-p-chidambaram-son-karti-101638040739293.html
28-11-2021||India||Ahead of elections, Kejriwal reaches out to Punjab’s protesting teachers||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday joined a protest of contractual teachers in Mohali and promised to fulfil their demand if his party wins next year’s state elections.At least 13,000 teachers have been protesting across the state demanding regularisation of their jobs. Kejriwal, who arrived in the state on Saturday, said they will resolve the issues faced by the teachers on priority.“I promise you that when our government comes, we will regularise your jobs. Give your younger brother a chance and if I fail, you can show me the door. We will improve the (standard of) education in Punjab,” he said. Kejriwal said that his government improved the education system in Delhi and addressed the issues of teachers there and would do so in Punjab also if elected in next year’s state elections.The AAP chief also targeted state education Minister Pargat Singh over his remark that Punjab had the best schools. Kejriwal asked Pargat to come and ask the protesting teachers how good the state schools were. “They will tell their pain and then you will come to know how good the Punjab schools are. If you do not understand the problem and then how will you find a solution for it,” said KejriwalAAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann, who accompanied Kejriwal to the protest, said the Punjab government was ignoring the legitimate demands of the teachers.“Teachers are the builders of the nation. It is unfortunate that they have to sit on protest for their demands. I am the son of a teacher so I understand your pain. The AAP is with you.”Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi hit out at Kejriwal, accusing him of making “irresponsible utterances to pursue his vested interests by spreading misinformation about non-implementation of recent pro-people decisions taken by his government.”In the 2017 Punjab assembly polls, the Aam Aadmi Party emerged as the second-largest party, winning 20 seats in 117-member assembly.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-elections-kejriwal-reaches-out-to-punjab-s-protesting-teachers-101638040439176.html
28-11-2021||India||Four health dept officials to monitor screening at international airports in TN||Chennai Tamil Nadu has intensified precautionary measures at all four international airports in the state in the wake of the detection of the new COVID-19 virus variant ‘Omicron’ in South Africa and has appointed four health department officials to personally monitor the situation, State Minister Ma Subramanian said here on Saturday. These officials would be stationed in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli aiports, the Minister for Medical and Family Welfare said here. “The new virus variant Omicron has been detected in five countries -- South Africa, Botswana, Israel, Belgium, Hong Kong (China). Several countries are taking preventive measures to protect themselves from this new age virus.We too have stepped up preventive measures in a full-fledged manner at international airports (of the State)”, he told reporters. As part of this, four health department officials were appointed today and they would be present in these airports to monitor the screening measures, he said. Subramanian, along with health department principal secretary J Radhakrishnan and senior officials, inspected the screening procedures at the airport here on Saturday. “As far as Chennai airport is concerned, passengers arriving from South Africa, Brazil, China, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Israel undergo intense monitoring, including thermal screening. As many as 99 countries have recognized the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. Verification of their vaccination reports are also done here”, he said. Overseas passengers on arrival undergo RT-PCR tests at the airport, he said, adding that from October 21 till date 55,090 people were tested, of whom three were COVID-19 positive. Reiterating that “vaccinating oneself” and “wearing a facial mask” are the weapons against COVID-19, he said 78 lakh people were yet to receive the second dose of vaccination in Tamil Nadu. “People should understand the necessity to get vaccinated. Reports from neighbouring Karnataka have said that 281 students tested positive in one particular area. Also in Tiruvallur district, five school students tested positive. These incidents show that the virus is present”, he said. Subramanian said the department would conduct the 12th Mega Vaccination Camp on Sunday through 50,000 camps. “We have 1.12 crore vaccines as stock and even today, the Centre informed us that it would send 12 lakh additional doses. People should make use of the opportunity and get vaccinated. They should always wear a mask to protect themselves”, he said. To a query about Tamil film icon Kamal Haasan testing COVID-19 positive after returning from the U.S.A., he said the actor has received both doses of the vaccine and was in good health. “Very soon he (Kamal Haasan) will be discharged”, the Minister said. PTI VIJ APR APR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-health-dept-officials-to-monitor-screening-at-international-airports-in-tn-101638040319254.html
28-11-2021||India||Three die in Tamil Nadu; IMD warns of heavy rainfall on Sunday||Three more people died on Saturday in rain-related incidents in Tamil Nadu, taking the toll to eight since November 25, as monsoon rains continued to batter several regions of the state, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy to very heavy downpour in several districts till Sunday.While Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin inspected flood-affected localities in Chennai, minister for disaster and revenue KKSSR Ramachandran said 11,239 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas and accommodated in relief centres across the state. National Disaster Response Force units have been deployed in Chengelpet and Kancheepuram districts.Addressing a press conference in Chennai on Saturday, Ramachandran said the worst-hit districts included Ariyalur, Tirunelveli and Tirupur.On Saturday, Chennai recorded 2.5 cm rainfall till 5.30pm, with several localities continue to witness waterlogging and authorities cutting power supply at a few places as a precaution. Three subways and a few roads were closed due to inundation, a civic official said.“Water has entered my house again. Due to continuous stagnation, my toddler son is sick with a water-borne disease,” said R Mahendra, a resident of Velachery, a low-lying area in Chennai.IMD has sounded ‘red alert’ implying possibility of excess rainfall for Chennai and all coastal districts since Friday. IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rain over Thiruvallur district and heavy to very heavy rain over Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kanchipuram districts till November 28.In the ongoing northeast monsoon, from October 1 till November 27, the state received about 60.33 cm of rainfall as against the usual 34.57 cm for this period, which is 75% in excess, said Ramachandran.Chennai has recorded 71% excess rainfall during the period while its adjoining districts (Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu) have recorded over 88% excess rainfall, the IMD said in a bulletin.Among the districts receiving maximum rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 4.30 pm on Saturday, include Tiruvallur (20cm), Chengalpattu (18cm), Kancheepuram (17cm) and Chennai (10cm).The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is operating more than 750 heavy duty pumps across the city to drain rainwater, a civic official said, adding that the civic body has identified localities that are heavily flooded and in the last 10 days, they have made temporary measures to divert the water to the nearest canals.Southern Thoothukudi district, which received 2.5 cm of rainfall on Thursday, has not received much rainfall in the past two days, but most of the irrigation tanks across the district filling up. “We proactively opened the surplus channel of Vellur tank near Adhichanallur into Thamirabarani river last night (Friday night) so we were able to avoid breach of Kaalvai, Appankulam and Vellur tank which would have otherwise entered habitation,” Thoothukudi collector K Senthil Raj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-die-in-tamil-nadu-imd-warns-of-heavy-rainfall-on-sunday-101638039962486.html
28-11-2021||India||Stalin asks guv to send anti-NEET bill to President||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday urged Governor R N Ravi to forward a Bill, passed by the Assembly to exempt the state from the ambit of NEET and provide for admission to medical courses based on Class XII marks, to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent.Stalin called on Ravi at the Raj Bhavan here and requested him to immediately send the Bill to Kovind so as to get expeditious Presidential assent for it. The Chief Minister was accompanied by Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, Health Minister Ma Subramanian and top government officials, an official release here said. Referring to the meeting between Ravi and Stalin, a Raj Bhavan release also cited discussions on rain and COVID-19 pandemic related initiatives taken up by the government.After it assumed power in May this year, the DMK government got the Bill passed in the backdrop of a Salem based medical aspirant’s death by suicide. On September 13, 2021, the state Assembly passed the TN Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021.The Bill, referring to recommendations of a high-level committee, led by Justice A K Rajan, a retired judge of the Madras High Court said it is to dispense with the requirement of NEET for admission to UG Medical courses.The NEET is not a fair or equitable method of admission since it favoured the rich and elite sections of society, according to the Bill’s preamble. Social groups mostly affected due to NEET were the students of Tamil medium, having rural background of government schools, those having parental income of less than ₹2.5 lakh per annum and the socially depressed and disadvantaged groups like the Most Backward Classes, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, as per the statement of objects of the Bill that quoted the findings of the panel.The Bill is also to protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education and ensure a robust public health care infrastructure across the state, particularly in the rural areas.The panel had concluded that if NEET continued for a few more years, the health care system of Tamil Nadu would be very badly affected and there may not be enough doctors for postings in Primary Health Centres or state-run hospitals and that the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses.Barring the BJP, all other parties in Tamil Nadu are opposed to NEET and this issue became politically sensitive over the years following deaths by suicide of over a dozen medical aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-stalin-urges-governor-to-send-bill-to-exempt-tn-from-neet-to-president-kovind-for-nod-101638038219537.html
28-11-2021||India||Parliament march cancelled as Tomar calls for end of stir||There were signs of a thaw between the government and protesting farmers on Saturday as farm unions suspended their November 29 tractor march to Parliament, hours after agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to farmers call off their stir.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, said it was suspending, till December 4, its plans to hold a demonstration in the national capital to coincide with the winter session of Parliament.The announcement came soon after Tomar requested the farmers to return home “since the government has decided to repeal the farm laws”. The Centre has agreed to decriminalize stubble burning, a pending demand of the protesting farmers, the Union minister said.“The farmers’ demand was to decriminalise stubble burning. The government of India has agreed to this demand,” he said. The burning of farm residue has been a key contributor to the severe air pollution in the national capital region, where several curbs, including a ban on stubble burning, have been imposed.The government is set to move and pass a fresh law in Parliament to repeal its three farm legislations, enacted in September 2020, but farm unions are pressing ahead with a slew of other demands, including a law to guarantee minimum support prices (MSPs) for agricultural produce.In a statement on Saturday, Tomar said that the government has also decided to constitute a panel to discuss the farmers’ demands of crop diversification and “making the MSP system more transparent”.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to constitute a committee to hold discussions on the issue of crop diversification, zero-budget farming and making the MSP system more transparent and effective,” he said.The committee will have representations from farmers, Tomar said, adding that with this their demands on the MSP “stands fulfilled”. MSPs are state-assured floor rates meant to help avoid distress sale.On the farmers’ demand of withdrawal of all criminal cases filed against them during the year-long agitation, Tomar said it was in the domain of state governments. “Looking at the severity of the cases, the state governments have to take a call and the issue of compensation is also to be decided by them,” he said, adding that every state will decide as per their state laws.Stating that there is no justification for the continuation of the agitation after the government announced repeal of the three farm laws, Tomar said: “Therefore, I appeal to all farmers organisations to end the protest ethically and show their big heart. They should return to their respective homes.”The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, has been listed for introduction and passage in Lok Sabha on the first day of the Winter Session on Monday. Tomar will introduce the bill in the house, which was approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.In a televised address on November 19, Prime Minister Modi, “while apologising to the people of the country”, said that the government “could not explain to some of our farmer brothers a truth that was as clear as a flame” about the farm laws.Reacting to the minister’s statement on Saturday, farm leaders said they would wait till December 4 for a response to a letter they have written to Modi, enlisting their demands.“We are suspending the Parliament march on Monday. We had written to the Prime Minister for withdrawal of cases against farmers, allotment of land for building a memorial for farmers who lost their lives (during the protest), suspension of Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union Cabinet over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, along with other issues,” SKM leader Darshan Pal told mediapersons.“We will wait for the government’s response to our letter to the Prime Minister, in which we have listed all our rightful demands. The government must hold talks to sort out all remaining issues,” he said. The farm unions will hold another meeting on December 4, he added.Besides a statutory guarantee for MSP, the farmers want a parcel of land for a memorial to the peasants who died during the protests.They have also sought changes to a proposed electricity bill to keep energy prices cheap for farmers and modifications to an anti-pollution law in force in the national capital region that includes provisions to penalise farmers burning paddy straw.On Saturday, farm leaders reiterated they were not calling of the agitation and want a law guaranteeing MSP for their crops.“We have not called off our agitation. We want a law on MSP and talks on all our demands as soon as possible,” said Rakesh Tikait, a key face of the farmers’ movement.The three laws to be revoked were aimed at easing restrictions on trade in farm produce, allowing food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and laying down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.The farm unions, however, said the legislation would have left them at the mercy of large corporations, eroding their bargaining power.The decision to scrap the laws has come ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.The SKM has also demanded sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son was arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-march-cancelled-as-tomar-calls-for-end-of-stir-101638038041641.html
28-11-2021||India||Asha worker Matilda Kullu who battled casteism, ridicule to save lives and made it to Forbes India list||Bhubaneswar: Had it not been for the efforts of Matilda Kullu, the 45-year-old tribal ASHA worker Odisha’s Sundargarh district featured in the Forbes India W-Power 2021 list along with banker Arundhati Bhattacharya and actress Rasika Duggal, people in her village would be resorting to black magic to cure ailments rather than visit a hospital.Matilda, who was appointed as an Accredited Social Health Activist for Gargadbahal village in Baragaon tehsil of Odisha’s Sundargarh district 15 years ago, did not have it easy when she started work.“People did not think of going to hospital when they fell sick. When I used to advise people to go to hospital, they used to ridicule me. I also had to bear the brunt of casteism,” she said. “It took years of work before I could make people understand the need to visit doctors instead of rushing to the local witchdoctor.”As one of the 47,000-odd ASHA workers in Odisha, Matilda’s hands have always been full with her daily workload comprising doorstep visits for immunization of newborns as well as adolescent girls, antenatal check-up, post-natal check-up, counselling of women on birth preparedness, breastfeeding and complementary feeding, and prevention of common infections, including reproductive tract and sexually transmitted infections.Her day begins at five in the morning, as she rushes to finish household chores, prepare lunch for her family of four, and feed the cattle before she hops on her cycle for doorstep visits. When the pandemic began last year, Matilda’s schedule became more hectic, as she started visiting 50-60 households everyday to check on people suspected of having Covid-19 symptoms.“Everyday I would get out of home and visit families looking for Covid suspects and then inform the local primary health centre,” said Matilda. “People were scared of being taken for tests as there was lot of stigma attached to a Covid patient last year.”Although the job entailed meeting potentially infected people in their homes, a majority of ASHAs were not provided with masks, gloves and sanitisers. After the first wave ebbed and vaccination started, Matilda said she had a tough time convincing villagers to get inoculated.“As I have was working with people in my village for a long time, they listened to me and got vaccinated,” said Matilda, who rues that despite all the hard work she puts in, her earning is a measly ₹4,500. “During the pandemic, the state government had given a one-time incentive of ₹2,000,” she said. “But now that has been withdrawn, and we get just ₹4,500.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asha-worker-matilda-kullu-who-battled-casteism-ridicule-to-save-lives-and-made-it-to-forbes-india-list-101638038039924.html
28-11-2021||India||Tripura man kills his family, cop with a shovel||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing five people, including his two minor daughters and a police officer, and injuring two others with a shovel in Tripura’s Khowai district, officials said on Saturday.According to officials, the incident happened late on Friday night, when the accused, Pradip Debroy, attacked his daughters, Aditi (one) and Mandira (seven), with a shovel in a “fit of aggression”.“In a fit of aggression, he killed his kids and elder brother and two others including a police officer. He was arrested and we are investigating the matter,” a senior police officer said.The accused, a mason, lives with his wife and two daughters at their home in Ramchandraghat area of the district, nearly 50km from the state capital, Agartala, the officials said.Pradip also attacked his elder brother, Amalesh Debroy, 45, killing him on the spot, and his wife, Mala Pal Debroy, who managed to escape, Khowai superintendent of police Kiran Kumar said giving details about the incident.His wife is undergoing treatment at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital in Agartala, he said.“Seeing the accused attack his daughters, his brother came to save them but he received repeated blows of the sharp weapon on different parts of his body leading to death,” news agency ANI quoted Kumar as saying.Pradip then exited his house and “started attacking whoever he found in front of him”, Kumar said. “One Krishna Das who was passing by the Debroy’s house along with his son Karanbir fell prey to his anger,” he said.While Das, 54, died on the spot, his son, Karanbir, 22, sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at GBP hospital, Kumar said.On receipt of the information about the incident, when a police team led by Inspector Satyajit Mallick reached the spot, Debroy attacked him. The police team took Pradip in custody, while Mallick was rushed to the district hospital, officials said.He was referred to GBP hospital, where he died after suffering severe blood loss, the officials said.“We have registered a case,” another senior official said, adding that the motive behind the attacks is “still unclear”. The case was registered under sections 302 (murder), 307(attempt to murder ), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, said the official.The accused was produced in court on Saturday, and does not have any criminal record, the official said.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb condemned the incident. “Deeply shocked at martyrdom of Khowai Police Station second officer Satyajit Mallick during his duty, following an attack of a mad miscreant. I pray for all those and the police officer who died in the incident so that their souls might rest in peace. I extend my condolences to the bereaved family members. I pray to God for speedy recovery of the injured persons,” he tweeted.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-kills-his-family-cop-with-a-shovel-101638038038443.html
28-11-2021||India||Farm laws will be repealed the day Parliament resumes: Rajnath Singh||Asserting that the Bharatiya Janata Party government has always been sympathetic towards farmers, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the three farm laws will be withdrawn on the first day of the winter session of Parliament.“We consider farmers as god. The BJP government has always been sympathetic towards farmers. There was a movement against the three laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a decision to withdraw them,” Singh said. “The day Parliament session begins, the three farm laws will be withdrawn.”Singh was addressing 30,000 BJP polling booth workers in Jaunpur on Saturday as the party gears up for state assembly elections in 2022. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, state BJP secretary Sunil Bansal, and state president Swatantra Dev Singh were present at the meeting, among several other leaders.Recalling the terror attack on Mumbai on November 26, 2008, Singh accused the then Congress government of not taking effective action against terrorism. Ever since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, terrorism was being tackled regularly and effectively, he said.After the terror incidents in Uri and Pulwama, India took strict action against terrorists, sending a message to the entire world that it has the strength to take action across the border to eliminate terror, the defence minister said, referring to the air strike on Pakistani territory in February 2019.India has become a powerful country in the eyes of the world, he said, adding that India has been a country that has never occupied an inch of foreign land. Rather, India has given the message of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) to the whole world, Singh said. However, “if anyone captures even an inch piece of our land, the army will not leave it. Prime Minister Modi has given a free hand to the army,” Singh said.Slamming Akhilesh Yadav, chief of the opposition Samajwadi Party, for his claim that the BJP government didn’t give permission for the Jewar airport, Singh said, “I had passed the proposal of Jewar Airport in 2001 as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Yogi ji is completing that work today.”Singh accused the opposition parties of indulging in politics of division just for the sake of power. BJP takes everyone along, he said. Rather than achieving power by dividing society on the basis of caste and creed, he would instead stay away from such power, minister Singh said.“Farm laws was not the only demand of agitating farmers. MSP is also an issue. After over 600 farmers died the government made farm laws repeal announcement. The opposition kept on asking the government to withdraw the laws and ensure MSP. The SP will continue to support agitating farmers,” said SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-will-be-repealed-the-day-parliament-resumes-rajnath-singh-101638037859487.html
28-11-2021||India||India’s integrity under threat in placed where Hindus are weak: RSS||The British rewrote India’s history and the original needs to be reclaimed, Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Saturday, asserting that Hindutva needs to be strengthened for a stronger society.“Hindu is Bharat, Bharat is Hindu and this needs to be strengthened because the British rewrote our history and changed our original identity,” Bhagwat said while addressing a programme in Gwalior.“The nomads whom the British called criminal and we notified after Independence were workers of saint and seers. They were part of a campaign of giving glory to society. Hindutva cannot be separated from Bharat and Bharat from Hindutva. This thinking made us special but the British came and rewrote the history of India. The British had written that our ancestors were not there before 15 generations. Because there is no Hindu in history means there is no India. Akhand Bharat has broken now,” he added.The country’s partition in 1947 weakened Hindus, Bhagwat said.“When Pakistan was formed, we were not told that we become Bharat and Hindustan; you put another name because they knew that Bharat is Hindu and Hindu is Bharat. Akhand Bharat has been divided where Hindus are weak. Still, if we see the places in India where people are in problem and where the integrity of the country is under threat, those are places where Hindus are weak, where the thought of Hindutva is weak. We have to keep our soul alive, that’s why Mohammad Iqbal said there is something that we never lost our identity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-are-facing-trouble-in-india-only-where-hindus-and-hindutva-weak-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101638037618935.html
28-11-2021||India||Centre awaits expert advice on kids’ inoculation against Covid||India’s health ministry will wait for expert recommendations before inoculating children against Covid-19, according to people familiar with the development, even as the issue was discussed at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. “The health ministry will follow recommendations of scientists examining the issue based on available evidence,” an official present in the meeting said on condition of anonymity. “The Prime Minister did not give any specific advice on the issue.”Modi held a review meeting of all concerned government departments on Covid-19 on Saturday morning.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization is likely to meet next week to discuss key issues, including the matter of vaccinating children against Covid-19 and administering booster doses. “The experts on the panel have been discussing these issues in past meetings, but the decision is ultimately taken based on the quality of evidence, including real-world data, and consensus among the members within the group,” a person aware of the developments said, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, the Central Drugs Laboratory in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh, has cleared for market release 237,530 doses of Zydus Healthcare’s vaccine called ZyCoV-D.On August 20, the Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorization to Zydus’ vaccine. The vaccine has been tested, and approved for restricted use, in anyone aged 12 years and above, clearing the first shot for use in children and adding a sixth inoculation in India’s toolbox to fight the pandemic. The vaccine works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response, and is proven to have an efficacy of 66.6% in phase 3 clinical trial.The central government has placed an order for 10 million doses of the vaccine, at ₹265 per dose. Additionally, ₹93 will be charged as the cost of the needle-free intradermal applicator that is required to administer the shot.The first lot is likely to be provided by the company to the central government next month. The vaccine is to be given on day zero, 28 and 56, as per the schedule shared by the company.NTAGI is working on the protocol and framework for the inclusion of this vaccine in the programme as the vaccination in children is likely going to be introduced in phases with those at high risk (children with co-morbidities) being given priority. Government experts are working on a list of co-morbidities that is likely to include those on cancer treatment, transplant cases, those with compromised immunity, etc.“While eventually everyone would need to be vaccinated against the disease, it makes sense for now to start vaccinating children in a phased manner, as it is a three-dose vaccine and the number of children to be vaccinated would be substantial,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician and group medical director at Apollo Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-follow-expert-advice-on-vaccinating-children-against-covid-101638036778935.html
28-11-2021||India||Fuel likely to get cheaper in India as global oil prices dip||State-run oil marketers are under pressure to reduce pump prices of petrol and diesel as international oil prices plunged by over $10 a barrel on Friday, the biggest decline since April 2020, mainly on fears of new coronavirus variant Omicron, three people said.Expect petrol and diesel price cuts soon, may be in one or two days, as international fuel rates have fallen sharply,” said one of them, who is a government official. Benchmark Brent crude on Friday plummeted 11.55% to $72.72 a barrel, while US crude West Texas Intermediate closed 13.1% lower at $68.15 per barrel on the last trading day of the week.International oil prices are expected to fall further because of demand concerns due to Omicron, which has been named a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the people said, requesting anonymity.Besides Omnicron, a coordinated release of additional oil from strategic reserves of major consumers such as the US, China, India, Japan and South Korea have also affected the fuel market sentiment, the first person said. “OMCs (oil marketing companies) are watching the situation, and they may pass on the benefit to the consumer if prices are sustained at this level,” he said.The companies are cautious as the Friday fall was “like a knee-jerk reaction from fears that the new Covid-19 variant” might “dampen economic growth and trigger another demand slump,” said a second person, who is an executive at a state-run fuel retailer. He, however, downplayed the impact of nations raising supply by releasing oil from strategic reserves. “These announcements could not impact international prices much. However, renewed Covid-19 concerns have now brought about the desired objective,” he said.Major oil consumers – the US, China, India, Japan and South Korea – for the first time reacted to the supply squeeze by producers’ cartel by announcing a coordinated release of additional oil from their respective reserves to cool down raging oil prices. India on November 23 joined the consumers’ group against artificial control of output by the cartel, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, together known as OPEC+.Indian fuel retailers are wary that the cartel, which is meeting on December 2, may cut supplies to check the price fall. “Thus, international crude oil prices may recover again if OPEC+ announces slower than expected production rollout coming up,” the second person said.In April 2020, when international oil prices plunged below $20 a barrel following global lockdowns due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the producers’ cartel decided to control output. On April 12, OPEC-plus announced an unprecedented 9.7 million barrel a day output cut to check falling crude oil rates.Despite a rise in demand, the grouping did not restore supplies, which led to a spike in international oil prices. In early November this year, crude prices touched $85 a barrel, forcing the central government to slash excise duty on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre to provide some relief to consumers. Although oil marketers vouch for changing fuel rates daily to reflect the international market dynamics, there has not been any rate change by them in the past 24 days. In Delhi, petrol has been stable at ₹103.97 per litre, and diesel at ₹86.67 since November 4, which central excise duty was slashed.The three state-run marketers enjoy a virtual monopoly in retail fuel trade in India, with over 90% market share. The petroleum ministry and the three state-run oil firms – Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd – did not respond to emailed queries on the matter.“Price reduction may not be as sharp as the decline in rates of Brent and WTI because only about 30% of crude OMCs purchase from the spot market, balance 70% is based on long-term contracts,” the first person said.Fluctuations in international benchmarks such as Brent also impact long-term crude oil contracts as such term-contracts are also linked to benchmark rates, a third person said.India is the third-largest consumer of imported oil as it imports about 85% crude it processes. The country imported 227 million tonnes of crude oil worth $101.4 billion in 2019-20, which was a Covid-free year.“Although there were some gains last Friday (November 19) also, when average price of Indian basket fell below ₹6,000 per barrel, but OMCs wanted to wait as international oil market was volatile and a minor rate cut followed by immediate price hike was not desirable,” said the person mentioned in the third instance. The Indian basket represents average import rate in rupee terms, a factor of international crude price and exchange rate.As international crude oil prices are likely to fall further in the future, India’s oil marketing companies are also required to pass on the benefit of reduced oil prices “on a day-to-day basis” to give relief to consumers and to facilitate high economic growth, said SC Sharma, a former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-likely-to-get-cheaper-in-india-as-global-oil-prices-dip-101638036538969.html
28-11-2021||India||5 members of Madhya Pradesh family attempt suicide; two dead, three critical||Five members of a family tried to die by suicide, two members died on Friday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bhopal, said police.The deceased include a woman and a teenage girl, residents of Piplani area.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rajesh Singh Bhadoriya said: “A man, who works as a mechanic, his mother, wife, and two teenage daughters attempted suicide on Thursday night after posting a video on social media in which he accused a woman and debt as reasons for their death.”When the police came to know about the video, a team reached their home. The family members were found in an unconscious state. Police took them to a hospital where two died while conditions of three others are stated to be serious, said Bhadoriya.All the family members wrote the suicide note on the walls and blamed a woman. They also pasted some papers of a property, said the officer.In preliminary probe, it was found that the family had borrowed ₹2 lakh from a woman to construct the house and the woman was demanding her money back, Rakesh Shrivastava, city superintendent of police. Police are trying to identify the woman.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918, Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000, ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-members-of-madhya-pradesh-family-attempt-suicide-two-dead-three-critical-101637953847893.html
