29-11-2021||India||Centre offers vaccine support to African nations battling Omicron||India on Monday offered to supply Covid-19 vaccines, life-saving drugs, test kits and medical equipment to African countries to fight the new Omicron variant of the Coronavirus. Omicron has been designated a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organization (WHO), based on evidence that it has several mutations that may impact how easily it spreads or the severity of illness it causes. “The government of India stands ready to support the countries affected in Africa in dealing with the Omicron variant, including by supplies of made-in-India vaccines,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement, adding that supplies can be delivered through the WHO-backed COVAX facility or bilaterally. “India also stands ready to supply essential life-saving drugs, test kits, gloves, PPE kits and medical equipment such as ventilators, as may be required,” the statement said. Indian institutions will “favourably consider cooperation in genomic surveillance and virus characterisation related research work” with African counterparts. The statement noted that the Indian government has cleared all orders placed so far by COVAX for supplies of the Covishield vaccine, including to African countries such as Malawi, Ethiopia, Zambia, Mozambique, Guinea and Lesotho. The government also cleared supplies of Covaxin to Botswana, and any new requirement projected bilaterally or through COVAX will be considered expeditiously, according to the statement. India expressed solidarity with countries, particularly in Africa, that have so far been affected by the Omicron variant. India has so far supplied more than 25 million doses of made-in-India vaccines to 41 countries in Africa.The Omicron variant was first detected in South Africa. WHO has said it is not yet clear whether Omicron is more transmissible than other variants such as Delta. The number of people testing positive has risen in areas of South Africa affected by this variant, and epidemiologic studies are underway to understand if it is because of Omicron or other factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-offers-vaccine-support-to-african-nations-battling-omicron-101638209969697.html
29-11-2021||India||Covid vaccination voluntary, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Monday that while Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, any misconceived doubts or motivated propaganda against it can lead to vaccine hesitancy at a crucial period when all efforts are being made by central and state governments to vaccinate every individual. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by Jacob Pulayil, a former member of the national technical advisory group on immunization (NTAGI) – the apex body on immunization. The petitioner has challenged the vaccine mandates issued by states making vaccination compulsory to access workplaces and benefits under government schemes, besides raising an issue of personal autonomy. It further sought segregated data for each of the phases of clinical trials undertaken concerning the Covid vaccines administered in the country. The Centre said, “There are very few cases where purported public interest litigation (whether bonafide or motivated) harms public interest directly. This is one such petition which, if entertained, would harm public interest…. Any misgivings and misconceived doubts and motivated propaganda against vaccination can only result in a potential threat of setting vaccine hesitancy again, which will not be in the public interest.” The affidavit filed by central drugs standard control organization (CDSCO) joint drugs controller PBN Prasad also revealed the government’s stand on vaccine mandate. It said, “As per the operational guidelines document, Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary. However, it is emphasized and encouraged that all individuals take vaccination for public health and in his/her interest as well as public interest since in case of a pandemic, an individual’s ill health has a direct effect on the society.” The CDSCO, working under the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), also denied the allegations by the petitioner that Covid-19 vaccination is linked to any benefits or services and said, “He (petitioner) has chosen to give a false picture before this court for the reasons best known to him. In the process, however, he has raised a false alarm and warning against efforts of the nation to combat an unprecedented tragedy faced by the human race. Such an attempt is to be viewed very seriously at a time when the Central Government, all State Governments and Union Territories are individually and collectively making all possible efforts to vaccinate every individual.” The petitioner, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, disputed the position on the ground. “Centre on affidavit has said there is no mandate on Covid vaccines. But there are instances to show orders passed by states making it mandatory,” Bhushan said, referring to news reports from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra where unvaccinated have been advised to remain home. He pointed out that Delhi has issued a mandate for government servants reporting for work to be vaccinated while Madhya Pradesh has denied subsidized food grains to unvaccinated persons. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government, said, “It is with great difficulty that we have overcome vaccine hesitancy in this country. Many persons have benefited from vaccination not only in the country, but across the world. This court should avoid allowing this platform to be used for extraneous purposes.” Appearing along with additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, Mehta said that once the Centre can show to the Court that a statutory regime exists for certification and permission to administer any drug/vaccine, the petition should be dismissed as further examination of the matter would not fall within the scope of judicial review. The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai made it clear that vaccine mandates by individual states cannot be decided in abstract and require to be challenged separately by the petitioner. Addressing Centre’s concerns, the judges said, “We do not want to add to the concerns of vaccine hesitancy. We have made this clear at the first hearing itself.” The Court posted the matter for hearing on December 13 as it was yet to receive the Centre’s affidavit. Bhushan informed the bench that by the next date, he will file applications challenging the mandates issued by various states for Court to issue notice and know their stand. Even on the study on adverse effects, the affidavit stated that out of the total doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered till November 24, a total of 2,116 serious and severe adverse events following immunization (AEFI) have been reported. A report of rapid review and analysis has been submitted to NEGVAC (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19) for 1,356 (1,236 Covishield, 118 Covaxin and 2 Sputnik) severe AEFI cases, while the remaining cases are still under review. The Court, while issuing notice on the petition on August 9 was conscious of vaccine hesitancy in rural areas and said, “Our apprehension is that a detailed enquiry into this issue will amount to throwing a spanner into what already exists leading to more doubts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-offers-vaccine-support-to-african-nations-battling-omicron-101638209911097.html
29-11-2021||India||China began work on LAC long before standoff, says Tibetan researchers’ report||A year before the People’s Liberation Army attempted to unilaterally alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, Chinese authorities were putting in place measures to use border villages to buttress their territorial claims and keep an eye on the Indian side of the border. This trend was picked up by a group of Tibetan researchers who worked for the past two years on putting together a handbook aimed at helping the world to decipher China’s policies that are often vaguely worded and open to different interpretations. As they put together material for the handbook – titled Decoding Chinese Communist Party – to be released on December 2, the researchers came across several reports on the Chinese side’s focus on using border villages as a means to project force along the frontier. One such report in Tibetan from August 2019, circulated on Chinese instant messaging apps and websites, was on border patrols and propaganda activities at Geru village in Shigatse prefecture, bordering India’s Sikkim state. The report quoted Phurbu Sonam, deployed as the first party secretary in Geru, which is described as a “border defence village”, as saying: “These days, Geru residents have a strong consciousness that everyone is a spy and every household is a spy house.” “The bond between the soldiers and the local residents is as deep as the fish and water,” Sonam added. Every Monday, permanent Chinese cadres stationed in Geru organised a ceremony at the border pillar to hoist the Chinese flag and sing the national anthem. To assist border defences forces, about 100 people from the village conducted regular border patrols on motorcycles. Tsering Tsomo, executive director of the Tibetan Human Rights Centre, which put together the handbook, said the five researchers who worked on the project picked up more such reports that pointed to China’s intentions along the LAC. The Chinese side is not only attempting to recruit Tibetans, but also trying to ensure the loyalty of their communities. “This requires social engineering on a large scale, giving border communities top priority for employment and finance for enterprises, and creating villages intended to create abiding dependence and loyalty,” she said. “This handbook is a tool to help people assess the intentions of the Chinese side. Many countries haven’t devoted adequate resources to understanding China. The handbook unpacks the meanings and connotations of Chinese slogans and popular phrases. For example, ‘Xi Jinping Thought’ is several volumes long and open to interpretation,” Tsomo added. For instance, the Tibetan researchers contend that India is the clear concern of China’s new land border law enacted in October. The law, which takes effect in January, will consolidate the securitisation of China’s land borders, the researchers said. While China has land borders with 14 countries, it has unsettled boundaries only with India and Bhutan. The law has strong punitive clauses forbidding activities such as flying drones near the border, mandating military exclusion zones and authorising security agencies to open fire at anyone believed to have committed a crime. Article 53 of the law, the researchers contend, is aimed at authorising a Chinese security presence in countries in the neighbourhood. Article 11, they said, is aimed at pushing Tibetan nomads into villages in border districts and making key border prefectures, such as Shigatse and Lhoka, into zones where loyalty to China is required. Other articles establish a very different kind of long-term securitisation, which requires inhabitants of border prefectures to undertake profound culture change. This is aimed at pushing local communities such as Tibetans to drop their own identity and identify first and foremost as Chinese, the researchers believe. Tsomo said Chinese ethnic policy has “abandoned the fiction that China comprises 56 nationalities, many with territories within which regional ethnic autonomy is legally guaranteed”, and this has been replaced with efforts aimed at cultural assimilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-began-work-on-lac-long-before-standoff-says-tibetan-researchers-report-101638209910072.html
29-11-2021||India||South African’s Covid sample different from delta: Karnataka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday said the sample of one of the South African nationals, who tested positive for Covid-19, is ‘different from the Delta variant’. Refusing to further divulge details, the minister said that he is in touch with the Union health ministry and the Indian Council for Medical Research officials.“There is a 63-year-old man whose name I should not disclose. His report is a bit different. It appears different from the Delta variant. We will discuss with the ICMR officials and will let people know what it is,” the minister told reporters in Bengaluru.Two travellers from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant. Officials said they tested positive for Covid during the RT-PCR tests conducted at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The first passenger arrived in Bengaluru on November 11 and the second arrived on November 16. Both were in quarantine after the positive result, according to health department officials.A new variant of the coronavirus, classified as Omicron, has spread in several parts of South Africa, forcing many countries to shut their borders. India has instituted a mandatory test-on-arrival, and a 7-day quarantine thereafter if people are negative.“We have sent the sample to a central government laboratory and are waiting for the final information. We are taking every possible step to contain the spread of the new mutant strain. However, it is said to be spreading rapidly and I’m afraid we cannot stop it as India sees an influx of millions of people every day, being a large country. What we can do, however, is contain it,” the minister added.The minister said he would chair meetings on Tuesday with the officers of his department, from the principal secretary to the Primary Health Centre level doctors, regarding the steps to be taken. He added that members of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 have also been invited to the meeting.Sudhakar also said that he has sought a detailed report on the Omicron variant. “We will get clear information on December 1 about how the Omicron behaves after the genomic sequencing. Accordingly, we will initiate all measures,” he explained.Sudhakar said international travellers will be tested carefully and those tested positive will be hospitalised compulsorily. “We are tracking and closely watching all those who came from South Africa in the past 14 days. We have started tracing and testing their primary and secondary contacts since Saturday,” the minister said.Speaking about Omicron, Sudhakar, a medical professional, said he has spoke to doctors working in South Africa, who told him that the new variant is not as dangerous as the Delta variant.“The satisfying thing I came across after talking to my classmates in South Africa is that this (Omicron variant) spreads rapidly, but it is not as dangerous as Delta. People feel nausea and vomiting and sometimes the pulse rate goes up, but the loss of taste and smell is not there. There is less hospitalisation because its intensity is not severe,” Sudhakar said.To be sure, experts have said it may be too soon to make conclusions about the nature of the variant and the disease it causes since cases may have not had the time to progress to severe stages. The minister also clarified on the speculation that there may be a fresh lockdown, saying there was no such proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-african-s-covid-sample-different-from-delta-karnataka-health-minister-101638209788634.html
29-11-2021||India||Bengaluru: Covid patients’ bodies found in morgue 15 months later||Health officials in Bengaluru recovered two decomposing bodies from an old mortuary in the city’s Rajajinagar on Saturday.According to their death certificates, the two people died of Covid-19 in July last year. The bodies were discovered when a foul smell at the ESI hospital mortuary led hospitalworkers on Saturdayto open the freezers, said officials of the health department. The mortuary was put out of use in August 2021,since a new mortuary was operational, according to the officials. The freezers, however, are still functional. The name tags on the bodies identified the people as Durga, 40, and Maniraju, 50, said the officials. According to ESI hospital records, both were brought to the hospital with Covid-19 symptoms in July 2020. Both of them died the same month. Durga’s elder sister Sujatha said that she died four days after being taken to the hospital. “After she died hospital authorities said that they won’t hand over the body to use because of the guidelines. Two days later we got a call saying they had cremated her body,” she said.Maniraju’s son, Satish, said the hospital told them they would cremate the body according to guidelines. “When we asked them (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) for the body after his death, they said they will cremate the body. So, when we went to collect the death certificate, they asked to sign a document which said that government had performed the last rites,” he said.At the peak of first wave of the pandemic last year, the BBMP took over some hospitals in the state and bodies were handed over to the families owing to infection risks. The families of the people who succumbed to the infection were assured the government would undertake the last rites. According to the health department, the government hospital that comes under the labour department has two mortuaries. The old one could only store four bodies, while a newly constructed mortuary could accommodate 10 bodies. “During the peak of the pandemic, in 2020, both mortuaries were used to store bodies. Following the pandemic, in August 2021, the old mortuary was shut down for operations,” said the health department official. A probe has been ordered to find out how the bodies were neglected for over a year, the official added. “There is clear negligence from all those who were involved. The staff members who didn’t check freezers before the shutting down the facility to (medical) superintendent who is responsible for the incident, will be investigated,” said the official, who didn’t want to be named. Rajajinagar police have registered a case under unnatural death and are probing the matter, said police officials. Police officials said that both bodies have been sent for postmortem and will be handed over to the families. Rajajinagar BJP MLA and former minister S Suresh Kumar has written to Karnataka labour minister A Shivaram Hebbar requesting him to get the matter investigated and punish those responsible for the “inhuman incident”. In his letter, Kumar said that during the first wave of Covid-19 two people died in the ESI Hospital in July 2020 and their bodies are still rotting in the mortuary of the hospital. “The role of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanaara Palike and the ESI authorities is grave. In this regard, I request you order a high-level probe, get the detailed inquiry report and initiate stringent action against those who are responsible for this inhumane act,” Kumar wrote. Kumar added that such incidents should never occur anywhere. “During the peak of COVID-19, we came across various heart-wrenching incidents but the incident that came to the light in the ESI Hospital is most unfortunate. It is the height of irresponsibility and inhuman behaviour,” Kumar wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-covid-patients-bodies-found-in-morgue-15-months-later-101638209729785.html
29-11-2021||India||Supreme Court raps states for delay in forming Covid aid portals||Two months since ex gratia payments were made mandatory for the families of those who died due to Covid-19, several states are yet to set up portals to receive applications, while some are still finding out who constitute the “next of kin” to whom the ₹50,000 compensation can be given, according to a status report submitted to the Supreme Court.Maharashtra, with an official death toll of about 140,000, is in the process of developing a web-based application to disbursing the ex-gratia relief. Kerala, the state with the second highest death toll of over 38,000 has a portal to receive claims but has not started the disbursal because it can’t ascertain who to give the amount to. Meanwhile, nearly a dozen states have not supplied any information on the claims received and the compensation paid. This information was part of the status report compiled by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the nodal ministry for the national disaster management authority (NDMA), submitted to the Court on Saturday.Taking up the report in a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal – which led to the October 4 order making ex-gratia payments mandatory – a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said: “From the aforesaid it can be presumed either no wide publicity has been given by the concerned states or UTs with regard to the compensation offered for death of a person who had died due to Covid-19 or the concerned claimant is not made aware where to apply.”The bench listed states which have reported low claims, those yet to share information, and sought details on eight counts – compliance of October 4 order; procedure adopted to invite applications for ex-gratia relief; deaths recorded; claims received; compensation given; setting up of a compliance framework; details of online portals; publicity given to the scheme; and details of where the compensation can be collected. The court asked for information to be with Centre, and filed by chief secretaries of the states in an affidavit before the top court on December 6, the next date of hearing.The numbers from several states suggested there was a huge lag in claims and payments.According to the report, in Madhya Pradesh, out of the over 10,00 recorded deaths, only 937 claims were received. In West Bengal, this number is just 124 for over 19,000 deaths. Karnataka, which reported 38,182 deaths, received 14,237 claims, of which 3,900 were processed. The bench noted that some states, such as Tamil Nadu, had a high death toll but did not provide information on disbursal. According to the status report, Telangana, Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh were among the regions who did not provide disbursement information.Delhi, which witnessed 31,017 deaths, received 25,358 claims of which 19,926 have been processed, according to the data submitted. The bench said that there was no uniformity in the practices adopted by states and UTs in implementing its order. “Appropriate orders can be passed after hearing the states so that procedure for providing compensation shall be followed uniformly pan-India,” it said. The bench also expressed concern over how children orphaned due to Covid-19 can receive compensation. Solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta informed the court that this issue was pending before another bench of the top court in a suo motu proceeding. Incidentally, that case too was listed on Monday, with the court directing states to ensure the education of children who lost one or both parents due to Covid-19 did not suffer due to financial stress. The Centre filed an affidavit informing the court that, till November 23, the PM CARES scheme received 5,335 applications for financial relief to children orphaned due to Covid and 2,705 these have been approved by concerned district magistrates, and 1,503 postal accounts have been opened for the transfer of funds.The PM CARES for Children scheme promises health insurance and educational facilities to children who lost both or a single parent due to Covid-19. The benefits include cost of education, uniform, books, and health insurance cover under Ayushman Bharat till the age of 18 years. On turning 18, they will be entitled to a monthly stipend and a fund of ₹10 lakh per child when they are 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-raps-states-for-delay-in-forming-covid-aid-portals-101638209728536.html
29-11-2021||India||‘Be alert to threat of Omicron’: PM Modi warns amid rising concerns||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged Indians to remain vigilant against Omicron, the Sars-CoV-2 mutation first detected in Africa that has been designated a variant of concern by the World Health Organization.“We should be alert to the new variant. I also request all members of Parliament and you also to be alert because everyone’s health is our priority in this hour of crisis,” Modi said in an address to the media ahead of the winter session of Parliament. “We have administered more than 100 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines during the challenging times of the pandemic. Now we are moving towards 150 crore doses.”Modi said the government’s priority has been to ensure the health of people. On Saturday, the Prime Minister chaired a high-level meeting that lasted almost two hours to review public health preparedness and Covid-19 vaccination.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, principal secretary to the Prime Minister PK Mishra, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul attended the meeting, according to the Prime Minister’s Office.No cases of the Omicron variant have been detected in India so far.During the meeting, officials briefed Modi about the new variant of concern, designated as B.1.1.529 and latter named Omicron, along with its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries. Its implications for India were also discussed, and Modi spoke about the need to be proactive in light of the new variant. He added that people need to more cautious and take precautions such as masking and social distancing.He also highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, and their testing as per guidelines with a specific focus on countries identified as “at risk”. Modi spoke about the need to increase genome sequencing efforts and make it more broad-based, and directed officials to work closely with state governments to ensure that there is proper awareness at the state and district levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-alert-to-threat-of-omicron-pm-modi-warns-amid-rising-concerns-101638209668833.html
29-11-2021||India||Speaker can’t permit merger of 12 Meghalaya MLAs with non-existent TMC: Cong||The Congress on Monday asked Meghalaya assembly Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh to disqualify its 12 MLAs, who recently merged with the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC).Also Read | Congress loses 12 Meghalaya MLAs in a huge jolt. They team up with Mamata’s TMCAmpareen Lyngdoh, the newly elected Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, asked the Speaker to initiate the procedure for acting on a petition for disqualification under Rule 7 of the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1988 and to rule in its favour.Also Read | Congress, Mukul Sangma trade barbs amid rumblings in MeghalayaAmpareen was also accompanied by Meghalaya Congress chief and Shillong MP Vincent H Pala, two MLAs Mohendro Rapsang and Process T Sawkmie, former chief of Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) PN Syiem and senior advocate VGK Kynta.The Congress suffered a big jolt after 12 of its 17 MLAs led by former chief minister Mukul Sangma announced that they have exited the party and merged with the Trinamool Congress last week. The Speaker is yet to give his ruling on the letter of merger submitted by the former Congress legislators.Also Read | Kharge says Congress high command will look into Meghalaya ‘conspiracy’After meeting the Speaker, Ampareen Lyngdoh told reporters that no political party should allow this kind of an exodus that discredits the political structure and asserted that the merger needs to be evaluated before it is accepted “because we still see no parent body for them (12 MLAs) to merge with”.“We are challenging this so-called merger of 12 Congress MLAs with the Trinamool. How can this be allowed? That is the first question that we are asking the Speaker to consider,” Ampareen said.Stating that there are many aspects of the 10th Schedule which need to be taken into consideration before this merger is actually permitted, the CLP leader said, “(This is because) we fail to see the presence of the Trinamool Congress…in operation in the state of Meghalaya.”She added, “We don’t know who is the president, who their members are, we don’t know where their office is, we don’t know whether they have an address, if any communication is to be given to this group.”Ampareen further questioned if the 12 MLAs have resigned from the Congress before merging with Trinamool Congress.“…Have they given us their resignation letters, have they placed on record any point of contention, was there any anger, was there any feeling of being not heard, is there any written agenda that they hold, that makes them want to take this extreme step of working behind our backs and betraying us – this is something we are taking note of. We hope that we will be given an opportunity through our legal team to question the loyalty of these individuals. When you question loyalty, you automatically calculate and know that if they are not loyal today, they will never be loyal ever,” she stated.She said the party has also requested the Speaker to again look at this whole question of less than two-third under paragraph 4 of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India adding that the party’s legal team will also be arguing whether it is 17 or 19 MLAs.“…if you look at all these grey areas in the particular merger of the 12 MLAs of the Congress, we feel that there will be enough grounds to fight for disqualification of these individuals,” the Congress leader claimed.She continued, “Our basic thrust in filing our petition is to ensure that we also give an opportunity to the Speaker’s office to review the 10th Schedule and adaptation of the rules of the 10th Schedule by the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly in the long run so that the 10th Schedule is not being played around by political ploy of this kind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speaker-can-t-permit-merger-of-12-meghalaya-mlas-with-non-existent-tmc-cong-101638208408627.html
29-11-2021||India||Niti Aayog report on Bihar: Nitish aide seeks greater central assistance||A key aide of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday expressed indignation over NITI Aayog presenting the state in poor light in one of its recent reports and wondered why more central assistance was not coming to expedite economic uplift of the province. Ashok Choudhary, who holds building construction portfolio in the state cabinet, underscored the all-round progress made under Kumar's decade and a half long tenure and said "we wish to protest...like a student who has scored 90 per cent in tests and yet is being told by the teacher that he is a laggard". Choudhary was reacting to the NITI Aayog's multidimensional poverty index report, which was released last week, and wherein Bihar, along with Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, has been placed at the bottom. The report has provided fresh ammunition to the opposition, led by the RJD of Kumar’s arch-rival Lalu Prasad, who has been rubbishing the claim of the current dispensation that it has achieved an economic turnaround in the state which has been clocking a growth rate of more than 10 per cent for over a decade. Choudhary pointed out that India Today magazine had published a report of a survey of states in which Bihar was placed at the top in terms of improvement in education, health and infrastructure. "As far as NITI Aayog report is concerned, it is silent on the parameters it has chosen for ranking the states," he said. Choudhary, who had earlier served in the cabinet of Rabri Devi and Nitish Kumar from the Congress quota before walking over the latter’s JD(U) a few years ago, also said the NITI Aayog should facilitate greater central assistance for Bihar to speed up the economic progress. "If NITI Aayog is convinced that Bihar is lagging behind other states, why does it not back our demand for greater central aid," said the JD(U) leader whose party has for long been seeking special category status for the state and complaining of inadequate support from the Centre. He also mocked attempts by leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav to corner the government on the basis of NITI Aayog report. “I think he (Tejashwi) needs a bit of education. He should look at the statistics and study what was the condition of Bihar before the NDA came to power and how far have we come," Choudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-report-on-bihar-nitish-aide-seeks-greater-central-assistance-101638207511197.html
29-11-2021||India||PM Modi expected to make first foreign visit in 2022 to UAE||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to make his foreign trip in 2022 to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to boost bilateral ties and to visit the Dubai Expo, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The dates for the visit are yet to be finalised and a lot will depend on the evolving Covid-19 situation, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.India’s four-storey pavilion at the Dubai Expo has emerged as a key attraction, drawing hundreds of thousands of visitors. External affairs minister S Jaishankar visited the pavilion during a trip to the UAE this month.Modi, who visited the UAE in 2015, 2018 and 2019, is expected to hold talks with the top leadership of the emirates.India and the UAE are currently preparing for the third round of negotiations on a proposed comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) that they hope to finalise in the first quarter of next year.There was no official word on the planned visit. The government has focused on strengthening strategic and energy ties with several West Asian countries, especially the UAE and Saudi Arabia. India, Israel, the UAE and the US recently held the first virtual meeting of their foreign ministers that focused on economic and business collaboration between the four countries. They are also working on holding the first in-person ministerial meeting of what has been described as a “new Quad”.The new bloc is also expected to work on maritime security and infrastructure projects that leverage the strengths of the four countries. At the same time, India, Israel and the UAE have stepped up trilateral cooperation, especially after the signing of the Abraham Accords.The UAE is home to more than three million Indian expatriates, the largest ethnic community in the emirates comprising professionals and blue-collar workers and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expected-to-make-first-foreign-visit-in-2022-to-uae-101638207629994.html
29-11-2021||India||Omicron probably indicates Covid is now endemic: 3 things experts say on this new variant||The entire picture of new Covid variant omicron is not yet clear as studying the cases will take some time, but from the information available so far, scientists and experts in India are gauging the possible extent of the impact of the variant. The variant has not been confirmed in India, though Karnataka has raised alarm on Monday over a Covid case reported in a 63-year-old South African person. Karnataka health minister said the variant pattern is not matching with Delta. Apart from Karnataka, some cases in Maharashtra are also being closely watched.Here are 3 things that experts are guessing about Omicron:Very good at spreadingImmunologist Satyajit Rath told news agency PTI that he guesses the variant will be spreading very fast. Public policy expert Chandrakant Lahariya explained that Omicron has around 50 mutations, which potentially make the variant more transmissible. Out of these 50 mutations, 32 are in spike proteins, which the virus uses to enter the human cells, and 10 are mutations of high relevance. "These include H655Y, N679K and P681H mutations which potentially increase the transmissibility. The mutations R203K and G204R are being considered to be associated with higher infectivity. Similarly, there are deletions at NSP6, which could result in immune escape," Lahariya said.Omicron: List of 'at risk' countries and situation in IndiaNot severe diseaseSatyajit Rath told PTI that according to his understanding, the variant will not cause a more severe disease. The effectiveness of vaccines may get reduced by the new variant, but they will not be rendered ineffective by the variant.Possible indication that Covid is becoming endemicDirector general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Dr Shekhar C Mande, told news agency ANI that the new variant and the situation is concerning but not alarming. Indicating that this might be a sign that Covid is now endemic, Dr Mande said, "If you look at the history of all the infectious diseases, it does happen that viral disease, particularly initially, causes pandemics and over a period of time they become endemic." Endemic means when a disease or infection keep coming every year, but in a milder form.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-probably-indicates-covid-is-now-endemic-3-things-experts-say-on-this-new-variant-101638205804136.html
29-11-2021||India||India offers vaccines, medical supplies to support African countries hit by Omicron variant||India on Monday offered to supply Covid-19 vaccines, life-saving drugs, test kits and medical equipment to African countries to fight the new Omicron variant of the Coronavirus.Omicron has been designated a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organization (WHO), based on evidence that it has several mutations that may impact how easily it spreads or the severity of illness it causes.“The government of India stands ready to support the countries affected in Africa in dealing with the Omicron variant, including by supplies of made-in-India vaccines,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement, adding that supplies can be delivered through the WHO-backed COVAX facility or bilaterally.“India also stands ready to supply essential life-saving drugs, test kits, gloves, PPE kits and medical equipment such as ventilators, as may be required,” the statement said. Indian institutions will “favourably consider cooperation in genomic surveillance and virus characterisation related research work” with African counterparts.The statement noted that the Indian government has cleared all orders placed so far by COVAX for supplies of the Covishield vaccine, including to African countries such as Malawi, Ethiopia, Zambia, Mozambique, Guinea and Lesotho. The government also cleared supplies of Covaxin to Botswana, and any new requirement projected bilaterally or through COVAX will be considered expeditiously, according to the statement.India expressed solidarity with countries, particularly in Africa, that have so far been affected by the Omicron variant.India has so far supplied more than 25 million doses of made-in-India vaccines to 41 countries in Africa, including nearly one million doses as grants to 16 countries and more than 16 million doses under the COVAX facility to 33 countries.The Omicron variant was first detected in South Africa. WHO has said it is not yet clear whether Omicron is more transmissible than other variants such as Delta. The number of people testing positive has risen in areas of South Africa affected by this variant, and epidemiologic studies are underway to understand if it is because of Omicron or other factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-offers-vaccines-medical-supplies-to-support-african-countries-hit-by-omicron-variant-101638204689736.html
29-11-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to amend TMC’s constitution to accommodate leaders from other states||Taking forward her plans to contest elections in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday decided to amend her party’s constitution so that leaders from other states can be accommodated in the working committee that she heads. The decision was taken at a meeting of the working committee held at Banerjee’s south Kolkata residence where she announced the TMC’s formation in 1998, months after severing ties with the Congress. Since then, leaders from Bengal have run the party with Banerjee taking all crucial decisions. Monday’s meeting was attended by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, who joined TMC in March, former Janata Dal (United) Rajya Sabha member Pavan Varma, former Congress MP from Haryana, Ashok Tanwar, former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma, who joined the TMC along with 11 Congress legislators on November 24, and top TMC leaders. Former tennis star Leander Paes, who recently joined the TMC in Goa where the party will contest the coming assembly polls, was also present. “Right now, all members of the TMC working committee are from West Bengal. Since our party is now expanding in other states, the leadership today decided to amend the constitution so that leaders from all regions can be inducted into the working committee,” TMC’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, said after the meeting. “How and when the constitution will be amended is to be decided by Mamata Banerjee. The next meeting of the working committee will be held in Delhi. These changes are necessary because TMC is expanding nationally,” O’Brien added.This is the first time leaders from the northeast and the Hindi belt are likely to find a place in the TMC’s working committee which is the highest decision-making body. Mamata Banerjee’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor is advising the party on these issues, party leaders said. Kishor has been meeting regional leaders for the last six months. The TMC announced late on Monday night that Mamata Banerjee has appointed Charles Pyngrope as president of the party’s Meghalaya unit. Party leaders, who did not want to be named, said Sushmita Dev, the Lok Sabha member from Assam who left the Congress and joined TMC in August, may be asked to head the TMC units in Tripura and Assam. TMC has already formed a separate steering committee in Tripura. The chief minister’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is seen in the party as the driving force behind the expansion plan. He announced in October that TMC will set up working units in 15 states within a year. He also steered the campaign for the Tripura civic body elections the results of which were announced on Sunday. The TMC, which started from scratch less than six months ago, emerged second in overall vote share although it could win only one seat. The Bengal chief minister did not meet the media after Monday’s meeting. TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said, “Decisions taken by the working committee today will be communicated to leaders in Meghalaya, Goa and Tripura. In the two northeastern states, we have emerged as the main opposition force. The TMC is making these changes to meet the demands of the changing scenario.”A senior TMC leader, who did not want to be identified, said changes will be made in the organisation in Bengal as well during the next meeting of the state working committee. Reacting to the development, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “All parties aspire to expand. These decisions are internal matters of the TMC. Its leaders can always visit Delhi and hold working committee meetings while enjoying popular food but everybody knows who will address the nation from the Red Fort after the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.”During the day, popular movie actor Shrabanti Chatterjee, who joined the BJP eight months ago and unsuccessfully contested the March-April assembly polls against Partha Chatterjee, returned to the TMC at a workers’ meeting at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas district. She announced on Twitter earlier this month that she was quitting the saffron camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-amend-tmc-s-constitution-to-accommodate-leaders-from-other-states-101638200608947.html
29-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Air India pilots give 3 days' ultimatum to management, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air India pilots have given an ultimatum of three days to the Air India management to meet their demands. In a letter to the aviation secretary (also Air India Chairman and managing director- Rajiv Bansal), sent on Monday evening, the pilots warned that if they do not see the illegal pay cut and related issues being addressed within three days, they will seek justice through industrial action. Read moreTrinamool MP in Lok Sabha Mahua Moitra on Monday took to Twitter to extend support to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor who was embroiled in a row after he posted a photo with five women MPs and wrote, 'Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work'. Read morePakistan has linked its decision to allow India to transport 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to the condition that the relief materials be moved by Pakistani trucks, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Read moreOne of the major discussions that begun after New Zealand managed to draw the Kanpur opener on Monday was India's timing of declaration. Could India have declared a bit earlier to put more pressure on New Zealand with their spin trio? But captain Ajinkya Rahane felt otherwise, defending his call saying that he wanted the partnership of Wriddhiman Saha and Axar Patel to keep going for a few more overs. Read moreComedian and actor Mallika Dua on Monday issued a statement urging people not to spread rumours about the death of her father, veteran journalist Vinod Dua, who is currently in the ICU. Taking to Instagram Stories, Mallika added that she will keep everyone updated about her father. Read moreAIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) is a much dreaded disease which currently has not cure. It is caused by HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) and a person who has the condition is susceptible to multiple organ failure and overwhelming infections. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-air-india-pilots-give-3-days-ultimatum-to-management-and-all-the-latest-news-101638198807795.html
29-11-2021||India||After Opposition demand discussion on farm laws repeal bill, minister says decision unanimous||After the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 was passed in both Houses of Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the passage is a testament of uniformity in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words and deeds. Tomar lamented that the government failed to explain the benefits of the farm laws, saying the agricultural reforms were brought in for the betterment of farmers.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 was passed by the Parliament amid huge uproar from Opposition parties as they wanted a discussion on the bills. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the government for not holding a discussion on the farm laws on the floor of the House. Gandhi alleged that the hasty passage of the bill shows that the government is “scared of discussion”, adding that the way the bill was passed was an insult to the farmers.“The way they (farm laws) were repealed, without discussion in the Parliament, no talk, this shows that the government is scared of discussion, that the government knows that they have done wrong. And that the government is scared,” Gandhi told reporters.Congress welcomes withdrawal of farm laws but questions Centre’s move to pass repeal bill without discussionTomar said that a detailed discussion was held after the three farms laws were introduced and the Opposition had then demanded the withdrawal of those laws. When the ruling party also agreed for withdrawal, Tomar opined, there was unanimity on the subject.“Lok Sabha Speaker repeatedly assured that he was ready to hold a discussion if members sit at their designated place,” said Tomar, adding that if there was a discussion, he would have certainly answered the questions posed by Opposition MPs.The BJP leader asserted that the central government has tried to help the agriculture sector through many schemes in the last seven years. He said that the minimum support price was implemented in accordance with the recommendations of the Swaminathan report and the procurement of crops at MSP has almost doubled as compared to 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-opposition-demand-discussion-on-farm-laws-repeal-bill-minister-says-decision-unanimous-101638197903263.html
29-11-2021||India||Mahua Moitra says row over Shashi Tharoor's photo non-issue; Jwala Gutta, Mimi weigh in||Trinamool MP in Lok Sabha Mahua Moitra on Monday took to Twitter to extend support to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor who was embroiled in a row after he posted a photo with five women MPs and wrote, 'Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work'. The row is a non-issue to detract attention from this 'non-attractive' government's decision to not allow a discussion on the farm act repeal, Mahua Moitra wrote on Twitter. "Not surprised that a bunch of ugly trolls attacking @ShashiTharoor on a non-issue to detract attention from this non-attractive government’s decision to not allow a discussion on the farm act repeal," Moitra tweeted. Shashi Tharoor thanked Mahua for her solidarity. Not surprised that a bunch of ugly trolls attacking @ShashiTharoor on a non-issue to detract attention from this non-attractive government’s decision to not allow a discussion on the farm act repeal.The photo posted early in the day created a row, not because of the photo but Tharoor's use of the word 'attractive' in his comment. Apart from social media users, prominent figures weighed in with their opinion over the issue. As Supreme Court advocate Karuna Nandy slammed Tharoor and said it was unbelievable that Shashi Tharoor would attempt to reduce the women MPs to their looks, ace badminton player Jwala Gutta differed and said she thinks people need to take a few things on a lighter note. "Not really, Karuna. I think we need to take afew things on a lighter note..and not see everything with a magnifying glass..And this was a compliment to all the women in the Parliament which is generally stereotyped!! just my opinion," Jwala wrote. Obama said Kamala Harris was the 'most brilliant Attorney General & also the most attractive', he apologised for the comment. Because when women's looks are commented on, chance of being elected reduces. It's the wrong metric. Not so 'light' then. https://t.co/4wPWBCvmcC https://t.co/iu2wtq3b26To this, Karuna Nandy said, "Obama said Kamala Harris was the 'most brilliant Attorney General & also the most attractive', he apologised for the comment. Because when women's looks are commented on, the chance of being elected reduces. It's the wrong metric. Not so 'light' then."As a BJP MLA criticised Shashi Tharoor for setting a wrong precedent for future MPs by clicking photos in the Lok Sabha, Trinamool MP Mimi Chakraborty who was in the photo tweeted that it was she who clicked the photo.
29-11-2021||India||Air India pilots warn of industrial action if demands not addressed in 3 days||Air India pilots have given an ultimatum of three days to the Air India management to meet their demands. In a letter to the aviation secretary (also Air India Chairman and managing director- Rajiv Bansal), sent on Monday evening, the pilots warned that if they do not see the illegal pay cut and related issues being addressed within three days, they will seek justice through industrial action.The letter was written by the airline’s Airbus’ union- Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) and Boeing pilots union- Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) which represent over 900 pilots. It read, “International passenger services to/from India started from December 15th, 2021, and all airlines are rolling back the COVID cut, if we do not see the issues related to an illegal pay cut of 55% and the plethora of longstanding disinvestment issues addressed within three days we will have no choice but to seek justice through industrial action.”These pilots have been writing to the airline since October but they haven’t received a reply. In their previous letters, the pilots complained that they are burdened by the “illegal pay cut” of 55% and demanded to be paid as per market standards. Mentioning their long-standing disinvestment issues, the pilots have also demanded the withheld 25% arrears with interest, statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for all permanent employees, tax implication on withheld layover substance allowance and release of pending grades to first officers.“Tatas have to fully take over the company and start flying by January 22, 2022, and here we have no communication on our pending dues. Media reports suggest that the airline’s closing date will be just next month. How much more are we expected to sit quietly?” an airline said on condition of anonymity. Another pilot said, “We are thrilled that Tatas will soon begin to operate the airline but the current management seems to be turning a deaf ear to us. This is a great matter of concern to us and hence we seek an urgent response,” said a senior airline pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-warn-of-industrial-action-if-demands-not-addressed-in-3-days-101638196049067.html
29-11-2021||India||‘Insult to farmers’: Rahul Gandhi over no debate in Parliament on farm laws||In the wake of the three farm laws being repealed in the Parliament on Monday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the government for not having any discussion on the floor of the House.While addressing the media outside the Parliament, Gandhi said, “The way they (farm laws) were repealed, without discussion in the Parliament, no talk, this shows that the government is scared of discussion, that the government knows that they have done wrong. And that the government is scared.” He added that how the bill was passed is an insult to the farmers.He further said that the withdrawal of the farm laws is the success of the farmers of the country who have been protesting against the farm laws for over a year.“We wanted to discuss MSP (issue), we wanted to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, we wanted to discuss the 700 farmers who died in this agitation and unfortunately that discussion has not been allowed,” Gandhi said.The Congress leader further hinted that the decision to withdraw the farm laws has something to do with the upcoming legislative elections in seven states including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.He asked if the government was in support of the farmers, then why did the 700 farmers have to die for the government to repeal the laws.Gandhi said the farmers’ still have a long list of unfulfilled demands. This includes a legal guarantee of MSP, action against Ajay Misra and compensation for the families of farmers who lost their lives during the one-year-long protest.“The PM has accepted that the farmers died because of his decision. So, compensation must be given,” Gandhi added.In the Upper House, the Congress did not, however, have much to say. Congress’ leader in the house Mallikarjun Kharge said all parties agreed on the bill and no one was opposed to it.The Congress, which supported the farmers’ demand all along, held a protest in front of the Gandhi statue in the Parliament House complex earlier today, carrying banners that read “We demand repeal of black farm laws.”The BJP pointed out that Congress’s protest was “fake”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insult-to-farmers-rahul-gandhi-over-no-debate-in-parliament-on-farm-laws-101638195569037.html
29-11-2021||India||BJP states doing better in vaccination than oppn-ruled states: Report||The Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states have fared better with regards to administering Coronavirus vaccine, news agency PTI reported on Monday.While eight states ruled by the BJP have managed to fully vaccinate 50 per cent of their eligible population with the coronavirus vaccine, seven of them have inoculated 90 per cent people with the first dose, official sources told PTI, adding numbers have not yet been achieved by any state ruled by the Congress and its allies.The sources also found it ironic that some opposition-ruled states are pushing for booster doses despite not having vaccinated enough people yet. They also wondered if politics has impacted the vaccination drive in these states, the report said.The official sources also shared vaccination figures with PTI.As per the figures quoted by the news agency, the percentage of population vaccinated with the first and both doses in Jharkhand is 66.2 and 30.8 and in Punjab 72.5 and 32.8 respectively, the report said. The corresponding figures for Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh are 78.1 and 42.65, 80.11 and 42.5, and 83.2 and 47.2 respectively.It is 84.2 and 46.9 for Rajasthan while 86.6 and 39.4 for West Bengal respectively.The Congress is in power in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. It is part of the DMK-led ruling alliance in Tamil Nadu and the JMM-led government in Jharkhand. The Trinamool Congress, a key opposition party but not a Congress ally, is in power in Bengal.On the other hand, BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh and Goa have fully covered their eligible population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 91.9 per cent and 87.9 per cent people with both doses respectively.The corresponding percentage figures for Gujarat are 93.5 and 70.3, for Uttarakhand 93 and 61.7, for Madhya Pradesh 92.8 and 62.9, for Karnataka 90.9 and 59.1, for Haryana 90.04 and 48.3 and for Assam 88.9 and 50 respectively, sources said. It is 80.5 and 63.5 respectively for Tripura. All these states are ruled by the BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-states-doing-better-in-vaccination-than-oppn-ruled-states-report-101638194570299.html
29-11-2021||India||J-K witnessed 1,033 terrorist incidents in 3 years, Rajya Sabha told||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed 1,033 incidents of attacks by terrorists in the last three years with a maximum of 594 being reported in 2019, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday.According to details provided by Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, the union territory reported 244 incidents of terrorist attacks last year while the number for the current year was 196 till November 15.The list included one such incident in Delhi taking the total number to 1,034 in the country from 2019 to mid-November of 2021.Bhatt said a total of 177 personnel including from Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) died in counter-terrorist operation during the period.Without specifying place of the fatal casualties, he said 80 personnel died in 2019, 62 in 2020 and 35 in the current year (till November 15)The minister was replying to a question on the number of terrorist attacks in the country during the last three years and the number of armed forces personnel killed in the attacks.Replying to a separate question, Bhatt said the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen coastal, offshore and maritime security.The steps listed by him to boost coastal security included capacity augmentation of maritime security agencies, enhancing technical surveillance of coastal and offshore areas and establishment of mechanisms for inter-agency coordination.Bhatt said Indian Naval ships and aircraft are regularly deployed on 'Mission Based Deployments' in the Indian Ocean Region to enhance maritime security."It also undertakes surveillance to enhance maritime domain awareness and address contingencies that may arise," he said."These are in consonance with Government of India's vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR) and the Maritime Security Strategy to build its role as the 'Preferred Security Partner' in our extended maritime neighbourhood," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-witnessed-1-033-terrorist-incidents-in-3-years-rajya-sabha-told-101638193777433.html
29-11-2021||India||Karnataka minister says he spoke to doctors in South Africa, no loss of taste, smell in Omicron||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, who is a medical professional, said on Monday he has spoken to his classmate doctors who are working in South Africa who told him that Omicron, the new Covid variant, is not as dangerous as Delta. The intensity is not severe and there is less hospitalisation, Dr Sudhakar said on Monday.Talking about the symptoms resulting from Omicron, the minister said people feel nausea and vomiting but there is no loss of taste and smell, as he had been told by doctors. "The satisfying thing I came across after talking to my classmates in South Africa is that this (Omicron variant) spreads rapidly, but it is not as dangerous as Delta. People feel nausea and vomiting and sometimes the pulse rate goes up, but theloss of taste and smell is not there. There is less hospitalisation because its intensity is not severe," Sudhakar was quoted as saying by PTI.Omicron scare: 1 sample in Karnataka different from Delta, 'Not official,' says ministerKarnataka has been put on high alert after two passengers who came to the state from South Africa tested positive. Though earlier it was said that they were affected by the Delta variant of the infection, the health minister on Monday said one of them is affected by something else, which is different from Delta. Without divulging further details, the minister said that the government has already informed the Centre regarding this variant which is not matching with Delta for further clarification. The state government will convene a meeting on Tuesday which will be attended by the members of the technical advisory committee on Covid-19, the minister said.South African doctor Angelique Coetzee who alerted the government about this new variant said her patients had unfamiliar symptoms like extreme tiredness, scratchy throat and all of them recovered without hospitalisation.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-says-he-spoke-to-doctors-in-south-africa-no-loss-of-taste-smell-in-omicron-101638193458940.html
29-11-2021||India||Once selective killings end, statehood will be restored: BJP J-K unit||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit on Monday said that the Union Territory’s statehood will be restored as soon as selective killings end and common people are allowed to move freely across the region.The party’s general secretary of organisation Ashok Koul said that it is concerned over the selective killings in Kashmir as its party workers continue to be targeted by the terrorists. “In these selective killings, the BJP leaders are being killed here or the non-Kashmiris or non-Muslims, even some Muslims are also targeted. We are against every selective killing and no religion allows it,” Koul was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He said that the BJP supports the demand for the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir. “When the situation in J-K becomes better, when it will be normal, the selective killings will end, and common people will be able to move freely, the statehood will then be restored,” Koul further added. Koul also added that the polls in Jammu and Kashmir will be conducted soon after the delimitation commission submits its report.“The delimitation commission has a time till March 6. When the commission submits its report under which 90 seats will be delimited, the elections will be followed soon after,” he said.National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah however accused the BJP of ‘murdering democracy’ in the Valley. “We were told that Article 370 was an obstacle for industrialisation, generation of employment opportunities for our youth and the main reason for poverty, and its removal would pave the way for development and new projects... it stands exposed today,” the former chief minister was quoted as saying.He also slammed the Congress for not supporting the party in its fight to restore Article 370. “We expected support from opposition parties but they are silent. Our existence is linked to this article,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-selective-killings-end-statehood-of-j-k-will-be-restored-bjp-j-k-unit-101638193389464.html
29-11-2021||India||60-year old man’s timely alert saved hundreds from Kadapa floods||A timely alert by a 60-year old man saved hundreds of lives on the night of November 19, when devastating floods, caused due to the breach of the earthen bund of Annamayya project reservoir on Cheyyeru river in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district, swept away several villages downstream.Parna Ramaiah, a retired watchman of the Annamayya project, is now being treated as a messiah by the people of Togurupeta, Ramachandrapuram and Salipeta villages of Rajampet constituency, as they would have been swept away by the swirling waters of Cheyyeru river while they were still asleep but for the timely alert from him.Ramaiah, who retired from service in June this year on superannuation, has been staying at his house at Togurupeta village, about half a kilometre from the dam. He has two acres of land on which he was growing turmeric.“Even after my retirement, I have been continuing to keep a vigil on the project, as it has become a part of my life for the last three decades. Though I suffered a fracture to my leg three months ago, I have not stopped visiting the dam site regularly,” he told Hindustan Times.Narrating the events of the fateful day, Ramaiah said due to heavy rains upstream of the river, the inflows into Annamayya reservoir was gradually increasing since the morning of November 18.“The irrigation authorities were controlling the floods by releasing four of the five crest gates of the dam after assessing the inflows. By 8.30 pm, the water level reached 200 metres and within an hour, the water level came down to 190 metres, as all the gates were completely lifted,” he said.But around 1.30 am on November 19, there was a massive flood to the dam. “In my three-decades-long service, I had never seen such a heavy flood and the reservoir was overflowing and the earthen bund started caving in. I alerted my son, who, with the help of a couple of irrigation officials, brought my family members to the upper part of the concrete dam,” he recalled.Ramaiah immediately started calling whoever he knew in the three villages downstream of the dam – Togurupeta, Ramachandrapuram and Salipeta. “I told them to wake up all the villagers and ask them to rush to the nearby hillock, where a temple of Dasalamma (local village deity) is located. Within an hour, all the villagers were moved to the hillock,” he said.Ramaiah also tried to contact the sarpanch of Pulaputhur village on the other side of the reservoir and after repeated attempts, he succeeded in talking the sarpanch, who immediately alerted all his villages who also rushed to the hillock.“By 4 am, the earthen bund started eroding gradually. By 5.30 am, the entire bund got washed away and floodwaters gushed into the villages with massive force. Several villages downstream were completely inundated, causing massive destruction to crops, cattle and poultry. Hundreds of houses were razed to rubble,” Ramaiah said.Gunisetty Mani of Togurupeta village said nobody in the village would have survived had Ramaiah not alerted them on time. “We were all in deep sleep and we didn’t have any hint about the threat to the dam. It was only receiving a call from Ramaiah that we could realise the magnitude of the situation and save ourselves by rushing to the Dasalamma temple on the adjacent hill,” Mani said.Another villager J Sivaramaiah said he had been alert all through the night due to heavy rains and when he got a call from Ramaiah about the breach to Annamayya project, he rushed to every house and told the people to shift to the hill. “I also made a quick visit to the adjacent villages of Ramachandrapuram and Salipeta and alerted the people,” he said.After the floods receded, the villagers came down from the hill, only to find their villages turning into virtual graveyards. “Not a single house withstood the flood fury. We have lost everything – money, gold, food grains, clothes, household articles, furniture. We are now at the mercy of the government,” Ramaiah said.Kadapa district collector V Vijayarama Raju, in his report submitted to the state government, attributed the flash floods to Cheyyeru due to heavy rains, up to 10.7 cm in just 12 hours, which was unprecedented.“The Pincha project upstream of Annamayya reservoir was receiving an inflow of only 3,845 cusecs at 8.30 am on November 18. But by evening, the inflow increased to 90,464 cusecs in one hour by 8.30 pm, which further went up to 1.17 lakh cusecs, while its discharge capacity was only 48,000 cusecs. So, the Pincha project got breached first and resulted in massive flood to Annamayya project to the extent of 3.2 lakh cusecs which led to the collapse of the earthen bund,” he explained.The collector also claimed that the district authorities had alerted all the villagers by 6 pm on November 18 and as many as 400 families were shifted to safer locations. “Otherwise, the toll would have been higher,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60year-old-man-s-timely-alert-saved-hundreds-from-kadapa-floods-101638191967390.html
29-11-2021||India||Delhi and parts of north India may see rain, overall change in weather soon: IMD||The weather body on Monday predicted rainfall in the next few days in parts of north India, including Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, due to a depression.A senior scientist of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said a depression would result in heavy rainfall in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh from November 30 to December 2.RK Jenamani, the IMD official, said Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand might experience rainfall and the overall weather would undergo many changes.Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand might experience rainfall and the overall weather would undergo many changes: RK Jenamani, IMD Scientist 2/2He further said western disturbance might cause heavy to very heavy rainfall in Gujarat, Konkan belt and central Maharashtra from the night of December 1 to December 2.The downpour in north India may help bring about a change in pollution levels in the region.The national capital that saw a minimum temperature of 10.3 degrees Celsius on Monday morning recorded the air quality in the severe category at 406.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-and-parts-of-north-india-may-see-rain-overall-change-in-weather-soon-imd-101638190280768.html
29-11-2021||India||557 women officers granted Permanent Commission in Army, govt informs Parliament||The government informed Parliament on Monday that 557 women officers were granted permanent commission in the Army since the Supreme Court's landmark verdict on February 17, 2020.In a written reply to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader M Shanmugam in the Rajya Sabha, minister of state (MoS) for defence, Ajay Bhatt, said, "No delay has been made in granting permanent commission to any women officer.The minister said 63 eligible women officers have been granted permanent commission till November 25, 2021 in compliance with the SC judgment.Last year on February 17, the apex court had directed the Centre to grant permanent commission to women officers in the Army. Rejecting the Centre's stand on “physiological limitations”, the court said it was based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women".Also read | Permanent Commission for women: Army blinks after SC warns it of contemptThe court also directed that all serving SSC women officers be considered for permanent commission within three months, irrespective of them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service.On November 12, hearing a plea filed by 11 women army officers, the court issued a warning to the Centre saying it was going to initiate contempt proceedings against the Indian Army for failing to grant permanent commission to the said women officers, in line with its previous orders.Soon after, the Centre assured the court of rolling out the permanent commission option for all eligible Women Short Service Commission Officers (WSSCO) in the Army.Also read | ‘Feels like winning war,’ says one of 39 women Army officers who got permanent commissionThe Centre also assured the bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, of a swift decision within ten days with regard to the 11 women officers, who have approached the top court, to grant permanent commission.Notably, the Women Short Service Commission Officers secured their right to permanent commission and command positions in non-combat streams at par with male officers after a prolonged legal battle culminating in the Supreme Court order on February 17, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/557-women-officers-granted-permanent-commission-in-army-govt-informs-parliament-101638185772794.html
29-11-2021||India||Govt’s health expenditure share in GDP rises: Report||According to a report by the National Health Accounts Estimates for India, the government’s share in health expenditure in the total GDP of the country increased from 1.15% (2013-14) to 1.35% (2017-18). The report which was released on Monday also highlighted that the per capita out-of-pocket expenditure declined from ₹2,336 to ₹2,097 from 2013-14 to 2017-18.The government’s share in health expenditure in the total health expenditure also increased to 40.8% (2017-18) from 28.6% (2013-14).The NHA prepares its estimates based on the accounting framework which is the internationally accepted System of Health Accounts 2011, provided by the World Health Organisation (WHO).Following the release of the report, the health ministry said that the government’s expenditure on health showed an increasing trend. It said that it also showed growing trust in the public health care system.“It has increased from 1.15% in 2013-14 to 1.35% in 2017-18. Additionally, the share of the government's health expenditure in the total health expenditure has also increased overtime. In 2017-18, the share of the government's expenditure was 40.8%, which is much higher than 28.6% in 2013-14,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The report pointed out that the government's health expenditure as a share of the total government expenditure has increased from 3.78% to 5.12% between 2013-14 and 2017-18. It also showed that the government’s expenditure increased from ₹1,042 to ₹1,753 between 2013-14 to 2017-18. The nature of expenditure also was moving towards the right direction as emphasis was placed on improving primary healthcare.The report also showed that the share of social security expenditure on health, for example, expenditure on social health insurance programmes, government financed health insurance schemes, and medical reimbursements made to government employees, also increased. It said that foreign aid for health has come down to 0.5%.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-health-expenditure-share-in-gdp-rises-report-101638188645251.html
29-11-2021||India||Omicron scare: 1 sample in Karnataka different from Delta, 'Not official,' says minister||Amid apprehension over Covid's new variant Omicron, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday said one of the two foreign nationals who came to the state from South Africa have been affected by a variant different from the Delta. But the minister was not supposed to say anything officially as the government is in touch with the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research for more clarification, he said. Earlier, it was claimed that both of them were affected by the Delta variant of Coronavirus."There is a delta variant for the past nine months only, but you are saying that one of the samples is Omicron. I cannot say about it officially. I am in touch with the ICMR and central government officials," Sudhakar said, as reported by news agency PTI.No case of Omicron variant in India, 2 clusters under investigation, says govtThe man is 63 years old and the government, at this moment, will not disclose any other details, the report said."There is a 63-year-old man whose name I should not disclose. His report is a bit different. It appears different from the delta variant. We will discuss with the ICMR officials and will let people know by the evening what it is," the minister said.Omicron: 10 restrictions Karnataka has imposed amid new variant concerns"We will get clear information on December 1 about how the Omicron behaves after the genomic sequencing. Accordingly, we will initiate all measures," Sudhakar said.As many travellers arrived in Karnataka from South Africa, where the Omicron has been first reported, the government is closely watching all of them. Their primary and secondary contacts are also being tracked, the minister said.The government on Monday morning confirmed that no case of the Omicron variant has been detected in the country so far while two clusters, one in Maharashtra and another in Karnataka, are under investigation.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-scare-1-sample-in-karnataka-not-delta-minister-says-not-official-101638187855064.html
29-11-2021||India||Opposition to discuss future course of action tomorrow over suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs||Condemning the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, the Opposition parties on Monday said their floor leaders will meet tomorrow to deliberate on the future course of action to resist the government’s “authoritarian decision”. In a joint statement, the leaders of Opposition termed the suspension of lawmakers “unwarranted and undemocratic” and in “violation of all the Rules of Procedure of Rajya Sabha”.The government had moved a motion to suspend 12 Rajya Sabha members over the alleged abuse of rules of the House during the last session of the Parliament. The Rajya Sabha, on the first day of the Winter Session, adopted the motion suspending 12 of its members for the rest of the session.The Opposition parties stated that the motion moved by the government was “unprecedented and violated the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Council of States.”“The floor leader of Opposition parties of Rajya Sabha will meet tomorrow to deliberate on the future course of action to resist the authoritarian decision of the Government and defend Parliamentary democracy,” the statement read.As many as 14 Opposition parties including Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have signed the statement. Trinamool Congress has not associated itself with the joint statement.12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for rest of Winter Session for ruckus in AugustLeader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said that the “autocratic” government has taken this step to create fear among the lawmakers, adding that the action should have been taken in the last session when the incident occurred.“If voices of those who raise voices for others are suppressed, it's like strangulating the democracy. We condemn it, all parties condemn it,” news agency ANI quoted the senior Congress leader as saying.The Rajya Sabha MPs who have been suspended for the rest of the Winter Session are Elamaram Kareem of CPM, Congress's Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain, CPI's Binoy Viswam, TMC's Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri, and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-discuss-future-course-of-action-tomorrow-over-suspension-of-12-rajya-sabha-mps-101638185724107.html
29-11-2021||India||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua in ICU; daughter Mallika Dua says condition 'beyond critical'||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua, who was hospitalised with Covid earlier this year, is in the ICU and his condition is "beyond critical", his daughter, actor-comic Mallika Dua, said on Monday.The 67-year-old journalist, a pioneer in broadcast Hindi journalism with stints in Doordarshan and NDTV, lost his wife, radiologist Padmavati 'Chinna' Dua, in June after a prolonged battle with Covid."My Papaji is beyond critical in the ICU. His health had been deteriorating rapidly since April. He also is unable to come to terms with losing the light of his life. He has lived an extraordinary life and given us the same. He deserves no pain. He is immensely loved and revered and I request you all to pray that he experiences as little pain as possible," Mallika Dua wrote. Vinod Dua and his wife were in a hospital in Gurgaon when the second Covid wave was at its peak. The journalist's health has suffered ever since and he has been in and out of hospitals. The couple is also parents to elder daughter Bakul Dua, a clinical psychologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-journalist-vinod-dua-in-icu-daughter-says-condition-beyond-critical-101638185746723.html
29-11-2021||India||BJP not very different from family-run parties, claims Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s criticism of dynasty politics by claiming that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was not very different from family-run political outfits and described the Central government’s rule as “autocratic”. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana also defended the Congress party, saying it believed in democratic values. In his speech on the Constitution Day on November 26, PM Modi had said political parties run by families for generation after generation was not good for a healthy democracy . “How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?,” he asked and said that dynasty politics could be seen from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in the country. Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana launched a counter attack while defending the Congress, believed to be the chief target of Modi’s attack on political dynasties.“The biggest threat to democracy is... to come to power democratically and rule in an autocratic manner. Congress party believes in democratic values. Yes, there can be political differences with the Congress, but it has not sold the pillars of democracy,” the editorial said.The editorial added that the PM’s attack on the Congress party, which had weakened substantially in the past 10 years, suggested he feared the party could be an alternative to the BJP nationally.“...Repeatedly attacking the party [the Congress] means that Prime Minister Modi still fears the Congress, and it can be an alternative to the BJP at the national level,” it said. Also Read: Rajya Sabha passes farm laws repeal bill amid uproarThe editorial further remarked that the Bharatiya Janata Party was no different as it was “controlled” by people chosen by the PM. “BJP is not a family party, but in the past few years, it has become a dictatorship of one particular group. After Mr Modi became the Prime Minister, a leader from Gujarat was made the party chief. This arrangement was made so that the reins of the party and power remain in his hand. Congress’ reins in the hands of Gandhi family is akin to BJP’s reins in the hands of people who are under the Prime Minister’s thumb,” the Saamana piece said.As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP does not respond to criticism or remarks made in Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-not-very-different-from-family-run-parties-claims-shiv-sena-101638185786967.html
29-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: WHO warns of ‘high’ risks related to omicron strain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Risk related to Covid variant Omicron 'very high', warns WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) had earlier said that it was “not yet clear” whether the newly-detected virus variant was more transmissible than the previously known strains. Read more here. Jaya Bachchan's K3G thaali returns in Rocky Aur Rani Ki Prem Kahani teaser, Alia Bhatt wraps arms around Ranveer SinghKaran Johar released a glimpse of his upcoming film, Rocky Aur Rani Ki Prem Kahani, as the cast and crew completed 50 days of shooting. Read more here. Ola in sight? Ather Energy to set up second manufacturing base to up productionAther plans to ramp up production from 120,000 per annum to 400,000. Read more here. 1st Test: Rachin Ravindra, Ajaz Patel defy Ashwin, Jadeja threat as India, New Zealand play out thrilling draw in KanpurIn what will go down in history as one of the most thrilling finishes to a Test match, India and New Zealand played out a nail-biting draw in the first match of the series in Kanpur. Read more here. This sleeping position can help you with chronic constipationNutritionist Pooja Makhija recently revealed a simple and effective hack to deal with chronic constipation. Read more here. Watch: Fugitive scam accused Mehul Choksi claims threat of ‘kidnapping to Guyana’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-who-warns-regarding-risks-related-to-omicron-strain-and-all-the-latest-news-101638184774287.html
29-11-2021||India||International flights: Tremendous pressure from public for resumption, says minister; December 15 date under review||As the outbreak of Omicron in several countries in the world has clouded India's plan of resuming regular international flights from December 15, junior aviation minister Gen (retired) VK Singh on Monday told news agency ANI that there has been tremendous pressure from the public for the last two months to resume international scheduled flights. Resumption of regular flights from December 15 was not an early decision, the minister said.As the outbreak of Omicron in several countries in the world has clouded India's plan of resuming regular international flights from December 15, junior aviation minister Gen (retired) VK Singh on Monday told news agency ANI that there has been tremendous pressure from the public for the last two months to resume international scheduled flights. Resumption of regular flights from December 15 was not an early decision, the minister said.|#+|After a high-level meeting on Sunday over the latest developments in the world after the new Covid variant, Omicron has been detected, the Union home ministry said the decision on the effective date of the resumption of scheduled commercial international passengers service will be reviewed as per the evolving global scenario, indicating that the date of December 15 might be changed.The Centre has already revised the guidelines for international arrivals and put states and union territories on alert. Delhi, Karnataka which receive a number of international fliers have urged the Prime Minister to ban the entry of passengers from the affected countries.As announced by the civil aviation ministry, India will not begin 100% regular passenger services with the countries that are "at- risk". 75% of operations will begin in "at risk" countries with a travel bubble with India and 50% of operations will begin in "at risk" countries without any travel bubble with India.South Africa, Israel, Singapore, Hong Kong, Botswana, the UK where Omicron cases have been found are there on the list, but Omicron has now been found in other countries too, like Australia, which are not on the list."We have tremendous pressure from the public to start international scheduled flights. We are taking all protocols and cautions. Anybody coming from outside, especially tourists, are being screened and tested at the airport. Only after checking the results, they are being allowed to go," minister of state for civil aviation Retd Gen VK Singh told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-international-flights-tremendous-pressure-from-public-for-resumption-says-minister-december-15-date-under-review-101638184368039.html
29-11-2021||India||Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora||As experts have been pushing for a booster dose amid omicron fears, the chairman of India's Covid-19 task force said on Monday that a comprehensive policy on additional and booster doses will be made public in the next two weeks by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) of India."The policy will deal with who will require the vaccine, when and how. This needs to be seen in the context that a new variant is coming and with time only we will get to know more information about it. Therefore relevance and effectiveness of the current vaccines will also become apparent with time only," news agency ANI quoted Arora as saying on Monday.Arora also explained the difference between a booster dose and an additional shot. "A booster dose is given in a predefined period after two primary doses. Whereas, an additional dose is only given to those people who have problems with their immune function even after the primary doses. If a person's immune function is not appropriately built you give them an additional dose. So these are two different things," he added.Top AIIMS doctor pushes for booster shots as experts scramble over new Covid-19 variantThe doctor also said, “a comprehensive plan for immunising 44 crore children below the age of 18 years will be made public soon.” Arora added that children with comorbidities will be prioritised and vaccinated first, followed by healthy children.His remarks came when health experts across the world are scrambling to study the new variant of Covid-19 that was first detected in South Africa's Botswana on November 11, 2021. It has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation.On Saturday, a senior doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi, said booster shots will need to be administered in the coming days and immediate studies must be commenced to ascertain its effectiveness on various age groups. Chairperson of the Covid-19 task force, AIIMS Delhi, Dr Naveet Wig, also gave Israel as a case study and said studies have shown vaccine effectiveness after the booster dose increases significantly -- from 40 per cent to 93 per cent.Notably, many countries across the world are administering booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccine, including the US, Germany, Austria, Canada and France among others as a precautionay measure amid the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policy-on-booster-additional-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-2-weeks-dr-nk-arora-101638183819258.html
29-11-2021||India||12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for rest of Winter Session for ruckus in August||The Rajya Sabha on the first day of its business for the Winter Session on Monday suspended 12 of its members, including Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi and Trinamool MP Dola Sen, for the remaining part of the current session. The action has been taken against them for indiscipline in the monsoon session of the house, the ruckus the Upper House witnessed on the last day of the session. Apart from Priyanka Chaturvedi and Dona Sen, MPs who have been suspended on Monday are Elamaram Kareem (CPM), Congress's Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, CPI's Binoy Viswam, TMC's Shanta Chhetri and Shiv Sena's Anil Desai.The MPs have lowered the dignity of the House by unprecedented acts of misconduct through their violent behaviour and 'intentional attacks' on security personnel on the Live updates from Parliament Winter SessionThe last day of the Monsoon Session of Parliament witnessed a ruckus in the Upper House while opposition MPs claimed they were attacked by marshals who were not part of Parliament security. The government's report on the ruckus states that a male marshal was choked by CPM MP Elamaran Kareem while a female marshal of the Rajya Sabha was assaulted by Chhaya Verma and Phulo Devi Netam, Congress MPs. The report was submitted to the Rajya Sabha chairman after the House was suspended for the season.The suspension notice issued of the first day of the Winter Session said: “That this House takes cognisance and strongly condemns the utter disregard to the authority of the Chai, complete abuse of rules of the House persistently thereby wilfully obstructing the business of House through their unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, unruly and violent behaviour and intentional attacks on security personnel on the last day of 254th Session of Rajya Sabha (Monsoon Session) i.e, 11th August 2021 thereby lowering the dignity of and bringing disrepute to the August House by the following members and resolves, for above compelling reasons, to suspend these members from the service of the House for the remainder of the 255th session under rule 256 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya Sabha.”Reacting to the suspension notice, Priyanka Chaturvedi on Monday said, “From district court to Supreme Court, an accused is heard even there, lawyers are provided for them too, sometimes government officials are sent to take their version. Here, our version wasn't taken. If you see the CCTV footage, it has been recorded how male marshals were jostling female MPs. All of this on one side and your decision on the other? What kind of unparliamentary behaviour is this?"Terming the suspension as unfair and unjust, Congress MP Chhaya Verma said there were members from other parties too who created the ruckus but have not been suspended.  “PM Modi is doing just as he wishes since he enjoys a brute majority,” the Congress MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-rajya-sabha-mps-suspended-for-rest-of-winter-session-in-parliament-101638179743268.html
29-11-2021||India||Omicron: PM Modi urges people to be alert, extends PMGKY till March||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged people to stay alert against the new coronavirus variant Omicron, which is now wreaking havoc across the globe. Since being identified in southern African countries, Omicron is spreading fast and is being touted to be more dangerous than Delta, the dominant strain."We have administered more than 100 crore doses of Covid vaccines during the challenging times of the pandemic. Now we are moving towards 150 crore doses. The news of the emergence of a new coronavirus variant makes us more alert. We all should stay alert in view of the new variant of Covid-19," PM Modi said in his address ahead of the beginning of the winter session of Parliament.He said the government's priority is the good health of the countrymen.The Prime Minister also announced the extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide free grains and the scheme till March 2022."We are running the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide free grains to more than 80 crore people of the country so that they don't face more problems. The scheme has now been extended to March 2022. With is the cost of nearly ₹2,60,000 crore, the scheme assures that over 80 crore people have food to cook in their home," the Prime Minister said while addressing the media persons.Under the scheme, the government provides 5kg foodgrains per person per month free of cost ration to maximum 81.35 crore beneficiaries covered under NFSA (Antyodaya Anna Yojana and Priority Households) including those covered under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).PM Modi held a review meeting on Saturday, where the officials briefed him about Omicron, its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries. It has already been categorised as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO).According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified 'at risk'. He also asked officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-pm-modi-urges-people-to-be-alert-extends-pmgky-till-march-101638166126664.html
29-11-2021||India||Govt scared of discussions, says Rahul Gandhi on passage of farm laws repeal bill||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Union government was scared of holding any discussion. His statement came in the wake of the government passing a bill to repeal the three farm laws in both houses of Parliament within moments of tabling the same on the first day of the winter session.“Earlier, we had said that the government would have to withdraw the farm laws and today these laws were repealed. It is unfortunate that the farm laws were repealed without any discussion. This government is scared of holding a discussion,” Gandhi was quoted as saying.“The fact is that the Central government could not face the strength of the Indian people represented by farmers in this case. The upcoming state elections must have also played on their mind,” he further said while speaking about the Narendra Modi-led government's move on the farm laws.The fact is that the Central government could not face the strength of the Indian people represented by farmers in this case. The upcoming State elections must have also played on their mind: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Parliament passing Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, was passed in both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha without any discussion amid an uproar by Opposition parties.Earlier in the day, Congress MPs including party interim president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue on the Parliament premises demanding repeal of three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-scared-of-discussions-rahul-gandhi-on-passage-of-farm-laws-repeal-bill-101638177707475.html
29-11-2021||India||Opposition slams government for passing Farm Laws Repeal Bill without discussion||The Opposition parties on Monday hit out at the government over the passage of the bill to repeal farm laws in Parliament without discussion. In a tweet, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Derek O’Brien called it a shame that the bill was taken up and passed without debate being allowed. “Not even a fig leaf of democracy. SHAMELESS.”Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said the three “anti-agriculture” laws were passed in Parliament without discussion and have been repealed without discussion. He added if a debate had taken place, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party-led government would have been answerable to the country regarding the “conspiracy to privatise” the agricultural sector, the sacrifice of 700 farmers, and reason for not giving minimum support price (MSP).Also Read:Congress welcomes withdrawal of farm laws but questions absence of debateBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the farmer protests will continue. “This is a tribute to all 750 farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. The protest will continue as other issues including MSP are still pending.”The farm laws were enacted last year and triggered protracted protests that prompted Modi to announce the legislation will be repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-hits-out-over-passage-of-bill-to-repeal-farm-laws-without-discussion-101638178046537.html
29-11-2021||India||Congress welcomes withdrawal of farm laws but questions Centre’s move to pass repeal bill without discussion||Congress veteran and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said that his party welcomed the Union government’s move to repeal the three farm laws but expressed displeasure over the absence of debate in the house before passing the bill.The Centre passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session amid the protests and sloganeering by the Opposition demanding a debate. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tabled the bill in both houses. However, the opposition parties, including Congress, had demanded a discussion around the bill.“We welcome withdrawal of the three farm laws. We demanded a discussion on several incidents that took place during agitation including the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the electricity bill. Farmers are still present at the protest site,” news agency ANI quoted Kharge as saying.Also read | Rajya Sabha passes Farm Laws Repeal Bill without any discussionFurther, he also said that by passing the bills in a haste in Lok Sabha, the government intended to prove that they were in “favour” of the protesting farmers. “We want that there should be a discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021. But with the passing of this Bill in Lok Sabha in a haste, they (govt) just want to prove that they are in the favour of farmers,” he said. “Government is wrong in saying that there is never a discussion on Repeal Bills, therefore it will not allow discussion on Repeal of Farm Laws Bill,” he added.Meanwhile, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called the passage of bills “Mann Ki Baat” in reference to the lack of discussion before it. “The government blames us for not letting the House function. But Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 was introduced and passed without discussion. Opposition had demanded a discussion on it. Even though the government has repealed the farm laws, its 'Mann ki Baat' is something else,” he said.Earlier in the day, the Congress party, led by its interim president Sonia Gandhi protested at the Parliament house against the Centre demanding the repeal of the farm laws.Another opposition party, the Trinamool Congress, too protested at Parliament house demanding a discussion on the repeal bill and alleged that the Centre was “afraid” to discuss. “TMC wanted to have a discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill but the government is afraid to discuss the conditions of the farmers. Government is not giving Opposition a chance to speak on behalf of the farmers,” TMC minister Kalyan Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-welcomes-withdrawal-of-farm-laws-but-questions-centre-s-move-to-pass-repeal-bill-without-discussion-101638177312991.html
29-11-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes Farm Laws Repeal Bill without any discussion||After it was passed in Lok Sabha on Monday, the contentious Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 was passed in the Upper House on Monday without any discussion on the opening of the winter session of Parliament.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who moved the Bill for passing, said no discussion was needed on it as all were in favour of the three farm laws being repealed.Earlier, before the minister introduced the Bill in the House for passage, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had seen the impact of the farm laws on bye-elections, and it was concerned about their further impact on upcoming assembly elections in five states. The Opposition also reminded the government that more than 700 people died in the ongoing protests against the controversial farm laws. The House was adjourned for half an hour after the Bill was passed.On Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the three laws would be repealed and urged the protesting farmers to end their year-long agitation. However, the stir continues over several other demands of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-farm-laws-repeal-bill-without-any-discussion-101638177146494.html
29-11-2021||India||Sisodia says Punjab education minister ‘ran away’ after his challenge||Deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Monday said Punjab education minister Pargat Singh ran away after he challenged him to review education models of Punjab and Delhi.Sisodia, who also holds Delhi’s education portfolio, said he did not receive the list of 250 government schools he sought from his Punjab counterpart for comparison of the education models. On Sunday, Sisodia released a list of 250 government schools in Delhi and sought a similar list from Singh.He said Singh made tall claims about the work done in Punjab schools but ran away from the challenge. “I requested that a list of schools be issued by Sunday evening. Twenty-four hours have passed since then. We have not received any response. It seems like they are running away. I request the education minister and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to give us a list of 250 schools by today (Monday) evening. People of Punjab deserve to know the work the Punjab government has done in schools,” said Sisodia.AAP emerged as a major political force in poll-bound Punjab in the 2017 assembly elections and seeks to further consolidate its position in the state where elections are due next year.Also Read: Rajya Sabha passes farm laws repeal bill amid uproarSisodia asked Channi to tell the people about the work done in schools in Punjab with respect to results, teacher training, and infrastructure. “I am hopeful Channi will not run away. He will tell us what has been done in Punjab.”On Sunday, Singh said he will give the list in a day or two. “I have asked the school education department officials to prepare the list.”Sisodia separately said the Delhi government was on alert and would respond appropriately if Covid-19 cases rise in the capital. “Taking cognisance of our experience from April-June, Delhi government has been making preparations. Extra facilities that we created are on alert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisodia-says-punjab-education-minister-ran-away-after-his-challenge-101638177086622.html
29-11-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor clarifies selfie with Mimi, Nusrat and other women MPs after backlash||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on the first day of the winter session of Parliament invited criticism after he posted a selfie with six women MPs of Parliament, including Trinamool's Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty, Congress's Preneet Kaur, wife of former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, NCP's Supriya Sule and Congress's Jothiman Sennimalai and DMK's Thamizhachi Thangapandian. What led to a row over the photo was the caption that Tharoor used. "Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work?" Tharoor wrote as he posted the photo.The whole selfie thing was done (at the women MPs' initiative) in great good humour & it was they who asked me to tweet it in the same spirit. I am sorry some people are offended but i was happy to be roped in to this show of workplace camaraderie. That's all this is. https://t.co/MfpcilPmSBAccused of sexism, the Congress MP clarified that it was the initiative of the women MPs in the photo and they, as Tharoor said, asked Tharoor to tweet about the photo. "I am sorry some people are offended but I was happy to be roped in to this show of workplace camaraderie. That's all this is," the Thiruvananthapuram MP tweeted.As clear in the photo, the selfie was taken by Mimi Chakraborty while the rest posed happily for the selfie with Tharoor in the middle of them. The women MPs also shared Throor's post about ‘attractive place to work’ on their social media handles.  It minimises women in politics or aspiring to politics, Dr. Tharoor, and seems to make attractiveness the criteria. Intention isn't the point here."The whole selfie thing was done (at the women MPs' initiative) in great good humour & it was they who asked me to tweet it in the same spirit," Tharoor wrote.Supreme Court lawyer Karuna Nandy exclaimed on social media that someone like Shashi Tharoor would "reduce elected political leaders to their looks, and centre himself in the comment to boot." "This is 2021, folks," Nandy wrote. After Shashi Tharoor's apologies and clarification, Nandy wrote the intent of the selfie is not the point. "It minimises women in politics or aspiring to politics, Dr Tharoor, and seems to make attractiveness the criteria."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-apologies-for-selfie-with-mimi-nusrat-and-other-woman-mps-after-backlash-101638175949454.html
29-11-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes farm laws repeal bill amid uproar||The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Monday amid a ruckus by Opposition parties who sought a discussion on the bill.The bill was passed earlier in the day in the Lok Sabha without any discussion and similar uproar. This is the first day of the winter session of Parliament.The bill was tabled in the upper House of Parliament by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Urging the Opposition parties to cooperate with the government, Union minister Pralhad Joshi earlier said there was enough discussion on the issue when they were passed in Parliament.Amid ruckus in Upper House, the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 passed in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/m4JqZPeOCi"The intention of the government is clear -- we want to pass the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 in the Lok Sabha and subsequently take it to Rajya Sabha. I appeal to the Opposition to cooperate with us when the Bill is taken to Rajya Sabha," said the Union minister.He further said the entire Opposition was demanding that the laws be repealed, but when the same was being done, a ruckus was underway. "I ask the Opposition what is their intention?" he said.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said Opposition parties wanted a discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021."We welcome the withdrawal of the three farm laws. We demanded a discussion on several incidents that took place during agitation including the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the electricity bill. Farmers are still present at the protest site," added Kharge.On Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the three contentious agri bills would be repealed and urged the protesting farmers to take back their year-long agitation. However, the stir continues over several other demands of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-farm-laws-repeal-bill-amid-uproar-101638175532466.html
29-11-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned twice on opening day of winter session of Parliament||Rajya Sabha was adjourned twice on Monday, the first day of the winter session of Parliament. It was first adjourned following obituary references, and then following protests by the Opposition over the chairperson’s decision not to allow notices given under Rule 267.Under the rule, lawmakers, with the consent of the chairperson, can take up an issue listed under the rule for discussion after suspending all listed businesses.As soon as the House reconvened, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he had gone through the notices given by lawmakers from Opposition parties but he decided not to allow them.Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of the Opposition, and Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s Kesava Rao were among those who demanded that their notices be taken up. When some members trooped into the well of the House, Naidu adjourned the house till 2pm.In the monsoon session too, the Opposition raised the issue of notices not being allowed under Rule 267.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-adjourned-twice-on-opening-day-of-winter-session-of-parliament-101638174506747.html
29-11-2021||India||News updates on HT: Param Bir Singh's bailable warrant cancelled and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bailable warrant cancelled against Param Bir Singh, asked to deposit ₹15k in CM relief fundThe commission investigating corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday cancelled a bailable warrant against ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Read moreTribute to farmers who died: Tikait on passage of Farm Laws Repeal Bill in LSAs the Lok Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament on Monday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the bill is a tribute to the 750 farmers who passed away during the ongoing agitation that started in November last year. Read moreSC asks Delhi-NCR govts to immediately comply with directions of pollution panelThe Supreme Court on Monday expressed its concern over rising air pollution levels in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR). Read more‘They should be spoken of in the same breath': Karthik makes tall claim, says India star as great as legendary Kapil DevIndian cricketer Dinesh Karthik, after the end of Day 4 of the ongoing India-New Zealand Test match, has drawn a parallel between legendary India all-rounder Kapil Dev and modern-day great R Ashwin, saying the two “should be spoken of in the same breath". Read moreSpider-Man: No Way Home to arrive in India a day before US on December 16Tom Holland's Spider-Man: No Way Home is arriving a day early in India. The film, which was earlier supposed to release on December 17, will now release on December 16. Read moreWorld's largest car maker sees production slide significantly. Here's whyToyota Motor Corp, the world's No. 1 carmaker, has found going especially tough in recent times owing to the global shortage in semiconductor chip which has also affected almost every other vehicle manufacturer. Read moreHow Covid-stricken Czech prez named Petr Fiala new PM in an unusual ceremonyRight-winger Petr Fiala was named Czech Republic's new prime minister in an unusual ceremony. Wheelchair-bound President Milos Zeman spoke from behind a plastic barrier as he has Covid-19. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-on-ht-param-bir-singh-s-bailable-warrant-cancelled-and-all-the-latest-news-101638173024642.html
29-11-2021||India||Bombay HC sets aside order refusing to restrain Nawab Malik||A Bombay high court division bench on Monday set aside a single judge’s November 22 order refusing to restrain Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik from posting anything against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede and his family on social media. The latest order was passed after the officer’s father, Dnyandev Wankhede, agreed to the terms proposed by Malik for rehearing the interim application in the defamation suit he has filed against the minister. The proposal came in response to the appeal against the single judge’s order.Malik on Friday proposed consent terms before the division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav hearing the appeal. Dnyandev Wankhede, who filed the appeal, expressed willingness for setting aside the November 22 order.Also Read: Vistara resumes flights to Singapore amid concerns over new Covid-19 variantA draft placed through advocate Karl Tamboly said Malik would file a detailed affidavit in response to the interim application. Malik pledged to abide by the undertaking he gave to the division bench that he will not post anything against the Wankhedes till December 9.Dnyandev Wankhede’s lawyer Birendra Saraf sought time till Monday to respond to the proposed consent terms. On Monday, when the appeal came up for hearing, Saraf informed the bench that his client was agreeable to the consent terms. Accordingly, the division bench struck down the earlier order and sent the matter back to the single judge for a fresh hearing of the interim application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-sets-aside-order-refusing-to-restraint-nawab-malik-101638173606504.html
29-11-2021||India||No proposal to recognise bitcoin as currency, finance ministry says in Lok Sabha||The Union finance minister said in Parliament on Monday that central government does not collect any data on bitcoin transactions. It also said that there is no proposal to recognise bitcoin as a currency in the country.The response was given the form of a written reply in the Lok Sabha on a question on cryptocurrency. A legislation seeking regulation of cryptocurrency will be discussed in the winter session of Parliament, which began on Monday.The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, seeks to create a framework to regulate digital to be currency issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).According to the Lok Sabha website, the bill will also seek to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, barring certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its use.Currently, there is no regulation or ban in the country on cryptocurrency.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had held a meeting earlier this month where he discussed the issue with senior officials. The Standing Committee on Finance, chaired by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader member Jayant Sinha, met the representatives of crypto exchanges, blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), among others this month and arrived at a conclusion that cryptocurrencies should not be banned, but regulated.The Reserve Bank of India has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them and their claimed market value.The RBI had announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency in the face of the proliferation of cryptocurrencies like bitcoin.Cryptocurrencies work on blockchain technology - a decentralised ledger of transactions. This isn’t maintained or stored in one place or with any central authority. Instead, it is spread across a network of computers, also known as peer-to-peer networks.This system is used to authenticate transactions done using crypto coins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-recognise-bitcoin-as-currency-finance-ministry-says-in-lok-sabha-101638172366919.html
29-11-2021||India||Vistara resumes flights to Singapore amid concerns over new Covid-19 variant||A Vistara flight from Mumbai landed in Singapore on Monday while Singapore Airlines and IndiGo were also scheduled to resume their flights between the two countries even as the airlines awaited clarity on operations in view of the detection of a new Covid-19 variant--Omicron.The government on Friday allowed scheduled international flights from December 15 to and from all countries considered not at risk”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked officials to review the plan to ease international travel restrictions after the new variant triggered global alarm. He called for the need to be “proactive in light of the new threat”.The World Health Organisation has dubbed Omicron a variant of concern after early evidence showed it could be more transmissible, and resistant to immunity from past infection or vaccination. The detection has prompted countries such as Japan to suspend the entry of foreign visitors.Also Read: Congress MP reminds Centre of promise to fully vaccinate Indians by 2021Vistara operated the Mumbai-Singapore flight under the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL), which allows quarantine-free travel to Singapore for fully vaccinated travellers. The airline has scheduled five flights weekly to Singapore.IndiGo was scheduled to operate a Chennai-Singapore flight under VTL at 2.50 pm. It has been allocated 3,618 seats per week, of which 1,624 seats will be available on the Chennai-Singapore route under VTL.“The rest of the capacity will be utilised under non-VTL conditions for travel to and from Singapore,” an airline spokesperson said.A Singapore airline official said they will be operating flights to Singapore as per schedule until the government issues fresh guidelines. The airline’s first flight between the two countries is scheduled to take off at 4.25 pm (IST) from Singapore and arrive in Delhi at 9.55 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-resumes-flights-to-singapore-amid-concerns-over-new-covid-19-variant-101638172526335.html
29-11-2021||India||Congress MPs protest outside Parliament||Congress lawmakers, including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, staged a protest against the farm laws on the first day of the Parliament’s Winter Session outside the House. They held a banner, saying: “We Demand Repeal of Black Farm Laws.”Ruling Bhartiya Janata Party spokesman Tom Vaddakan wondered why Congress was protesting as the government has announced the repeal of the laws and Lok Sabha has passed a bill in this regard. “What is left now to withdraw it in the House. They are doing no justice to the Parliament and farmers by delaying proceedings. Congress is just trying to impress the gallery.”Also Read: Farm Laws Repeal Bill passed by Lok Sabha, Congress leaders not happyOn November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three farm laws will be repealed. The farm laws were enacted last year and triggered protracted protests.Lok Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill without discussion as soon as the Lower House opened for proceedings on the first day of the session. The House was adjourned till noon after sloganeering and disruption by the Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mps-protest-outside-parliament-101638171626313.html
29-11-2021||India||Tribute to farmers who died: Rakesh Tikait on passage of Farm Laws Repeal Bill in Lok Sabha||As the Lok Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament on Monday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the bill is a tribute to the 750 farmers who passed away during the ongoing agitation that started in November last year.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, which is meant to officially revoke the Centre's three farm laws, was tabled by Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday, the first day of the winter session of Parliament. The bill was passed without any discussion amid uproar from Opposition parties.Speaking about the repeal move of the government, Tikait said the farmers’ agitation will continue. “The Farm Laws Repeal Bill is a tribute to the 750 farmers who died during the agitation. MSP (minimum support price) continues to be the bug. The protest will continue as other issues, including MSP, are pending," Tikait said.Also Read| Bill to repeal farm laws passed in ParliamentEarlier in the day, the BKU spokesperson said farmer unions will not leave protest sites, mostly along the borders of Delhi, without talking to the Centre.Highlighting that the farmer unions will open up the avenues for these talks, Tikait said the Centre wants farmers to end their agitation without reaching out to them.He also said that with a solution found for the three farm laws, the Centre should now talk about the damage that has been done in the past year. “The issue will not end if the Centre wants to settle the matter with deceitful, false statements.”Meanwhile, opposition parties, including the Congress, have sought a debate on the bill following which Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that can happen when there is order in the House. The bill will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha at 2pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribute-to-farmers-who-died-tikait-on-passage-of-farm-laws-repeal-bill-in-ls-101638169382583.html
29-11-2021||India||Bill to repeal farm laws passed in Lok Sabha||The Lok Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 without discussion as soon as the lower House opened for proceedings on the first day of the ongoing winter session of Parliament on Monday.The House was adjourned till noon soon after it met because of sloganeering and disruption by the Opposition.On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a surprise announcement to scrap the three farm laws after a year of protests by farm unions, which said the laws hurt their interests.Also read | PM Modi says Parliament session should be judged on work done, not days wastedAccordingly, the Cabinet had cleared the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 to be tabled in Parliament.The government and the Opposition differed on having a discussion on the farm laws repeal Bill during a meeting of the business advisory committee of the Rajya Sabha.The three laws were aimed at bringing more corporate participation in farm trade. They eased curbs in the trading of farm produce, allowed traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and laid down a national framework for contract-farming based on written agreements.Farm unions say the legislation would have left them at the mercy of large firms.The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.Click here for LIVE updates on Parliament's Winter SessionThe government was reportedly reluctant to allow a discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 as it did not see any merit in having a discussion on the issue again, according to a Bharatiya Janata Party official.The Opposition will get a chance to speak on minimum support prices (MSPs) and other issues during the course of the session, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-repeal-farm-laws-passed-in-parliament-101638170546104.html
29-11-2021||India||Parliament: Congress moves suspension notice in LS to discuss farm laws repeal, MSP||At least three members of the Congress on Monday, the first day of Parliament’s Winter Session, moved adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss various issues related to the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. The bill to repeal the laws was passed by the government without any discussion amid Opposition uproad.Some of the key demands of the Congress included a discussion on minimum support price (MSP) and creation of a record of farmers who lost their lives during the year-long agitation against the three laws.Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury moved a notice for suspension of Question Hour in the House and sought a discussion on the MSP issue.Click here for live coverage of Parliament's Winter Session“I want to move the following motion before taking up the question of the hour. That the Question Hour be suspended today to take up a discussion, requesting the Government to declare Minimum Support Price for all crops, backed by legal guarantee,” read a letter Chowdhury wrote to the Lok Sabha Secretary General.Another Congress MP, Manish Tewari, moved an adjournment notice in the lower House and demanded a discussion on the formation of a record of farmers who had reportedly died during the agitations against the three laws.“The government has in a reply to the Parliament stated that it has not kept track of farmers who lost their lives in the agitation. The government should create a record of farmers who lost their lives protesting the farm laws and give compensation to their families. Sir, I wish to raise this grave matter of disregard for the lives of farmers by the government,” Tewari wrote in his letter.MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment notice making similar demands for repealing the three farms laws and compensation for farmers who lost their lives. He said he wanted to move the notice “to direct the government to initiate repealing of three farm laws and to announce compensation for the families of 700 farmers who had died during the last one year while they were in agitation on the Delhi border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-congress-moves-suspension-notice-in-ls-to-discuss-farm-laws-repeal-msp-101638170099592.html
29-11-2021||India||TMC skips opposition meet called by Congress, 10 others attend||The Trinamool Congress skipped the meeting of opposition parties called by the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge ahead of the Parliament’s winter session in a clear indication of its tensions with the Congress in the backdrop of the Mamata Banerjee led outfit’s ambitions to become the principal opposition force nationally against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Apart from the Indian National Congress (INC), 10 other opposition parties including the Dravida Munetra Kazhagam (DMK), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), Communist Party of India (CPI), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Marumalarchi Dravika Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), Loktantrik Janata Dal, National Conference (NC) and the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) attended the meeting.  “TMC will not attend the meeting of opposition floor leaders called by the Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge tomorrow, but definitely will attend the meetings chaired by the Prime Minister and the Rajya Sabha Chairman,” a TMC leader was quoted as saying on Sunday.Also Read: Farm Laws Repeal Bill passed by Lok Sabha, Congress leaders not happyIn a tweet on Sunday,TMC parliamentarian Derek O’Brien made it clear that the TMC was not an ally of the Congress but dismissed suggestions that the undercurrent of tensions with the Congress may impact unity of opposition parties on the floor of the Parliament. “Yes, there will be Opposition unity in Parliament. Common ISSUES will unite Opposition. The RJD, DMK, CPIM are all electoral allies of Congress. NCP, Shiv Sena, JMM run a govt with them. Congress is not our electoral ally nor are we running a govt. with them. That’s the distinction,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-skips-opposition-meet-called-by-congress-11-others-attend-101638169466585.html
29-11-2021||India||Farm Laws Repeal Bill passed in Lok Sabha, Congress leaders not happy||The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, meant to officially scrap the three central farm laws, was passed in the lower house of Parliament (Lok Sabha) on the first day of the winter session without any discussion amid the ruckus by opposition parties, which led to multiple adjournments of both the houses. The bill will now be tabled in the upper house - or Rajya Sabha - at 2pm, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said.Winter Session of Parliament: Track Live UpdatesThe bill was tabled by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Congress’ Member of Parliament Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury protested the passage of the bill in such a manner, demanding discussion on it.Soon after Parliament's winter session commenced, the Lok Sabha was adjourned till 12 noon by Speaker Om Birla following sloganeering by members of the opposition parties.The Lok Sabha resumed at noon, but was soon adjourned again till 2pm, shortly after the Farm Laws Repeal Bill was passed. The Rajya Sabha too was adjourned soon after the day's proceedings began.Also Read | What PM Modi said as winter session beganEarlier, Congress MPs, including party president Sonia Gandhi, staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue inside Parliament premises on Monday on the issue of farm laws.In an address to the nation on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repealing of the three Central farm laws on the day of Guru Nanak Jayanti.The government has indicated that the bill to repeal three farm laws will also be taken up on priority. The bill was cleared by the Union Cabinet last week.The winter session of Parliament is scheduled to conclude on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-bill-passed-by-lok-sabha-congress-leaders-not-happy-101638168553738.html
29-11-2021||India||Congress MP reminds Centre of promise to fully vaccinate Indians by 2021||Congress has launched a fresh attack on the Central government over the pace of vaccination as the country faces a fresh threat from a new variant of coronavirus, considered to be more infections as per early estimates by the World Health Organisation. On Monday, Manickam Tagore, Congress’ Member of Parliament (MP) from Tamil Nadu, tweeted a May 28 video of Union minister Prakash Javadekar saying that India will be vaccinated by the end of 2021 and said that merely around 42 crore of the 108 crore eligible adults had been vaccinated in the country till now, making the task of fully vaccinating the entire adult population before December 31, challenging.“108 crore Indians needed to be twice vaccinated by Tuesday, but Fully vaccinated remains at 42 crore Indians. What they achieved? Who will be held responsible? When #Omicron on the way where bucks stop?” Tagore said in his first tweet on the issue before claiming that roughly 66 crore eligible Indians population was yet to be fully vaccinated. As per the Union health ministry data, more than 122 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far. In measures announced to mitigate the threat of the Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa, the Central government has asked states to speed up the vaccination drive apart from tightening the screening and tracing protocols even as experts debate the amount of protection currently available vaccines are likely to offer against the new variant. Also Read | Omicron: PM Modi urges people to be alert, extends PMGKY till MarchAll India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) chief Dr Randeep Guleria has said that all vaccines against Covid-19 will have to be reviewed globally since most of them form antibodies against the spike protein and since Omicron has many mutations in the spike protein, it might render many vaccines less effective.On Saturday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had described the vaccination figures as “bad” while referring to the emergence of a new threat in Omicron variant. “[The] new variant is a serious threat. High time GOI (Government of India) gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen. Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo. #Omicron,” Rahul’s tweet said. BJP spokespersons were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-reminds-centre-of-promise-to-fully-vaccinate-indians-by-2021-101638166585763.html
29-11-2021||India||No case of Omicron variant in India, 2 clusters under investigation, says govt||No case of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus has been detected in India, senior government officials said on Monday. They added that two clusters are under investigation - one in Maharashtra and another one in Karnataka.The clarification comes a day after a man tested positive for Covid-19 in Dombivli, in Maharashtra’s Thane district. He had travelled from Cape Town to Dombivli on November 24.The man’s samples were sent for genome testing to determine if he has been infected with the Omicron strain.Karnataka, meanwhile, has ordered precautionary measures in Dakshina Kannada, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts bordering Kerala. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai underlined that there was high prevalence of Covid among people coming from Kerala. The state government has also urged the Centre to impose a travel ban on passengers coming from South Africa, Hong Kong and Botswana.The variant emerged in southern Africa earlier this month and has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO). It has so far spread to 15 countries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged people to exercise caution in the wake of the new strain. He was addressing the mediapersons before the start of the winter session of Parliament.India has announced strict checking of international travellers, particularly those who are arriving from countries categoried as “at risk” by the government. These are 11 such countries, plus the UK and Europe.Japan on Monday joined the growing list of countries which have announce ban on travel to southern African countries. "We are banning the entry of foreigners from all countries starting November 30," Sputnik reported quoting Kishida as saying today.Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands have already stopped flights from southern Africa.The Omicron variant contains at least 30 mutations, more than any other previous strain. It is also believed to be resistant to vaccines, though scientists have sought more studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-case-of-omicron-variant-in-india-2-clusters-under-investigation-says-govt-101638165163599.html
29-11-2021||India||SC asks Delhi-NCR govts to immediately comply with directions of pollution panel||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its concern over rising air pollution levels in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR).The apex court asked the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to take permission from the chief conservator of forests before cutting trees to make way for the construction of the fourth phase expansion of metros.The court directed governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab to immediately comply with all the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the region. The apex court sought compliance reports from all the states and will hear the matter next on Thursday.The court further directed the Delhi government to frame a comprehensive plan planting of trees and saplings in the national capital and submit the same before it within 12 weeks.The SC also observed that while pollution levels were rising, there is another problem of Covid-19 given the emergence of a new variant, named Omicron.The air quality in the national capital on Monday morning remained in the "very poor" category with overall air quality index (AQI) at 370, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).Gurugram and Noida recorded AQI of 369 and 391, respectively, both in the 'very poor' categories.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhincr-pollution-sc-asks-dmrc-to-take-forest-dept-nod-before-cutting-trees-101638165081809.html
29-11-2021||India||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi fears he may be kidnapped again||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi fears that he might be kidnapped again and may be taken to Guyana, from where he may be taken away in an unlawful and illegal manner.In an exclusive interview with ANI, Choksi said, "I may be coerced and kidnapped once again, and taken to Guyana, where there is a strong Indian presence, which may be utilized to spirit me away in an unlawful and illegal manner.""I am currently confined to the limits of my house in Antigua, my poor health doesn't allow me to move anywhere else, and the traumatizing experience I suffered at the hands of my Indian captors led to an irreversible degradation," he alleged."I'm seeking help for the disastrous state of my mental health as I am consumed by constant fear, numbed by the shock of my experiences in the past few months. I am unable to step outside my house despite my doctors' recommendations and I seek to avoid the limelight at all costs now. My poor health doesn't allow me to go and do anything."My lawyers are fighting cases in both Antigua and Dominica and I have complete faith that I shall emerge victorious because I am an Antiguan Citizen who was kidnapped, abducted and taken against my will to a different country," he alleged."It is a matter of record the extent to which certain governments are willing to go to secure my presence, but I repose full faith in the legal systems of commonwealth countries and I'm sure that justice will prevail in the end," he added.Choksi had gone missing from Antigua on May 23 this year after going out for dinner and was soon caught in Dominica. He was charged with illegal entry by the police in Dominica after he allegedly escaped from Antigua and Barbuda in a possible attempt to evade extradition to India.Later on July 12, The Dominica High Court granted him interim bail on medical grounds.The 62-year-old fugitive is wanted in India in connection with a ₹13,500 crore fraud with the Punjab National Bank (PNB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-fears-he-may-be-kidnapped-again-101638160882967.html
29-11-2021||India||Government is ready to face all questions in Parliament, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the government is ready to face all questions in Parliament, but the decorum of the House and the sanctity of the speaker should be maintained.Addressing the media ahead of the winter session that begins on Monday, Modi said the government is looking forward to answering questions posed by the Opposition but also expects the proceedings to be conducted smoothly.Parliament’s monsoon session was marred by Opposition protests against the farm laws enacted last year and the alleged use of Pegasus spyware. Modi last week announced the repeal of the laws and the Bill in this regard is expected to be tabled on Monday.Modi said the measure of the work done in Parliament should be the hours spent on discussion and debate and no disruptions. He hoped in the spirit of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav marking 75 years of India’s independence, lawmakers will find ways for the progress of the country. Modi added constructive decisions will be taken during the winter session. “I hope in future, how Parliament was run and how constructive the proceedings were should be the measure and not how it was disrupted,” he said. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien criticised the PM for his latest remarks, calling his assurances “hollow words”. “You ran away from discussing #Pegasus and are responsible for disrupting full monsoon session. In Sept 2020, your govt broke every rule and bulldozed the #FarmLaws. The problem is no one in your Cabinet will tell you that #Parliament is not #MannKiBaat,” O’Brien tweeted.In the wake of reports about a new Covid-19 variant spreading, Modi asked the country to be more vigilant and alert. He said the country is inching towards getting 150 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-is-ready-to-face-all-questions-in-parliament-says-pm-modi-101638163645753.html
29-11-2021||India||PM Modi says Parliament session should be judged on work done, not days wasted||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said Parliament should hold discussions on issues of national importance.Talking to reporters ahead of Parliament's first day of business, the PM said the criteria to judge the winter session should be how much work is done, and not how many days are wasted. Stating that the government is ready to discuss all issues openly, the PM said voices can be raised, but the dignity of Parliament, Speaker and the Chair should be maintained.“This is an important session of Parliament. The citizens of the country want a productive session. They are fulfilling their responsibilities for a brighter future. The session should be constructive. The benchmark should be constructive. There should be debate as well as peace," he said.Also read | Winter session of Parliament begins today: Govt's priorities and what opposition parties wantThe PM also urged everyone to remain careful as a new variant of coronavirus has emerged.He further said that Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana has been extended till March 2022.On the first day of the winter session of Parliament on Monday, the government of India is likely to move the three 'Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021' in the Rajya Sabha after it is passed by the Lok Sabha.The three 'Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021' was circulated among Rajya Sabha members on Friday.In an address to the nation on November 19, Modi announced the repeal of the three Central farm laws on the day of Guru Nanak Jayanti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-parl-session-should-be-judged-on-work-done-not-days-wasted-101638162618907.html
29-11-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally drops slightly with 8,309 new cases; recoveries at 98.34%||India on Monday reported 8,309 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 236 related deaths, taking the country's cumulative total number of infections to 34,580,832 while the death toll climbed to 4,68,790, according to the Union health ministry bulletin this morning.The new cases were marginally lower than yesterday's numbers while the recovery rate maintained at 98.34 per cent, the highest since March 2020. Recoveries increased by 9,905 in the last 24 hours, the data showed.At the same time, the active caseload stood at 1,03,859, which is the lowest in 544 days. According to the bulletin, active cases now account for 0.30 per cent of the total cases.A total of 122.41 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.Meanwhile, the omicron variant outbreak has led to widespread concern with countries imposing shutdowns to prevent another surge of infections.On Sunday, the Union health ministry revised the guidelines for international arrivals in India and made it mandatory for passengers to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel and to submit the last 14 days travel details. The guidelines also made it compulsory to upload a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours before the journey on the Air Suvidha portal before the journey. The new rules will be effective from December 1.The health ministry listed several countries under the 'at risk' category, including the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel.India has not reported any case of the omicron variant so far. However, two clusters from Maharashtra and Karnataka are under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-drops-slightly-with-8-309-new-cases-recoveries-at-9834-101638158859295.html
29-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh minister apologises for comments about upper caste women||Madhya Pradesh minister Bisahulal Sahu apologised on Sunday over his comments that upper-caste women should work like those from the lower strata of society following a warning from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan over the remarks.Rajput and other upper caste organisations protested against the comments made on Thursday. “The women from lower strata of society in the villages work in the fields and also do household chores. But the big people like Thakur and Thakar keep their women confined to homes and do not let them go out. They should pull them out from their houses because both men and women should work equally,” said Sahu, a tribal, on Thursday.Chouhan on Sunday said he called Sahu and he has publicly apologised for his statement. “Whatever the sentiment, the message should not go wrong. Every word should be spoken carefully. I have warned all the ministers and MLAs (members of legislative assembly) that such statements should not be given under any circumstances.” He added anything that sends a wrong message to the people will not be forgiven whoever the person may be. He added respect for women is paramount.Also Read: Bihar priests protest move to declare 30,000 acres of temple land as publicIn a video, Sahu said he has always respected women. “My statement hurt their sentiments so I want to apologise. My intention was not to hurt anyone.”On Saturday, Rajput groups Karni Sena and Kshatriya Mahasabha protested across the state. Karni Sena members also showed black flags to Sahu at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party office.Chouhan in 2018 faced an upper-caste backlash when he said nobody can dare to take reservation away amid rallies against quotas in the promotion and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-minister-apologises-for-comments-about-upper-caste-women-101638161125758.html
29-11-2021||India||Bihar priests protest move to declare 30,000 acres of temple land as public||Following the Bihar government’s announcement last week that ownership of land of temples and monasteries registered or affiliated with the Bihar State Religious Trust Board will lie with the deities of the shrines and that 30,000 acres of such temple and Math land will be declared public property, an association of priests on Saturday threatened to take to the streets if the decision was not rescinded, arguing that these lands should be managed by the priests of the shrines.Out of the thousands of temples and Maths in the state, only 4,200 are learnt to have been registered to the religious trust board.Law minister Pramod Kumar said the move was meant to remove illegal encroachment and sale of these lands. “The Religious Trust Board got to know that the temples and Maths located in 36 districts have more than 30,000 acres of land. A significant part of these land were occupied illegally. In some cases, the lands of temple and Maths were already sold,” Kumar said.He added that there were several cases of cheating gullible buyers, who do not know that the land of temples and Maths can’t be sold by any individual. By the time buyers learn the truth, the sellers disappear from the scene, he added.“This is why it has been made clear that lands of temples and Maths are owned by the deity of the shrine and that it should be declared public land and any transaction of sale and purchase of such land by any individual is illegal,” he said.Also Read: Bihar govt directs officials to conduct genome study, increase vaccination to tackle new Covid variantBesides, there’s an effort to get all other temples and Maths under the purview of the Religious Trust Board, the law minister added.The association of priests said they will not accept government control on the land of the shrines. “The decision to declare it as public land is not in good taste. Priests of the shrines should be given the responsibility to manage it,” the association said. The association includes priests from Kabir Math, Parbatta ( Khagaria), Udasin Akhara , Phulwarisharif, state capital based Baba Bhikham Das Thakurbari and Ayodhyadas Thakurbari, Kabir Math of Rajgir, and Bihar Sanskritik Vidyapeeth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-priests-protest-move-to-declare-30-000-acres-of-temple-land-as-public-101638160465568.html
29-11-2021||India||Rains expected in northwestern India, air quality likely to improve||The interaction of a western disturbance with moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea is likely to cause widespread rain, thunderstorms in the northwest and central India particularly Gujarat and the Konkan region, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Clouding and light rain are expected in Delhi NCR around December 1 and 2 and December 5 and 6.Widespread rain/thunderstorm is likely in Gujarat, North Maharashtra, adjoining areas of Southwest Madhya Pradesh, and South Rajasthan from November 30 to December 2 with peak rainfall activity on December 1.“A trough in the easterlies and its interaction with a western disturbance will bring widespread rain and thunderstorms over the northwestern region. A cyclonic circulation that is over the Comorin area is likely to emerge in the Arabian Sea. The moisture incursion from this system will interact with the western disturbance to bring rain,” said RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre. “An intense western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from December 5 and cause rain both in the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains on December 5 and 6.”Winds are likely to pick up over northwest India from Monday which is likely to help in the dispersal of pollutants. “We are expecting severe air quality to improve from Monday because the wind speed is likely to pick up leading to better dispersal of pollutants,” said VK Soni, who heads Environment Monitoring Research Centre.Also Read: Delhi’s AQI in ‘severe’ category; mercury may drop to 10°CScattered to widespread rainfall or snowfall as well as isolated thunderstorm or lightning are likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh on December 1 and 2, IMD said on Sunday.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Comorin area and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts in the lower levels. Strong northeasterly winds are prevailing over the Tamil Nadu coast and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh at lower levels to the north of the circulation. The circulation is likely to emerge in the Arabian Sea on November 29 and move north-north-westwards thereafter. Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall is likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, and Lakshadweep. Widespread rainfall is likely in south Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, and Rayalaseema during the next two days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal on Sunday and Monday and in south Coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining Rayalaseema on Sunday. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely in Kerala and Mahe till Monday.A low-pressure area is also likely to form over the south Andaman Sea on Tuesday. It is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards during subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall is likely in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands from November 30–December 2 and isolated very heavy rainfall on December 1. Rainfall is likely to increase in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Odisha from December 3 onwards.Squally wind (speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) is likely over Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar, southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal along and off Tamil Nadu-south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 28. Squally weather with maximum sustained wind speed reaching 40-50 gusting to 60 kmph is likely to prevail over the east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka-Goa coasts on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-expected-in-northwestern-india-air-quality-likely-to-improve-101638157345119.html
29-11-2021||India||Bill to repeal three farm laws to be introduced in Lok Sabha||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will on Monday introduce in Lok Sabha the Bill to repeal the three farm laws that were enacted last year and triggered protracted protests.The bill says “only a small group of farmers are protesting” against the legislation while calling it the need of the hour to take along everyone for inclusive growth.This month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the laws and said that the government failed to convince a certain section of the farmers.Parliament’s Monsoon Session was marred by Opposition protest against the farm laws and the alleged use of Pegasus spyware.Also Read: Govt’s priorities and what oppn wantsBharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress have issued whips to their lawmakers to remain present in the House on the first day of the Winter Session.Congress has demanded a condolence resolution for the farmers, who died during the year-long protests against the farm laws.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will separately introduce the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations), Bill in the Lok Sabha. The proposed law was introduced in Lok Sabha in September 2020 and was sent to a parliamentary committee in March.In Rajya Sabha, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will introduce the Dam Safety Bill, which seeks to provide for the surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of dams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-repeal-three-farm-laws-to-be-introduced-in-lok-sabha-101638156505184.html
29-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Singapore to resume flights to India from today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.From today, Singapore to resume flights to India. Details hereFrom Monday, Singapore will resume commercial flights with India through its vaccinated travel lane (VTL) facility with six designated flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. Read more'Unfortunately for him, we have an extremely special player': Rathour hails India's 'ideal team man' for gritty knockIndia's batting coach Vikram Rathour was all praise for India's "ideal team man" Wriddhiman Saha following the veteran's gritty half-century knock against New Zealand on day 4 of the first Test in Kanpur, but admitted him being unfortunate owing to the presence of "extremely special player" Rishabh Pant, who has been rested from the Test series. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan gives Sa Re Ga Ma Pa contestant Sanjana's husband a side-eye after he compares her with Aishwarya RaiAbhishek Bachchan recently appeared on the singing reality show Sa Re Ga Ma Pa on Sunday to promote his upcoming film Bob Biswas. During the episode, the actor was shown a clip of a contestant named Sanjana and her husband praising her. Read moreStars honour Virgil Abloh: Priyanka Chopra, Gigi Hadid, Sonam Kapoor, Hailey Bieber, David Beckham and more pay tributesThe fashion industry and biggest celebrities from all around the world are mourning the untimely death of Virgil Abloh, the artistic director of Louis Vuitton menswear and founder of fashion line Off-White. Read moreOmar reveals reason for 'revival in militancy' in Kashmir, hits out at Modi govtFormer J&K Chief Minister Omar Abdullah has lashed out at Centre for 'revival of militancy' in Kashmir. Omar, who was J&K Chief Minister between 2009 and 2014, said the militancy is back to Kashmir despite art 370 removal. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-singapore-to-resume-flights-to-india-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638155203887.html
29-11-2021||India||Maharashtra may impose 7-day quarantine for passengers from SA||Maharashtra is likely to announce seven-day institutional quarantine for passengers arriving directly from South Africa or transiting through the country, which was the first to report the latest Omicron variant of the coronavirus, considered to be more transmittable than the previous Covid -19 mutations. The state is also likely to make a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for entry of domestic travellers, according to senior state officials. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, in a review meeting with the district collectors and municipal commissioners, said they could go ahead with immediate imposition of quarantine rules without waiting for the Centre to announce new guidelines. Thackeray chaired the meeting from a Mumbai hospital where he is recuperating following a spine surgery. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has suggested imposing 14-day institutional quarantine for passengers from geographies of concern in Africa. However, the state is expected to approve a seven-day quarantine. Detailed guidelines are expected to be issued in a couple of days, officials said. “A large number of people from abroad have started coming to Mumbai and other places. Many of them land elsewhere in the country and travel by domestic airlines, roads and trains. If any of them are carriers of the virus, others may be at great risk, so it is imperative to investigate such passengers, to keep a tab on them,” Thackeray is quoted in a statement released by his office. During the meeting, Thackeray instructed officials to test international and domestic passengers arriving at airports in the state. Also Read | Maharashtra: Man tests positive for Covid-19 after returning from South AfricaState Covid Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said they are now in the “vigilant” mode as the new variant, B.1.1.529, is reportedly more infectious than Delta, the variant largely responsible for the deadly second wave of coronavirus infections in India earlier this year.  “The Delta variant had two mutations, this has over 50. It is a super mutant, and it transmits rapidly. In 10 days, it replaced the dominant Delta strain in South Africa,” Joshi, who attended the meeting on Sunday, said. Experts have also expressed fears that the Omicron variant was less likely to face resistance from immunity built in individuals who successfully recovered from infections triggered by the old variants such as Delta.“If you look at the mutation sites, it [Omicron] is likely to cause more severe disease. In the next four weeks, we will have data to understand how severe it is. India is concerned because this new variant can replace Delta. If a new strain comes into India now, we might get a new wave through this strain.” Joshi added. The Omicron variant is currently being studied by researchers around the globe to ascertain if it can result in more severe infections. Joshi added that the vaccination drive needs to pick up speed and people who have not taken their second dose must not delay after completing the mandatory waiting period between the two doses.Maharashtra on Sunday added 832 new Covid-19 cases (6,634,444 cumulative). The state also reported 33 deaths to take the toll to 140,941. Mumbai added 210 new infections on the same day (762,584 cumulative) and recorded four disease related fatalities (toll 16,330). There were 8,193 active cases in the state, including 2,192 in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-impose-7-day-quarantine-for-passengers-from-sa-101638155544912.html
29-11-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: 12 MPs suspended for unruly conduct||The winter session of Parliament began on Monday but the first day saw several adjournments. The Lok Sabha passed the bill repealing the three farm laws amid sloganeering by the Opposition. Several MPs from the Opposition, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, criticised passing the bill without debate. The bill was later passed in the Rajya Sabha as well. Ahead of the parliament session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government is ready to discuss every issue provided the dignity of the Parliament and the Chair is maintained. The Rajya Sabha was adjourned as Opposition MPs entered the well of the Upper House. 12 MPs were suspended for unruly conduct earlier this year in August. Follow all the updates here:Cong MP Ripun Bora calls suspension murder of democracy'This is totally undemocratic, murder of democracy and Constitution. We've not been given the opportunity to be heard. This is a one-sided, biased, vindictive decision. Opposition parties haven't been consulted," Bora was quoted as saying by news agency ANI following his suspension for the rest of the Winter Session. Out of 12 suspended MPs, 6 from CongressSix Cong MPs - Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Hussain, Akhilesh Singh were among those suspendedAll 12 Rajya Sabha members suspended for rest of winter sessionRajya Sabha has suspended the 12 members for the remaining part of winter session over their misconduct and unruly behaviour during last session.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day amid opposition sloganeering over various issues, reports PTI. Winter Session: 12 MPs suspended The following MPs were suspended for unruly conduct - Elamaram Kareem (CPM), Phulo Devi Netam (INC), Chhaya Verma (INC), Ripun Bora(INC), Binoy Viswam (CPI), Rajamani Patel (INC), Dola Sen (TMC), Shanta Chhetri (TMC), Syed Nasir Hussain(INC), Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Anil Desai (Shiv Sena) and Akhilesh Prasad Singh (INC).Rahul Gandhi condemns no discussion on Farm Laws Repeal bill, says ‘govt scared of discussion’“Earlier, we had said that the govt will have to withdraw the farm laws, and today these laws were repealed. It is unfortunate that the farm laws were repealed without discussion. This government is scared of holding a discussion,” says Rahul Gandhi to mediapersons outside the Parliament.Rajya Sabha passes Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 amid ruckusFarm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 passed in Rajya Sabha amid ruckus.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am on TuesdayLok Sabha has been adjourned till 11 am tomorrow.Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 tabled in Rajya SabhaUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar tables the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 in Rajya Sabha. The bill has already been passed in the Lok Sabha.Welcome the withdrawal but demand discussion: LoP in Rajya Sabha"We welcome withdrawal of the three farm laws. We demanded a discussion on several incidents that took place during agitation including the Lakhimpur Kheri incident & the electricity bill. Farmers are still present at the protest site," says LoP in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge.Passing of farm laws repeal bill in haste: Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition"We want that there should be a discussion on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021. But with the passing of this Bill in Lok Sabha in a haste, they (govt) just want to prove that they are in the favour of farmers," says Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge.‘Farm laws passed, repealed without discussion’: Congress slams Centre amid winter session3 Anti-Agriculture Laws were passed in Parliament without discussion & have been repealed without discussion.A debate would make the PM & BJP answerable for…• Conspiracy to sell the farming sector at the altar of Crony Friends;• Sacrifice of 700 farmers;• Not giving MSP.“3 Anti-Agriculture Laws were passed in Parliament without discussion & have been repealed without discussion,” says Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala in a tweet.No proposal to recognise Bitcoin as currency: Centre in written reply to Lok SabhaMinistry of Finance submits a written reply in Lok Sabha regarding cryptocurrency. “Govt of India does not collect data on Bitcoin transactions. No proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency in the country,” it says.Farm Laws Repeal bill to be tabled in Rajya Sabha at 2pmThe Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 will be tabled in Rajya Sabha at 2pm today, says Union Minister Pralhad Joshi.Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till 2pm.Tribute to farmers who lost lives during protest: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Farm Laws Repeal bill passed"This (Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 passed by Lok Sabha) is a tribute to all 750 farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. The protest will continue as other issues including MSP are still pending," BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told news agency ANI.Lok Sabha speaker urges Opposition to bring House in orderSpeaker Om Birla had requested Opposition MPs to bring the House in order to allow any discussion before the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 was passed.Farm Laws Repeal Bill passed amid ruckus in Lok SabhaThe Farm Laws Repeal Bill has been passed amid ruckus in Lok Sabha after it was introduced by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Meanwhile, Congress demands discussion on the bill in the House.Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 2pm.TMC protests at Gandhi statue over farm laws repeal billTrinamool Congress MPs protest at Mahatma Gandhi statue demanding a discussion over Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021.“TMC wanted to have a discussion on Farm Laws Repeal Bill but the government is afraid to discuss the conditions of the farmers. Govt is not giving Opposition a chance to speak on behalf of the farmers,” said TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee at the Parliament.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12:20pmRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 12:20pm.‘Hollow words’: TMC MP Derek O'Brien takes dig at PM over Pegasus, farm lawsHollow words, Mr Prime Minister. You ran away from discussing #Pegasus & are responsible for disrupting full Monsoon Session. In Sept 2020 your Govt broke every rule & bulldozed #FarmLaws The problem is no one in your Cabinet will tell you that #Parliament is not #MannKiBaat https://t.co/p0qdbVNbJq“Hollow words, Mr Prime Minister. You ran away from discussing Pegasus and are responsible for disrupting full Monsoon Session. In Sept 2020 your government broke every rule and bulldozed farm laws. The problem is no one in your Cabinet will tell you that Parliament is not Mann Ki Baat,” O'Brien tweeted.Lok Sabha adjourned till 12pm amid sloganeering by opposition leadersLok Sabha has been adjourned till 12 noon following sloganeering by Opposition MPs.PM Modi holds meeting with senior cabinet ministersNarendra Modi holds a meeting with senior cabinet members including defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, reports ANI. RS Chairman to decide on when to move motion for suspending 6 TMC MPs Rajya Sabha chairman will decide when to move motion for the suspension of 6 TMC MPs who disrupted the house on farm bills, pegasus snooping row. Sonia Gandhi leads Cong protests asking repeal of farm lawsDelhi | Congress Interim President Sonia Gandhi leads party's protest demanding repeal of Centre's three farm laws#WinterSession pic.twitter.com/rTTH0qklaeCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi led the party's protest demanding the repeal of the three farm laws by Centre, reports ANI. RS MP and CPI(M) leader Kareem brings up Tripura poll rigging, gives suspension of business noticeRajya Sabha MP and CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem has given notice under Rule 267 to suspend the business and discuss the "rigging of civic polls in Tripura by the BJP".Another TRS MP gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaTRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the 'national policy on foodgrains procurement'.Criteria to judge winter session should be on basis of work done, says PM ModiThe criteria to judge the session should be how much work is done, and not how many days are wasted, PM Modi said ahead of the first day of winter session.“Voices can be raised, but the dignity of Parliament, Speaker and the Chair should be maintained,” he added.‘Govt ready to discuss all issues,’ says PM Modi ahead of Parliament sessionGovernment is ready to discuss all issues openly, will answer all questions, says PM Modi before Parliament session.Opposition parties meet at Congress MP Kharge's officeOpposition party leaders hold a meeting at Congress MP Mallickarjun Kharge's office ahead of the Parliament session.PM's customary address expected at 10:30am todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi's customary address is expected at 10:30am. Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived at the Parliament as its Winter Session begins today.Lok Sabha Speaker hopes for smooth run in Parliament Lok Sabha Speaker Birla hopes House will run smoothly in Winter Session of Parliament. "The #WinterSession of the Lok Sabha begins today. It is hoped that during the session there will be active cooperation of all the parties, the House will run smoothly and systematically. Members will participate in the proceedings with discipline and decency. With collective efforts, we will enhance the dignity of the House," Om Birla tweeted in Hindi.Rahul Gandhi calls in support of farmers ahead of Parliament session आज संसद में अन्नदाता के नाम का सूरज उगाना है।#MSP #FarmLaws“Today, in the name of annadata, we need to raise a sun in the Parliament,” tweeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Hindi.TRS MP gives adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha over ‘discriminatory crop procurement’ in TelanganaTRS MP Dr K Keshava Rao gives adjournment motion notice in Rajya Sabha over 'discriminatory crop procurement policy of Central government non-procurement of crops from Telengana'.Congress calls meeting with its Rajya Sabha MPs ahead of Parliament sessionCongress has called a meeting of its Rajya Sabha MPs today at the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) office, news agency ANI reported.Congress MPs Manish Tewari, Manickam Tagore give adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'to direct the government to create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws protest and give compensation to their families'.Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha 'to direct government to initiate repealing of three farm laws & to announce compensation for families of 700 farmers who had died in the last one year during farmers' protest at Delhi borders'.CPI MP gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha amid MSP demandCPI MP Binoy Viswam gives Suspension of Business notice in Rajya Sabha and demands a discussion on ensuring a legal guarantee for minimum support price.BAC meeting to be held at 10:30 todayMeeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of Lok Sabha to be held at 10:30am today, reported news agency ANI.Opposition to seek formal repeal of farm laws, MSP guarantee in Parliament session todayThe Opposition has demanded a formal repeal of the three contentious farm laws as well as a legislation to guarantee minimum support price (MSP). "Many issues including, inflation, fuel price hike, farmers' issues and COVID-19 were raised in the all-Party meeting today. All parties demanded that a law guaranteeing MSP should be made," Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge had told ANI after the all-Party meeting at the Parliament Annexe building on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-on-day-1-centre-to-table-bill-to-repeal-farm-laws-101638153447128.html
29-11-2021||India||From today, Singapore to resume flights to India. Details here||From Monday, Singapore will resume commercial flights with India through its vaccinated travel lane (VTL) facility with six designated flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai.The resumption comes a week after Singapore's civil aviation authority (CAAS) announced on November 21 that it reached an agreement with India's aviation ministry to resume flights between the two countries.However, the city-state has been kept under the category of 'at risk' countries by India in the wake of the spread of a new variant of coronavirus, called Omicron. This means that travellers coming to India from Singapore will be subjected to tighter scrutiny.Applications for vaccinated travel passes (VTP) for short-term visitors and long-term pass holders from India started on November 22.“All short-term visitors and long-term pass holders who meet the requirements of the VTL will receive a VTP,” the CAAS said last week, according to a report by Channel News Asia.All VTL travellers should be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and present digital proof of their inoculation.They must also undergo two tests for the virus: a pre-departure test within two days before leaving for Singapore, and an on-arrival test at the airport, following which they will have to remain self-isolated until the result is confirmed to be negative, Hindustan Times reported on November 21.Initially, VTPs were being issued for travellers who are visiting Singapore between November 29 and January 21 next year. However, those intending to visit the country after December 1 were urged to apply after November 24.Travellers who require a visa for travel to Singapore should apply for their visa separately and only after their VTP is approved, the CAAS said in a release.“They must also purchase travel insurance, with a minimum coverage of Singapore USD 30,000 for Covid-19-related medical treatment and hospitalisation costs, prior to travel to Singapore. In Singapore, these visitors must also use the TraceTogether app to facilitate contact tracing,” the authority added.Meanwhile, the CAAS also said that airlines can operate non-VTL flights between India and Singapore, but passengers on such flights will be subject to prevailing public health requirements.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-today-singapore-to-resume-flights-to-india-details-here-101638144732885.html
29-11-2021||India||Omicron: List of 'at risk' countries and situation in India||The emergence of the new Omicron strain of the coronavirus has made the government cautious about resuming international flights. It released new guidelines on Sunday, listing nearly a dozen “at risk” countries, and removing the exemption for vaccinated people.The rules are meant to contain the spread of Omicron variant.After a long hiatus of more than 20 months, the government had on November 26 announced the resumption of scheduled international commercial flights from December 15. Flights are currently on under bilateral bubble arrangements with countries.What are the “at risk” countries?These are the nations where cases of Omicron strain have been found. The variant was first detected in southern Africa and has since spread to a number of countries.As per the new guidelines released by the government, the UK, entire Europe and 11 countries - South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel - are “at risk”.Rules for passengers arriving from ‘at risk’ countriesPassengers travelling from or transiting through 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo RT-PCR test on arrival in India and will be required to wait for the results before leaving the airport or taking a connecting flight, according to revised guidelines issued by the Health Ministry.Travellers who test positive will be taken to a medical facility for isolation, where they will need to stay till they test negative if they indeed are infected by the Omicron variant. If they are infected by any of the other variants, their release will be at the discretion of a doctor based on their condition.For people who test negative after coming from the listed countries, they will need to be in home quarantine and take another test on the eighth day. If they are positive, they will need to report to the Covid-19 helpline, the guidelines said.These travellers will also have to declare their travel history for the last 14 days.The spread of Omicron variantAt least nine countries have confirmed detecting the super mutated strain as of Sunday. The B.1.1.529 variant was designated as a "Variant of Concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday.Situation in IndiaA man who returned from South Africa to Dombivali in Thane district of Maharashtra recently has tested positive for coronavirus, a Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) official said on Sunday.It is not confirmed whether the patient was carrying the Omicron variant of coronavirus, which was identified as the variant of concern by the WHO, the official said.His samples are being sent for genome sequencing to check the presence of the Omicron variant. The man had travelled from Cape Town to Dombivali on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-list-of-at-risk-countries-and-situation-in-india-101638149770595.html
29-11-2021||NA||Highlights: Parag Agrawal to succeed Jack Dorsey as Twitter CEO, reports Reuters||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Padma Shri awardee 'Nanda Master' hospitalised, reports PTIPadma Shri awardee and teacher Nanda Prusty was admitted to a hospital in Odisha's Jajpur district on Monday, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying.Prusty has been ill for the past month and is suffering from fever, cough and other old-age ailments, a doctor at the district hospital told PTI.Fire breaks out at scrap godowns, shanties in Delhi's Neb Sarai, reports ANIFire on Monday broke out at scrap godowns and shanties in Delhi's Neb Sarai area, reported news agency ANI. "20 fire engines were sent to the spot. Fire is almost extinguished. No injuries or casualties have been reported. Still, we will check thoroughly once again," an official from the Delhi Fire Service told ANI.Parag Agrawal to succeed Jack Dorsey as Twitter CEO, reports ReutersParag Agrawal is likely to succeed Jack Dorsey as Twitter CEO, reported Reuters.Uttarakhand CM chairs high-level meet on omicron variantUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday chaired a high-level meeting on the new Covid-19 variant 'omicron' in Dehradun."We had a meeting regarding COVID-19 variant Omicron and we will start it with the RT-PCR test of corona warriors first. Random testing will be done at airports and railway stations. We will review again a week later. We will also increase testing," he said.UK extends Covid vaccine booster programme to all adults, reports AFPThe United Kingdom has extended the Covid-19 vaccine booster programme to all adults, according to a report carried by news agency AFP. This came after two cases of omicron variant of Covid-19 were detected in the country on Saturday.Jack Dorsey to step down as Twitter CEO, reports BloombergJack Dorsey, the co-founder and chief executive officer of Twitter Inc., is stepping down, a person familiar with the situation told Bloomberg.Dorsey, 45, is also the head of payments company Square Inc. and has been taking an increasing interest in cryptocurrencies recently.Suspended MPs of Rajya Sabha to meet Venkaiah Naidu tomorrow, reports ANI citing govt sourcesThe Suspended MPs of the Rajya Sabha are expected to meet chairman of the house, M Venkaiah Naidu, on Tuesday to tender their apology, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing government sources.Fauci urges people to get vaccinated as US on 'high alert' for Omicron variantSenior government scientist Anthony Fauci said Monday the United States was on "high alert" for the new Covid-19 variant and urged people to get vaccinated after Canada confirmed its first cases of the new strain, news agency AFP reported. Air India pilots give 3 days' ultimatum to management over ‘illegal’ pay cut Air India pilots have given an ultimatum of three days to its management, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.In a letter addressed to the aviation secretary (also Air India CMD), the pilots warned that if they do not see the “illegal” pay cut-related issues being addressed within three days, they will seek justice through "industrial action".Lucknow issues protocol for air passengers amid omicron fearsIn the wake of the worrying new variant of Covid-19 ‘omicron’,  the Lucknow administration on Monday issued protocols for passengers arriving at Lucknow Airport.“Passengers showing symptoms in the thermal scanning will be subjected to free RT-PCR test. RT-PCR test of 10% passengers arriving on all domestic flights to be done on random basis,” news agency ANI quoted the Lucknow DM as saying.BioNTech starts work on Omicron-specific vaccine: ReportBioNTech said on Monday it has started work on a vaccine tailored to Omicron, the worrying new coronavirus variant detected in South Africa, reported news agency Reuters. It was, however, not yet clear if it would have to rework its established Covid-19 shot.2 die after toxic gas leaks at Ramky Pharmacity in Visakhapatnam, reports ANIAt least 2 people were killed after a toxic gas leaked at Ramky Pharmacity in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam. “Toxic poison gas leaked out of the pump house, opened by the deceased; both bodies were sent for a post-mortem. Situation now under control & probe has been launched,” news agency ANI quoted an official as saying. Farm laws have been a disease, says BKU leader Rakesh TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said farm laws have been a disease and it’s good that they are revoked. “Let the President put the stamp on the bill then we will discuss other issues like 750 farmers who died, MSP, and quashing the cases lodged against farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying. 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for misconduct during monsoon sessionA total of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs have been suspended for 'obstructing business of House' during Monsoon session of Parliament.Omicron more transmissible, but existing vaccines likely to offer protection, reports Bloomberg citing South African advisersOmicron, the new coronavirus variant, appears to be more transmissible than its predecessors, but existing vaccines are still likely to offer good protection against severe illness and death, according to scientists advising the South African government, reported Bloomberg.43 girls at Telangana school test positive for Covid-19, reports ANI citing officialAt least 43 girls studying in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Backward Classes Welfare School in Sanga Reddy district of Telangana have tested positive for Covid-19, news agency ANI quoted DM & HO of Sangareddy district, Dr. Gayatri, as saying. Students have been kept in isolation and are receiving medical treatment, the official further informed.Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 passed in Rajya Sabha amid ruckusThe Rajya Sabha on Monday passed farm laws repeal bill 2021 amid ruckus.Centre says Delhi's air quality improved in 2020 compared to 2019The Union environment ministry in a written reply in Lok Sabha said that the AQI data suggested Delhi's air quality improved from the year 2019 to 2020, as the number of days in 'Good', 'Satisfactory', 'Moderate' conditions increased in 2020 as compared to 2019, reports ANI. Uddhav Thackeray to speak to PM Modi to suspend flights from 7 countriesMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray might speak is expected to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting the Centre to suspend flights from seven counties.The state cabinet, after its presentation on the Omicron Covid-19 variant, has urged Thackeray to speak to Modi.Lok Sabha passes Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021Lok Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, without any discussion, amid ruckus by Opposition ministers. Leader of Congress Party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanded discussion on the bill in the house, reports ANI. 19 people on duty during President's Uttarakhand visit found Covid-positiveAs many as 19 people from different government departments, including seven police personnel, have been found positive for Covid-19 so far, who were on duty during President Ram Nath Kovind's visit (in Haridwar Rishikesh), reports ANI citing Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar.‘Won’t leave unless govt discusses MSP, other issues': Rakesh TikaitKaushambi, UP | Govt wants that there should be no protests in the country but we'll not leave the protest site before any discussion on MSP including other issues: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/YBoIoI8p3SBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has reiterated that the protesting farmers won't return home before minimum support price and other demands are discussed by the government, reports ANI. Hearing on Delhi air pollution: SC directs states to comply with CAQM's directionsSupreme Court directs Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab governments to immediately comply with all the directions issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas. The court also sought compliance reports from all the states and posted the matter for further hearing for Thursday.Omicron Covid variant not detected in India yet, 2 clusters in Maharashtra, Karnataka under investigationNo cases of the omicron Covid-19 variant has been detected yet in India. Also, two clusters are under investigation for the new variant currently— one in Maharashtra and another in Karnataka.Supreme Court expresses concerns about ‘rising’ air pollution levels in DelhiThe Supreme Court has expressed its concerns about the rising air pollution levels in Delhi and the adjoining National Capital Region. The top court observed that the pollution levels are rising amid the problem of Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI. ‘Govt ready to answer all questions, house’s decorum should be maintained': ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Centre is ready to answer all questions during the Winter Session of Parliament. “We should debate in Parliament and maintain the decorum of the proceedings,” he said, reports ANI.Click here for live updates on Parliament's Winter SessionIMD issues orange alert to 4 districts in Andhra PradeshThe India Meteorological Department issued an orange alert for Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, Kadapa districts in Andhra Pradesh. Fishermen advised not to venture into the sea, reports ANI. Omicron fallout: Japan to bar new foreign arrivals#BREAKING Japan to bar new foreign arrivals over virus variant: PM pic.twitter.com/r1dogYfnq7Japan to bar new international arrivals due to concerns over omicron Covid-19 variant, reports AFP citing says PM Fumio Kishida.India reports 8,309 new Covid-19 cases, 236 deaths in 24 hoursIndia reported 8,309 new Covid-19 cases and 236 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload drops by 1,832 cases to 103,859.Cong's Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in LS to discuss creating record of farmers who died during protestsCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'to direct the government to create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws protest and give compensation to their families, reports ANI. Uttarakhand to test people arriving from outside if they exhibit Covid-19 symptoms, 14-day quarantine for those positiveAll people arriving at Uttarakhand to be tested for Covid-19 if they are exhibiting symptoms of the disease. If positive, they would be subjected to 14-day quarantine, reports ANI. Parliament Winter Session: CPI MP Binoy Viswan gives suspension of business notice in RS, demands discussion on MSPCommunist Party of India minister Binoy Viswam gave Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya Sabha and demanded a discussion on ensuring a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price, reports ANI. Nellore, Chittoor districts in Andhra Pradesh lashed by heavy rainfallNellore and Chittoor districts witnessed heavy rains since Sunday morning. As of 6am today,  Chillakur in Nellore district received a rainfall of 210.25mm, followed by 182.25mm in Atmakur, according to the real-time data of the AP State Development and Planning Society. Other parts of Nellore and Chittoor districts record rainfall ranging from 54.5 mm to 149.5 mm since Sunday evening.Mizoram reports 282 recoveries, 1 death; active caseload at 3,834COVID-19 | Mizoram reported 282 recoveries and 1 death, up till 5 pm yesterday. Active cases 3834 pic.twitter.com/XcuezJVBuPMizoram reported 282 recoveries from Covid-19 and one related death. The active caseload stood at 3,834, reports ANI.3.6-magnitude earthquake observed near Tamil Nadu's Vellore An earthquake of magnitude 3.6 occurred today around 4:17 am in 59km WSW of Vellore, Tamil Nadu pic.twitter.com/u1igtAOqKkAn earthquake of 3.6 magnitude in the Richter Scale has hit 59kms west-southwest of Vellore in Tamil Nadu at 4.17am today, reports ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-29-2021-101638145943463.html
29-11-2021||India||Winter session of Parliament begins today: Govt's priorities and what opposition parties want||The winter session of Parliament will begin from Monday, and the opposition has vowed to corner the government over various issues, ranging from farmers protest to inflation. The government, meanwhile, has urged the opposition parties to let Parliament function smoothly.On the first day, the Lok Sabha is expected to take up the bill to repeal the three central farm laws which triggered nationwide protests. The Farm Law Repeal Bill was cleared by the Union Cabinet last week. It is likely to be tabled in the Rajya Sabha on the same day after its passage in the lower house of Parliament.The farmers too will be watching the proceedings closely. After Prime Minister’s announcement that the three laws will be repealed, the cultivators said they don’t believe in his words and would like to see the bills actually repealed. They have also raised fresh demands on Minimum Support Price (MSP) in a bid to end their protest, which has been going on since November last year.Legislative prioritiesThe government called an all-party meeting on Sunday during to urge to the opposition parties to let the two houses of Parliament function smoothly. Apart from the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, the central government is also expected to bring a bill on cryptocurrency to lay the foundation for Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) digital currency.The government has said that it is ready to discuss on the floor of the House any issue as permitted under the rules of procedure. At the meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) parliamentary executive committee meeting, the leaders discussed strategy for the winter session. A leader later said that the opposition doesn’t have any major issue to pillory the government, now that the Centre has agreed to repeal the farm laws.The party stressed on higher attendance of its Members of Parliament (MPs) and asked them to come prepared to take on the opposition. A meeting of all the constituents of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was also held where the allies stressed on the need for better coordination among all partners.Opposition’s focusThe leaders of the opposition parties are looking forward to the Farm Law Repeal Bill debate to corner the government over farm issues and also demand a law to guarantee the MSP for agricultural produce.At the all-party meeting on Sunday, they also pushed for discussions on price rise, unemployment and the use of Pegasus spyware. Some also asked for discussions on enhanced jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in certain states. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O'Brien raised the issue of disinvestment of profitable public sector units.The TMC, the YSR Congress and the DMK were among the parties that suggested that the women's reservation bill be brought for discussion in the session starting from Monday.A total of 31 parties attended the meeting called by the government before the start of the winter session. The session will begin on Monday and conclude on December 23.What the farmers plan to doAs many as 32 farmers’ organisations from Punjab are expected to meet on Monday at the Singhu border to take a call on their future course of action.“If the government accepts our demands, we will go back to our homes. After that, we will not protest or canvas against the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) leader Buta Singh Burjgill.The farmers’ key demands include amending the Electricity Act, revocation of FIRs registered against protesters during the agitation, and strict action against the Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, whose son has been arrested in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-parliament-begins-today-govt-s-priorities-and-what-opposition-wants-101638145416673.html
29-11-2021||India||DRI seizes 3.6k iPhones from Mumbai international airport||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized consignments of 3,646 latest models of iPhones, suspected to be smuggled into the country from Hong Kong, at the Air Cargo Complex (ACC) at the international airport here, officials said on Sunday. In the import documents accompanying these two consignments, the goods were declared as "memory cards". Their physical examination on Friday revealed that the consignments actually contained 2,245 handsets of iPhone 13 Pro, 1,401 handsets of iPhone 13 Pro Max, 12 handsets of Google Pixel 6 pro and one Apple Smart Watch, collectively valued at ₹42.86 crore. The above-mentioned mobile phones and the Apple smart watch were not declared in the imported goods under the Customs Act. The declared value of these goods was only ₹80 lakh. The detection of attempted smuggling of these high-end phones of the latest models in such large numbers shows how quickly the smugglers establish their smuggling networks for the latest products, like iPhone 13, an official release said. "This detection has helped unearth a serious import fraud having substantial revenue implications," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dri-seizes-3-6k-iphones-from-mumbai-international-airport-101638133806023.html
29-11-2021||India||SC: Casteism yet to be annihilated even after 75 yrs of independence||Incidents of caste-motivated violence show that casteism has not been annihilated even after 75 years of independence and it is high time civil society reacts and responds with "strong disapproval" about the ghastly crimes committed in the name of caste, the Supreme Court has said.The apex court, which delivered its verdict on a batch of pleas in a 1991 Uttar Pradesh honour killing case, in which three persons, including a woman were killed, said it had earlier issued several directions to authorities to take strong measures to prevent honour killings.Those directives should be carried out without any further delay, it said.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao also said that to avert trial getting tainted and "truth becoming a casualty", the State has a definite role to play in protecting witnesses, to start with, at least in sensitive cases involving those in power who have political patronage and could wield muscle and money power.It said that "bigotry" perpetuated by caste-based practices, which are prevalent even today, impedes the Constitution's objective of equality for all citizens."Two young men and a woman were physically assaulted for nearly 12 hours and killed by the accused for violating caste-ridden societal norms. These episodes of caste-motivated violence in the country demonstrates the fact that casteism has not been annihilated even after 75 years of independence," the bench, also comprising justices Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai, said.The top court, while upholding the Allahabad High Court verdict with regard to conviction of 23 accused in the case, acquitted three persons in view of ambiguity in their identity.Referring to the aspect of witness protection, the bench noted that 12 prosecution witnesses in the case turned hostile."Even if the witnesses have turned hostile, their evidence can be accepted, if they are natural and independent witnesses and have no reason to falsely implicate the accused," it said.The apex court said the right to testify in courts in a free and fair manner, without any pressure and threat whatsoever, is "under serious attack today", and if one is unable to testify in courts due to threats or other pressures, then it is a clear violation of the rights under articles 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the Constitution."Right to life guaranteed to the people of this country also includes in its fold the right to live in a society which is free from crime and fear, and the right of witnesses to testify in courts without fear or pressure," it said.The bench said one of the main reasons why witnesses turn hostile is that they are not accorded appropriate protection by the State. It is a "harsh reality", particularly, in cases where the accused are influential people and are tried for heinous offences and they make attempts to terrorise or intimidate witnesses, the bench said."This unfortunate situation prevails because of the reason that the State has not undertaken any protective measures to ensure the safety of these witnesses, commonly known as 'witness protection'," it noted while referring to an earlier judgment of the Supreme Court.The bench said that as a protector of its citizens, the State has to ensure that during a trial a witness can safely depose the truth, without any fear of being haunted by those against whom he or she has deposed.It noted that according to Dr B R Ambedkar, inter-caste marriage is one remedy to get rid of casteism in order to achieve equality."His vision for ensuring justice and equality to all sections of society, especially to the repressed segments, is well enshrined in the preamble of the Constitution," the bench said."Though the number is a tad less, honour killings have not stopped in this country and it is high time that the civil society reacts and responds with strong disapproval about the ghastly crimes committed in the name of caste," it said.Referring to an earlier verdict of the apex court, the bench said honour killings, pursuant to the decree of 'khap panchayats, have been strongly criticised by the top court in its earlier verdict.It said harsh punishment was recommended to those "brutal and feudal minded persons" who commit atrocities in the name of castes."The Law Commission of India in its 242nd report suggested the legal framework on prevention of interference with the freedom of matrimonial alliances in the name of honour and tradition," the bench noted.The 'panchayatdars' or caste elders have no right to interfere with the life and liberty of young couples whose marriages are permitted by law. They cannot create a situation whereby such couples are placed in a hostile environment in the village or locality concerned and exposed to the risk of safety, it saidThe bench said in the interest of "liberty and dignity" of young men and women in choosing their life partners and in the interest of peace, tranquillity and equality in society, it is imminently necessary that directions issued by the apex court earlier should be carried out by states without any further delay.It also referred to the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018, which was approved by the apex court earlier.In the 1991 Uttar Pradesh honour killing case, a trial court in November 2011 had convicted 35 accused. The high court had acquitted two while conviction of remaining persons were upheld by the high court.However, the high court had commuted the death sentence awarded to eight convicts to life term till the end of natural life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-casteism-yet-to-be-annihilated-even-after-75-yrs-of-independence-101638133610589.html
29-11-2021||India||India takes up LAC infra build-up by China’s PLA||With China investing heavily in upgrading military infrastructure along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), India expressed concern over the build-up by the People’s Liberation Army opposite the Eastern Ladakh sector.During the talks held recently between the two countries, the Indian side expressed concerns over the build-up by the Chinese Army in areas near the Eastern Ladakh sector, officials familiar with the matter said.They said there are reasons for concern for the Indian side as the Chinese are building new highways and connecting roads, constructing new habitats and settlements near the Line of Actual Control and have deployed heavy weaponry, including missile regiments on their side.The officials said the military infrastructure upgrade has been very significant as the Chinese are widening highways, and new airstrips are being constructed apart from the main bases in Kashgar, Gar Gunsa and Hotan.A major wide highway is also being developed which will further improve the connectivity of the Chinese military positions on the LAC with the hinterland, they said.The officials said the Chinese military has also focused on building infrastructure for its air force and army to keep them hidden from the US and other satellites also in the depth areas.The attempts of recruiting Tibetans and basing them right at border posts along with the mainland Han troops are also gaining speed, as they want to use the original inhabitants of the region to man the highly difficult terrain, where survival has been very tough for the mainland Chinese troops.The people cited above said if compared with winters last year, the Chinese are much better prepared in terms of shelters, road connectivity and acclimatisation. Rockets and missile regiments have been deployed in rear areas controlled by the PLA in Tibet Autonomous Region, they said.The deployment of drones from the Chinese has gone up significantly, as a large number of them have been deployed for surveillance in the sector, they added.On whether the number of Chinese troops deployed opposite Indian borders has gone up in the recent past, the sources said the Chinese have focused more on capability enhancement in that area.The Indian side, the officials said, is also much more prepared than last year, as it has also deployed whatever is required by the forces to deal with any misadventure in the region.The conflict on the northern borders started after the Chinese Army started behaving aggressively and diverted around 50,000 troops from a summer wargame in the Aksai Chin area to the Indian border, which led to the creation of multiple friction points on the LAC.The Indian side responded at great speed and the Chinese aggression was checked with mirror deployment and other measures.India has also diverted many of its Pakistan-centric armoured forces towards the high altitude border in areas where tanks can manoeuvre in the cold desert.The number of formations looking after the highly sensitive border has also gone up and now the entire eastern Ladakh area is covered and protected by the security forces.A large number of measures have also been taken to strengthen the troops in the fight against the extreme winters and mega airlift exercises have been carried out by the Indian Air Force to help further build up the winter stocking for the next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-takes-up-lac-infra-build-up-by-china-s-pla-101638133094935.html
29-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: Man tests positive for Covid-19 after returning from South Africa||A man who returned from South Africa to Dombivali in Thane district of Maharashtra recently has tested positive for coronavirus, a Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) official said on Sunday. It is not confirmed whether the patient was carrying the Omicron variant of coronavirus, which was identified as the variant of concern by the WHO, the official said. The man had travelled from Cape Town to Dombivali on November 24. "He underwent a Covid-19 test which returned positive," the official added. The man didn't come in contact with anyone after returning from South Africa, Dr Pratiba Panpatil, Medical Officer, KDMC, told reporters. The patient is currently admitted at the Art Gallery isolation centre of the KDMC, the official said. "The KDMC health department is on alert. We are prepared to deal with the new variant," Dr Panpail added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-thane-resident-returning-from-south-africa-tests-positive-for-covid19-101638132032995.html
29-11-2021||India||Man posing as defence officer dupes Pune women on matrimonial platform; arrested||PUNE: A man absconding from the armed forces since 2018 used to pose as an army officer and dupe women whom he met through matrimonial platforms. He was remanded to the custody of Pune police on Saturday. The man was identified as Prashant Bhaurao Patil, 31, a resident of Kumpatgiri in Khanapur, Belgaum. Patil was remanded to custody till December 1 by a local court.Senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhagad police station said, “He has absconded from the armed forces and has not reported to duty since 2018. From 2018 till Sunday, five cases have been registered against him at Pune, Ahmednagar, and Latur.”The incident came to light when a girl approached the police and said that a man of Patil’s description had pretended to marry her, established physical relations and then blocked her number claiming frontline duty. Patil met the girl through an online matrimonial service on November 18 at Dagdusheth Ganapati temple wearing an armed forces uniform. He then allegedly took her to a lodge room on Sinhagad road where they consummated their marriage. The girl told the police that he made her swear not to tell anyone about them and placed her in a car where he had sex with her against her will. Once she left the lodge, the man blocked her number and stopped all communication.A case under relevant sections was registered against him around a week ago when one of his victims approached the Sinhagad road police station officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-posing-as-defence-officer-dupes-pune-women-on-matrimonial-platform-arrested-101638126442048.html
29-11-2021||India||Bommai reiterates planned development of Bengaluru||The Karnataka government on Sunday reiterated its grand vision for the planned development of Bengaluru where public infrastructure continues to crumble on account of civic apathy. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government was “keen” to come out with a clear agenda for the planned development of India’s IT capital which is known globally as a technology hub as well as its civic challenges. “Some prominent entrepreneurs have invited me for a preliminary discussion on plans for economic growth and development of Bengaluru and Karnataka. It is part of a series of such discussions and it is just the first in that series,” Bommai said on Sunday. The plans come even as the city and it’s over 12 million population continue to endure the burden of the government’s inefficiency and apathy. The city’s roads have become the benchmark for poor quality of public infrastructure in the country which is embellished almost annually with the lack of planning and long-term solutions that is often substituted with quick fixes which has so far only exacerbated the problems. “More comprehensive discussions would follow after today’s meeting. The discussions would involve prominent personalities from various domains, legislators from Bengaluru, senior officers and my ministerial colleagues. The agenda to be evolved for the city’s planned growth would be discussed and finalised in the state legislature,” Bommai said. The meeting was organized by Biocon Ltd chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw who is also a prominent voice against the city’s poor infrastructure and development. The recent heavy rains in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka is conveniently being used as the reason for the deteriorating quality of roads in a city where a newly laid street by one civic agency is dug up by another which has formed a loop denying some relief to its residents. During the monsoon session of the state legislature in September, Bommai had said over ₹20,000 crore was spent on road-related works in Bengaluru over the past five years. The condition of roads is so bad that it has snuffed out several lives. At least 18 people lost their lives in Bengaluru due to civic apathy in 2020 which is more than all other major cities in the country combined, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). In fact, Shaw had criticized the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) which won an award in the union government’s Swachh Survekshan programme. “BBMP wins award for ‘keeping Bengaluru clean’. This is the biggest joke on us citizens! A municipality who has failed to keep our city clean for decades wins the award? Citizens need to hold them accountable with rallies @BBMPSWMSplComm,” Shaw had posted on November 19. Earlier in July, she posted another tweet of a poor quality footpath. “Is this what @BBMPCOMM accepts as a completed project? I am so depressed to see our city in ruins with no pride left. All other cities have used the pandemic to complete road projects except us!” she posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-reiterates-planned-development-of-bengaluru-101638126022069.html
29-11-2021||India||Karnataka reimposes curbs on educational institutions amid Covid spike||The Karnataka government on Sunday issued fresh directives for educational institutions, imposing restrictions on social, cultural and academic events after a rise in Covid-19 cases in some such establishments in the state.The Basvaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government said that after the recent clusters of Covid-19 in Mysuru, Bengaluru and Dharwad, certain restrictions are being imposed.“All social and cultural events in educational institutions may be postponed for two months. Conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions, wherever possible, may be postponed. Alternatively, it could be conducted in hybrid mode i.e. with minimal physical attendance and with more persons attending through virtual mode,” according to the advisory issued by TK Anil Kumar, the additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department, on Sunday.The order came at a time when the Bommai government was relaxing restrictions in schools and other places after almost 18 months of pandemic-induced lockdowns.The Bommai government had resumed physical classes for pre-primary students from November despite opposition from various quarters, including a significant section of parents and guardians, who are apprehensive about the impact of the move on the children who are not eligible for vaccination making them vulnerable to contract the coronavirus.The government had also eased restrictions on many other fronts, allowing for organising of fairs.In the wake of the new Covid-19 variant ‘omicron’ that has been detected in South Africa, the state government on Saturday made it mandatory for people arriving from affected countries to take the RT-PCR test upon landing in the city. Home quarantine has also been made mandatory for these passengers.“Earlier international passengers were tested but asked to go home and quarantine themselves. Now test them there itself (airport) and allow them to leave after they test negative,” Bommai said on Sunday.The Karnataka government on Saturday reintroduced restrictions including making it mandatory for people working in malls, cinemas and other public places to be allowed in only if they have been inoculated with both shots of the Covid-19 vaccine.Bommai on Sunday said that these new strains were found in South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, but there were no cases detected so far in Karnataka.“We haven’t seen that strain in Karnataka but in places like Dharward, Mysuru and Bengaluru hostels, we have seen spurts of cases spreading rapidly making them clusters. We have to take precautions,” Bommai said.He said these hostels have been declared as containment zones with restrictions imposed and directions issued to increase testing on the premises.“Health care professionals may also conduct conferences, seminars, CME sessions, etc., virtually for a few more months to send a positive message to professionals in other fields, in the larger interest of public health,” according to Sunday’s advisory by the government.The new restrictions have been imposed on the public even as electioneering for the December 10 MLC polls continues unchecked.Bommai said that there are no big public meetings for the MLC elections and that only about 50-100 people were present. He said people attending these meetings should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.The new restrictions impending the possibility of a third wave of infections have made people apprehensive of more lockdowns that would affect their livelihoods and pile on the burden of financial hardships.Bommai said measures were being taken to increase vaccination coverage. He said there were around 8 million Covid-19 vaccine doses available in the state and around 91% of the eligible population were administered at least one dose but conceded that this was reaching saturation levels. He said around 58% of the population had received both doses and the government will aggressively pursue measures to increase coverage to at least 70% by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reimposes-curbs-on-educational-institutions-amid-covid-spike-101638125963323.html
29-11-2021||India||KS Eshwarappa backs Murugesh Nirani for Karnataka chief minister’s post||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Karnataka’s rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) minister KS Eshwarappa backed his cabinet colleague Murugesh Nirani for the top post in the government in a rare moment of camaraderie in a deeply divided outfit.Eshwarappa is also an aspirant for the post of chief minister and was one of the many who expressed their displeasure at the possibility that incumbent Basavaraj Bommai will be the face of the 2023 state assembly election.“Murugesh Nirani will soon become the chief minister but I don’t know when. He has the capacity to become the chief minister and he can strive for the welfare of backward communities, poor, downtrodden and all the sections,” according to a statement from the large and medium industries department, attributing it to Eshwarappa.Eshwarappa, however, added that Bommai will not be removed.The statement fuels speculation of a growing divide within the BJP in Karnataka that threatens to dent its prospects in the 2023 assembly election.The backing of Nirani is also seen as a move to get the backing of the Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect of the dominant Lingayats, who are unhappy with the BJP for not yielding the community’s demand for better reservation as well as being overlooked for the top post when BS Yediyurappa was forced to step down in July.The BJP and other parties continue campaigning for the December 10 MLC polls to take control of the upper house of the state legislature.It is largely believed that this divide is part of the reason why the BJP lost in Hanagal constituency in Bommai’s home district of Haveri in the October 30 bypolls.But the opposition has barely been able to capitalise on the divide within the BJP as they continue to be entangled in problems of their own in their respective outfits.DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah remain entangled in a battle for dominance within the Congress while Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) is facing a rift within the family as former prime minister HD Deve Gowda’s sons -- HD Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna -- fight it out to claim the reins of the regional party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ks-eshwarappa-backs-murugesh-nirani-for-karnataka-chief-minister-s-post-101638125901984.html
29-11-2021||India||Telangana on alert amid Omicron concerns, airport put on alert||Telangana government is on high alert to meet any eventuality in the wake of reports of a possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic triggered by Omicron, a new variant of Sars-Cov-2 which was first reported in South Africa, the state government officials said on Sunday.Following a direction from the Central government, Telangana state health minister T Harish Rao held a high-level meeting at his chambers to review the preparedness for the situation arising out of the new variant.Speaking to reporters after the review meeting, director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said there was no need for the people to panic over the new variant of Sars-Cov-2, as the government machinery was fully prepared to handle the surge in the Covid-19 infections.“All that the people should do is to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing of masks, maintaining of physical distancing and regular sanitisation. They should not let their guards down under any circumstances,” Rao said.The director said a high alert had been sounded at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, though there were no direct flights from South Africa to Hyderabad. The number of positive cases for Covid-19 had been stable in the state and there was no sudden increase in the infections, he said.“We have enough manpower at the airport and international passengers are being screened. We are also conducting RT-PCR tests at the airport itself and arrangements were also taken up to keep passengers who test Covid-19 positive in 14-day quarantine. So far not a single Omicron case has been reported in India,” Rao said.He further said the state government had taken a series of measures to improve infrastructure like adding more hospital beds, developing medical oxygen lines to hospital beds and creating infrastructure for paediatric Covid cases, across all government hospitals, so as to prepare for any possible third wave.On an average, Telangana has been witnessing on an average of 100-150 cases per day for the last few weeks. While 90 per cent of the eligible individuals have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, 45 per cent of the eligible persons have got the second dose.“Still, nearly 25 lakh people in Telangana have missed out on the second dose of the vaccine, and have lapsed the time to get them administered. They all should get their second dose of vaccine at the earliest,” the director of public health said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-on-alert-amid-omicron-concerns-airport-put-on-alert-101638125843730.html
29-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Two loco pilots booked after train runs over 3 elephants||: The Tamil Nadu forest department said a case was filed against two loco pilots who were booked under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act on Saturday in the case of death of three elephants—who were killed by a moving passenger train near the Madikeri range of Coimbatore district, Tamil Nadu.On Saturday, the forest department detained the two loco pilots—M T Subair from Kozhikode and M C Akhil from Thrissur. After taking their statements and relevant documents, the forest department took an undertaking from the loco pilots that they will appear for questioning, the forest department said and added that the forest department has also sent a team from Coimbatore to Palakkad, Kerala to collect a microchip to collect data on the speed of the train. Members of the loco pilots association in the neighbouring state, Kerala, opposed the move.“This has become a kind of tension between the two states and the railways department with the forest department,” said principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden Shekar Kumar Niraj.Niraj said the case has to be booked because it is mandated under the Wildlife Protection Act, and added “We are now judicially moving things. Both departments must work together for short term and long-term measures.”In reply to a journalist’s tweet, the southern railways said they are cooperating with the forest department.“Investigation is in progress. At the moment there is no evidence supporting the claim of negligence by the loco pilots. It is being discussed only as a possibility,” the southern railways said.A postmortem conducted on Saturday had revealed that one of the elephants was pregnant.On Friday night, a speeding train from Mangalore to Chennai, near the A line between Walayar and Ettimadai, hit and killed three elephants—two female and a male.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-two-loco-pilots-booked-after-train-runs-over-3-elephants-101638125842496.html
29-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu minister asks IIT-M to play state song at institute’s functions||Tamil Nadu higher education minister K Ponmudi has written to the IIT-Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi after the centrally-run institute failed to play the state invocation song during a recently-held convocation. In the letter, dated November 24, Ponmudi urged the IIT-M director to ensure that the song Tamil Thai Vazhthu be played by the institute in all its functions as mandated by protocol.“...it is disheartening to learn that in the recently concluded convocation the State Invocation Song “Tamil Thai Vazhthu” was not sung in the event, a deviation of well-established protocol,” the letter read.In a common ritual, the song, written by scholar Manonmaniam Pillai and set to tune by musician M S Viswanathan, is played at the beginning of all government functions in the state, and the national anthem is played at the end of the function. “I would like to point out that the invocation song is sung in all the State and Central Government functions in Tamil Nadu, including the functions where higher dignitaries, like (the) President of India and Prime Minister, participate,” Ponmudi said in his letter. “I, therefore, request you to ensure that the “Tamil Thai Vazhthu” invocation is sung in all the functions of the institution, including convocation in future.”IIT-M held its 58th convocation virtually on November 20, in which Olympic badminton medallist P V Sindhu was the chief guest. Around 1,962 students graduated and as many as 2,425 degrees (including Joint and Dual Degrees) were awarded to students on the occasion this year. It included the highest number of PhDs awarded in an academic year – 392. Ponmudi also pointed out that IIT-M was established in 250 hectares of land provided by the state government in 1959. “From that time onwards, the Government of Tamil Nadu has been contributing through various means for the growth and development of the institution and the present government is also very keen in continuing the same support,” he said. He added that IIT-M recently wrote a letter to the principal secretary to the government, higher education department seeking ₹10 crores support from the state to establish a national facility for cryo-electron microscopy, which is currently under examination. In 2018, a controversy broke out after a video circulated on social media showing junior Sankaracharya of Kanchi Mutt, Vijayendra Saraswati, sitting through the state invocation song at an event in Chennai. Current state chief minister M K Stalin, who was then the opposition leader of the DMK, heavily criticized the act. HT has reached out to IIT-M for a response. IIT-M has not responded on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-minister-asks-iit-m-to-play-state-song-at-institute-s-functions-101638125783076.html
29-11-2021||India||5k teachers, staff in Kerala schools yet to get jabs: Minister||Around 5,000 school teachers and non-teaching staff in Kerala have not taken a dose of Covid-19 vaccination, citing religious beliefs and poor health, state education minister V Sivankutty said on Sunday.The minister said the state government would review the issue at the earliest as the safety of the children is paramount. “We have started collecting data on this. There is a standing instruction that un-vaccinated teachers will not be allowed to take classes. Teachers are role models, and the government views their attitude seriously,” said the minister. There are around 1.6 lakh school teachers and 25,000 non-teaching employees in the state. “Children’s safety is our main concern. We can’t justify the action of these un-jabbed teachers. We will give them some more time. Otherwise, the government will take action against them,” the minister said in the state capital. The majority of these un-vaccinated are from the north Kerala districts Malappuram and Kasargod. These teachers haven’t visited schools and conduct online classes, an official said.Many health activists and teacher’ organisations have asked the government to create proper awareness among the reluctant staff. “A modern society can’t accept this. Some of the religious states like Saudi Arabia and the Vatican are carrying out the jabbing exercise strictly. No religion supports such an attitude,” said public health expert Dr Pamanabha Shenoy. Some teachers’ associations have also decried this. “All teachers should take jabs, and we will support any initiative in this regard,” said Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association leader M Salahuddin. Many experts also urged religious leaders to step in and educate teachers about the importance of vaccination against Covid-19.Even before the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the CPI (M)-led left government had instructed all educational institutions to make basic vaccines for polio, influenza, measles and other diseases compulsory for enrolling children in schools. In 2017, the government had constituted a 17-member expert panel headed by Dr B Ekbal to chalk out a comprehensive health policy. One of the key recommendations of the panel was to make these vaccinations compulsory for children. While enrolling children, the government-mandated the parents to produce details of vaccines administered to their wards. In Kerala, 96 per cent of the eligible population have received the first dose and 65% got both doses of the Covid vaccine, according to the health ministry data. The state has been topping the Covid-19 chart for more than six months, and in the total tally of Covid-related deaths, it is second to Maharashtra with 39,679 fatalities. On Saturday, the state reported 4,741 cases, and an active caseload is 48,501.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5k-teachers-staff-in-kerala-schools-yet-to-get-jabs-minister-101638125781910.html
29-11-2021||India||18 dead, 6 hurt in Bengal road accident; PM Modi, Mamata offer condolence||A goods carriage carrying passengers collided head-on with a truck in the Hanskhali area of Bengal’s Nadia district around 2am on Sunday; at least 18 people, including eight women, died and six were injured in the accident, police said. The truck, which was carrying stones, was parked by the road, police found during investigation. Passengers travelling in the goods carriage were residents of Bagdah in North 24 Parganas district. They were going to a crematorium at Nabadwip in Nadia with the body of an elderly woman from Parmadan village. “Since the accident took place in the dead of the night there were not eyewitnesses. The goods vehicle came from the opposite direction and rammed into the truck parked by the road. Eighteen people have so far died. They were carrying the body of an old woman for cremation. Police have started an investigation,” said Sayak Das, Superintendent of Police, Kalyani police district in Nadia.Prasenjit Das, 20, the driver of the goods vehicle, died at the spot and a man who was sleeping inside the stationary truck suffered minor injury, police said. Police have seized the goods vehicle. Das might have been tired and could not spot the truck because of fog, said a police officer who wished not to be named.“I talked to the driver’s assistant. He said the driver might have fallen asleep,” said Bidhan Chandra Das, one of the passengers of the ill-fated vehicle who miraculously escaped the accident, and added that five of the deceased were members of the elderly woman’s family and rest were her relatives and neighbours. The injured were shifted to a local hospital. Bengal minister Jyotipriya Mallick met the families of the victims at Parmadan village in Bagdah and also announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh for the nearest kin of every victim.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Union home minister Amit Shah and West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed their condolences to the bereaved families. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted late in the afternoon: “The Prime Minister has announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the road accident in Nadia, West Bengal. ₹50,000 would be given to the injured.”“Heartbroken to hear about the road accident in Nadia. I offer my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. May God give them the strength to get past this difficult time. Government of West Bengal will extend every necessary assistance and support to the kin of the victims. We are beside you in this sad hour,” tweeted Banerjee. On Twitter, Shah stated “The road accident which took place is extremely unfortunate. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident. May God give them the strength to overcome the loss. I wish the speedy recovery of the injured people.” West Bengal governor tweeted: “Deeply pained at reported death of 18 people and 5 others injured in Nadia District after the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck parked on the side of road. Expect all efforts @MamataOfficial to the family of deceased and injured. Need to promote Road Safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-dead-6-hurt-in-bengal-road-accident-pm-modi-mamata-offer-condolence-101638124823199.html
29-11-2021||India||UP teachers’ exam cancelled after paper leak, CM Yogi says will invoke NSA||The Uttar Pradesh government cancelled a teachers’ eligibility test hours before it was to start on Sunday after authorities recovered question papers from at least 28 people, prompting chief minister Yogi Adityanath to say that the National Security Act will be invoked against the accused.Of the accused, 23 were arrested after they were found in possession of the exam papers on Saturday night, officials said on Sunday. The officials arrested three people from Shamli and two others from Prayagraj on Sunday.A team of the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) conducted searches at fivelocations in the state after receiving information about the leak, said Prashant Kumar, additional director general, law and order.“As many as 18 people were arrested from Prayagraj, four from Lucknow, three from Shamli, two from Ayodhya, and one from Kaushambi districts,” the ADG said.Copies of the question papers were recovered from four people in Lucknow and three people in Shamli, while one person in Kaushambi received handwritten questions on WhatsApp, Kumar said.Cell phones and some mobile numbers have been recovered from the accused and police are trying to ascertain the point at which the paper was leaked, Kumar said.Officials suspect a role of officials at the examination agency or at the treasury, where the question paper was kept before distribution. The UP government’s exam regulatory authority (ERA) conducts the exam.The examination, conducted once a year to test ability to teach primary and upper primary classes in government-run schools in the state, was scheduled in two shifts, from 10am to 12.30pm, and 2.30pm to 5pm, at 2,736 centres across 75 districts of the state.Over 1.9 million candidates were scheduled to appear for the exam, according to official data.Three people were arrested from Shamli district on Sunday, deputy superintendent of police of the STF (Meerut circle) Brojesh Singh said. “They were arrested with copies of the leaked paper they had received from a gang in Mathura for ₹5 lakh and (were) going to distribute (it) to candidates in exchange for ₹50,000 from each of them,” said Singh, adding that the arrested persons were being interrogated to collect inputs about people involved in the network.Issuing a stern warning, CM Yogi Adityanath said, “Those who have committed this act … cases will be registered against them under the Gangsters Act and the National Security Act.”“Instructions were issued to arrest the gang leaking UPTET (Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test) paper. Prompt action is being taken by identifying the culprits and a case against the culprits will be registered under the Gangsters Act. Those who play with the future of our young sisters and brothers will not be spared at any cost. The people responsible for the inconvenience caused to them will definitely be punished,” he later tweeted.The government is determined to conduct the examination in a fair and transparent manner, the chief minister said.“The state government stands with UPTET candidates. The examination will be conducted in a transparent manner within a month. No additional fees will be charged from any candidate. The candidates who were appearing for the examination will be given free travel facility in commuting by UPSRTC (Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation) buses,” he said in another tweet.“UP STF has been asked to probe it and orders have been issued for lodging of the FIR (first information report) in this connection,” said Satish Chandra Dwivedi, the state’s basic education minister. “The culprits would be identified and strict action would be taken against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-teachers-exam-cancelled-after-paper-leak-cm-yogi-says-will-invoke-nsa-101638124522058.html
29-11-2021||India||Sangh is not a military force, says Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said the Sangh is not a military organisation, but a group with a family atmosphere. “Sangh is not an all-India music school. Martial arts programmes do take place (in it), but Sangh is neither an all India gym nor a martial arts club. Sometimes, the Sangh is described as a paramilitary (force). But Sangh is not a military organisation,” he said.Sangh is a group with a family atmosphere, the RSS chief added. He was speaking here at the closing event of the four-day Ghosh Shivir (musical band camp) of the Sangh’s Madhya Bharat Pranth. Noted Sarod player Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and others attended the valedictory function. “Western countries consider music as entertainment. It is played for a thrill there. But in India, music is meant to soothe the soul. It is an art that calms down the mind,” he added. The RSS chief also said that even though India was celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, the country needs to make up for the loss caused by the mismanagement and loot, and this work rests with society. “We attained Independence on August 15, 1947, but the struggle for it began in 1857”, he added. “A thought prevailed that we had lost to a foreign power at our home and efforts were launched to straighten up things. A continuous political and social correction work took place and we attained freedom,” Bhagwat said. He said more efforts were needed to build the country. “The mismanagement and loot that inflicted losses need at least 10-12 years to be repaired,” he added. He said the change brought in by politicians, government and the police lasts for some time if it is not backed by society.Bhagwat underlined the need to build a value-based society if the fortunes of the country need to be changed.“The Sangh is doing this work which needs the faith of the society,” he added. Bhagwat reached Gwalior on Friday midnight to address the ghosh shivir that had begun on Thursday. The musical band camp concluded at Saraswati Shishu Mandir (school) located on the Shivpuri Link Road, a senior RSS Madhya Bharat functionary said. More than 500 instrumentalists drawn from 31 districts of RSS’ Madhya Pradesh Bharat Pranth (including Gwalior and Bhopal divisions) took part in the camp. Last week, Bhagwat had attended ‘Ghosh Pradarshan’, a programme on demonstrating musical instruments by band members in Chhattisgarh. RSS functionary Vinay Dixit said the RSS was formed in 1925 while its musical branch came up in 1927. He added that musical bands, especially drums, are used in shakhas during drills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangh-is-not-a-military-force-says-bhagwat-101638124464340.html
29-11-2021||India||Chennai logs wettest November with record rainfall of 882.4 mm||This November has been one of the wettest for Chennai which has recorded rainfall of 882.4 mm up to November 28 even as incessant rains in the past three days led to the city being inundated putting its residents through tremendous strain. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) the all-time record for the month of November is from 1918 when Chennai received 1088.4 mm of rain. In the past decade, it was in November 2015, that Chennai received record rainfall of 1049 mm and in December the city went through the catastrophic floods. The northeast monsoon from October to December is when Tamil Nadu receives most of its rainfall and since the monsoon set in late this year, in October, Chennai received 215 mm of rainfall which was a deficit by 22%. However, in the following month, the rainfall picked up and has now resulted in Chennai recording 79% excess rainfall having received a total of 1097.6 mm from October 1 up to November 28.“In November alone, till now we have received 882.4 mm rainfall,” said S Balachandar, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Chennai adding that the weathermen were unsure if Chennai would cross the 100 cm rainfall milestone with just two days left for November to end. Chief minister M K Stalin who has been inspecting flood-affected areas in Chennai and its neighbouring districts since Saturday tweeted that meteorologists say that this is the fourth highest rainfall in a single month and that it was vital to prevent loss of life and property. Independent weather blogger Pradeep John who tracks the rain in Tamil Nadu as per his calculations which adifferent from that of the RMC said that Chennai recorded 1003 mm until 7.30 pm in November. Rains batter ChennaiHowever the intensity of the rains has paralysed the capital city, its adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram and other districts. In the last 24-hours two people have died from the districts of Cuddalore and Thoothukudi, the disaster management department said in a statement. As many as 15,016 people have been evacuated from low lying areas and accommodated in relief camps. Since heavy rains began in the first week of November, crops spread over 50,000 hectares in Tamil Nadu’s delta districts have been damaged. The IMD on Friday issued a red alert for all the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu including Chennai. Overall, Tamil Nadu has received 76% excess rainfall this monsoon season. “Almost all districts except Madurai and Virudhunagar have received excess to large excess rainfall,” the IMD said in a bulletin. Up to 5.30 pm on November 28, Meenambakkam in Chennai received 55mm rainfall, Cuddalore (70mm), Tiruchenduri in Thoothukudi (11mm), Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district received 19mm. Boats were back on Chennai roads for rescue and relief operations in suburban localities such as Perumbakkam and Pallikaranai. The Greater Chennai Corporation increased its capacity of heavy duty motor pumps from 750 to 850 on Sunday to drain excess water. Traffic was diverted in several areas as roads had to be blocked due to water logging. Water was more than knee-deep in some residential localities. A holiday has been declared for schools in Chennai, Thiruvallur and several other districts for Monday due to the rains as the IMD has forecast heavy rainfall for Chennai in the next 24-hours and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts and heavy rain over Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts. Thunderstorms with moderate rain are likely to occur at most places over rest Coastal Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-logs-wettest-november-with-record-rainfall-of-882-4-mm-101638124461735.html
29-11-2021||India||Siwan, Sitapur have a bigger air pollution problem than Delhi||Europeans for a long time believed the earth was flat and were scared of undertaking long voyages on sea, lest they fell off the planet. It is unfair to blame them completely for this, for nobody had mapped the earth to remove this fear. Reversing this analogy is useful in evaluating India’s policy response to the problem of air pollution.Every year, as pollution levels spike in October and November, both governments and the courts scramble to control the menace in Delhi and its adjoining districts in the national capital region (NCR). Anyone who follows these processes in the news will believe that pollution is only a problem around the national capital and all is well in the rest of the country. This appears more to be result of lack of pollution data from other parts in northern India than anything else. An HT analysis, which has used satellite data to map pollution levels, shows air pollution is a problem that needs a much wider geographical outlook than just a Delhi-centric focus. Here is why.India’s air quality monitoring data is geographically skewed, but satellite mapping can helpThe Central Control Room for Air Quality Management (CCR) database counts 321 air quality monitoring stations in India. They cover just 156 cities, while there were 640 census districts in the 2011 census. Of the total air quality stations, 22% are located in just three mega cities: Delhi (40 stations), Mumbai (21 stations) and Bengaluru (10 stations).Does a lack of air quality stations mean we have no idea about pollution levels in the rest of the country? HT has found a solution to this problem by using satellite imagery based data.Particulate matter such as PM2.5, which are 2.5 micrometre wide or less, prevent light from travelling through the air. NASA’s Terra and Aqua satellites take snapshots of this to find where such particles are higher in concentration. This provides an index called aerosol optical thickness or depth (AOD). This index varies between 0 and 1, with values closer to 0 representing a clear sky and values closer to 1 representing a hazy sky.Monthly averages of AOD are available for 0.1-degree grids (a box bound by two latitudes and longitudes 0.1 degree or 11.1km apart). For October and November, 321 of 632 census 2011 districts (Delhi’s districts merged as one) have this data since 2000 such that over 80% of their grids are represented in nearly all years. More on this later. These 321 districts cover large parts of the states in the northern plains, where air pollution in winter is higher.
29-11-2021||India||‘India leading the world’: PM Modi hails India’s start-up sector in Mann ki Baat||India has emerged as a destination for highly valued start-ups, and the investment they are attracting both from within the country and overseas was unimaginable even a few years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly radio broadcast on Sunday.The country has entered into an era of start-ups even in small cities, and the number of unicorns, or start-ups with a valuation of at least $1 billion or RS 7,000 crore, is increasing, Modi said in his Mann Ki Baat programme.“Till 2015, there were just nine to 10 unicorns, but now India is flying high in the world of unicorns. According to a recent report, a big change has come this year itself,” the Prime Minister said. “In just 10 months, a unicorn was made in India every 10 days.”He said that it was a big achievement because India’s youth have achieved this success in the midst of a pandemic. “Today, there are more than 70 start-ups in India that have a valuation of more than $1 billion,” Modi said. “Due to the success of start-ups, everyone has noticed it. And the way it is getting support from investors from all over the country and abroad…, one could not have imagined it a few years ago.”The central government has started a programme called Startup India, which allows several facilities, including funding and investment, tax exemptions and industry-academia incubation in sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, health care and education, he said.Modi encouraged youth to become job creators. Three things matter a lot in a country that has a lot of young population, he said. The first is ideas and innovation, the second is the passion to take risks, and the third is the can-do spirit.“A few years ago, if anyone said they wanted to start a new company, or start a business, family elders used to advise against that. They would ask the person to take up a job as that would offer job security, salary and a hassle- free existence,” he said. “Today, if anyone wants to start his own company, people around him are excited and supportive. People today are trying to become job creators, not just job seekers.”The Prime Minister also referred to the death anniversary of BR Ambedkar on December 6 and said discharging one’s duty would be a fitting tribute to him.“Babasaheb Ambedkar devoted his entire life to discharge his duties for the country and society. We must never forget that the basic spirit of our Constitution expects all of us to discharge our duties,” Modi said. “So let us take a pledge that in the Amrit Mahotsav, we will try to fulfil our duties with full devotion. This will be a tribute to Baba Saheb.”Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav is an initiative of the government of India to celebrate and commemorate 75 years of India’s independence.BOXWhile interacting with a listener who is a beneficiary of the government’s health care scheme for the underprivileged, Modi commented that he does not covet power but seeks to serve. “I do not seek power, I want to serve the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-leading-the-world-pm-narendra-modi-hails-india-s-start-up-sector-in-mann-ki-baat-101638124226790.html
29-11-2021||India||Prayagraj murder case: Dalit man held, UP police say was stalking deceased||The Prayagraj Police on Sunday arrested a 23-year-old man in connection with the brutal murder of four members of a Dalit family in the district. The police also said that one of the deceased, who was raped, was not a minor, according to the official documents accessed by them. A 50-year-old man, his 47-year-old wife, daughter, who police said was 25, and 10-year-old son – were found dead on their beds inside their home in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning by relatives. An autopsy report suggested that they were strangulated and assaulted with an axe. A written complaint to the police by one of the relatives of the victims mentioned a land dispute and alleged that members of an upper-caste family had issued physical and verbal threats to the Dalit family in the past. Police, however, said that the accused, also a Dalit, was stalking the woman and carried out the crime after she rejected his advances. Addressing a press conference, ADG Zone Prem Prakash said: “A scanning of the murdered 25-year-old woman’s WhatsApp messages revealed that she was constantly receiving messages from a number that was traced to the accused Pawan Kumar Saroj, a labourer.” Police said they detained Saroj for questioning, during which he confessed to stalking the woman. They were, however, yet to establish how he carried out the murders and who his accomplices were. Officials added that they will now take the accused’s DNA samples to gather evidence. The ADG said that the education certificates accessed by them showed that woman was born in 1996 and the charges filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act will no longer be applicable. The incident sparked protests in the region with politicians making a beeline to the victims’ village and local residents alleging police negligence. Initially, police registered an FIR against 11 persons for murder and rape under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Police officials said they were yet to find evidence to establish the involvement of the eight people, all upper caste, arrested earlier in the case. They also suspended three policemen, including the station house officer of the local station, for laxity in connection with the incident. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had met the kin of the victims. “The women in the family are living in terror and are scared that they may face harassment again,” she said.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh also wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking an appointment with him to discuss the incident. “The family had been communicating their apprehensions about this incident to the police since 2019,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagraj-murder-case-dalit-man-held-up-police-say-was-stalking-deceased-101638124224955.html
29-11-2021||India||Japanese film ‘Ring Wandering’ bags top honour at IFFI||Japanese director Masakazu Kaneko’s Ring Wandering, which explores Tokyo’s wartime past, bagged the coveted Golden Peacock Award at the closing ceremony of the 52nd edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI), in Goa on Sunday.The Ring Wandering, which captures the story of a labourer and an aspiring manga artist, whose search for bones to complete his art piece unearths war-time memories, won the top honour in the International Competition section for being a “beautifully photographed combination of fantasy and manga-inspired reality, reflecting a fascination with the echoes of the past reverberating in present-day Japanese society”.“Though seeking to bring war-time memories to life, the film is not a war film; rather, it is centred on human relationships and exhorts us to think beyond the limits of what is readily comprehensible to us,” the jury noted in its commendation of the film.The Golden Peacock has a cash prize of ₹20 lakh for Kaneko and ₹20 lakh for producer Takashi Shiotsuki.Czech Republic’s Václav Kadrnka won the Silver Peacock for Best Director for Saving One Who Is Dead, while the Silver Peacock for Best Actor (Male) was bagged by Jitendra Joshi for his performance in Nikhil Mahajan’s Godavari. Joshi, who is also the Marathi-language drama’s co-producer, received a cash prize of ₹10 lakh.Godavari also shared the Silver Peacock for Special Jury Award with Brazilian actor Renata Carvalho for her performance in Rodrigo de Oliveira’s The First Fallen.The Silver Peacock for Best Actor (Female) went to Angela Molina for Charlotte.Russian Director Roman Vasyanov’s The DORM received a special mention for its “impactful narration of the complicated and corrupted society of 1984 USSR”.Director Mari Alessandrini’s Zahorí, which “lampoons religion and colonisation and gives respect to the organic indigenous people of Patagonia in an elegant and visually intelligent way”, won the Best Debut Feature Film award.Spanish film ‘The Wealth of the World’ by debut Director Simon Farriol also received a special mention in the Debut Competition Category.For the first time, the BRICS Film Festival was also held alongside the International Film Festival of India, in which a special package of films from the five countries -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- was showcased.The festival’s closing ceremony was attended by Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, and Bollywood personalities Hema Malini and actor Manoj Bajpayee, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japanese-film-ring-wandering-bags-top-honour-at-iffi-101638124161793.html
29-11-2021||India||Oppn seeks discussionon farm laws, inflation||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-seeks-discussionon-farm-laws-inflation-101638124101095.html
29-11-2021||India||Stricter airport SOPs, focus on hot spots in new Omicron plan||People entering India from “at risk” countries, including all of Europe, will need to take a test for Covid-19 upon arrival at the airport, according to new guidelines issued by the government on Sunday, which removed the exemption for vaccinated people who could leave and monitor their health on their own.The rules are meant to contain the spread of Omicron variant, which was dubbed a variant of concern (VOC) by the World Health Organization on Friday after early evidence showed it could be more transmissible, and resistant to immunity from a past infection or vaccination.Countries classified as “at risk” include all European Union nations, the UK, South Africa and New Zealand. At least nine countries have confirmed detecting Omicron infections as of Sunday.
29-11-2021||India||‘This is the end’: Comedian Munawar Faruqui after Bengaluru Police cancel show||A show by comedian Munawar Faruqui was cancelled on Sunday, hours before it was supposed to be held in Bengaluru, after the city police denied it permission citing possible law and order problems amid protest by right-wing outfits.Faruqui, who was jailed for a month earlier this year on charges of “insulting Hindu gods and goddesses” during a comedy show, tweeted: “Aaj Bangalore show cancel ho gaya (Under the Threat of venue vandalism) We sold 600+ tickets... Putting me in jail for the joke I never did to cancelling my shows which has nothing problematic in it. This is unfair... I think this is the end. My name is Munawar Faruqui and that’s been my time. You guys were a wonderful audience. Goodbye, I’m done.”He further indicated that he may not do any more shows after at least 12 of his shows were cancelled in the last two months due to threats from right-wing groups. “Nafrat jeet gayi, artist haar gaya (hate has won, the artist has lost). I’m done, goodbye. Injustice,” the tweet said.According to Alwin Mendoza, the manager of Good Shepherdauditorium, Faruqui’s show was scheduled to be held on Sunday evening at Good Shepherd auditorium in Bengaluru for the second time within two months. He said that a show by Faruqui was held last month at the same venue.However, on Saturday, the Bengaluru Police wrote to the organisers and asked them to call off the event as the comedian was a “controversial figure”.“It is learned that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure as he was been in controversial statements and on other religion Gods. Many states have banned his comedy shows...,” said the letter by the Ashok Nagar Police Station, adding that the show “could create chaos and could disturb the public peace and harmony which may further lead to Law & order problems”.In his social media post, Faruqui also said that his team had reached out to late Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar for the show, the proceeds of which would be used for charity. “Month back my team called late Puneeth Rajkumar sir organisation for charity which we will be going to generate from this show in Bangalore. We agreed to not sell the show in the name of charity as suggested by the noble organisation.”Faruqui and four others were arrested by Madhya Pradesh police on January 1 following a complaint by Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud, that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities as well as Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year’s Day. He was later released on bail.Welcoming the cancellation, Mohan Gowda, the spokesperson of Hindu Janajagruthi Samithi, said: “Today the programme by Hindu hater Munawar Faruqui’s show was cancelled and we thank the Bengaluru police.”He added that there should be a permanent ban on him and cancellation of the show on Sunday was due to the efforts of several pro-Hindu organizations who rallied to stop Faruqui’s show in Bengaluru.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, however, tweeted: “Hate won’t win - have faith Don’t give up, don’t stop. #StayUnited.”The Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra and two other senior leaders of the ruling BJP could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-the-end-comedian-munawar-faruqui-after-bengaluru-police-cancel-show-101638123863413.html
29-11-2021||India||Nepal seeks permit to conduct census in villages near border||Authorities in Nepal have sought permission from Indian officials to send a team to conduct a population census in Chhangru and Tinkar villages near the Indo-Nepal border, the route to which goes through Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand, officials familiar with the matter said. The development came during a meeting between the officials of Pithoragarh district and Nepal’s Darchula district across the international border on Saturday evening. The meeting was held a day after former Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said that “if voted to power, his party’s government will take back the areas of Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Pithoragarh district through dialogue with India.”Ashish Chauhan, the district magistrate of Pithoragarhm, who was among officials from the Indian side, said, “The Nepalese side had sought the permission during the meeting as the route to the two villages in their area goes through India. They have sought permission before also to conduct the population census amid their ongoing national census. We informed them that the communication has been done with the top-level on same, and as soon as they give their nod for it, we will intimate them accordingly.”Informing about the officials who were in attendance during the meeting, Chauhan said, “Apart from me, the chief development officer of Pithoragarh Anuradha Pal, additional district magistrate PR Chauhan, sub-divisional magistrate of Dharchula, divisional forest officer and executive engineer of the irrigation Dharchula division were present from the Indian side. While from Nepal’s Darchula district, chief district officer Siddhraj Joshi, deputy inspector general, Nepal Armed Police Narendra Bam, 10 other officials attended meeting.”Chauhan further said that “Both sides also agreed to work in utmost coordination in case of a flood-like situation in Kali river, which separates Pithoragarh and Darchula at border.” Nepal raked up the border issue in Pithoragarh district earlier this month by claiming three villages in the Kalapani area were in its territory, again raising an issue that reared its head last year when Kathmandu published a new map showing India’s Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limipiyadhura as part of its territory. Nebin Lal Shresth, director-general of Central Bureau of Statistics of Nepal responsible for the census, said while speaking to a leading Nepalese daily on November 10: “The three villages are under Nepal’s territory but has a presence of Indian armed forces. Hence, there has to be an appropriate solution at government level so that our team can go there for the population census.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-seeks-permit-to-conduct-census-in-villages-near-border-101638123741709.html
29-11-2021||India||BJP sweeps Tripura civic body elections, wins 217 of 222 seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the Tripura local body elections, winning 217 of the 222 seats that went to polls, according to the results released on Sunday.The state’s ruling party won all the seats in 11 urban bodies, including the 51-member Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC ). Of the total 334 seats across 20 urban bodies in the state, the BJP emerged victorious on 329, having won 112 seats uncontested before the polling took place. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) won three seats, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which bagged the second highest votes in AMC and the Tipra Motha — helmed by Tripura royal family head Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s— won one seat each.The BJP brass said the results showed that Tripura’s people have faith in the party’s governance model.“The people of Tripura have given a clear message - that they prefer politics of good governance. I would like to thank them for the unequivocal support to @BJP4Tripura,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Union home minister Amit Shah said the results showed people’s “unwavering trust” in the party. “The results are a clear testimony of people’s unwavering trust in BJP’s politics of development. This will further strengthen our resolve to serve the great land of Maa Tripura Sundari,” he tweeted.Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said the poll verdict showed that the voters rejected those who he said tried to demean the state. “The people of Tripura from across communities have voted in favour of development. The people have also replied to those who hatched conspiracies to insult and demean our state,” he said.Left Front convener Narayan Kar said, “ We are thankful to the voters who exercised their franchise in favour of the Left Front. The BJP turned the poll into mockery through violence and using the administrative powers amidst failure of state Election Commission and police. We will strengthen our movement in the coming days.”The TMC, however, accused the BJP of using unfair means to win the elections, and claimed that their 24% vote share on an average showed that the voters in the state wanted a change of guard.TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said the performance was “exceptional” for his party, which had negligible presence in Tripura. “This is despite the fact that we commenced our activities barely 3 months ago and @BJP4Tripura left no stone unturned to butcher democracy BUTCHER DEMOCRACY in Tripura,” he tweeted.The state has emerged as the latest flashpoint in the tussle between the TMC and the BJP ahead of the state elections, set to take place in 2023. TMC moved the Supreme Court last week alleging violence in the state prior to the local polls against its candidates, prompting the top court to direct the Centre to deploy additional troops in the state.On Sunday, Section 144 of the CrPc was imposed in the Teliamura Municipal Council area after police personnel and TMC workers were attacked by unidentified men, a police official said.“Some unidentified miscreants attacked our vehicle while we were escorting polling agents and candidates to their homes, “ said a police official on condition of anonymity. He added that the police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the mob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpsweeps-tripura-civic-body-elections-wins-217-of-222-seats-101638123623423.html
29-11-2021||India||Mathura: Sec 144 imposed after right-wing outfits’ threat||The Mathura district administration has imposed prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 following an announcement by the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha that it will install a Lord Krishna idol at the deity’s “actual birthplace”, which it claims is in a mosque close to a prominent temple here.“Nobody will be allowed to disturb the peace and tranquillity in Mathura,” District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said.The clampdown comes even as another right wing organisation, the Narayani Sena, has said it will take out a march from Vishram Ghat to Sri Krishna Janmasthan, demanding the “removal” of the mosque.Section 144 of the CrPC prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area.Police said they have detained Narayani Sena secretary Amit Mishra in Mathura Kotwali, while the outfit claimed its national president Manish Yadav has been detained in Lucknow.Chahal said he, along with Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover, reviewed the security around both the religious places, the Katra Keshav Dev temple and the Shahi Idgah.He said the Mahasabha had requested permission to install the idol at the mosque but it was turned down.Question of granting permission to any event that may potentially disrupt peace does not arise, Chahal added.Hindu Mahasabha leader Rajyashri Choudhary had earlier said her organisation will install the idol of Lord Krishna in the Shahi Idgah after a “maha jalabhishek” to “purify” the place on December 6.The date marks the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya, the site of a temple-mosque dispute, in 1992.The Mahasabha’s threat to perform the ritual inside the Shahi Idgah comes at a time when the local courts are hearing a series of petitions seeking the “removal” of the 17th century mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-sec-144-imposed-after-right-wing-outfits-threat-101638123381707.html
29-11-2021||India||Heavy rains continue to lash parts of Andhra Pradesh||The south coastal and Rayalaseema regions of Andhra Pradesh continued to witness heavy rainfall in several areas from Saturday evening till Sunday morning due to the formation of yet another low pressure in the Bay of Bengal.According to the official figures from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and Andhra’s State Development and Planning Society, heavy rainfall occurred in Nellore district, bordering Tamil Nadu, with Atmakur block recording 11 cm rain, followed by 10.7 cm in Naidupet, Chillakur (9.4 cm), Muthukur (7.4 cm), and 7 cm in Chitvel and Nellore town in the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported in the state today, an official said. Similarly, in Satyavedu in Chittoor district of the Rayalaseema region, there was a rainfall of 6 cm, followed by 4 cm each in Penagaluru and Kodur in Kadapa district, and 3 cm each in Rajampet in Kadapa, Santipuram in Chittoor district.Since Sunday morning, Naidupet in Nellore witnessed rainfall of 7.9 cm, followed by 6.2 cm in Irugulam in Chittoor district. Similar rainfall ranging from 3 cm to 6 cm occurred in parts of the Prakasam district.The IMD Amaravati predicted that moderate to heavy rains would continue for the next 24 hours.Several streams in Atakur, Anantasagar, Marripadu, Kejarla and Sangam blocks of Nellore are overflowing due to heavy rains since Friday night. The district officials have started evacuating the people from adjacent villages to safer locations.In the Anantapur district, there was moderate to heavy rainfall in Kadiri, Gorantla and Hindupur blocks. The water level in Perur reservoir on Pennar River reached its brim after a gap of nearly 25 years, and irrigation authorities have lifted a gate to release the water downstream.Heavy rains were also witnessed in Jammalamadugu, Proddatur, Mydukur, Rayachoti and Pulivendula in Kadapa.The Kadapa-Tirupati highway, which was heavily damaged due to the last week’s floods, witnessed further damages near Balapalli village, forcing the authorities to stall the traffic to Tamil Nadu.The district authorities have appealed to the people to be alert and not to take up any travelling due to waterlogging on the roads connecting Kadapa and Nellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-continue-to-lash-parts-of-andhra-pradesh-101638122841785.html
29-11-2021||India||Chennai infra caves in as November rain breaks records||Incessant rainfall has continued to batter Chennai, which recorded its second-highest November rainfall in a decade, according to official figures. The Tamil Nadu capital received 882.4mm rain this month till Sunday, just behind the 1,049 record rainfall received in 2015.The northeast monsoon from October to December is when Tamil Nadu receives most of its rainfall, and since the monsoon set in late this year, Chennai received 215 mm rainfall in October, which was a deficit by 22%. However, the following month, Chennai recorded 79% excess rainfall, taking the toll to 1097.6 mm from October 1 to November 28. “In November alone, till now, we have received 882.4 mm rainfall,” said S Balachandar, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Chennai, adding that weathermen were unsure if Chennai will cross the 100cm rainfall milestone with just two days left for the month to end. When asked about the reasons that contributed to an extreme weather condition this year, Balachandar said that there have been successive low-pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal this month that brought more rains. “We also had a depression that crossed near Chennai overnight between November 6 and November 7 that brought 21cm of rainfall,” he said.The intensity of the rainfall has paralysed the capital city, its adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram and other districts.In the last 24-hours, two people have died in Cuddalore and Thoothukudi respectively, the disaster management department said. As many as 15,016 people have been evacuated from low lying areas and accommodated in relief camps. Since heavy rains began in the first week of November, crops spread over 50,000 hectares in Tamil Nadu’s delta districts have been damaged. The high rainfall has hampered normal life in the city, with water-logging reported in various parts of the city. 35-year-old M Kavitha scooped out more than 30 buckets of water from the entry of her house in Perumbakkam on Sunday. Though she lives on a higher floor, rainwater entered through an open balcony. She cannot step out since the water is knee-deep. “We have to been stuck inside for at least a week now since this water will take days to be pumped out,” she said. “And we have had no power for the past two days.”The IMD on Friday issued a red alert for all the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai. Overall, Tamil Nadu received 76% excess rainfall this monsoon season. “Almost all districts except Madurai and Virudhunagar have received excess to large excess rainfall,” the IMD said in a bulletin. Up to 5.30 pm on Sunday, Meenambakkam in Chennai received 55mm rainfall, Cuddalore (70mm), Tiruchenduri in Thoothukudi (11mm), Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district received 19mm. Boats were back on Chennai roads for rescue and relief operations in suburban localities such as Perumbakkam and Pallikaranai. The Greater Chennai Corporation increased its capacity of heavy-duty motor pumps from 750 to 850 on Sunday to drain excess water. Traffic was diverted in several areas as roads had to be blocked due to waterlogging.A holiday has been declared for schools in Chennai, Thiruvallur and several other districts for Monday due to the rains as the IMD has predicted heavy rains for Chennai in the next 24-hours and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts and heavy rain over Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts. Thunderstorms with moderate rain are likely to occur at most places over the rest of Coastal Tamil Nadu. Chief minister M K Stalin, who has been inspecting flood-affected areas in Chennai and its neighbouring districts since Saturday, tweeted that meteorologists suggested that this is the fourth-highest rainfall in a single month and that it was vital to prevent loss of life and property. Independent weather blogger Pradeep John said that Chennai recorded 1,003 mm until 7.30 pm in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-infra-caves-in-as-november-rain-breaks-records-101638122781725.html
29-11-2021||India||Omicron: 10 restrictions Karnataka has imposed amid new variant concerns||Bringing back several restrictions, the Karnataka government has declared an all-out fight amid apprehension of the new Covid variant, Omicron, first identified in South Africa. The Union health ministry has alerted all states and Union territories to be alert, to increase testing and the monitoring of the hotspots. The decision to resume international flights from December 15, which was earlier announced by the civil aviation ministry, is being reviewed. While all the states are scaling up efforts to assess the situation and take action when there is time, the new variant sent Karnataka into a tizzy as over 1,000 people have come to the state from South Africa. The government said all have been tested and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Two Covid positive cases spread fresh concern in the state, while later it was confirmed that those were of Delta variant and not of Omicron. The state government has asked the Centre to ban passengers coming from the affected countries. The state has also sought booster doses of vaccines from the Centre.The state government has put in place several restrictions in the wake of the new Covid variant being reported from other countries.1. People coming from Omicron-affected countries will have to take mandatory RT-PCR after landing in Bengaluru. If they are found positive, they will have to stay in and around the airport.2. All schools, colleges, educational institutes have been asked to postpone all kinds of public events.3. Negative RT-PCR is mandatory for those travelling to Karnataka from Kerala and Maharashtra.4. Students who have travelled to the state from Kerala 16 days ago have to undergo RT-PCR test again.5. Students from Kerala staying in hostels, who have got a negative RT-PCR test report, would have to get the tests done again on the 7th day after the first report.6. Stringent checks have been put in place on the areas bordering Maharashtra and Kerala.7. Two doses of vaccination have been made mandatory for those working at government offices, malls, hotels, swimming pools and theatres.8. All medical and nursing colleges have been alerted to increase testing of students.9. For the MLC elections on December 10, no big public meeting will be allowed.10. Two Covid cluster zones have been identified in Bengaluru and Dharwad. All positive cases in these two clusters will undergo genome sequencing to find the variant.Will there be another lockdown in Karnataka?The chief minister has made it clear that at this stage, the directions are advisory. If required, more stringent measures might be taken, depending on the situation, the chief minister has said. There will be restrictions over Christmas and New Year celebrations too, following the direction of the chief minister, an official said. Separate directives will be issued regarding that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-10-restrictions-karnataka-has-imposed-amid-new-variant-concerns-101638109029504.html
29-11-2021||India||Cong urges Lok Sabha Speaker to ease curbs on media||Congress Member of Parliament (MP), Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday, requesting to re-allow media persons to cover Parliamentary proceedings.In his letter, Chowdhury wrote that media people were denied access to the Press Gallery and were not allowed to interact with the Parliamentarians on the pretext of pandemic guidelines. However, he argued that Covid-19 restrictions have been withdrawn from many public areas, “however, the restrictions imposed during the pandemic are still on for the media person as far as covering the proceedings of the Parliament is concerned,” he said.The Congress MP added, “It is definitely against the spirit of Parliamentary democracy. I am concerned that there is a dangerous trend emerging to isolate the Parliament and the Parliamentarians from media scrutiny.” Chowdhury concluded by appealing to Speaker Om Birla that media persons be allowed access to all necessary facilities that will help them cover the Parliament proceedings in a “free and fair manner.”Congress MP Manickam Tagore supported Chowdhury and retweeted the letter saying, “It’s important one… parliament can’t follow the Gujarat Assembly.. let’s all demand from Hon’ble speaker Media access to Parliament. In the name of #COVID19 it’s not fair.”Since the budget session of Parliament in 2020, media was barred from covering the Parliament proceedings due to the spread of the novel coronavirus disease. However, a few media persons representing news agencies were given access to the proceedings.Prior to the Monsoon session of the Parliament, in July, the Press Club of India, along with several other media organizations, wrote to Birla requesting full access to the Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-writes-to-lok-sabha-speaker-to-allow-media-to-cover-parliamentary-proceedings-again-101638107242779.html
29-11-2021||India||What do Omicron's 30 mutations signify? AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria explains||Available information about the new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 indicates many possibilities which need to be scientifically established, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said on Sunday commenting on the new variant which has the governments across the world scrambling in panic.Dr Guleria said it has been reported that Omicron has over 30 mutations in the spike protein region. Mutations at the spike protein region makes a variant potential to develop an immune escape mechanism, Dr Guleria said.All vaccines of the world against Covid will have to be reviewed as most vaccines work by forming antibodies against the spike protein. Since Omicron has many mutations in the spike protein, it might render many vaccines less effective, the AIIMS chief said.“The new variant of coronavirus reportedly has got more than 30 mutations at the spike protein region and therefore has the potential of developing immune escape mechanisms. As most vaccines (work by) forming antibodies against the spike protein, so many mutations at the spike protein region may lead to a decreased efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines," Guelria told PTI.The new variant has first been detected in South Africa and the World Health Organization has identified it as a variant of concern. The variant has now been reported in several other countries including the United Kingdom, Australia. So far, there has been no case reported in India.Dr Samiran Panda, the head of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases Division, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said structural changes have been observed in the variant which is indicative of the possibility of "adherence to the same cellular receptors with increased affinity or transmission"."Some of the vaccines are directed towards the spike protein of the virus, which gets attached to the receptor. So if the changes have happened in the virus then the vaccines might not be effective. The mRNA vaccines need to be tweaked around this change that has been already observed, but not that all the vaccines are of similar nature," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-do-omicron-s-30-mutations-signify-aiims-chief-dr-randeep-guleria-explains-101638103007128.html
