30-11-2021||India||Pakistan diplomat summoned over photoshoot at Kartarpur Sahib||India on Tuesday summoned the senior-most Pakistani diplomat in New Delhi to convey its concern at what it said was the desecration of Durbar Sahib gurdwara, built at the site where Guru Nanak spent the last years of his life, following a fashion shoot at the shrine. A Lahore-based fashion brand had recently posted images of a photoshoot done by a model at Durbar Sahib gurdwara on its social media accounts. The model featured in the photos did not have her head covered – as is required of all visitors to Sikh shrines – and this resulted in widespread criticism in India and Pakistan. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said Pakistan’s charge d’affaires Aftab Hasan Khan was summoned to “convey our deep concern at the incident of desecration of the sanctity of Gurudwara Shri Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, by a Pakistani model and a clothing brand”. Khan was informed this “reprehensible incident has deeply hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community in India and worldwide”, he said. “Such continued incidents of desecration and disrespect of places of religious worship of the minority communities in Pakistan highlight the lack of respect for the faith of these communities,” he added. The Indian side also told Khan that it expects “Pakistani authorities to sincerely investigate this matter and take action against those involved”. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee had written to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday, demanding that he take up the matter with the Pakistan government. With elections coming up in Punjab, it had become a hot button issue in political circles. However, authorities in Pakistan had already taken up the issue before India’s formal protest. Kartarpur is located in Pakistan’s Punjab province, and Usman Buzdar, the provincial chief minister, took “strict notice” of the matter and sought a report on the incident from the chief secretary. “A thorough inquiry will be done on this incident. CM Punjab reiterated that all religions are respected in Pakistan,” said a tweet from the handle of the Punjab provincial government. It added in another tweet that “strict action will be taken against all culprits”. Pakistan’s Punjab Police said in a tweet official were “investigating all aspects related to this incident and strict legal action will be taken against responsible”. The management of the fashion brand and model were also being investigated, it added. Pakistan’s information minister Fawad Chaudhry asked the fashion designer and model involved in the incident to apologise, saying the gurdwara is a “religious symbol and not a film set”. The fashion brand too distanced itself from the photoshoot, which it said was done by a third party using its outfits. “However, we accept our mistake that we should not have posted this content, and we apologise to every single person who was offended by this. All the holy places are very sacred to us. The pictures and posts have been removed from all our media channels,” the brand said in a statement. The gurdwara at Kartarpur is located in the area where Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, is believed to have spent his final years. In 2019, India and Pakistan opened a special corridor to allow Indian pilgrims to visit the shrine without visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-diplomat-summoned-over-photoshoot-at-kartarpur-sahib-101638296854163.html
30-11-2021||India||Karnataka high court issues notice after semi-naked man appears during hearing||The Karnataka high court issued a notice to a man on Tuesday after he appeared semi-naked in a virtual hearing. The court ordered the retrieval of the user’s data, acting on a complaint by senior advocate Indira Jaising.According to senior advocate Indira Jaising, the man appeared to be taking a bath as the division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum was hearing a PIL filed in connection with the alleged CD scandal involving former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Jaising, appearing on behalf of the woman who had lodged a sexual abuse case against Jarkiholi, said that the half-naked man was on the screen for more than 20 minutes. The man had joined the video conferencing under the name ‘Sridhar Bhat SDMC Ujire’. “A person is appearing on video conference without a vest, he is visible in this courtroom. Please take judicial notice of this. Let there be some decorum in the court. Milord, I am a woman lawyer…. It is very offensive for a woman to see a man without clothes in a courtroom. Do we have a man without clothes when a woman is arguing in court? What is going on? Milords…It seems he is bathing in front of the court and before me. How is this possible?” Jaising asked the court. Complaining that his conduct amounts to ‘gross contempt of court’, Jaising said she would send the digital evidence to the court to take appropriate action against the man. Some of the advocates, too, drew the court’s attention towards the person who left the video conference after the issue was brought to the notice of the court. A court officer tried calling the offender, but he did not respond and later he logged out. At the end of the hearing, Jaising urged the court to act against the man. She said, “I am exposed to a semi-naked man for 20 minutes. It is done very deliberately and intentionally. It should never happen again, and it is very disturbing and offensive. His conduct amounts to gross contempt of court. I request to take action under the Contempt of Court Act.” Taking note of the issue, the court also passed the order to find out the offender and issue him notice. More than 80 persons logged into the hearing. Meanwhile, Special Investigation Team (SIT) chief Soumendu Mukherjee submitted a report saying the final report (submitted in a sealed envelope) proposed to be submitted is acceptable. The Karnataka High Court has asked the SIT to file an application before it for clearance to file reports in a magistrate court on its investigations in cases pertaining to allegations of sexual assault against BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi and a counter-complaint of extortion filed by the MLA. In July this year, the SIT had placed a final report on the investigation to the high court, seeking permission to file the reports in a lower court. However, the high court expressed its reservations since the supervising officer of the SIT had not seen or signed the report since he was on leave. The HC asked the SIT to resubmit the investigation reports after examination by the head of the SIT Soumendu Mukherjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-issues-notice-after-semi-naked-man-appears-during-hearing-101638296615739.html
30-11-2021||India||Goa Forward Party MLAs, one independent meet Rahul, extend support to Cong||With an eye on assembly elections, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi met two Goa Forward Party MLAs on Tuesday at his residence. The Wayanad MP met Vijai Sardesai and Vinod Palyekar, who extended their support to the party ahead of the legislative assembly elections in the state.Gandhi also met independent legislator Prasad Gaonkar — who earlier met the Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee in October — who also extended his support to the party. Congress is trying to get smaller parties together in a bid to oust the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It recently suffered a setback as former chief minister and Congress veteran Luizinho Faleiro joined the Trinamool Congress earlier this year.However, following Gaonkar’s meeting with Gandhi, some Congress leaders tweeted photos of Abhishek Banerjee’s tweet where he thanked Gaonkar. “It is an absolute pleasure to receive the support of a farmer's son for India's firebrand woman leader who is challenging the “Two”-man show at the Centre. My sincere gratitude to @prasadgaonkr13 ji & heartiest welcome to Sandesh Gaonkar ji on joining @AITCofficial,” Banerjee tweeted earlier.“We agreed to fight resolutely, wholeheartedly and unitedly on behalf of the people of Goa to end the utterly corrupt, incompetent and undemocratic reign of the BJP,” Sardesai said in a tweet. He also called Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant "communal" and "anti-Goan".Goa is witnessing a multilateral contest as the Trinamool Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiv Sena seek to challenge the BJP government in the state. Earlier the Delhi chief minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal promised to resume mining, free pilgrimage and free electricity if voted to power. Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee earlier in October reached out to fishermen and civil society members in order to strengthen the party’s base in the coastal state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-forward-party-mlas-one-independent-meet-rahul-extend-support-to-cong-101638295578451.html
30-11-2021||India||Army receives new Israeli Heron drones for deployment in Ladakh sector||After a delay of a few months due to COVID-19, the Indian Army's surveillance capabilities have received a major boost as Israel has delivered advanced Heron drones under the emergency procurement clause to keep an eye on the Chinese activities in the Ladakh sector."The advanced Heron drones have arrived in the country and are being deployed for surveillance operations in the eastern Ladakh sector," top government sources told ANI.These drones are operational now and are far more advanced than the Herons in the existing inventory and their anti-jamming capability is much better than their previous versions, the sources said.The acquisition of these drones has been done under the emergency financial powers granted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government to the defence forces under which they can buy equipment and systems worth ₹500 crores to upgrade their warfighting capabilities, amid ongoing border conflict with China, they added.According to sources, the other small or mini drones are being acquired from Indian firms.The Indian defence forces have been taking these initiatives to acquire weapon systems that can help them in the ongoing conflict with China. The last time such a facility was given to the defence forces was in 2019 right after the Balakot airstrikes against terrorist camps in Pakistan.Using the same facility, the Indian Navy has leased two Predator drones which have been taken from American firm General Atomics.The Indian Air Force had exercised the same powers to acquire a large number of anti-tank guided missiles, long-range precision-guided artillery shells along with the Hammer air to ground standoff missiles with a strike range of around 70 kilometres.The emergency procurement powers under capital acquisition route ended on August 31 this year.The armed forces have a few more projects in the final stages and if they get an extension, they may go ahead for purchasing that equipment too for improving their combat capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-receives-new-israeli-heron-drones-for-deployment-in-ladakh-sector-101638265519344.html
30-11-2021||India||Hornbill Festival returns to traditional format, starts tomorrow||This year’s edition of Nagaland’s iconic Hornbill Festival, widely hailed as the “festival of festivals”, will be held in its traditional format, starting on December 1 after it was held virtually last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The 10-day cultural and tourism extravaganza annually begins at the start of December and coincides with Nagaland’s statehood day. The festival’s 2021 edition comprises around 700 separate events.The big event, which is supported by the state government, showcases the diverse Naga ethnicity through folk dances, traditional music, tribal rituals, indigenous games, local cuisine, handicraft, artwork and textiles.Government officials said that although there is a fresh alert for the newly emerged Omicron variant of Covid-19, the festival will go ahead as planned.“We’re all set to celebrate the 22nd edition of the festival. But everyone has to strictly follow the existing Covid-19 standard operating procedure of the Centre and the state government,” said MLA H Khehovi Yepthomi, who is also an adviser to Nagaland’s tourism and art and culture department. Also Read: Nagaland takes travel inspiration from USA’s Sturgis, aims for off-road tourismYepthomi said all protocols will be maintained, and members of the 17 cultural troupes representing the tribes of Nagaland from all its districts have been fully vaccinated, among others taking part in the festival.Diplomatic representatives from the US, Germany and Israel will be among the guests this year. “The guests’ presence is significant. It shows how international the festival has become,” said Abu Metha, adviser to the chief minister of Nagaland. More than 282,800 people visited the festival during the 20th edition in 2019, including over 3,000 foreign tourists and at least 55,500 domestic visitors. The festival’s opening programme will be held at the traditional venue - the Naga Heritage Village Kisama, which is located 10km away from the capital Kohima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hornbill-festival-returns-to-traditional-format-starts-tomorrow-101638265653232.html
30-11-2021||India||AAP to take out yet another ‘Tiranga Yatra’, this time in Punjab's Pathankot||With assembly elections in Punjab months away, the Aam Aadmi Party-led by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be holding a ‘Tiranga Yatra’, this time in the state's Pathankot region, on December 2. Earlier, the party had conducted a similar campaign in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh had delivered a call to establish a ‘Ram Rajya’ and equated devotion to Lord Ram with true nationalism and communal harmony.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold 'Tiranga yatra' in Punjab's Pathankot on December 2. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia will also join the 'Tiranga yatra': AAP (File pic) pic.twitter.com/rv5Rd0qQ1EThe ‘Tiranga Yatra’ or ‘tricolour march’ conducted by the AAP aims to see the participation of thousands of people, including the party's workers and supporters from across the state, carrying tricolours and raising nationalist slogans such as “Vande Mataram”. The campaign also serves as a stage for AAP leaders to make their vows to the people of the state ahead of elections, and reiterate commitment to promises made earlier.The Aam Aadmi Party, which will be contesting all 117 seats in the Punjab legislative assembly for the upcoming elections, has already made a bunch of lucrative promises to the people of the state. If voted to power, party supremo Arvind Kejriwal has promised 300 units of free electricity in every household, free healthcare facilities in mohalla clinics, and ₹1,000 to every woman in the state above 18 years of age.Kejriwal had kickstarted electioneering for his party at a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Bagha Purana in Punjab's Moga district back in March this year. Now, AAP hopes to step up its campaigning with the Tiranga Yatra, a familiar strategy undertaken by the party ahead of elections; four of these have already been conducted in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.Punjab is scheduled to go for assembly polls next year. 59 seats are needed for winning a majority in the 117-seat state assembly.In the 2017 polls, Congress won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousting the ruling SAD-BJP government after 10 years. AAP emerged as the second-largest party winning 20 seats in the 117-member assembly, becoming the principal opposition. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secured 3 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-take-out-yet-another-tiranga-yatra-this-time-in-punjab-s-pathankot-101638263025824.html
30-11-2021||India||Piyush Goyal asks suspended MPs to apologise for their 'conduct' in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Piyush Goyal asked the suspended parliamentarians to apologise for their alleged misconduct on Tuesday and highlighted that the unruly MPs almost attacked the Chair, caused damage to the Parliament and attacked female marshals.Goyal was referring to the final day of the Monsoon Session when opposition MPs allegedly entered the well and continued sloganeering over passage of bills without discussion. A committee on Monday suspended twelve MPs for their unruly behaviour on the last day of the monsoon session.“I want to bring your attention to the last day of the session. That day some MPs attacked women marshals, some attacked male marshals. They stood firm. We shudder to think what could have happened to the Chair,” Goyal said.“Considering that they also filmed and showed what happened in Parliament on YouTube, we suggested that a committee be formed to deal with it. However, many opposition parties refused to be a part of the committee. Their contention that such a panel can only work when house is in session is wrong, as the House is constant, so it is the House' decision to suspend. They can make a mistake but they should apologise as everyone can make a mistake,” Goyal further added.He also pointed out that the Opposition did not let Prime Minister Narendra Narendra Modi introduce new ministers of his Cabinet and showed disregard to the large number of women candidates being inducted. “The entire country witnessed how badly the protestors behaved when minister Ashwini Vaishnaw was speaking in the House,” he said.Both houses of the Parliament which are in session saw repeated adjournments over the past two days. The opposition parties boycotted the Parliament proceedings over the suspension of the MPs, terming the decision ‘undemocratic’.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge also urged Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension but Naidu said that it may not be possible without proper functioning of the House and if the opposition MPs do not show sincere regret for their misconduct.The following MPs were suspended for unruly conduct - Elamaram Kareem (Communist Party of India (Marxist)CPI (M)), Phulo Devi Netam (Indian National Congress (INC)), Chhaya Verma (INC), Ripun Bora(INC), Binoy Viswam (Communist Party of India (CPI)), Rajamani Patel (INC), Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress), Shanta Chhetri (TMC), Syed Nasir Hussain(INC), Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Anil Desai (Shiv Sena) and Akhilesh Prasad Singh (INC).--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-asks-suspended-mps-to-apologise-for-their-conduct-in-rajya-sabha-101638264128574.html
30-11-2021||India||Delhi govt designates Lok Nayak Hospital for treating Omicron cases||The Delhi government on Tuesday designated Lok Nayak hospital for treatment of patients infected with the new Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2. “Lok Nayak will designate one or more separate wards (as per need) for isolating and treating such patients [those indicating a presence of the new variant],” according to an order by special secretary, health, SM Ali.Also Read | From December, India imposes new rules for international arrivals over omicron scareReferring to the development in a tweet, health minister Satyendar Jain said the Delhi government was “fully prepared” to fight the new variant of coronavirus, which has been declared a variant of concern by WHO.”Hereby, we are designating Lok Nayak hospital as a dedicated hospital to treat the new variant of coronavirus (Omicron),” he said.As per government officials, [international] travellers are also being allowed to isolate in four private hospitals in the city as paid facility.Also Read | Blanket travel bans will not prevent Omicron spread, says WHOThis comes after the meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday, after which deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the state was prepared to tackle any rise in Covid-19 infections. All passengers arriving in Delhi from “at-risk” countries, including all of Europe, will need to take an RT-PCR test at the airport and will have to quarantine at home for at least eight days even if their samples return negative, senior state officials said.Also Read | Omicron scare: Centre extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till December 31Currently, Delhi has at least one traveller from Germany, suspected to be infected with the new variant, admitted to Medanta hospital, according to officials. His sample has already been sent for genome sequencing to the National Centres for Disease Control and a report is awaited.Meanwhile, the government is investigating two clusters of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra and Karnataka to check for the new variant. No cases of the new variant have been confirmed yet in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-designates-lok-nayak-hospital-for-treatment-of-omicron-variant-101638264212665.html
30-11-2021||India||No cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in India, health minister Mandaviya tells Parliament||Amid concerns about the looming threat of the new Omicron or the B.1.1.529 variant of Covid-19, the Union government on Tuesday said that there were no reported cases of the variant in the country, so far. The statement was made by Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the Rajya Sabha during Parliament’s Winter Session on the day.“No case of Omicron Covid-19 variant has been reported in India so far,” the minister said while speaking during the Question Hour. “We are immediately checking suspicious cases and conducting genome sequencing. We have learnt a lot during the Covid crisis. Today, we have a lot of resources and laboratories. We can manage any situation,” the minister further quoted as saying.Also read | Omicron variant doesn't escape Covid-19 tests: Health secy at review meetingThe minister’s remarks came a day after senior government officials on Monday had also reportedly said that there were no cases of the variant, feared to be much more transmissible, detected in India. However, the officials also said that the results of the genomic analysis of international passengers who have arrived in India recently were being expedited, news agency PTI reported.Meanwhile, the Centre’s ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign has been extended and will continue until December 31 with a focus on inoculation of first doses to all eligible populations in the country and also for completing the backlog in administering second doses, the Union health ministry said.On Tuesday, the Union home ministry announced that the existing restrictions related to Covid-19 in the country would be extended till the end of the year (December 31). The ministry also stressed the need for strict compliance with the advisory issued by the Union health ministry in light of the emergence of the Omicron variant.Earlier in the day, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with states and Union territories during which they were advised to enhance testing of international passengers for Covid-19 strengthen the testing infrastructure and also trace their contacts.“Union health secretary advised states to not to let their guards down, and keep a strict vigil on the international passengers coming to the country through various airports, ports and land border crossings,” the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cases-of-omicron-covid-19-variant-in-india-health-minister-mandaviya-tells-parliament-101638263039953.html
30-11-2021||India||Walkouts will continue if suspension of 12 MPs is not revoked: Congress leader||After a meeting of 16 opposition parties on Tuesday, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said they all stand in solidarity with the 12 Rajya Sabha MPs who have been suspended and will stage walkouts if the punishment is not revoked.Chowdhury said, “We condemn the action of the Rajya Sabha. In both the Houses, it is our right to put forth our agenda. But this government slaps us with suspensions if we speak up against them.” He said, “Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha tried to protest, but the session was adjourned until 2pm. We will continue to walk out in solidarity with the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha members.”When the Opposition’s request to revoke the suspension was turned down, their party leaders walked out of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and demonstrated in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at the Parliament. Protesters included leaders from the AAP and the TRS.Leaders from Congress, DMK, Shiv Sena, NCP, CPI (M), CPI, RJD, IUML, MDMK, LJD, NC, RSP, TRS, Kerala Congress, VCK and the AAP held a meeting. The Trinamool Congress did not attend it even though two of its MPs - Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri - are among the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/walkouts-will-continue-if-suspension-of-12-mps-is-not-revoked-congress-leader-101638262892688.html
30-11-2021||India||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs to sit on protest from tomorrow; Rahul Gandhi asks 'why apologise?'||The 12 members of Parliament (MPs) from the opposition parties, who were suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the rest of the winter session on Monday, will sit on protest in front of the Mahatma Gandhi’s statue from tomorrow (Wednesday).This was decided at a meeting held in the chamber of leader of the opposition, Congress’ Mallikarjun Kharge, the leaders who were present there said.Soon after the House assembled for the day, Kharge read a submission requesting the Rajya Sabha Chairman to revoke the suspension of 12 MPs from the House for the entire winter session."I request you to revoke the suspension of 12 members of the House."Kharge also pointed out that he was not allowed to raise a point of order and it is a gross violation of the rule. He also said that the members should be named before issuing suspension orders against them.But Naidu rejected the request for revocation of suspension. The 12 MPs were suspended on account of 'unruly and violent behaviour' during the monsoon session of Parliament. They include six from Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Shiv Sena and one each from CPM and CPI.Following this, the opposition leaders held a protest at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament."We have boycotted the Lok Sabha proceedings for the remaining day in protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs," Congress general secretary KC Venugopal told ANI.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, meanwhile, said the opposition MPs will not 'apologise' as they were raising people's issues in Parliament."Why apologize? To raise people's issues in Parliament? No, not at all!" Gandhi tweeted.किस बात की माफ़ी?संसद में जनता की बात उठाने की?बिलकुल नहीं!The suspended MPs are Elamaram Kareem (CPM), Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress, Binoy Viswam of CPI, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of Trinamool Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-mps-to-sit-on-protest-from-tomorrow-rahul-gandhi-asks-why-apologise-101638261525529.html
30-11-2021||India||'Har Ghar Dastak' vaccination drive extended till Dec 31 amid omicron threat||The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ or door-to-door vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), launched by the central government earlier this month, will be continued till December 31, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.The campaign has been extended with a focus on achieving 100 per cent first-dose Covid-19 vaccination coverage, and also completing the backlog of the second dose, it further said.On November 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the campaign after conducting a review meeting with officials of 45 districts across 12 states and UTs, including Delhi and Maharashtra, where the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination was low.The campaign was initially launched with a month-long objective, but its extension that comes at a time the world is grappling with ‘omicron’, can be seen as a measure to tackle the new Covid-19 variant.Also Read | No case of Omicron variant in India, 2 clusters under investigation, says govtEarlier in the day, the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with officials of all states and UTs over the omicron strain. During the meeting, Centre advised the states and UTs to accelerate testing for early identification and management of Covid-19 positive cases, highlighting that the omicron variant “does not escape RT-PCR and RAT (Rapid Antigen) tests.”Meanwhile, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has extended the existing Covid-19 guidelines across the country till December 31 in wake of the omicron variant. Furthermore, states and UTs have been advised to strictly follow the November 25 advisory wherein “rigorous screening and testing” must be conducted on all international passengers, and their contacts must be closely tracked. If any sample is found to be Covid-19 positive, it must be sent to the designated INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories (IGSLS) to find out if the individual is infected with the omicron variant.On Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya restated at the Parliament that no case of omicron Covid-19 variant has been detected in India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/har-ghar-dastak-vaccination-drive-extended-till-dec-31-amid-omicron-threat-101638260549914.html
30-11-2021||India||Man sentenced to death for murdering, raping woman||A fast-track court in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh has sentenced a 19-year-old man to death for murdering a 60-year-old widow and then raping her in September. District and Sessions Judge Sanjeev Mango pronounced the sentence in 74 days.Police superintendent Preeti Jain said Surendra alias Mandia on September 16 strangled the woman before raping her. She added looking at the seriousness of the case, a team was constituted to nab the accused. Jain said with the help of informers and technical assistance, Mandia was arrested. She added they completed the investigation in seven days and submitted the charge sheet.Also Read: Ensure adequate power supply to farmers, says Rajasthan CM The evidence collected from the spot played an important role in the conviction. Mandia was known to the victim. In October, a court in Ajmer awarded death penalties in separate cases of rape of minors. On October 26, Surendra alias Santu was sentenced to death for raping and murdering an 11-year-old girl. The court on October 22 awarded the death penalty to Dinesh Jat, 26, for raping and killing a seven-year-old girl .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-murdering-raping-woman-101638259652378.html
30-11-2021||India||Uttarakhand withdraws Char Dham Act ahead of polls||Ahead of assembly elections next year, the Uttarakhand government on Tuesday announced the withdrawal of the contentious Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, which brought four Hindu shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, Yamunotri and 49 other temples under the purview of a board, and against which several priests and religious organisations have been protesting since last year.Also Read | My decision, says Dhami on scrapping Char Dham law. Then makes a promiseThe law, which was introduced by the previous Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in 2019, allowed the board to act as the highest governing body, to look after the shrines while framing policies and sanctioning expenditure.Priests of the Chardham — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — opposed the board, saying it was an infringement upon their traditional rights over the Himalayan temples.“Our government has taken a decision to take back the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act,” chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.“The decision to abolish the Devasthanam Board is taken on the basis of the feedback received by Teerth Purohit, Haq Hookdhari (stakeholders), people’s representative and report of a high-level committee,” he added.In 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, under the leadership of Rawat, passed the Uttarakhand Char Dham Shrine Management Bill, 2019. In July, chief minister Dhami formed a five-member committee to look into the matter amid continuous protests by the priests. Based on the recommendations of the panel which submitted its report last week, the state government decided to repeal the Act.“The government will speak to all parties concerned now and take appropriate action on improving the facilities for the pilgrims. The repeal of the law would soon be approved by the Cabinet before bringing a bill on the same in the assembly,” Dhami said.Welcoming the move, Char Dham Haq Haqooq Dhari Tirth Purohit Mahapanchayat president K K Kothiyal said: “We are happy that the government has decided to repeal the Act. We are thankful that they have supported the truth and (taken cognisance) of our struggle of two years. We have no grudges against anyone now.”State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Madan Kaushik also thanked the government for its decision.“In a democracy, no decision taken by any government is final. There is always a margin to change it according to the sentiments of the people like in the case of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act. The government has rolled back the decision while respecting the sentiments of the priests’ community,” he said.The Congress, however, claimed that fears of losing the upcoming assembly elections prompted the government to resort to such a move.“The government faced a loss of votes. This decision is purely out of that fear. But this will not benefit them in the upcoming polls,” Congress leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat said.Political commentator Jai Singh Rawat said: “The BJP was fearing vote loss due to the law (Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act) in the assembly elections. Now, much will depend on how both the BJP and Congress use the issue in the polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-announces-repeal-of-char-dham-devasthanam-management-act-101638259292095.html
30-11-2021||India||Omicron variant doesn't escape Covid-19 tests: Health secy at review meeting||The omicron variant of coronavirus can be detected through RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at the review meeting with states and Union territories officials on Tuesday.Amid rising concerns over the B.1.1.529 strain of coronavirus, the government also advised states and Union territories to ramp up testing for early identification of positive cases and to effectively contain its spread at an early stage.States have also been advised to have one or multiple meetings on Tuesday with health officials, airport health organisations, bureaus of immigration and other relevant agencies for smooth implementation of the revised travel guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, effective from midnight.Officials familiar with the meeting told news agency PTI that Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia INSACOG is closely monitoring the situation and expediting the results of genomic analysis of positive samples of international travellers.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of home affairs extended the guidelines related to containment measures till December 31 in view of the new outbreak around the world. The order comes as Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya reiterated in Parliament on Tuesday there are no cases of omicron variant in India so far.The Centre has already issued strict guidelines for people travelling from or transiting through 'at-risk' countries and issued a slew of directions to the states for ramping up testing-surveillance measures and health facilities. It will also review the decision to resume international flights.The World Health Organization (WHO) has termed omicron as a 'variant of concern' and said the risk of its transmissibility is ‘very high’. The strain was first reported in Botswana on November 11, 2021, and was found in South Africa on November 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-doesn-t-escape-covid-19-tests-health-secy-at-review-meeting-101638258058241.html
30-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opts for Fisher test to detect Omicron variant||Tamil Nadu on Monday decided to use Thermo Fischer TaqPath Assay, a test recommended by the World Health Organization, to detect the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus at the 12 RT-PCR government labs in the state. The routine RT-PCRtests are not technically complete as they often do not test for the S gene, which is absent in the Omicron variant of the virus.The World Health Organisation has said that in the RT-PCR tests targeting three genes (N, S and E), the S gene is not present in the case of Omicron mutations, therefore, the absence of ‘S gene dropout’ or ‘S gene target failure’ (SGTF) can be used as the marker for this variant, pending genome sequencing confirmation.A circular issued on Monday by the director of public health (DPH) Dr T S Selvavinayagam directed the government labs to use TaqPath kits to test for the three target genes. Five of these 12 labs are in Chennai, two in Coimbatore and one each in Trichy, Salem, Madurai, Thoothukudi and Kanyakumari.The Tamil Nadu government will supply Thermo Fisher TaqPath RT-PCR kits with higher specificity and better detection rate to the labs that have superior access to airports in the state. “All inbound international travellers found with the symptoms of influenza like Illness (ILI) will be screened for S gene drop out using the Thermo Taqpath by the government RT-PCR labs,” the circular said. In addition to international travellers, the TaqPath tests will be used for testing samples of reinfection, vaccine breakthrough infections, unusual transmission events, positive children, severity of illness in patients without comorbidities. Any sample with S gene target failure, found since October 15, will have to be referred to the State Public Health Laboratory for sequencing confirmation of the Omicron variant, the circular said, and added that samples of all Covid-19 positive travellers have to be sent for genome sequencing. On November 27, WHO designated the variant, B.1.1.529, as a variant of concern with the potential of being more dangerous than its predecessors, and gave it a name, Omicron. According to the international organisation, similar to the alpha variant, the S gene target failure (SGTF) or dropout due to deletion at Spike position 69-70 has been reported in the new variant. Also Read | Covid: What we know about the omicron variant“Thermo Fischer TaqPath Assay can therefore be used as proxy test for this variant pending sequencing confirmation. Use of the SGTF approach may lead to faster detection rates,” the circular said, noting WHO’s guidelines for labs. It however acknowledged that most diagnostic tests can detect Omicron. Tamil Nadu has been using only the RT-PCR test to detect the virus since it entered the state in March 2020. As fresh travel bans are being imposed across the globe due to the spread of the Omicron variant to Europe and Australia, Tamil Nadu’s health department has appointed assistant program managers at the state’s four international airports in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy. The ,managers will coordinate with the staff screening and testing passengers on arrival. RT-PCR tests are being done for all international arrivals at the Chennai airport. Since October 21, as many as 55,090 RT-PCR tests were conducted at Chennai airport, of which, three tested positive for Covid-19. The health minister M Subramanian had earlier said that most of the positive samples were of the Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-opts-for-fisher-test-to-detect-omicron-variant-101638258875960.html
30-11-2021||India||Omicron scare: Centre extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till December 31||The Union home ministry on Tuesday extended the existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines till December 31. This comes in the backdrop of the emergence of a new strain of the virus, which has been spreading fast across the globe.Also Read | What we know about the omicron variantIn its order, the home minister has advised state governments to ensure strict compliance of ministry of health’s November 25 advisory in the wake of the omicron outbreak.In its advisory, the health ministry advisory has directed the states to rigorously screen and test all the passengers arriving in international flights. The contacts of these passengers should also be closely tracked and tested, the health ministry further said in its guidelines.The state governments have been directed to send the samples of the travellers to INSACOG laboratories for genome sequencing.Amid mounting concerns over the potentially more contagious omicron variant, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with states and union territories (UTs) on Tuesday and advised them to ramp up testing for early identification and management of cases.While underlining that the new variant doesn't escape RT-PCR and RAT tests, Bhushan asked states and UTs to ensure adequate infrastructure and supervised home isolation.So far, no new omicron variant has been detected in the country.The B.1.1.529 Covid variant (named omicron by the World Health Organization) was first detected in South Africa last week. It was designated by the WHO as a 'variant of concern', the health body's top category for worrying coronavirus variants.The Centre had on Sunday introduced stricter guidelines for people travelling from or transiting through 'at-risk' countries and issued a slew of directions to the states for ramping up testing-surveillance measures and health facilities.Also Read | Kejriwal urges Centre to stop flights from omicron-hit countriesThere are about a dozen countries which have been designated as ‘at-risk’ by the Centre due to the detection of omicron cases there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-scare-centre-extends-existing-covid-19-guidelines-till-december-31-101638258160004.html
30-11-2021||India||Meet Vineeta Agarwala, adjunct clinical professor and wife of new Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal||Parag Agrawal, a little-known name, became the CEO of micro-blogging website Twitter after its co-founder Jack Dorsey resigned. He chose Agrawal for the “bone-deep” trust, and hoped that the 37-year-old will take the company on the right path forward.Very little is known about the personal life of Agrawal, who studied BTech in Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Bombay and completed his PhD from Stanford University.He has been working with Twitter for the part decade and is married to Vineeta Agarwala. They have a son named Ansh and are based on San Francisco, California.On this day in Central Park, @vintweeta said yes. #anniversary pic.twitter.com/ThSuQLOTa0According to her Twitter profile, Vineeta is a physician and works as adjunct clinical professor at Stanford School of Medicine.She also writes for venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz, which describes itself as a platform that connects entrepreneurs, investors, executives, engineers, academics, industry experts, and others in the technology ecosystem.According to her profile on the website, Vineeta holds a BS in biophysics from Stanford University, and MD and PhD degrees from Harvard Medical School/MIT.Parag keeps posting photos of his family on his Instagram account. After the news came out that he has been named as the next CEO of Twitter, Parag’s followers grew from a mere 24,000 to over 2,20,000 (at the time of writing this report).A post shared by Parag Agrawal (@paraga)According to her Twitter profile, Vineeta is a physician and works as adjunct clinical professor at Stanford School of Medicine.She also writes for venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz, which describes itself as a platform that connects entrepreneurs, investors, executives, engineers, academics, industry experts, and others in the technology ecosystem.According to her profile on the website, Vineeta holds a BS in biophysics from Stanford University, and MD and PhD degrees from Harvard Medical School/MIT.Parag keeps posting photos of his family on his Instagram account. After the news came out that he has been named as the next CEO of Twitter, Parag’s followers grew from a mere 24,000 to over 2,20,000 (at the time of writing this report).Parag joined Twitter in 2011. Before that, he briefly worked at Microsoft, AT&T and Yahoo. In all three companies, his work was mostly research-oriented. Initially, at Twitter, he worked on ad-related products, but gradually he also dabbled in artificial intelligence.Parag joins a growing cadre of Indian-American CEOs of large tech companies, including Sundar Pichai of Google parent Alphabet, Microsoft's Satya Nadella and IBM's Arvind Krishna.As CEO, Parag Agrawal have to step beyond the technical details and deal with the social and political issues Twitter and social media are struggling with. Those include misinformation, abuse and effects on mental health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-vineeta-agarwala-adjunct-clinical-professor-and-wife-of-new-twitter-ceo-101638256426378.html
30-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Admiral R Hari Kumar takes over as India's new navy chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Admiral Hari Kumar is the new Indian Navy chiefAdmiral R Hari Kumar on Tuesday took over as India’s new navy chief, replacing Admiral Karambir Singh who has retired. Read more.Parag Agrawal, new Twitter CEO, joins list of popular Indian-origin tech bossesSocial media platform Twitter went through a major organisational change on Monday as the company’s co-founder Jack Dorsey resigned as the chief executive officer (CEO), paving the way for Indian origin Parag Agrawal to the top post. Read more.13 held in Assam for beating student leader to deathThirteen people have been arrested in Assam’s Jorhat district for allegedly beating a student leader to death on Monday, police said on Tuesday. Read more.'I did not know if I would play Tests again': Ashwin makes staggering revelations, says 'he was at crossroads' last yearLife is not always fair. There are times when you are let down for no fault of yours and the onus is on you to redeem yourself. And in world cricket at present, nobody would relate to this more than senior India off-spinner R Ashwin. Read more.Alto 2022 breaks cover in Japan with looks that resemble S-PressoAlto hatchback, the oldest flagship from Maruti and one of India's best-selling cars ever, has made its official debut in Japan. Read more.Malaika Arora challenges internet to do Rock and Roll with Utkatasana in new video: Can you do it?Bollywood's OG fitness enthusiast Malaika Arora has a new challenge for the internet, and it is a tough one. Read more.Kangana Ranaut files FIR after getting threats, asks not to ‘spread hatred for political ambitions to win elections’Actor Kangana Ranaut penned a note in Hindi along with a picture of her at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-admiral-r-hari-kumar-takes-over-as-india-s-new-navy-chief-101638255099161.html
30-11-2021||India||Parag Agrawal, new Twitter CEO, joins list of popular Indian-origin tech bosses||Social media platform Twitter went through a major organisational change on Monday as the company’s co-founder Jack Dorsey resigned as the chief executive officer (CEO), paving the way for Indian origin Parag Agrawal to the top post.With his elevation, Twitter’s former chief technology officer also joined the growing list of Indian-Americans to lead top technology companies in the US.Patrick Collison, the CEO of financial services and software company Stripe, was among the many on Twitter to point out the fact. He wished Parag Agrawal for his new role and also listed the top companies which currently have bosses of Indian origin at their helm.Google, Microsoft, Adobe, IBM, Palo Alto Networks, and now Twitter run by CEOs who grew up in India. Wonderful to watch the amazing success of Indians in the technology world and a good reminder of the opportunity America offers to immigrants. 🇮🇳🇺🇸 (Congrats, @paraga!)“Google, Microsoft, Adobe, IBM, Palo Alto Networks, and now Twitter run by CEOs who grew up in India. Wonderful to watch the amazing success of Indians in the technology world and a good reminder of the opportunity America offers to immigrants,” Collison tweeted.Also read | Twitter’s Parag Agrawal is youngest CEO in S&P 500Sundar Pichai (Google), Satya Nadella (Microsoft), Shantanu Narayen (Adobe), Arvind Krishna (IBM), Nikesh Arora (Palo Alto Networks) and Agrawal were the Indian tech executives mentioned by Collison.Replying to this tweet, billionaire and SpaceX founder Elon Musk said, “USA benefits greatly from Indian talent!”.USA benefits greatly from Indian talent!Anand Mahindra of the Mahindra Group also responded to the tweet with a funny remark. “This is one pandemic that we are happy & proud to say originated in India. It’s the Indian CEO Virus… No vaccine against it,” Mahindra said.This is one pandemic that we are happy & proud to say originated in India. It’s the Indian CEO Virus… No vaccine against it. 😊 https://t.co/Dl28r7nu0uWhile Collison did mention major tech companies, some other people reacting to his tweet said that the list goes beyond the aforementioned firms. One user pointed to CS Venkatakrishnan of Barclays, Laxman Narasimhan of Reckitt Benckiser, Ivan Menezes of Diageo and Vasant Narasimhan of Novartis.…..Barclays Bank, Reckitt Benckiser, Diageo, Novartis, Monzo Bank…..🇬🇧🇮🇳 https://t.co/Y6Th7EBUaZIn his email to employees of Twitter announcing his decision to step down, Dorsey endorsed Agrawal for his accomplishments within the company and also said Agrawal becoming the CEO was one of the three reasons behind his decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parag-agrawal-new-twitter-ceo-joins-list-of-popular-indian-origin-tech-bosses-101638252599841.html
30-11-2021||India||Four members of financially distressed family found dead||Four members of a financially-distressed family aged between five and 45 were found dead in outer Delhi’s Samaypur Badli on Tuesday morning, police said.Police suspect a 45-year-old man may have poisoned his wife, 38, and their children-- a five-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter--before hanging himself. They were yet to find evidence of an outsider’s role in the deaths.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said a relative of the family found the four dead and called the police. “We are at the spot. It looks like the man murdered the three and then hanged himself. Their neighbours said that the family lived in this rented house for the past 20 years. Relatives said that the family was financially distressed.”Also Read: ‘Why are we delaying?” Kejriwal urges to stop flights from omicron-hit countriesTeams of the forensic unit and crime branch have rushed to the spot.As many as 11 members of a family died by suicide in July 2018 in the nearby Burari area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-members-of-financially-distressed-family-found-dead-101638252031933.html
30-11-2021||India||Admiral Hari Kumar is the new Indian Navy chief||Admiral R Hari Kumar on Tuesday took over as India’s new navy chief, replacing Admiral Karambir Singh who has retired. The 59-year-old officer was commissioned into the executive branch of navy in January 1983 and was heading Mumbai-based Western Naval Command before his elevation.Kumar earlier served as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee. In that capacity, he was closely involved with the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources. The warships commanded by Kumar include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora. He has undergone courses at the Naval War College, US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, UK. He has been decorated with the Param Vishist Seva Medal (PVSM), the Ati Vishist Seva Medal (AVSM) and Vishist Seva Medal(VSM). Also Read: Centre to hold review meet with states, UTs today over omicron variantKumar takes over the navy’s reins at a time when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform, amid growing security threats. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/admiral-hari-kumar-is-the-new-indian-navy-chief-101638251551775.html
30-11-2021||India||Assam: Students’ union leader beaten to death, 13 held||Thirteen people were arrested in Assam’s Jorhat district for allegedly beating All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) leader, Animesh Bhuyan, 28, to death on Monday, police said on Tuesday.A mob attacked the student leader and two others after suspecting them of hitting an elderly man riding a scooter with their vehicle. “We have arrested 13 persons in connection with the incident including the main culprit Neeraj Das, a person with criminal antecedents,” Ankur Jain, Jorhat police superintendent said.Mridusmanta Baruah, a journalist who accompanied Bhuyan, said they had just parked their vehicle at the spot when the elderly man fell down. “When we tried to lift him, he started shouting that our car had hit his scooter,” Baurah explained.Bhuyan, the education secretary of AASU’s Brahmaputra regional committee and Baruah were accompanied by Pranay Dutta, also an AASU member.Citing a preliminary investigation, Jain said the scooter rider fell on his own and received some head injuries. When the three, who had just reached the spot in their car, tried to help him, he shouted that they hit him, Jain added.Jain said police also came under attack and it took some time to reach the spot as the place was blocked and there was a traffic jam. “Our team also came under attack,” said Jain, adding that police first rescued the two other victims before finally rescuing Bhuyan.“A mob gathered at the spot and attacked the three without trying to verify what exactly happened,” said Jain and added that the incident happened during the day but no one intervened.A video of the incident, which went viral, showed a group of people purportedly attacking the three. They were rescued by police and taken to a hospital where Bhuyan was declared brought dead.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma directed the police to file a charge sheet within 30 days. The state government also announced financial assistance of ₹5 lakh for Bhuyan’s family.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Barman said a magisterial inquiry was ordered and a report would be submitted within 10 days.AASU blamed the police for failing to prevent the alleged attack and called for a protest rally in Jorhat on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-held-in-assam-for-beating-student-leader-to-death-101638249091833.html
30-11-2021||India||India reports 6,990 new Covid cases, lowest in 551 days||India reported a significant drop in the number of daily new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday after 6,990 people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, the lowest in 551 days, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.As many as 190 related deaths were also reported across the country during the same period, the health ministry’s data showed. With this, the total confirmed infections reached 34,587,822 and the death toll climbed to 468,980.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/C3UfLKYfnT pic.twitter.com/va6BTLROJ5Meanwhile, the active caseload fell by 3,316 cases and stood at 100,543, which the ministry said was the lowest in 546 days. “Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.The fall in the number of daily Covid-19 cases came despite the increase in the number of tests conducted on the day. As many as 1,012,523 samples were tested for the disease, a sizeable increase from the 762,268 samples tested the day before. So far, 641,303,848 tests have been conducted in the country, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in its daily update.Also read | Centre to hold review meet with states, UTs today over omicron variantThe daily recoveries on the day remained above the number of new cases with 10,116 people discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. The total recoveries reached 34,018,299 with a recovery rate of 98.35 per cent, the latest data showed.With 7,880,545 doses of the vaccine administered in the last 24 hours, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive reached 1,232,502,767 as of 8am on the day. The ministry also said that over 1.37 billion vaccine doses have so far been provided to the states and Union territories of which over 227 million doses remain unused and unutilised with the states.Amid the looming concerns about the omicron, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan is scheduled to hold a review meeting with the states regarding the new variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-6-990-new-covid-cases-lowest-in-551-days-101638247693212.html
30-11-2021||India||Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill expected to be tabled in Parliament||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya is expected to introduce Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill in Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The proposed law could not be tabled in the House on Monday as the proceedings of the Lok Sabha were adjourned for the day amid protests by Opposition members.Similarly, the Dam Safety Bill, which could not be introduced in the Rajya Sabha, is also expected to be tabled on Tuesday.Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju is scheduled to introduce the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill in the Lok Sabha.Also Read | 7.5% fall in employment during first 3 months of Covid-19 lockdown: GovtAccording to the provisional Question Hour calendar, 11 ministries, including cooperation, home affairs, information and broadcasting, and youth affairs and sports will take up questions in the Lok Sabha.Reports of standing committees including that on railways, commerce, education, and sports will be tabled in both the Houses of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assisted-reproductive-technology-regulations-bill-among-bills-expected-to-be-tabled-in-parliament-101638245551599.html
30-11-2021||India||‘Long live debate-less Parliamentary democracy!’: Chidambaram’s latest jab on farm bill||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram hit out at the Centre on Tuesday for passing the bill to repeal the three farm laws in Parliament on Monday without any discussion over the issue.In a series of tweets, the former Union minister, said, “On the eve of the Parliament session, the Prime Minister offered to debate “any issue”. On the first day and on the first item of business, the farm bills were repealed without a debate!”Chidambaram said the farm laws were passed without a debate and were repealed without a debate. “Long live debate-less Parliamentary democracy!” he also wrote on the microblogging site.Chidambaram also targeted Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for denying a debate on the bill.Long live debate-less Parliamentary democracy!Tomar, who tabled the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, said on Monday there was no need for a debate as the opposition parties had been seeking repeal of the farm laws and the Centre did it.Several leaders of the Congress, including Rahul Gandhi and Randeep Surjewala, along with other opposition parties criticised the Centre for not discussing the passage of the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021.Randeep Surjewala tweeted on Monday that if a debate had taken place, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government at the Centre had to be answerable for not giving the minimum support price (MSP), the deaths of 700 protesting farmers and the “conspiracy to sell the farming sector at the altar of crony friends.”Rahul Gandhi, who has been the sharpest political critic of the farm laws, alleged on Monday that revocation of these laws without a debate in Parliament showed that the Centre was "terrified" of having a discussion and knows that it has done something wrong.As the second day of the Winter Session of Parliament will begin in a few hours from now, 14 opposition parties including the Congress might consider boycotting the entire session till December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-offered-to-debate-any-issue-but-chidambaram-s-latest-jab-101638241034376.html
30-11-2021||India||Proud of suspension for raising voice against govt, says TMC MP||Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s Dola Sen, who was among the 12 members of Rajya Sabha suspended for the remainder of the Winter Session for their “unruly and violent behaviour” during the Monsoon Session, said they are proud of their suspension for raising their voices against the government.“We condemn the unprecedented suspension of the opposition MPs of the Rajya Sabha… (TMC MP) Derek O’Brien and I were suspended last year too, so this suspension is not a surprise.” Sen added they are proud disciples of TMC chief Mamata Banerjee and were raising their voices in the Parliament in favour of the people. “And if that leads to a suspension, so be it.” She added the government is afraid of the TMC chief and the Opposition. “Hence the suspension of MPs, which results in less scrutiny in passing draconian laws.”Also Read | 7.5% fall in employment during first 3 months of Covid-19 lockdown: GovtCommunist Party of India (Marxist) MP Elamaram Kareem, who was also suspended, said the committee made to probe into the “unruly and violent behaviour” did not consist of Opposition party members. “The 12 accused, have still not been called to defend themselves. This decision is undemocratic,” Kareem said. “Parliamentary arguments, agitation and disruptions are part of the proceedings. So, how can we be penalised for this?”The floor leaders of the Opposition leaders were scheduled to meet on Tuesday to discuss the future course of action to resist the government’s “authoritarian decision”. In a joint statement, the leaders called the suspension of lawmakers “unwarranted and undemocratic” and in “violation of all the Rules of Procedure of Rajya Sabha”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-of-suspension-for-raising-voice-against-govt-says-tmcmp-101638245011458.html
30-11-2021||India||Centre to hold review meet with states, UTs today over omicron variant||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will on Tuesday hold a review meeting with officials of all states and Union territories over the omicron variant of coronavirus, people familiar with developments told Hindustan Times. The meeting is expected to take place at 10.30am, they added.The scheduled meeting comes just a day after the Centre said on Monday no cases of the omicron variant have been detected in the country at present but pointed out that two clusters in Maharashtra and Karnataka are under investigation.Also Read| No case of Omicron variant in India, 2 clusters under investigation, says govtIn Maharashtra, a resident of the Dombivali area in the Thane district, who came back from South Africa on November 24, has tested positive for Covid-19.An official said on Sunday that it is not confirmed whether the man was carrying the variant. He underwent a Covid-19 test which returned positive, the official added.In Karnataka, the state government has ordered precautionary measures in Dakshina Kannada, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru which border neighbouring Kerala, as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai pointed out that there is a high prevalence of Covid-19 among people coming to Karnataka from Kerala, Hindustan Times reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged all citizens to remain vigilant against the variant, adding the Centre's priority is their good health.Also Read| WHO lists immediate actions as Omicron variant poses ‘very high’ overall riskAs the discovery of omicron, which was first found in South Africa, started making global headlines last week, countries across the world are once again on high alert to prevent its spread.The World Health Organization (WHO), which earlier classified omicron as a variant of concern, warned on Monday that the variant poses 'very high risk, adding it could lead to surges with “severe consequences.”The WHO has said even as scientists are racing to look for evidence to understand this variant better, countries should accelerate vaccinations as quickly as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-hold-review-meet-with-states-uts-today-over-omicron-variant-101638243734871.html
30-11-2021||India||NITI Aayog releases report on online dispute resolution||The NITI Aayog on Monday released a report on Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) to advance access to justice and ensure that cases do not end up before higher courts. The policy think tank proposed measures at three levels to address the challenges in adopting ODR.The report titled “Designing the future of dispute Resolution: the ODR Policy Plan for India” recommends increasing digital infrastructure, building capacity, regulatory framework, including permission for online notorisation, and implementing it in a phased manner, etc.The report is a culmination of the action plan made by a committee constituted at the peak of the Covid crisis by NITI Aayog on ODR in 2020 and chaired by Supreme Court Justice (Retd) AK Sikri, said an official.ODR is aimed at resolving disputes outside of the court system through arbitration, mediation, and negotiation.“ODR can help reduce the burden on the court and efficiently resolve these categories of cases. It can be integrated to support the judiciary through technology integration in court-annexed ADR centres and introduced within Government departments for its internal disputes, as well as through e-Lok Adalats,” wrote Sekri in the foreword of the report.Officials said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a large section of the society did not receive timely access to justice and it also added to the already lengthy court process.“Through the ODR report, our aim is to create a sustainable framework—one that adapts and endures the test of time to become an option of first recourse for several categories of claims in a dynamic manner,” said NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant.Also Read: Vice admiral R Hari Kumar to take over as new chief of Naval staff todayThe report said government litigation contributes to 46% of all litigation in the country and not only burdens the courts but also imposes a huge cost on the public exchequer.In 2017-18, the expenditure incurred by the central government in contesting cases in the Supreme Court alone was Rs. 47.99 crore. The report cited the Legal Information Management and Briefing System portal and added as of September 23, 2020, the government had 5,80,132 cases pending in different courts across the country.At the structural level, the report recommends increasing access to digital infrastructure, building capacity through training, strengthening paralegal service, etc. “The government can mandate certain categories of disputes to be resolved through ODR before approaching courts,” said the report.It recommends measures to tackle challenges at the behavioural level by adopting ODR for government litigation.A good regulatory framework is essential for the success of ODR. For this, NITI Aayog has recommended the introduction of a regulatory framework for mediation and e-mediation for introducing digital innovation in legal processes. Currently, physical copies of documents and physical presence for verification are essential. The report recommends mainstreaming of e-stamping, allowing online notorisation, integration of eSign for electronic signature and electronic seal, maintaining secure electronic records, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-releases-report-on-online-dispute-resolution-101638244051571.html
30-11-2021||India||7.5% fall in employment during first 3 months of Covid-19 lockdown: Govt||The first three months of the Covid-19-induced lockdown in 2020 led to a 7.5% reduction in formal sector employment, the government told Parliament on Monday and added it does not have data on the impact of the curbs on jobs post-June 2020.The government provided the data in response to Bharatiya Janata Party member Brijendra Singh’s question in Lok Sabha. Singh sought to know whether the government was aware of disproportionately high levels of lockdown-related job losses among women.The labour and employment ministry cited data from the first Quarterly Employment Survey of 2020-2021 and said the number of men employed in nine sectors, including manufacturing, transport, and construction, fell to over 20 million from over 21 million. Similarly, women’s employment also fell to over 8.3 million from 9 million.Also Read: Karnataka resident doctors go on strike over Covid allowance paymentThe survey took into account only the formal sector. The International Labour Organisation said this year that close to 81% of people in India work in the informal sector; 6.5% in the formal and 0.8% in the household sector.The government cited the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana Scheme launched last year when asked about initiatives taken to boost women’s employment. The scheme was implemented for the creation of employment and to provide social security benefits and restoration of lost employment during the pandemic. The government said the scheme has benefitted 2.2 million beneficiaries including 570,000 women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-fall-in-employment-during-first-3-months-of-covid-19-lockdown-govt-101638243091303.html
30-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka puts nearly 600 passengers under surveillance over omicron fears and all the latest news||Amid omicron scare, Karnataka puts nearly 600 passengers under surveillanceAfter two people who returned from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19, authorities have made seven days quarantine compulsory for all international passengers and intensified testing and sanitisation at Bengaluru airport amid increasing concern over omicron. Read moreFrom Pfizer to Moderna: What vaccine makers are saying about omicron jabsOmicron poses a "very high" risk globally, the World Health Organization (WHO) has warned even as the new variant of the coronavirus has raised concerns around the world, with countries implementing travel bans and researchers racing to study whether it will evade vaccines. Read moreOppn to decide on Parliament strategy today, may skip entire winter sessionThe Congress and 13 other parties may consider boycotting the winter session of Parliament after the bill to repeal three farm laws was passed in both Houses without debate, and 12 opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha were suspended on Monday. Read moreHeavy, widespread rain likely in Gujarat, north Konkan on Wednesday, Thursday,Heavy and widespread rain is likely over Gujarat and north Konkan, while Haryana, east Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh are likely to received scattered rainfall on December 1 and 2, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreKangana Ranaut says 'bye Chacha Jack' after Jack Dorsey steps down as Twitter CEOKangana Ranaut, Anupam Kher and few others have reacted to Indian origin American Parag Agrawal replacing Jack Dorsey as Twitter's new CEO. Read more'I'm sure that Rahul and Rathour will look very closely': Laxman picks one area India need to address before 2nd TestFormer Indian cricketer VVS Laxman was on Monday pointed out a key area that Team India need to address before the second Test against New Zealand which begins on December 3 in Mumbai. Read morePriyanka Chopra's floral date-night look with Nick Jonas at British Fashion Awards is bold: Pics and videosActor Priyanka Chopra and her singer husband Nick Jonas attended the British Fashion Awards 2021 at the Royal Albert Hall in London, England. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-puts-nearly-600-passengers-under-surveillance-over-omicron-fears-and-all-the-latest-news-101638240447753.html
30-11-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality improves but the relief is likely to be shortlived||Delhi’s air quality improved further on Tuesday morning, dropping into the lower half of the ‘very poor’ category after wind speeds picked up in the region from Monday onwards. The capital recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 333 (very poor) at 7 am on Tuesday, down from Monday’s reading of 389 (very poor), as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. Agencies have forecast the AQI to improve further during the day as wind speeds touch 20 km/hr, before calm wind conditions once again return over Delhi from Wednesday onwards.“Local surface winds are likely to remain relatively high today which will increase dispersion of pollutants, leading to an improvement, the but AQI remains in the ‘very poor’ category. However, on December 1, wind speed and temperature are likely to decrease, reducing ventilation and leading to a slight deterioration of air quality,” said the System of Air Quality And Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), a government forecasting body.Delhi woke up to shallow fog on Tuesday morning, with the minimum temperature expected to be around 9 degrees Celsius, a notch below Monday’s minimum of 10.3 degrees Celsius.“Wind speed ranged from 10-15 km/hr during the day, but calm wind conditions were back after 5pm. Delhi’s overall visibility ranged from 300 metres in the morning to 2,500 metres during the day, owing to smog and similar conditions,” said R.K Jenamani, a scientist at IMD.Also Read: Heavy, widespread rain likely in Gujarat, north Konkan on Wednesday, ThursdayUnder the influence of a western disturbance, Delhi is also likely to record very light rain on Thursday, with the minimum temperature expected to increase to 12 degrees Celsius.“There is a possibility of very light rain occurring in parts of Delhi on Thursday. This western disturbance will raise the minimum temperature,” Jenaman saidi.In its forecast on Monday, the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi also stated that air quality was unlikely to improve beyond the ‘very poor’ category over the next five days due to unfavourable calm or slow wind conditions at night. “Winds are likely to be relatively strong during Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday, air quality is likely to deteriorate again due to calm winds, but it will remain in the ‘very poor’ category,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-improves-but-the-relief-is-likely-to-be-shortlived-101638242551402.html
30-11-2021||India||Heavy, widespread rain likely in Gujarat, north Konkan on Wednesday, Thursday||Heavy and widespread rain is likely over Gujarat and north Konkan, while Haryana, east Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh are likely to received scattered rainfall on December 1 and 2, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Arabian Sea, adjoining Maldives-Lakshadweep, and a trough or line of low pressure at mean sea level is running from this cyclonic circulation to east central Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast. A low pressure area is likely to form over East central Arabian sea off Maharashtra coast around December 1 (Wednesday), the IMD forecast said. A fresh active western disturbance as a trough in mid-latitude westerlies is likely to affect northwest and adjoining central India from Tuesday night and its interaction with lower level trough in easterlies winds. Under their influence, widespread rain/thunderstorm with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Gujarat on Wednesday and isolated heavy rainfall on Thursday. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over north Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra on Wednesday . Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning at many places is likely over the above region with possibilities of isolated hailstorm, as per the forecast. Isolated to scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/lightning is likely over West Madhya Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Haryana, West Uttar Pradesh during December 1-2 with maximum activity on Thursday. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over south east Rajasthan on Thursday. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorm/lightning is likely overJammu-Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan- Muzaffarabad, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh during December 1 to 3 with maximum activity on December 2 (Thursday). Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall likely over Uttarakhand on Thursday, the weather department added.Also Read | Delhi and parts of north India may see rain, overall change in weather soon: IMDA low pressure area is likely to form over south Andaman Sea on Tuesday and move west-northwestwards before concentrating into a depression over South east & adjoining Eastcentral Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands till Wednesday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over north Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Odisha from the night of December 3 for subsequent 48 hours. Widespread rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall was likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Rayalaseema during the next 2 days, the weather bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-widespread-rain-likely-in-gujarat-north-konkan-on-wednesday-thursday-101638241291340.html
30-11-2021||NA||Parliament Winter Session 2021 Highlights: TMC, Congress promise smooth functioning; Houses adjourned till Wednesday||The Centre and the opposition parties gathered on Tuesday for the second day of Parliament’s Winter Session after a dramatic opening on Monday. Utter chaos was witnessed in the Upper House of the Parliament again as Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu rejected the request by opposition leaders to revoke the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs.Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 2pm today.Earlier on Day 1, a ruckus broke out in the House during the passage of the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, as the opposition demanded a discussion over the bill. A total of 12 opposition MPs of the Rajya Sabha were suspended for the remainder of the Winter Session for their “unruly and violent behaviour” on the last day of the Monsoon Session on August 11.Congress and 13 other parties are also considering boycotting Parliament’s Winter Session after the bill to repeal three farm laws was passed without discussion.Follow all the updates here:Split in Opposition ranks? TMC skips Cong-chaired meeting on suspended Rajya Sabha MPsTMC, Congress say they will ensure smooth functioning of HouseAfter complete disarray at the Parliament on Monday and Tuesday, the Congress and Trinamool Congress have assured that they will ensure smooth functioning of both the Houses.Lok Sabha adjourned till December 1Lok Sabha has been adjourned for the day. Proceedings will resume again on Wednesday.1678 migrants returned to J&K to take up jobs under PM development package since abrogation of Article 370As per the information by government of Jammu and Kashmir, after the abrogation of Article 370, a total of 1678 migrants have returned to Kashmir for taking up jobs under PM Development Package 2015. The land of 150 applicants has been restored, says home ministry in a written reply in Lok Sabha.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 11am on December 1Rajya Sabha adjourned till 11am on Wednesday.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla calls for meeting of floor leaders, House adjourned till 3pmLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has called a meeting of Floor Leaders of all parties to discuss and end the deadlock. The House has been adjourned till 3pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs.Opposition has no regard: Union minister Piyush Goyal in Rajya Sabha“You have seen that the opposition didn't even let PM introduce ministers in the last session. They had no regard for the large number of women who were being inducted,” says Union minister Piyush Goyal in Rajya Sabha.“The entire country witnessed how badly the protestors behaved when minister Ashwini Vaishnaw was speaking in the house… They broke the glass in the House which injured some officials. But we wanted to let the House run so no further action was taken. But on the day the bill was being passed and they asked for a division of votes (count), then the Opposition found that they were outvoted,” he said.Will invite other MPs to show solidarity in dharna at Parliament: TMC MP Derek O'Brien“Our two MPs will sit before the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament premises from tomorrow 10am-6pm daily till 23rd December. We will invite other MPs also to come to show solidarity with our MPs,” says TMC MP Derek O'Brien.Suspended Opposition MPs to hold dharna at Gandhi statue on Parliament premisesAll 12 Opposition MPs suspended from Rajya Sabha will sit in dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi statue from Wednesday. The Leader of Opposition will also write to Rajya Sabha chairperson to reconsider the suspension and also to highlight the irregularities in the process followed for suspension, leaders at Kharge's office said after meeting.On cryptocurrency, FM Sitharaman says ‘risky area’, bill to be tabled soon“This is a risky area and not in a complete regulatory framework. No decision was taken on banning its advisements. Steps are taken to create awareness through RBI and SEBI. Govt will soon introduce a bill," Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman says during Question Hour in Rajya Sabha.40 civilians killed, 72 injured in J&K till Nov 15 this year, says home ministry“Forty civilians killed, 72 injured in Jammu and Kashmir till Nov 15 this year,” home ministry said in the Parliament.No steps taken to prepare NRC at national level, Centre tells Rajya SabhaThe persons covered under the CAA may apply for citizenship after the rules are notified under the CAA. Till now, the Government has not taken any decision to prepare National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at the national level”, the government said in Rajya Sabha.The MHA informed that a total of 1,11,287 Indians gave up their Indian citizenship in 2021.Farooq Abdullah seeks revival of Article 370 for ‘normalcy’ in Kashmir“If normalcy is to be brought in Kashmir, then Article 370 has to be reinstated,” says National Conference MP Farooq Abdullah at the Parliament.No case of omicron variant in India so far: Health minister in Rajya SabhaNo case of Covid-19 variant Omicron reported in India so far, says Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Rajya Sabha during Question Hour.Won't return to the House today: Opposition leaders amid protest at ParliamentOpposition parties said they will not to go back to Rajya Sabha today.Opposition leaders protest in front of Gandhi statueOpposition parties, including leaders from AAP, TRS protest in front of Gandhi statue at Parliament premises.Opposition parties to hold another meeting at LoP Kharge's officeAfter walking out of Rajya Sabha, opposition parties will now hold another meeting at Leader of Opposition Mallickarjun Kharge's office to take a further decision.Opposition in Rajya Sabha stages walkout, TMC staysOpposition MPs in Rajya Sabha stage a walkout after House chariman rejects revocation of the 12 MPs. Trinamool Congress leaders stay. Chairman empowered to take action, says Naidu amid utter chaos in Rajya SabhaAmid utter chaos in Rajya Sabha, House chairman M Venkaiah Naidu says, “The Chairman of the Rajya is empowered to take action and also the House can take action.”Naidu rejected the request for the revocation of suspension of 12 MPs.LoP Kharge requests Rajya Sabha chair to revoke suspension of 12 MPs“We came to your office to request for revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs. The incident happened in the last Monsoon session. So, how can you take this decision now,” says LoP Rajya Sabha Mallikaarjun Kharge.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pm amid Opposition protestLok Sabha proceedings have been adjourned till 2pm after Congress, DMK and National Conference stage walkout.Bitter experience of Monsoon Session continues to haunt us: RS chair“The bitter experience of the last Monsoon Session still continues to haunt most of us. I was expecting and waiting for the leading lights of the House to take lead in expressing outrage over what happened in the last Session. Such assurance would have helped me in appropriately handling the matter but unfortunately it will not be,” said Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.Congress, Shiv Sena gives adjournment notice in Lok Sabha over fuel price hikeCongress and Shiv Sena has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha demanding a discussion on the rising fuel prices.Leader of the Congress Party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has given adjournment motion notice on the issue of rising prices of essential commodities.Opposition parties to meet Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu over suspension of 12 MPsOpposition parties are going to meet Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu today to discuss the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for the remaining part of the current session.PM Modi hold meeting with top ministers to discuss strategy over Parliament sessionPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds meeting with top ministers including Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah and Narendra Singh Tomar in Parliament to discuss strategy for the ongoing winter session. Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Nirmala Sitharaman also present.The meeting comes amid the opposition party meeting where they are deciding whether or not to boycott the Parliament Winter Session.Govt to rethink suspension if all 12 MPs apologise, says Pralhad Joshiसदन की गरिमा बनाए रखने के लिए सरकार को मजबूरी में निलंबन का यह प्रस्ताव सदन के सामने रखना पड़ा।लेकिन यदि ये 12 सांसद अभी भी अपने दुर्व्यवहार के लिए सभापति और सदन से माफी मांग लें, तो सरकार भी उनके प्रस्ताव पर खुले दिल से सकारात्मक रूप से विचार करने को तैयार है।#WinterSession pic.twitter.com/JszBgbNCOIIn a video statement shared on Twitter, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said that the government was “compelled to place this proposal of suspension before the House” to maintain the diginity of the House.“If these 12 MPs apologize to the Speaker and the House for their misbehavior even now, then the government is ready to consider their proposal positively with an open heart,” he said.TRS joins opposition meet on Parliament boycottTelangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has joined opposition parties today for their meeting on boycotting Parliament session.Opposition meeting today to discuss boycotting Parliament sessionOpposition parties are meeting today to discuss future course of action. The question of offering an apology doesn't arise. The MPs were suspended against rules of the House. This action is like strangulating the voice of opposition LoP in RS, said Mallikarjun Kharge on suspension of 12 MPs.Rajya Sabha MP Deepinder Hooda gives suspension of business notice over MSP guaranteeRajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives suspension of business notice demanding a 'discussion on legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price and aid to farmers who lost their lives during protest'TRS MP gives notice in Rajya Sabha over 'discriminatory crop procurement' policyTRS MP Dr K Keshava Rao gives adjournment motion notice in Rajya Sabha over 'discriminatory crop procurement policy of Central government and non-procurement of crops from Telengana'.Congress MP Manish Tewari, Manichrak Tagore give adjournment notices in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha on the issue -'to direct the government to create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws protest and give compensation to their families'.On the other hand, Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice 'to discuss reasons for the increase in prices of essential commodities across the country and to direct the Govt to take appropriate steps to reduce the Excise duty on petrol, diesel, LPG to the level of 2013'.Bill on regulation of reproductive tech to be tabled in Lok Sabha todayThe Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, seeking supervision of reproductive technology clinics, will be tabled in Lok Sabha on Tuesday by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.'Drama very old': BJP Bengal's Dilip Ghosh on TMC skipping Oppn meet“These dramas are very old... Every party wants to be the leader (of Opposition parties). Mamata Banerjee wants to be the leader. The days of Sonia Gandhi are over,” said BJP Vice President Dilip Ghosh on TMC skipping Opposition meeting called by Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-101638240551910.html
30-11-2021||India||Vice admiral R Hari Kumar to take over as new chief of Naval staff today||Vice admiral R Hari Kumar will be replacing Admiral KB Singh, who is superannuating after a 30-month tenure, as the next chief of naval staff on Tuesday."The government has appointed Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar, presently Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Naval Command, as the next Chief of the Naval Staff with effect from the afternoon of November 30," the defence ministry said in a statement on November 9.Kumar has played a crucial role in the basic foundation of theatre command structures as part of the Integrated Defence Staff headquarters.Born on April 12, 1962, Kumar was commissioned into the Indian Navy on January 1, 1983. In his service spanning nearly 39 years, Kumar has served in a variety of command, staff and instructional appointments.Kumar's sea command includes INS Nishank, Missile Corvette, INS Kora and Guided Missile Destroyer INS Ranvir. He also commanded the navy's aircraft carrier INS Viraat.“Kumar served as Fleet Operations Officer of the Western Fleet. Before taking over as FOC-in-C Western Naval Command, he was Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee,” the defence ministry statement also said.He has undergone courses at the US Naval War College, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies in the United Kingdom.Kumar has been decorated with the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) and the Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM). On November 23, he was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM) by President Ram Nath Kovind.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-admiral-r-hari-kumar-to-take-over-as-new-chief-of-naval-staff-today-101638235117777.html
30-11-2021||NA||Highlights: Formal sector emerged well from Covid-19 crisis, says CEA||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Karnataka govt makes RT-PCR testing mandatory for all int'l passengers arriving in stateThe Karnataka government has made RT-PCR testing mandatory for all the international passengers arriving in the state, ANI reported state health minister Dr Sudhakar as saying.RT-PCR test, self-isolation must for int'l passengers arriving in GoaThe Goa government on Tuesday decided to make RT-PCR test and self-isolation mandatory for all the international passengers arriving in the coastal state while those coming from the 12 "high risk" countries, where the Omicron variant of coronavirus was detected, will be quarantined for 14 days.No Inner Line Permit/ RAP/ PAP passes likely to be issued to foreign nationals visiting Sikkim: State govtNo Inner Line Permit/ RAP/ PAP passes may be issued to foreign nationals visiting Sikkim: Home Department, Government of Sikkim6 passengers from South Africa, other ‘high-risk nation’ tested positive for Covid-19, reports ANI citing Maha's public health dept“There are 6 passengers who arrived from South Africa or other high-risk countries and tested positive for Covid-19; one each in Mumbai Corporation, Kalyan-Dombivali Corporation, Meera-Bhayandar Corporation & Pune; two from Nigeria in Pimpri-Chinchwad corporation,” news agency ANI quoted Maharashtra's public health department as saying,All the samples have been sent for genomic sequencing and their contact tracing exercise is underway. Formal sector has emerged well from Covid-19 crisis: Chief economic advisorChief economic advisor, Dr Krishnamurthy Subramanian, on Tuesday said that the formal sector has emerged well from Covid-19 crisis. “Financial sector has emerged stronger & manufacturing sector shows that India in this decade should grow,” he added.Tamil Nadu extends existing restrictions in state till December 15The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday extended existing restrictions and relaxations in the state till December 15. Amit Shah to spend night near India-Pak border in RajasthanUnion home minister Amit Shah will spend a night near the India-Pakistan border in Rajasthan on December 4, news agency ANI reported people familiar with the matter as saying.Covid-19 restrictions in West Bengal to continue till December 15All existing Covid-19 restrictions and relaxations in West Bengal will continue till December 15. All outdoor activities, including movement of people and vehicles, shall continue to remain prohibited between 11pm to 5am. Only services relating to health services, law and order and essential commodities will be exempted. India's GDP grew by 8.4% in the second quarter of 2021-22India's GDP grew by 8.4% in the second quarter of 2021-22, compared to a 7.4% contraction a year ago, according to government data.A Zambia returnee tests positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra, reports ANIMaharashtra: A person, who had returned to Pune from Zambia on 25th Nov, has tested positive for #COVID19. He had returned from Zambia to Mumbai on 20th Nov and then travelled to Pune by taxi. His sample has been sent for genome sequencing and the report on the same is awaited.A person, who had returned to Pune from Zambia on November 25, has tested positive for Covid-19, tweeted news agency ANI. His sample has been sent for genome sequencing and the report is awaited.'Need to be prepared..': Delhi CM Kejriwal amid omicron variant scareDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday that he held a meeting with officials over the omicron variant that has sparked widepsread concerns. “We need to be prepared as responsible governments...As far as the beds are concerned, we have prepared 30,000 oxygen beds and around 10,000 of these are ICU beds,” Arvind Kejriwal said during a press conference.EU drugs agency can clear omicron shot in 4 Months if needed: ReportThe European Medicines Agency would use expedited procedures to approve new versions of the Covid-19 vaccines to address the omicron variant should the current ones prove insufficient to fight it off, reported news agency Bloomberg.“A lot of this work will have to go on at the company level at this stage, but I want to assure you that we’re working with the companies and with other regulators to make sure that we’re as prepared and ready as possible to deal with these consequences,” the news agency quoted Emer Cooke, the agency’s director, as telling the European Parliament on Tuesday.Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrowThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till December 1.No information on alleged meeting between Param Bir Singh & Sachin Vaze: Mumbai Police commissioner“We do not have any information on the alleged meeting between former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and his former associate Sachin Vaze,” news agency ANI quoted Mumbai Police commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh as saying on Tuesday.Delhi HC seeks Centre's reply on live streaming proceedings on pleas to recognise same sex marriagesThe Delhi HC on Tuesday sought the Centre's reply on live streaming proceedings on pleas to recognise same sex marriages under special, Hindu, and  foreign marriage law in India.Centre extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till Dec 31The existing Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till December 31, 2021, the Union home ministry announced today. Also, in the wake of the emergence of omicron variant, the ministy has stressed on the strict compliance with the Union health ministry's advisory on November 25. Centre says no omicron cases in India yetNo cases of the omicron Covid-19 variant has been detected in India so far, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Rajya Sabha during Question Hour.City court cancels non-bailable warrant against ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in extortion caseThe Espalande Court in Mumbai cancelled the non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in the extortion case. Modi discusses govt's Winter Session strategy with his top ministersPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting to discuss the strategy for Parliament's Winter Session with top Union ministers including Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Nirmala Sitharaman.Uddhav Thackeray to not meet Mamata Banerjee during her Mumbai visit due to health reasonsMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would not be meeting Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee due to health related concerns, reports ANI citing the Shiv Sena party. Banerjee is on a visit to Mumbai and was scheduled to meet with Thackeray.Uttarakhand to test all attending PM Modi's rally in state on Dec 4 for Covid-19In view of the new variant of COVID19, the Health Department has been asked to make all necessary arrangements at the Parade Ground for testing of those attending the PM's public rally: Dehradun District Magistrate R. Rajesh KumarThe Uttarakhand state government will conduct rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 on all people who will be attending Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in the state on December 4, reports ANI. Myanmar court delays verdict in deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi's incitement trial, reports AFP#BREAKING Myanmar court delays verdict in Suu Kyi incitement trial: source pic.twitter.com/rEA9WCb1ioMyanmar court delayed its verdict in the incitement trial of country's deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi, reports AFP.India reports 6,990 new Covid-19 cases, 190 deaths in 24 hoursAs many as 6,990 new Covid-19 cases and 190 deaths were reported across the country in the last 24 hours. The active caseload fell further to 100,543, the lowest in 546 days, the Union health ministry said. Union health secretary to chair review meeting with states on Omicron variant todayUnion health secretary to hold review meeting with states regarding the omicron Covid-19 variant today at 10:30am.Delhi's air quality index at 362, presently in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 362 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-IndiaVisuals from area around Akshardham Temple pic.twitter.com/qXl5gkdosjWith an overall Air Quality Index of 362, the air quality in Delhi remained at the ‘very poor’ category, reports ANI citing data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). ‘Always condemned acts of violence, human rights violations in Syria’, says India's permanent mission to UNGAIndia has always condemned acts of violence in Syria as well as violations of human rights law, irrespective of who their perpetrators are: Pratik Mathur, Counsellor in India's Permanent Mission to UNGA on UNSC Arria-formula meeting on accountability in SyriaSource: MEA pic.twitter.com/1yuM1wgYOQIndia always condemned acts of violence and human rights law violations in Syria, said Pratik Mathur, counsellor in India's permanent mission to the United Nations General Assembly, reports ANI. ‘Car makers will be asked to make engines that run on 100% bio-ethanol’: Nitin Gadkari#WATCH | I am going to sign a file in the next 2-3 days, in which carmakers will be asked to make engines that can run on 100% bio-ethanol: Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari (29.11) pic.twitter.com/e4B0wZhfw0Union minister Nitin Gadkari said that car makers will be asked to make engines that can run on 100% bio-ethanol, reports ANI. Karnataka govt says international passengers testing Covid negative to be in quarantine for 7 daysAll international passengers who test negative for COVID on arrival in Bengaluru will be put in quarantine for 7 days. They will be tested again after 7 days. 598 such passengers are under surveillance: Bengaluru Rural District Health Officer Tippeswamy after visiting KIAL y'day pic.twitter.com/r1s5KrakRkKarnataka state government said that international passengers testing Covid negative on arrival in Bengaluru to be placed under seven-day quarantine and would be tested again after a week, reports ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-30-2021-101638235952161.html
30-11-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee on 3-day visit to Mumbai from today; to meet Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar, industrialists||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will be in Mumbai on Tuesday and is slated to visit Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar during her three-day visit.She is also scheduled to meet with industrialists in the state on December 1 with the aim of inviting investments to her home state, news agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the matter in her Trinamool Congress party.“Mamata Banerjee will be on a three-day visit to Mumbai from tomorrow. She will hold meetings with NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The CM also aims to attract investments to the state,” PTI quoted a senior party leader as saying on Monday.Her meeting with Thackeray and Pawar, two of the three coalition partners in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra, comes amid her party’s widening rift with the Congress, which is the third partner in MVA.Also read | 'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata on why she didn't meet Sonia GandhiNotably, the Trinamool has skipped an opposition leaders’ meeting called by the Congress ahead of Parliament’s Winter Session on Monday and also staged its own protests inside Parliament House demanding the Centre to repeal the three contentious farm laws. The Congress held a similar protest too, led by its president Sonia Gandhi.The meeting also holds significance as the Trinamool is trying to expand its national footprint with Banerjee spearheading efforts to unite opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2024 general elections in the country. Several leaders joined the Trinamool recently with the defection of 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya, including the state’s former CM Mukul Sangma, being the latest.In her recent political visit to Goa too, where her party is contesting the state assembly elections in 2022, popular names, including tennis star Leander Paes, were inducted into the party.However, the party suffered a setback against the BJP in the recently concluded Tripura civic polls, where the BJP won 329 of the 334 seats in that state’s urban civic bodies. The TMC currently has one seat.Earlier last week, Banerjee met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised the issue of expanding the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) jurisdiction in border states, including Bengal and the alleged violence in Tripura.She also invited him to a Global Business Summit to be held in Bengal next year, according to several news reports.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-on-3-day-visit-to-mumbai-from-today-to-meet-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-industrialists-101638234571797.html
30-11-2021||India||CPM is runner up in Tripura civic polls that BJP swept, says state election body||AGARTALA: The Communist Party of India (Marxist), not the Trinamool Congress, secured the second-highest votes after the Bharatiya Janata Party that swept the Tripura local body elections winning 217 of the 222 seats that went to polls, according to data released by the State Election Commission on Monday.The ruling BJP got a whopping 59.01% votes in the elections held on November 25. The local body election witnessed a voter turnout of 81.54%.The CPM secured 18.13% of all valid votes in all the 14 civic bodies as compared to the Trinamool Congress which ended up with a 16.39% vote share. The TMC, however, did emerge as the runner up in the Agartala Municipal Corporation with a 20.14% share in votes polled.The CPM’s other allies in the Left Front were marginal players. The Communist Party of India (CPI) ended up with 0.76% votes hare, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) with 0.44% and the Forward Bloc with 0.32%.Including the 112 seats that the BJP netted without contest, the Tripura BJP won 329 of 334 seats. The CPM won three seats, and the TMC and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s party TIPRA Motha won one seat each.The Congress got 2.07% votes while independent candidates in different areas bagged 0.99% votes with 0.17% votes bagged by other political parties, as per the report. The Trinamool Congress, which earlier claimed to have emerged as the runner up in the civic body elections, declined to comment on the State Election Commission report. Trinamool Youth Congress convener Baptu Chakraborty said, “We contested on 120 seats in the civic polls and got 24% votes. Our performance cannot be measured on seats we didn’t contest”.Tripura law minister Ratan Lal Nath said, “The Trinamool Congress got more votes in some seats and very less in others. Where is the record of whatever they are claiming? However, we are not concerned about them. We know that the CPM, Trinamool Congress and Congress will come together, but it still will not affect BJP. “Jitendra Chaudhury, state secretary of the CPM that was in power for decades in the state before being evicted by the BJP in 2018 elections, said, “After the BJP, the CPM got the second-highest votes across the state. The State Election Commission data also said the same thing. Then, how did they (TMC) make such a claim that they bagged second highest votes? Their real purpose is to divide the opposition votes to make way for BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpm-is-runner-up-in-tripura-civic-polls-that-bjp-swept-says-state-election-body-101638215370560.html
30-11-2021||India||Activists slam police action against Munawar Faruqui||A day after comedian Munawar Faruqui through a tweet bid ‘goodbye’ to stand-up comedy, lawyers and activists in the city on Monday argued that the Bengaluru police’s actions that led to the cancellation of Faruqui’s show amounts to dereliction of duty by the police.They said that though an event held in a private space doesn’t require any police permission, the fact the police failed to act against a group threatening to cause ruckus at the venue showed that they failed to perform their duty. A show by Faruqui was cancelled on Sunday, hours before it was supposed to be held in Bengaluru, after the city police ‘suggested’ that the organizers cancel the event, citing possible law and order problems amid protest by right-wing outfits.Bengaluru police on Sunday wrote to the organisers of the event, after a letter was sent by Hindu Janjagruti Samiti, a right wing group, to Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant on the same day asking police to cancel the event. The petition said that Faruqui has a habit of making ‘unacceptable’ jokes on Hindu gods, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2020, Godhra massacre of karsevaks’.“Allowing Munawar Faruqui, who hurts religious sentiments of Hindus, is providing an opportunity for him to repeat those crimes…. should such a programme that disturbs the communal harmony be allowed when the memories of DJ Halli riots are still fresh?” read the letter, while threatening to take to the streets if the stand-up show is held.Members of the organization have been charged with the murder of editor-activist Gauri Lankesh and scholar M.M. Kalburgi.Hours later Ashok Nagar police issued the letter to the organizers “advising” them that they “should cancel the show”. The letter, though doesn’t mention the HJS petition, says they have credible information that several organizations are opposing the show. The organizers had informed the Ashok Nagar police of the show titled “Dongri to Nowhere” in a letter on November 15, as they need not take permission since it was to be held an indoor, and the police had not taken objection to the same till HJS petitioned the police.Senior police officers aware of the development said that they were pulled up for “not cancelling the show earlier” and were asked to cancel it immediately. Senior police officials, however, refused to comment on the issue.Vinay Srinivas, a civil rights activist, and advocate said forcing the organizers to cancel the show was a violation of the right to freedom of speech and expression. “There is a Supreme Court judgement which says no permission is needed to hold an event at a private venue. It is not the police’s job to interfere in stopping such a performance, their job is to provide security if there are threats,” he said.All Indian Lawyer’s Association for Justice, in a statement, claimed that at its core, the targeting of Munawar Faruqui is part of a communal agenda of rightwing forces in India, which have the overt support of the ruling dispensation. “AILAJ condemns the actions of Bangalore police in issuing notice seeking cancellation of the comedy show by Munawar Faruqui. The said notice is a violation of rule of law and clearly reveals that the police force has abdicated its constitutional duty of protecting the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression, succumbing instead to pressures of extremist communal right-wing forces,” read the statement.“As such the issue of notice by the Bangalore police to the organisers of the event must be seen as a declaration of support to unconstitutional forces. The police force, which is funded by the people, must be bound by the Constitution,” the statement added.Clifton Rozario, a Bengaluru-based lawyer pointed out that police’s failure to take action against an organisation that was threatening to resort to violence is a dereliction of duty. “It is the job of the police department to take action against such groups and they failed at their job. There have been instances where courts have ordered cases to be filed against senior officers for failure to act, this amounts to the same,” he said.An organizer of the event, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that they will not be taking any legal action. “There were several people who had offered to conduct a private show with the comedian, but he was so dejected that he left the city soon after the news broke,” said the organiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-slam-police-action-against-munawar-faruqui-101638213748836.html
30-11-2021||India||Karnataka resident doctors go on strike over Covid allowance payment||Bengaluru: The Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) on Monday went on an indefinite strike demanding payment of Covid-19 risk allowance. As part of the strike, the resident doctors across the state have decided to withdraw from all the elective services, including outpatient department (OPD) and elective operation theatre, in all medical colleges affiliated with the KARD. They, however, added that emergency services will not be part of the strike.“We have worked hard to manage the Covid-19 pandemic, even by compromising all our academics and against the risk of being infected under adverse conditions. As a result, postgraduates have lost half of their course duration without learning the bare minimum of clinical and other skills,” said KARD’s president In-charge Dr Tejas J.KARD is an association of house surgeons, postgraduates, and super speciality residents of government medical and dental colleges in Karnataka.In May, the Karnataka government announced a Covid allowance of ₹10,000 per month from April 2021 for all resident doctors. The association said that the funds have not been released by the government even after six months, terming it a “blatant disregard” towards the doctors serving on the frontlines.Highlighting an almost 400% hike in academic fees, the association stated that the matter was made even worse by forcing them to pay up the entire sum upfront without any concession during “these troubling times”. It added that innumerable symbolic protests, letters to concerned authorities and a pan-state protest bore no fruitful result. “It is unfortunate to note that the assurance given by the minister of medical education has not been fulfilled. The intent to address the issue is not visible as resident doctors were excluded from the package of Covid-risk allowance announced recently by the Government of Karnataka,” read a statement from the association.“We are left with no option but to display our dissent in this regard with a Pan-Karnataka indefinite strike from November 29, 2021, comprising of withdrawal of all the elective services including OPDs and elective OTs (Excluding emergency services) in all the medical colleges affiliated with KARD,” it added.Meanwhile, housekeeping staff, ward attendees, lift operators, data entry operators and security personnel employed in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), staged a protest on Monday, demanding timely payment of wages.The workers claimed that they have not been paid the October salary. Maitreyi from Karnataka General Labour Union, affiliated with the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), said workers are unable to pay their house rent and do not have money to purchase food for their families.“The workers have not been paid the salary for October 2021. As per labour laws, the workers are to be paid their monthly salary on the 7th of every month. However, as BMRCI has failed to ensure payment of salary for October, the workers are struggling to make ends meet. Without the monthly salary, they are unable to pay school fees of their children or attend to medical emergencies,” she said.Ramesh Krishna K, Medical Superintendent of Victoria hospital, however, claimed that the payment of salaries was delayed as the outsourced agency had not paid the workers. “I have informed the dean and director about this, and we are in the process of resolving the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-resident-doctors-go-on-strike-over-covid-allowance-payment-101638213572041.html
30-11-2021||India||Andhra high court refuses to quash pleas on capitals citing governor’s order||Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday refused to strike down the petitions challenging the three capitals proposal of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government on the ground that the gazette notification on the repeal of the three capital legislation was yet to be issued.Though the AP Decentralization and Inclusive Development of All Regions Repeal Bill of 2021 was passed in both the houses of the state legislature on November 22 and 23 respectively, it could not be notified in the gazette as it is still awaiting asset of governor Biswabhushan Harichandan.The governor, who had recovered from Covid-19 last week, was flown to Hyderabad again on Monday due to post-Covid complications. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, where his condition is said to be stable.The high court bench headed by chief justice Prashant Kumar Mishra adjourned the cases to December 27, stating that it would take up the hearing only after getting a clear picture following the governor’s assent.State advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram said there was no relevance to the petitions filed by Amaravati farmers challenging the three capitals, as the state government had withdrawn the earlier laws.Representing the petitioners, senior advocates Shyam Divan, Jandhyala Ravi Shankar and B Adinarayana Rao argued that the government had repealed the earlier laws on three capitals to disable the high court from proceeding further. They pointed out that the government had made clear its intention to bring in fresh legislation on three capitals in future.Advocate general, however, argued that the high court cannot take up any pre-emptive adjudication at this stage as the laws were in the domain of the legislature and there was no guidance role for the high court concerning the legislature’s future course of action.The high court revoked its interim orders that prevented the state government from undertaking developmental works due to the litigation. At the same time, it extended the status quo on its orders that prohibited the shifting of government offices and departments to Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-high-court-refuses-to-quash-pleas-on-capitals-citing-governor-s-order-101638213510221.html
30-11-2021||India||Parliament winter session: 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended over ruckus last session||Twelve members of the Rajya Sabha were suspended for the remainder of the winter session that began on Monday after the House passed a motion moved by the government seeking their suspension under Rule 256 for their “unruly and violent behaviour” during the monsoon session. Opposition parties termed the suspension as “undemocratic”.Also Read | Bill to repeal farm laws passedRajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh announced the suspension of the members after parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi moved a motion that was adopted by a voice vote to suspend six MPs of the Congress, Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Hussain and Akhilesh Singh; two of the Shiv Sena, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai; two of the TMC, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri; Elamaram Kareem of the CPM; and Binoy Viswam of the CPI for indiscipline in the last session of the House. The motion moved by the government said, “…the House takes cognisance and strongly condemns the utter disregard to the authority of the chair, complete abuse of rules of the House persistently thereby wilfully obstructing the business of House through their, unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, unruly and violent behaviour and intentional attacks on security personnel on the last day of the 254th session of Rajya Sabha (monsoon session) i.e. August 11, 2021, thereby lowering the dignity of and bringing disrepute to this August House…”The incidents referred to pertain to the ruckus that broke out in the House on August 11, the last day of the monsoon session, when some opposition MPs climbed on a Rajya Sabha officials’ table, raised slogans, and threw files when the House began a discussion on farmers’ protest against new reform laws. Later, opposition members staged a walkout from the House, protesting against the hurried passage of bills and the deployment of security personnel inside the House, even as the government accused them of manhandling marshals.Opposition members dubbed the suspension “undemocratic” and said the motion moved by the government is “unprecedented and violates the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Council of States (Rajya Sabha).”A statement issued by the leader of Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, said the floor leaders of the opposition parties of Rajya Sabha will meet on Tuesday to deliberate on the future course of action. The statement has been supported by parties including the DMK, SP, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, CPI, CPM, IUML, LJD, MDMK, TRS and AAP.The government maintained the incidents of “indiscipline were unprecedented.”“The opposition members were given a chance to apologise, but they did not; they even turned down the opportunity to be part of a committee suggested by the Chairman to probe the August 11 incidents,” said a government functionary on condition of anonymity.To a question on why the government did not choose to take action against the MPs who created ruckus on August 10, a second government functionary said; “August 11 was the last day of the monsoon session.” Had the government moved the motion for suspension on August 11; then the MPs named for creating ruckus would have been let off with just a day’s suspension since Rule 256 says they can be suspended for the duration of the session in which the motion is moved.While some of the opposition MPs alleged that they were not allowed to present their version of events before being handed down suspension, a third government functionary said as per the Rule 256 of the Rajya Sabha’s Rules of Procedure the Chairman is entitled to take action against acts of misconduct: disregarding the authority of the chair, abusing the rules of the council by persistently and wilfully obstructing the business thereof.The government also claimed that since the beginning of the monsoon session till the last day, there used to be “20-30 names that were mentioned for disputing the house in the day’s bulletin”.“From not allowing the Prime Minister to introduce ministers; to snatching papers from IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw the opposition in a planned way decided they won’t allow the house to function. There were scenes never seen before — MPs whistling, recording proceedings and putting it on YouTube, and covering the faces of MPs with placards while they spoke,” said the first functionary.The government also referred to the complaints that were submitted by at least two marshals about the injuries they received while preventing the MPs from breaking the security cordon around the Chair.“They will have to consider apologising and there also needs be a re-look at the rules to ensure these incidents do not recur”, the first person added.There have been several instances of members being suspended on account of various reasons. In September 2020, eight Rajya Sabha members -- Derek O’Brien (TMC), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Rajeev Satav (Congress), KK Ragesh (CPM), Syed Nazir Hussain (Congress), Ripun Boren (Congress), Dola Sen (TMC) and Elamaram Kareem (CPM) -- were suspended for unruly behaviour in the House. The motion was passed by a voice vote. The same year, seven Congress members -- Gaurav Gogoi, TN Prathapan, Dean Kuriakose, Rajmohan Unnithan, Manickam Tagore, Benny Behanan and Gurjeet Singh Aujla -- were suspended from Lok Sabha during the budget session of Parliament.In January 2019, Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, suspended 45 Members of the TDP and AIADMK for disrupting proceedings for days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-12-rajya-sabha-mps-suspended-over-ruckus-last-session-101638213329028.html
30-11-2021||India||Supreme Court disapproves of ‘regime revenge’, pulls up Maharahtra govt in land allotment case||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday disapproved of the practice of “regime revenge” as it pulled up the Maharashtra government for cancelling land allotment to a private entity after the chief of its city planning agency changed. “It is pertinent to remember that, by merely using grounds of public interest or loss to the treasury, the successor public authority cannot undo the work undertaken by the previous authority. Such a claim must be proven using material facts, evidence and figures. If it were otherwise, then there will remain no sanctity in the words and undertaking of the Government,” held a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. The bench, which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, underlined that businessmen would be hesitant to enter government contract or make any investment if authorities cancelled contracts by only citing public interest. “Such a practice is counter-productive to the economy and the business environment in general. The constitutional guarantee against arbitrariness, as provided under Article 14, demands the state to act in a fair and reasonable manner unless public interest demands otherwise,” noted the bench. The court was hearing an appeal filed by the City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra (CIDCO) against a 2013 judgment of the Bombay high court. The HC had quashed the CIDCO’s decision to cancel the allotment of land to M/s Metropolis Hotels, which was given the land in 2008 on lease for constructing a hotel around the proposed Navi Mumbai airport. After the site of the proposed airport changed, Metropolis Hotels applied in March 2010 for subdivision of the plot and change of land use for half the plot from commercial to residential-cum-commercial. Acceding to this request, CIDCO executed two separate lease deeds in respect of the two plots. As some complaints were made against Metropolis regarding irregularities in allotment of plots of land and change of user, the Maharashtra government initiated an inquiry, based on which the new chairman of CIDCO issued a show-cause notice to Metropolis in December 2010 and finally cancelled the lease deeds in March 2011. Metropolis went to HC, which allowed its petition and restored the allotment. Dismissing CIDCO’s appeal against the HC order, the top court also noted that the change of land use and the subsequent division was well ­within the statutory limitations but a contrary view was taken after a new executive head of CIDCO took over. “The contradictory submissions asserted before this court and the concessions given regarding practice of CIDCO to allow change in land use in other cases, clearly points to a ‘regime revenge’... the earlier undertakings taken by the authorities cannot be set aside with the change of person in power, without any rhyme or reason,” maintained the bench. The court rejected submissions of the state government and CIDCO that there would be loss of public money if Metropolis were allowed to retain the land. “When a contract is being evaluated, the mere possibility of more money in the public coffers, does not in itself serve public interest. A blanket claim by the state claiming loss of public money cannot be used to forgo contractual obligations, especially when it is not based on any evidence or examination. The larger public interest of upholding contracts and the fairness of public authorities is also in play. Courts need to have a broader understanding of public interest, while reviewing such contracts,” it held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-disapproves-of-regime-revenge-pulls-up-maharahtra-govt-in-land-allotment-case-101638213270126.html
30-11-2021||India||Amid reports of fissures, Chandy, Chennithala skip UDF meeting||Senior Kerala Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala skipped the United Democratic Front (UDF) meeting in the state capital on Monday, deepening fissures between the new leadership and the old guard in the state.UDF convenor and Congress leader M M Hassan said he was not informed of their decision to skip the meeting, and both refused to comment on their absence. “They promised me to attend the meet. I don’t know what happened,” he said after the meet. Currently, the UDF comprises seven parties, with the Congress and Muslim League as major partners. Chandy’s and Chennithala’s displeasure over the new leadership, led by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan, is not unknown as the old guards have openly questioned their functioning. “Both are upset with the leadership for ignoring their repeated complaints. Instead of taking all along they are ignoring seniors, and it won’t bode well for the party,” a senior leader said on condition of anonymity. Last week, former Kerala chief minister Chandy called on Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi, urging her to call off the ongoing revamp in the state unit given the upcoming organisational elections. Leaders close to him said he expressed reservations over recent disciplinary actions against some leaders and criticised the style of functioning of the new leadership in the state.Two weeks ago, a former state secretary M A Latheef, a staunch loyalist of Chandy, was suspended for “anti-party activities.” Some of the expelled leaders, like A P Anil Kumar and P S Prashant, later joined the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in August. Chandy criticised the suspension of senior leaders and asked the new leadership to exercise restraint and take everyone along. However, Sudhakaran maintained that discipline was supreme in the party. During the assembly elections in April, the party was expecting to return to power, given the pattern of power alternating between the state’s two major formations, CPI (M) and Congress, but faced a humiliating defeat. The fact that party leader, Rahul Gandhi, is a member of Parliament from Kerala’s Wayanad constituency added to the ignominy. It led to a major internal shift in the power structure and high command was forced to intervene in the faction-ridden unit.“If the High Command wants to strengthen the party in Kerala it will have to ensure that senior leaders are heard properly. Sulking leaders are not good to the party,” said political commentator Sunnykutty Abraham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-reports-of-fissures-chandy-chennithala-skip-udfmeeting-101638213152880.html
30-11-2021||India||In Bihar hooch tragedy, larger questions about prohibition||Gopalganj/Patna: It is Saturday, November 12, and 35-year-old Prabhabati Devi is inconsolable despite the efforts of a group of women around her. Her four infant children fight for space on her lap, as they watch their mother crying. The day marks the shraddh ceremony for her 40-year-old husband, Mukesh Ram, one of the 41 people who died in Bihar between November 3 and November 10 in the most recent rendition of a hooch tragedy that spanned three districts – in a state that ostensibly has complete prohibition. Her three-room house in the Harijan Tola of Muhammadpur village, made of brick and mortar, is locked from the outside, sealed by Bihar Police on November 6. Devi sits on the floor of a temporary shed meant for cattle, where two families that lived in the locked home now sleep. The first is her family, their home sealed on November 6 for allegedly breaking the law. The other is the family of her brother-in-law, Sunil Ram, in jail for the past two-and-a-half months, arrested for consuming liquor. “On November 3, my husband, who worked as a daily wage labourer and earned ₹300 a day, complained of a headache and an inability to see. We rushed him to a private doctor in Motihari, and later shifted him to the Gopalganj district hospital,” said Prabhabati, holding her four young children. “Within hours, he was dead.” Asked if her husband consumed alcohol, Prabhabati says nothing. But right next to her, neighbour Chandrama Ram says out loud an ill kept-secret: “Nearly everyone drinks.”Around Devi, there are other homes in Harijan Tola in different stages of mourning. Suraj Ram (40) died a day after Mukesh, with the same symptoms. A few metres away is the home of Ramanand Ram, who spent days in hospital, developed difficulty in seeing, recovered, but is now in jail. In the deaths in November, this tola reported three of the 11 deaths in Gopalganj. In the districts of Gopalganj, West Champaran and Muzaffarpur, 41 people died and 10 were treated in hospitals, in an incident which has again turned the spotlight on the prohibition law in Bihar, the effectiveness of its implementation five years after it was brought into force by chief minister Nitish Kumar, and hooch tragedies that seems to persist despite its existence.LAW AND BEYONDThe immediate reaction to the outrage that the most recent cycle of hooch deaths has generated has been a wave of administrative action from the Bihar government. Twenty-five kilometres away from the Harijan Tola, in the diaras (river islands) that abut the Gandak river in Baikunthpur and Muhammadpur, the police demolished 45 bhattis (illegal distilleries) and destroyed 6,500 litres of illicit liquor in November. More than 900 people have been arrested in a three-day drive in the first week of November under Section 30(a) of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 in raids across 1,500 locations. In Gopalganj alone, 275 people were arrested and 105 FIRs were lodged, with 34 vehicles carrying hooch seized. In Samastipur, police arrested 65 people and lodged 32 FIRs. In East Champaran, 92 people have been arrested and 83 FIRs registered, with 11,000 litres of prohibited alcohol recovered, said Navin Chandra Jha, superintendent of police. Overall, 106 people have died in hooch tragedies this year, officials of the excise department said. There are no figures available with the government on the total number of such deaths since April 2016, when the law came into force. Since then, the Bihar police have registered 255,000 FIRs and have arrested 212,000 people for violation of prohibition laws, with most being released on bail. In several of Bihar’s villages, however, the law has not precluded the absence of alcohol, but new ways have been found to distribute low-grade liquor. In Gopalganj district, for instance, countrymade liquor called “BB (Bunty Babli)” is all the rage. Manufactured in Uttar Pradesh, it finds its way across the border at inflated rates. “Originally priced at ₹50, a 180ml bottle is selling between ₹100 and 150 here,” said Ravindra Prasad Gupta, a village chief candidate of a village in Siwan. “In addition to this, there are other brands of countrymade liquor called Katrina and Laila that are also in great demand.”Moti Lal Prasad of Bhagwanpur, who owned liquor vends before they were outlawed, said much of the spurious alcohol entering the state was through Uttar Pradesh and Nepal. “They come using road and river routes, transported through the Gandak river, mainly at night. They come in small containers of 10, 20 and 50 litres, and in small bottles. Prohibition has only increased black marketing,” he said. Police in Gopalganj told HT that this liquor was being routinely transported to Bihar through ghats on the Gandak river, including Salempur (Barauli block), Pakhla ghat (Baikunthpur), Maharani ghat (Muhammadpur) and Bangra ghat (Bainkunthpur). Gopalganj’s superintendent of police Anand Kumar describes the striking resemblance of the spirit with water as a major challenge, and one of the reasons why the influx is hard to stop. “The traders manage to slip by security personnel by hiding the bottles among lots of water. However, we have intensified our patrolling and search operations with the help of dog squads in all suspect areas, including Gandak’s riverine areas. We have also made the use of available drones for aerial patrolling,” he said.At least three districts of Bihar – Siwan, Gopalganj and West Champaran – have borders with Uttar Pradesh while 11 districts share borders with Nepal. In the east, Kishanganj, Katihar, Purnia and Banka are close to West Bengal, while six districts of Jharkhand are across the border in Bihar. Compounding this is a 726km Indo-Nepal border that has around 6,000 Bihar villages just in a 3kmradius and numerous open transit points. Every month, close to 200,000 people cross the identified 49 transit points between Bihar and Nepal, data from Bihar Police show. Manoj Pandey, a journalist from Muhammadpur, said these ghats have long been used for smuggling, only the merchandise now has become bootlegged alcohol. “These ghats have been used for smuggling Nepali dalda, a vegetable oil cheaper than Indian vanaspati, and Chinese toys,” Pandey said. “Now they are used for liquor smuggling.”HT spoke to a man from Muhammadpur involved in the trade who said that this “Nepalese” liquor was almost “pure spirit.” “The mixture is one litre of spirit in five litres of water. To this is added nausadar, made of ammonium chloride which supplements the intoxicant in the drink. A 10 litre jar which costs ₹1,500 to make, fetches about ₹10,000 and is sold in pouches of 200ml each at ₹30 at the very least, but often much more. It is the improper mixture of spirit and nausadar that makes these concoctions deadly. At times, urea and stale rice is added as well, which is even more dangerous.”Doctors at Gopalganj and West Champaran, two places which saw the maximum deaths in the most recent hooch tragedy, said most patients complained of vision loss and stomach pain. “The toxic ingredients choke the lung and the heart and cause blockages. The damage then spreads to other organs like the liver, pancreas and the eyes,” said Dr Manoj Kumar, a gastroenterologist in Patna. A LOSING BATTLEOver the past five years, the Bihar government has put in measures like so-called integrated check posts to stop the movement of liquor within the state. At the Kochaikot integrated check post in Gopalganj, at the border of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, there are rows of what look like abandoned vehicles, almost like a parking lot. There are more than 300 vehicles including buses, trucks, SUVs and even motorcycles, all seized over the past two years. The check post has five cameras, all of which were functional when HT visited the spot on November 12. In a room nearby, a television monitor records images, from the driver’s face to number plate to the goods being carried and searched. There are five such integrated check posts in Bihar, and 15 more are in the pipeline. Milling around are a team of 24 excise officials and policemen in three shifts, separate from police personnel manning a nearby Bihar Police booth. And yet, those stationed here believe they are fighting a losing battle. “On an average, 5,000 vehicles cross the check post, and given the resources, we can check only a 100 large vehicles on a given day. Loaded vehicles cannot be properly searched all the time,” said an excise department official posted at the Kochaikot check post. “There are at least six motorable village roads connected with Uttar Pradesh cities of Kashiyan (22 km from Bihar border) and Kushinagar (40 km). Some farmers have land on other side and most from Gopalganj visit Gorakhpur for their medical and other needs. There is no checking at these places,” said Ramanuj Prasad, a resident of Kochaikot village. Moreover, smugglers have developed new ways of bringing in liquor, such as the use of ambulances. On the morning of November 11, an ambulance with the registration number UP 11 BT 5759 and driving on the wrong side of the road was flagged by personnel at the check post. When it was surrounded, the driver jumped and fled, and bottles of liquor were found in the vehicle. A case has since been registered. “The question where it is coming from or how it is being transported is not as important as the fact that this business generates black money and that in turn fuels crime. Illegal liquor used to come from other places earlier as well. Raids and seizure of bottles will not help. Those making money need to be targeted,” said Abhyanand, former director general of police in Bihar. He uses only one name.FOR AND AGAINSTThe recent tragedy has brought to the fore an old debate in Bihar, on the principle and effectiveness of prohibition. Even the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), part of the governing National Democratic Alliance, has asked for a review. “There is a need to review the law. The liquor ban was a good initiative by chief minister Nitish Kumar, which had good intentions, and helped benefit women. But I believe that after six years, its success and failure should be re-evaluated,” Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal told HT. “There is a liquor mafia active in the state in connivance with police and administration, which is perhaps why the law has failed.” The Bihar government has argued that there is evidence that suggests incremental acceptance of the liquor ban. According to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) 2015-16, 29% of Bihar’s population used to consume alcohol. According to the NFHS 2019-20, this number has declined to 15.5%. The ban on liquor has had a significant positive impact on women’s empowerment and domestic violence, according to excise and prohibition minister Sunil Kumar. “The objective was empowerment of women, who were most vulnerable to alcohol related violence. Prohibition has left more money in the hands of families and women,” he said. Cases of domestic violence have fallen to 2,397 in 2019 from 3,792 in 2015, data from National Crime Records Bureau show. The state government says it is due to prohibition. The opposition has argued that the law has only meant that poor people have been targeted. “The Nitish Kumar regime has arrested lakhs of poor and Dalits under the Act. The actual liquor mafia is beyond the government’s reach. Can Nitish Kumar provide data of how many kingpins, liquor operators, smugglers and police officials have been sent to jail?” asked Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, leader of the opposition . The law was harsher on users rather than suppliers, said Rakhi Sharma, chief executive of Disha De-addiction-Cum Re-habilitation Centre. “There is a need for a concerted drive against suppliers to break the chain, and for some leniency towards users,” sharma said. “The stringent laws affect weaker sections who are thrown into jail.” State excise minister Kumar, though, made it clear that there would be no government climbdown. “The policy is here to stay. Every effort is being made to ensure that excise department, police and intelligence work in tandem to make it more effective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-hooch-tragedy-larger-questions-about-prohibition-101638213151843.html
30-11-2021||India||Jaya house tussle on as AIADMK plans appeal after Madras high court order||Despite the Madras high court order setting aside AIADMK’s acquisition of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Chennai residence, tussle over the property continues as the party is set to decide on its next course of action at the executive committee meeting on December 1, joint coordinator and leader of opposition Edappadi Palaniswami said on Monday. Legal heirs to the residence J Deepa and J Deepak have, on the other hand, have approached the Chennai collectors for the keys.“AIADMK’s one-crore strong cadre considers the place as a temple. We will retrieve it,” Palaniswami said in Salem. It was the Palaniswami-led government that decided to acquire Jayalalithaa’s 24,322 sq ft bungalow to turn it into a memorial for her. “We are discussing the possibility of going for an appeal. On December 1, we will arrive at a decision,” he said.Jayalalithaa’s niece and nephew, Deepa and Deepak, filed separate petitions with the Chennai district collector asking for the keys to the residence. “Based on the court orders, we sent a representation last Thursday to the collector,” said their counsel S L Sudarsanam. “We are yet to receive a response.”On November 24, Justice N Seshasayee passed a 123-page order, in which he set aside the acquisition reasoning that it does not involve a ‘public purpose’ based on writ petitions filed by the siblings Deepa and Deepak. The court also directed the Chennai district collector, in whose custody the keys of the property are, to hand them over to the petitioners within three weeks.Jayalalithaa’s death in office on December 5, 2016, led to several controversies. She left no will or legal and political heirs. This led to several factions fighting for the reins of the AIADMK, which included Deepa, O Panneerselvam (joint coordinator of AIADMK) and V K Sasikala, who lived with Jayalalithaa in Veda Nilayam for three decades. In 2017, after Sasikala was convicted to a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case, she handpicked Palaniswami to be the chief minister, who later joined hands with Panneerselvam and expelled her. A day ahead of Sasikala’s release from prison in January this year, AIADMK inaugurated the residence as a memorial, which was seen as a move to prevent Sasikala’s entry. Sasikala, after taking a break from politics, has been active on the ground to reclaim the AIADMK.According to the revenue department, the three-storey residence is on a ten-ground plot. It has 32,721 moveable items, including 8,376 books and 394 mementoes. Fourteen items of gold, weighing 4.4 kgs and 867 items of silver, weighing 601 kgs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaya-house-tussle-on-as-aiadmk-plans-appeal-after-madras-high-court-order-101638213092226.html
30-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: SC notice to Centre, state on plea for independent probe||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Centre, Tripura government and head of Tripura Police on a plea seeking an independent probe into the violence that took place in the northeastern state in October.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna sought the response of the concerned parties within two weeks after the petitioner, a Delhi-based lawyer Ehtesham Hashmi, alleged police inaction and complicity in failing to prevent the violence.Also Read | Tripura govt asks police to review UAPA cases against 102 social media usersIn his plea, Hasmi referred to the findings by a four-member fact-finding team that visited Tripura, following allegations of attacks against people belonging to the Muslim community.“There are several cases related to Tripura before the court. Few lawyers, who went on fact finding missions, were served with notices. Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act charges were slapped on journalists. Police did not register a single FIR in the cases of violence. We want all this to be investigated by an independent panel monitored by the court,” Hashmi’s counsel and advocate Prashant Bhushan said.Bhushan also demanded the constitution of a special investigation team to probe the violence.The bench posted the matter for hearing on December 13.On November 11, the top court had heard a plea of two advocates and a journalist -- who were part of the fact-finding team -- seeking quashing of a criminal case lodged under the harsh UAPA provisions against them for allegedly bringing facts through social media posts about the “targeted violence” against the minority community in the northeastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-sc-notice-to-centre-state-on-plea-for-independent-probe-101638213090001.html
30-11-2021||India||Kerala tightens norms for overseas travellers||As the threat of new virus variant Omicron looms, Kerala on Monday revised its norms for overseas travellers arriving in the state. All travellers coming from high–risk-borne countries will have to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine and special teams will monitor them, said state health minister Veena George while announcing new regulations.She said all travellers will have to undergo a test at the airport soon after their arrival and even if their tests are negative they will be under quarantine, and there will be another test on the eighth day, she said, adding that if the result is again negative then they can remain in a 7-day quarantine at their home.Those who test positive will be released only after three consecutive tests after having recovered, she added.“We have heightened our vigil at all airports. Medical teams and enough ambulances will be deployed in airports and treatment centres will be well-equipped. It is a crucial juncture and we can’t lower our guard,” she said after the Covid coordination committee meeting in Thiruvananthapuram. The state has been topping the daily Covid-19 cases for more than six months.Travellers from the following countries would need to follow new norms: the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, Israel, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, China, Hong Kong and Mauritius.“We are following the directives of the Union health ministry. We urge all to ensure Covid-appropriate behavior,” she said. The minister said 96 per cent of the eligible population in the state have received first dose and 63 per cent have received both doses . She said the chief minister will chair a high-power committee on Covid-19 on Tuesday to review the situation.Meanwhile, the state on Monday reported 3,382 new Covid-19 cases and 117 deaths, raising death toll to 39,955, an official release said. Of the 117 deaths, 59 were reported over the last few days and 58—backlog cases— were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, the release said.In Covid-19 deaths, Kerala is now second to Maharashtra.Now backlog cases, either unreported or kept out of Covid-19 list, are posing a big challenge to the state. Veena George admitted in the assembly that around 7,000 deaths failed to find in the Covid-19 death list due to technical reasons but only half of them is included in the list, and more than 17,000 appeals are still pending with the committee for confirming Covid-19 deaths.The health department is adding backlog of unreported cases between March 2020 and June 2021 along with the daily deaths, showed official data. In November around 60 per cent of deaths reported were backlog cases.“When we pointed grave errors, the government blamed us saying we were portraying the state in bad light. We are happy at least now it realized its error and publicity stunt,” said public health experts Dr S S Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tightens-norms-for-overseas-travellers-101638213088828.html
30-11-2021||India||Central probe in Mavunkal cases not needed, SIT tells Kerala high court||The Kerala police special investigation team (SIT) probing the cheating and sexual assault cases against self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal on Monday filed an affidavit in the state high court saying that the investigation is on the right track, and there is no need for intervention from the central agencies.SIT chief S Sreejith filed the affidavit on behalf of state director general of police Anil Kant. “The over-enthusiasm shown by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) through its counsel cannot be viewed lightly. The posture of the ED in the recent past against the state government in certain cases is against the basic tenets of the federal system. Hence the statement of the ED counsel that the CBI may have to step in has to be viewed as a motivated one,” the affidavit said.The affidavit also said that no complaint was raised against the ongoing SIT probe, and all complainants are satisfied with its quick action in the case. The ED, against which the state fought a legal battle in the gold smuggling case, pushed for a CBI probe as many senior state police officers were allegedly close to Mavunkal. While hearing the petition of Mavunkal’s former driver earlier, the court had pulled up senior police officials and wondered how such a man got their patronage and support. “There could not be any cover-up in the investigation into the cases registered against self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal, merely because some of the high-ranking officials are allegedly involved,” the court observed on November 11. Inspector-General of Police A Lakshmana was suspended last month over his alleged liaison with the conman.Mavunkal is now facing eight cheating cases, and a case under the protection of children from sexual offences act for allegedly raping the daughter of his former employee. He was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen complained to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of being cheated of ₹10 crore. Later many other businessmen also filed cheating complaints against him. A rape survivor also alleged Mavunkal forced her to withdraw the complaint against her tormentor.On Sunday, the state archaeology department said 35 of his main collections including Tipu Sultan’s throne were fake and had no antique value attached to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-probe-in-mavunkal-cases-not-needed-sit-tells-kerala-high-court-101638213031049.html
30-11-2021||India||Rains continue to lash south coastal Andhra, Rayalaseema||Heavy rains continued to pound the south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts for the third consecutive day on Monday due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal, resulting in overflowing of streams and rivers, and massive inflows into reservoirs.According to official figures from AP State Development and Planning Society, Chillakur of Nellore district received a huge rainfall of 211.25 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours, followed by 182.25 mm in Atmakur, 150.25 mm in Sydapur, 144.25 mm in Muthukur and 140.50 in Naidupeta in the same district.In the adjacent Chittoor district, Irugulam of Satyavedu block witnessed a rainfall of 99.75 mm and Kanumole of Krishna district recorded 88.5 mm. Similar rainfall ranging from 55 mm to 80 mm was reported from Prakasam, Kadapa and Anantapur districts as well.According to Nellore district information department officials, heavy rains resulted in huge inflows into Somasila reservoir on Pennar river, forcing the authorities to release 1.15 lakh cusecs to the downstream.Similarly, the Swarnamukhi river, which has been in spate due to heavy rains in the upstream in Chittoor district, resulted in inundation of bridges and highways, and submergence of crops in thousands of acres. Several villages are reeling under the flood waters, a district official said.Meanwhile, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, reviewed the flood situation by holding a video conference with the district collectors of Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Prakasam. He instructed them to take urgent steps to ensure that there are no leaks to ponds and interlink ponds and tanks.Earlier, the inter-ministerial central team met the chief minister at the camp office and discussed about the damages caused to the state during the last week’s floods. Jagan urged the Central team to be more compassionate and humanitarian in the entire approach of assessing the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-continue-to-lash-south-coastal-andhra-rayalaseema-101638212968783.html
30-11-2021||India||Ex-Andhra minister murder case: Suspect accuses CBI of bid to ‘frame’ Kadapa MP||In a new twist to the ongoing investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder of former parliament member Y S Vivekananda Reddy, one of the suspects on Monday alleged that the CBI was trying to fix YSR Congress party MP from Kadapa Y S Avinash Reddy in the case.Kalluri Gangadhar Reddy from Yadiki in Anantapur district lodged a complaint with district superintendent of police Dr K Fakeerappa stating that the CBI authorities had brought pressure on him to admit before the court that Avinash Reddy and other accused in the case had conspired to kill Vivekananda Reddy.He further alleged that the CBI authorities and Vivekananda’s own daughter Sunitha Reddy had offered him ₹10 lakh to make a statement in the court, fixing Avinash Reddy and others.Vivekananda Reddy, uncle of Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, was hacked to death at his residence in Pulivendula in Kadapa district on March 16, 2019. The case was initially handled by a special investigation team (SIT) of the state crime investigation department, but was later handed over to CBI following a petition from Vivekananda’s daughter Sunitha.On November 19, the CBI authorities arrested YSRC general secretary Shiva Shankar Reddy Devireddy, a close associate of Avinash Reddy, following a confession statement from the slain leader’s driver Sheik Dastagiri earlier this month.In his confession statement, Dastagri also named one Yerra Gangi Reddy and Avinash Reddy as co-conspirators in the murder of Vivekanda Reddy in connection with a land deal.A local court in Pulivendula on Saturday granted a seven-custody of Devireddy to the CBI for interrogation.However, Gangadhar Reddy, in his complaint to the Anantapur SP, alleged that Vivekananda Reddy’s daughter, in collusion with the CBI authorities, were trying to fix Avinash Reddy in the case. “They brought a pressure on me to give a statement in the court to saying that Avinash Reddy and Gangi Reddy had offered to pay me ₹10 crore, if I admit that I had committed the murder,” Gangadhar Reddy said.He said a senior police officer who was heading the SIT in the beginning, had also brought pressure on him to give a statement to implicate Avinash Reddy in the case. He requested the SP to provide him security, as he was facing threat to his life.Speaking to reporters, Fakeerappa said a deputy superintendent of police-rank official had been appointed to probe into the complaint lodged by Gangadhar Reddy. “We shall take up investigation in all angles and complete the probe within a week. We shall also provide security to Gangadhar Reddy,” the SP added.CBI senior official Ram Singh, probing the Vivekananda Reddy murder case, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exandhra-minister-murder-case-suspect-accuses-cbi-of-bid-to-frame-kadapa-mp-101638212909934.html
30-11-2021||India||Pak’s decision to allow India’s aid to Afghanistan has a rider — Use Pakistan’s trucks||New Delhi: Pakistan has linked its decision to allow India to transport 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to the condition that the relief materials be moved by Pakistani trucks, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Officials of the two sides are engaged in discussions to find a solution to the impasse, especially in view of the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The Indian side is keen on using its own trucks as it wants to ensure that the relief materials directly reach the Afghan people without being diverted in any manner. The Indian side also envisages that the aid will be distributed only through the UN, the people said. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and life-saving medicines to the people of Afghanistan via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24. The people said Pakistan had attached several conditions to the shipment of the relief materials, besides the use of Pakistani trucks, but declined to go into details. It is understood that the Pakistani side is also seeking shipment charges from India for the use of its trucks. The people pointed out that the process of unloading and loading the relief materials at the Wagah border crossing would add to the logistical issues associated with the transportation of the goods. The Indian side has repeatedly said in recent weeks that there should be unimpeded and unhindered access to Afghanistan for relief supplies and that the United Nations should play the central role in humanitarian efforts. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had made it clear at a news briefing on Friday that no conditions should be attached by Pakistan to the shipment of the humanitarian aid. “This was about humanitarian access into Afghanistan for the delivery of the 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and life-saving medicines we are supplying to the people of Afghanistan,” he said. “We are also working on the modalities with the Pakistan side. We believe that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” he added. A joint communiqué issued after a meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) mechanism on Friday had called for “immediate and unhindered humanitarian assistance to be provided to Afghanistan” in view of the deteriorating humanitarian situation. Pakistan has for long opposed two-way trade between India and Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing. It allowed the former Afghan government to export goods to India via the crossing, but barred any transportation of Indian goods to the Afghan side. There are currently no flights between India and Afghanistan, and transporting the materials via Pakistan was seen as the quickest way of getting the aid to the Afghan people, who are grappling with food shortages. Pakistan had said recently that it would allow the transportation of the Indian wheat and medicines via the Wagah border on an “exceptional basis” for humanitarian purposes and as a goodwill gesture towards the Afghan people. Even a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi that recently visited Islamabad had raised the issue of allowing the shipment of the wheat with the top Pakistani leadership. The UN has warned up to 23 million Afghans will be in “crisis or emergency levels of food insecurity” as winter sets in. Ten out of 11 of Afghanistan’s most densely populated urban areas are anticipated to be at emergency levels of food insecurity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paks-decision-to-allow-india-s-aid-to-afghanistan-has-a-rider-use-pakistan-s-trucks-101638212908726.html
30-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws sans discussion shows govt is scared: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that the rollback of the contentious three farms laws without debate in Parliament shows that the government is “scared” of holding discussions and knows that it has done something wrong.Also Read | Bill to repeal farm laws passed“The way they (farm laws) were repealed, without discussion in Parliament, shows that the government is scared of discussion. Shows that the government knows that they have done something wrong. And that the government is scared,” Gandhi told reporters outside Parliament.The former Congress chief’s remarks came after ‘The Farm Laws Repeal Bill’ was passed in both Houses of Parliament to repeal the agricultural laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year.The Congress leader said that the withdrawal of the laws is a success of farmers and also of the country.“What is unfortunate is how the bills have been repealed, without any discussion, without any conversation. We wanted to have a discussion about the forces behind these bills because these bills do not just reflect the view of the Prime Minister, these bills reflect the forces behind the Prime Minister and that is what we wanted to discuss,” he said.“We wanted to discuss MSP (issue), we wanted to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, we wanted to discuss the 700 farmers who died in this agitation and unfortunately that discussion has not been allowed,” he added.The Wayanad MP also suggested that the upcoming assembly elections in seven states must have played on the Centre’s mind while taking the decision to withdraw the contentious laws.“The upcoming state elections must have also played on their mind,” he said.Hitting back at the Congress leader, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal said: “The Opposition doesn’t want any work to be done. They just want to occupy media space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-sans-discussion-shows-govt-is-scared-rahul-gandhi-101638212849337.html
30-11-2021||India||Free ration scheme’s extension to benefit 800 million beneficiaries: PM Modi||New Delhi: The central government will continue to provide free cereals to nearly 800 million poor people by extending the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till March next year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.Also Read | Centre extends PMGKAY, beneficiaries to get free-of-cost foodgrains till March 2022“We are running the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide free grains to more than 80 crore people of the country, so that they don’t face more problems,” Modi told the media ahead of Parliament’s winter session. “The scheme has now been extended to March 2022. With a cost of nearly ₹260,000 crore ( ₹2.6 trillion), the scheme assures that over 80 crore people have food to cook in their homes.”The cabinet on November 24 approved a proposal to extend the PMGKAY, a scheme to distribute free grains per month as a Covid-19 relief measure to two-thirds of India’s population, who were identified as beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act, until March 2022.The cost of extending the scheme for the next four months stands at approximately ₹53,000 crore, according to a cabinet note.Under PMGKAY, the government provides 5 kg of food grain per person per month to 793.9 million beneficiaries. These recipients are covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013 and therefore also receive subsidised cereals every month.The PMGKAY was meant to provide higher quantities of food handouts during the pandemic. It was launched in March 2020 for the April-June 2020 period, but was extended until November 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-ration-scheme-s-extension-to-benefit-800-million-beneficiaries-pmmodi-101638212670391.html
30-11-2021||India||Farm laws repealed: First major victory of farmers’ protest, says SKM||Farm unions on Monday termed the repeal of three agricultural laws by Parliament as a historic victory but criticised the government for repealing the laws without a discussion. Both Houses of Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 by voice vote to annul the laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise the trade of farm produce.Also Read | Bill to repeal farm laws passedThe protests against the laws first began as sporadic demonstrations in Punjab in October 2020 but snowballed into a full-blown political uprising against the Modi government, spreading to several states in the course of a year, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.During a nationally televised address on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said his government would withdraw the three laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 farm unions, said the repeal was proof of success of its year-long agitation. It vowed to continue the farmers’ movement until all their “rightful demands” were met.“History has been made today. This is the first major victory of the farmers’ movement today, while other important demands are still pending,” a joint statement by farm unions, issued through SKM, stated.“The anti-farmer, pro-corporate black farm laws have been repealed in India’s Parliament without any discussion. The government of India was forced to take this step because of a historic farmers’ struggle,” it added.Also Read | Repeal of farm laws sans discussion shows govt is scared: Rahul GandhiAhead of the Parliament session, farm minister Narendra Tomar appealed to farmers to end their agitation since the government was withdrawing the laws. Key farm leaders responded by saying they would wait till December 4 for a response on a letter written by them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, enlisting their demands that are yet to be met.Besides a statutory guarantee for MSP, the farmers want a parcel of land for a memorial to peasants who died during the year-long protests, and all criminal cases slapped against farmers during the course of their agitation to be withdrawn.They have also sought changes to a proposed electricity bill to keep energy prices cheap for farmers and modifications to an anti-pollution law in force in the National Capital Region that includes provisions to penalise farmers burning paddy straw, the cause of deadly winter smog in north India.“Protesting farmers continue to wait patiently and hopefully yet again, for the government to address their pending demands. It can be seen that nearly all Opposition political parties of India are putting their weight behind these demands including MSP legal guarantee,” said Darshan Pal, a key farm leader.He said the protests by farmers will continue, and a decision on marching to Delhi will be taken on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repealed-first-major-victory-of-farmers-protest-says-skm-101638212669018.html
30-11-2021||India||Param Bir Singh meets Sachin Vaze privately for about an hour; Mumbai police probe ‘lapse’||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Monday met dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and spoke to him for about an hour at the Old Secretariat Building in Mumbai from where the justice K U Chandiwal commission is conducting enquiry proceedings – prompting an immediate investigation by Mumbai Police into what the department termed a “lapse”.At 10.30 am, Singh went to his own office – he is commandant general of Maharashtra Home Guards – on first floor of the building in south Mumbai, according to people familiar with the matter. At about 11.00 am, he appeared before the commission on the upper floor of the same building and got the bailable warrant against him cancelled.Singh filed an affidavit explaining that he could not appear before the commission earlier on account of health issues, and about 10 minutes later went to the adjoining room, the people added, requesting anonymity.Even as the commission completed formalities of cancelling the warrant against Singh, the 56-year-old Indian Police Service officer met Vaze in the adjoining room. Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case and the connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, and lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, was brought at the commission for cross examination by lawyers of several parties to the enquiry.The meeting between Singh and Vaze occurred with prior permission of the commission, a lawyer familiar with Monday’s development said on condition of anonymity.The commission’s lawyer, Shishir Hiray, disputed it. “As per my knowledge, no permission was taken from the special NIA court for any such meeting,” he said. Vaze is in judicial custody of the NIA court hearing the Antilla and Hiran cases.Singh was removed as police chief for his mishandling of the case, and shortly after went public with allegations that the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh asked Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars. Deshmukh was forced to resign as home minister and is currently being investigated by both the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. Meanwhile, five cases have been filed against Singh.Deshmukh’s lawyer took strong objection to the meeting and pointed out the fact to retired judge Chandiwal.Justice Chandiwal, however, ignored the objections. “How can I keep watch on everything and stop them from meeting,” asked the retired high court judge. “But, to avoid such situation in the future, it’s better that he (Vaze) sits in this room (where the commission is functioning from).”Taking serious note of the meeting between the two accused, Mumbai Police on Monday launched an enquiry into the incident.“An assistant commissioner of police conducted preliminary inquiry into the apparent lapse. After recording statements of the police escort party, a sub-inspector and three police constables, a report of the inquiry was handed over to Navi Mumbai police for further action. The escort party personnel are attached to Navi Mumbai police,” said Hari Balaji N, deputy commissioner of police.After being incommunicado for months, Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer, resurfaced at his home town Chandigarh on November 24, two days after the Supreme Court gave him protection from arrest by Maharashtra Police and directed him to join investigations in the pending cases against him.He came back to Mumbai on Thursday and joined investigations in the cases against him being conducted by the Mumbai crime branch and Thane police. Singh is slated to appear this week before the state’s Criminal Investigation Department, which is investigating three cases against him..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-singh-meets-sachin-vaze-privately-for-about-an-hour-mumbai-police-probe-lapse-101638212433934.html
30-11-2021||India||557 women officers granted Permanent Commission since landmark SC order: Govt in Rajya Sabha||The government on Monday told Parliament that 557 short service commission women officers have been granted permanent commission in the Indian Army after the Supreme Court passed an order on February 17, 2020. There has been no delay in granting permanent commission to any woman officer, junior defence minister Ajay Bhatt said in a written response to a question in the Rajya Sabha. “Sixty three eligible women officers have been granted permanent commission” as on November 25, 2021, in line with the Supreme Court judgment, he said, referring to a November 12 order by the apex court. The Supreme Court on November 12 spared the army of contempt proceedings after the force changed its position on denying permanent commission to 72 women short service commission officers, agreeing to grant it to all women officers who have qualified on merit and have no disciplinary or vigilance clearance pending against them. Of the 72 women officers, 36 filed contempt petitions earlier this month in the top court that were taken up for hearing by a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna. These petitions said the Indian Army was in contempt of the apex court’s March 25 order that said all women short service commission officers who qualify with 60% merit, are medically fit, and have secured disciplinary and vigilance clearance, are to be granted permanent commission. In all, 514 women qualified on the basis of the 60% benchmark, of which 442 were given permanent commission; the other 72 were denied this by the selection board that met in September 2020. One officer opted for premature release from service, reducing the number to 71. On November 12, the defence ministry submitted an affidavit stating that out of 36 officers, 21 have since been granted permanent commission upon review and letters in this regard were issued to them on October 29. The case of one officer was under consideration, leaving 14. Of this, the affidavit added, three were found to be medically unfit, while there were serious objections against 11 others. After some prodding from the court, it agreed to grant permanent commission to these 11, and also consider similarly the case of the 36 others who did not file a contempt petition. The women short service commission officers secured their right to permanent commission and command positions in non-combat streams at par with male officers after a prolonged legal battle culminating in the Supreme Court order on February 17, 2020. The women officers again came to the court in September 2020, complaining against the whimsical standards on merit, medical fitness applied by Selection Board to deny them their due. This resulted in the March 25 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/557-women-officers-granted-permanent-commission-since-landmark-sc-order-govt-in-rajya-sabha-101638212310163.html
30-11-2021||India||Opposition to decide on Parliament strategy today, may skip entire winter session||The Congress and 13 other parties may consider boycotting the winter session of Parliament after the bill to repeal three farm laws was passed in both Houses without debate, and 12 opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha were suspended on Monday.Also Read | Bill to repeal farm laws passedBoycotting the rest of the winter session, which began on Monday and will continue till December 23, will be among the options discussed -- along with continuing protests and disrupting proceedings -- at a meeting of opposition parties on Tuesday morning, people aware of developments said.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) will not attend the Congress-led meeting. It called a separate meeting to decide its next course of action, the party’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said. Two TMC MPs were among the 12 lawmakers suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the session.Also Read | Parliament winter session: 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended over ruckus last sessionTwo Opposition strategists told HT that boycotting the session is an option, but the parties have to agree to the plan. The plan will also depend on whether opposition parties get a chance to demand a law to guarantee crop support in Parliament after they failed to debate the farm bill.”We would be left with no other choice but to boycott if we don’t get any opportunity to raise the MSP (minimum support prices) law and related issues,” a Congress strategist said on condition of anonymity.“We will meet tomorrow to decide the future course,” Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) told HT. “We have received suggestions to boycott the session. But we have to talk to our respective parties before talking any collective decision.”Also Read | Parliament winter session: Ready to discuss issues but with dignity, says PM ModiKareem was one of the MPs suspended for their allegedly unruly conduct in the previous session.The suspended MPs for the ongoing session include six from the Congress, two each from the TMC and Shiv Sena, and one each from the Communist Party of India and CPI(M).Rajya Sabha’s leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge will meet other opposition parties on Tuesday morning to discuss the next step. A joint statement of 14 political parties, including Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), said, “The floor leaders of opposition parties of Rajya Sabha will meet tomorrow to deliberate on the future course of action to resist the authoritarian decision of the government and defend parliamentary democracy.”West Bengal’s ruling TMC took an independent stand in isolation from the Congress and decided to take its own call. The party did not come for Monday’s opposition meeting, which was attended by the TRS for the first time. TRS leader K Kesava Rao attacked the government over the passage of the farm repeal bill in the Rajya Sabha,TMC’s reluctance to attend Congress-led meetings comes in the backdrop of growing distance between the two parties, especially after the TMC poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the Congress in recent months.TMC leaders deplored the suspension of their party MPs. They termed the punitive action as unconstitutional and said the accused were not heard before suspending them. “We will have a meeting on Tuesday morning and decide our future course of action within the parliamentary process,” TMC leader Derek O’Brien said.Opposition parties were looking forward to a debate on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill to push for a legal backing for the MSP framework. But with the bill passed amid din on Monday, they will evaluate afresh their chances to discuss any proposed MSP law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-decide-on-parliament-strategy-today-may-skip-entire-winter-session-101638212068709.html
30-11-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Ready to discuss issues but with dignity, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the government is ready to face all questions in Parliament but the decorum of the House and the sanctity of the speaker should be maintained.Also Read | Parliament winter session: 12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended over ruckus last sessionAddressing the media ahead of the winter session that began on Monday, the PM said, we want questions as well as peace, indicating that the government is looking forward to answering questions posed by the opposition but also expects the House proceedings to be conducted smoothly.“The government is ready to discuss all issues and ready to answer all questions. We want questions in Parliament and also peace. Whatever voices are raised against the government or government policies, the dignity of Parliament and the Speaker’s chair should be upheld. We should maintain the sort of conduct that will inspire younger generations,” Modi said.The PM’s reference to the conduct of the House comes in the wake of the disturbances that marked the monsoon session.A few hours after his comments, both houses of Parliament repealed three contentious farm bills, albeit without a debate as sought by opposition parties, provoking protests from Opposition leaders.Congress leader in the House, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said since the bill is listed for consideration and passage, why is there no discussion. He accused the government of taking the House for a ride.The Rajya Sabha also took a decision to suspend 12 Opposition MPs from the house for the entire winter session for their behaviour on August 11, a day when the upper house saw the most disturbance.In his comments, the PM said the measure of the work done in Parliament should be the hours spent on discussion and debate and not disruptions.He expressed hope that in the spirit of Amrit Mahotsav (the celebration of the 75th year of Indian independence) law makers would find ways for progress of the country and the session is know for “constructive decisions”.“I hope in future, how Parliament was run and how constructive the proceedings were should be the measure and not how it was disrupted,” he said.In the wake of reports about a new variant spreading through various countries, the PM said the country needs to be more vigilant and alert. He said the country is inching towards administering 1.5 billion doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-ready-to-discuss-issues-but-with-dignity-says-pmmodi-101638211768789.html
30-11-2021||India||Don’t precipitate inquiry against Bengal’s Alapan Bandopadhyay, SC orders Centre||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre not to precipitate action in the disciplinary proceedings initiated against former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay as it reserved orders on an appeal by the Centre challenging the Calcutta High Court order that that stayed transfer of the disciplinary case pending against the bureaucrat from Kolkata to Delhi. An assurance in this regard was extended by solicitor general Tushar Mehta after senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for Bandopadhyay told the court that the Centre is precipitating the matter with the next hearing of the disciplinary enquiry kept on Tuesday.“We are reserving the matter for orders. Till we decide, do not precipitate the enquiry,” the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said. Mehta said, “Till the court decides, we will not.”Bandopadhyay, a 1987 batch IAS officer from West Bengal cadre retired as West Bengal chief secretary on May 31 this year after the Centre ordered him to report to the central government on deputation. The sudden transfer order came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Kolkata on May 28 to review the destruction caused by cyclone ‘Yaas’.Bandopadhyay, who was accompanying chief minister Mamata Banerjee, did not attend the meeting chaired by the prime minister during his Bengal visit. The IAS officer, who has since then been appointed special adviser to Banerjee, was with Mamata Banerjee when she handed over a report to PM Modi on the cyclone situation, and left during the meeting to assist her visit to the remaining cyclone-ravaged areas.On his last day in office, the IAS officer was served a show-cause notice under section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act 2005 (NDMA). On June 16, a major penalty charge sheet was issued to him by the Centre under the All India Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969 for missing PM Modi’s meeting.Bandopadhyay approached the central administrative tribunal (CAT) at Kolkata as retired government servants can file petition at the place where they are residing after retirement. However, the CAT principal bench issued an order transferring the case to itself at Delhi. This order was passed on October 22 against which he approached the Calcutta high court and obtained a stay.Challenging the high court relief granted on October 29, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the top court that the high court was without jurisdiction to pass orders as the order under challenge was passed by CAT principal bench at Delhi against which a challenge will only lie in the Delhi high court. Mehta also objected to the disparaging remarks made by the high court in its order where it said that the modus operandi of the Centre “reeks of malafide”.Mehta said, “These are observations coloured with political overtones. High court has to be circumspect and sober in its comments and these are not acceptable.”The high court judgment also attacked the CAT principal bench terming its order to transfer the case as an overzealous act thereby “paying obeisance to the diktat of the Union of India.”Singhvi said the officer in question never intended to disparage or hurt anyone and argued that the petition by Centre was not maintainable since it will imply that all retired employees will be forced to approach Delhi to suit the Centre’s convenience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-precipitate-inquiry-against-bengal-s-alapan-bandopadhyay-sc-orders-centre-101638211415578.html
30-11-2021||India||House panel on IT questions Facebook officials over algorithms promoting hate speech||The parliamentary panel on information technology led by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor questioned officials from Facebook regarding allegations by whistleblowers that the social media company’s algorithms promoted hate speech in India, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.“It was an intensive two-long meeting where MPs from across party lines sought answers from Facebook about whether or not the algorithms actually promote prevalence of hate speech,” a person said on the condition of anonymity.Also Read | Facebook convinced poll panel to settle on a voluntary codeThe meeting, which was attended by at least 15 of 30 members, also asked Facebook to give details about the kind of action the company has taken to curb any partisan policies or enforcement in writing. “The company was also asked about its content moderators, how many it has in India and what all languages are covered,” the person mentioned above added. “No one is prepared to accept that all is well and nothing wrong is happening. It was not an adversarial meeting, the persistent questions focused on getting at the nitty gritty of the issue.”Facebook did not respond to requests for a comment.HT has learnt that committee chairperson Tharoor also sought the members’ consent to call Facebook whistleblower Sophie Zhang to speak before the panel. “The panel was unanimous in saying that she should be invited to speak. Protocol will be followed and the request will be routed through the Speaker’s office,” the person quoted above said.Zhang has shared details with the panel, which is analysing the material.Last month, former Facebook employee Frances Haugen sent a complaint to the US Securities and Exchange Commission citing internal documents that back some of these allegations. Haugen has already testified before the US Senate and UK Parliament.Zhang has earlier exposed the company’s partisan policy in removing inauthentic accounts from the social media platform, some of which were ahead of the 2020 Delhi elections, she told HT in an interview last month. Zhang is among several former Facebook employees and contractors who have said that the company’s policies and management are leading to harm. In a tweet last month, she had also said she would be willing to testify before the Indian Parliament.Also Read | Submit data on complaints: Delhi assembly panel to FacebookThe disclosed documents contend users, groups and pages linked to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh promote Islamophobia and “fear mongering”, and that the company failed to put “forth a nomination or designation” for other right-wing groups such as the Bajrang Dal given “political sensitiveness”.This, however, was not the first time Facebook has been accused of not censoring political content related to the party power. Last year, the Wall Street Journal reported the company’s ostensible reluctance in acting against Telangana BJP leader T Raja Singh, who made comments denigrating Muslim people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-on-it-questions-facebook-officials-over-algorithms-promoting-hate-speech-101638211228619.html
30-11-2021||India||How to read today’s GDP numbers?||The National Statistical Office (NSO) will release GDP data for the July-September quarter of the current fiscal year today. In its October meeting, the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee projected a GDP growth of 7.9% for this period. A Bloomberg forecast of 14 economists has projected the number to be 8.1%. The headline number aside, how should one read today’s GDP numbers? Here are five charts that answer this question.Base effect will continue to play a big role in the GDP growth numbersIndia’s GDP fell by a record 7.3% in 2020-21. This was largely on account of the massive contraction in the first half (April-September) in 2020-21 because of the 68-day nationwide lockdown that began on March 25, 2020. India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 24.4% and 7.4% in the quarters ending June 2020 and September 2020.Economic activity inched back to normal with a GDP growth of 0.5% and 1.6% in the quarters ending December 2020 and March 2021. While GDP growth in the June quarter was 20.1%, in absolute terms, GDP was lower than that in the corresponding pre-pandemic quarter of June 2019.The economic disruption due to the second wave of Covid-19, which it peaked on May 9 in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases, played a major role in derailing economic momentum once again in the June quarter. If the central bank’s projection of 7.9% holds for the September quarter, GDP for the quarter ( ₹35.56 lakh crore at 2011-12 prices) will still be marginally lower than that in the September 2019 (35.61 lakh crore). However, if the Bloomberg projection holds, the September number (35.63 lakh crore) will be higher than the pre-pandemic value. This small difference notwithstanding, the base effect should be kept in mind while reading the growth numbers.Growth by sectors will be far more interestingThe pandemic did not affect all parts of the economy the same way. Agriculture, for example, did not suffer a contraction even when the lockdown was the harshest. Sectors such as finance and knowledge based services – it was the easiest for them to shift to remote work methods – did not suffer much during the pandemic.On the other hand, contact intensive services suffered the most. This is best seen in a comparison of June 2019 Gross Value Added (GVA) numbers by sectors with the June figures. It shows a great variation in the extent of recovery, or lack of it, across sectors. It will be worth watching for in the September GVA numbers as well. The sector-wise nature of recovery matters because the employment intensity of sectors varies significantly.High frequency indicators suggest the formal economy did well in the September quarterIf high frequency indicators such as Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) and Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) are any indicators, the formal economy made a strong comeback from the disruption from the second wave of the pandemic. PMI Manufacturing fell to 48.1 in June but jumped to 55.3 in July and has stayed above the critical threshold of 50 since then. A reading above 50 shows expansion. PMI Services also jumped above 50 in August. NIBRI crossed the psychological threshold of 100 for the first time after the pandemic in the week ending August 15 and has stayed above 100 since then.These numbers might not tell the informal sector storyThe gap between formal and informal parts of the Indian economy has widened in the post-pandemic period. Some statistics that offer a good proxy for the state of the informal economy, especially its labour markets, suggest that this gap might have persisted during the September quarter as well.Demand for rural jobs guarantee work has not declined despite a sharp recovery in formal sector high frequency indicators. Rural wages, which are a bellwether for blue-collar employment, had not recovered to pre-pandemic levels until August, the latest period for which data is available. Informal sector numbers take time to show in the GDP statistics, and today’s numbers must be read with this caveat in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-read-today-s-gdp-numbers-101638211229139.html
30-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 30, 1967 — West Bengal Assembly prorogued; Speaker adjourns House, holds Ghosh Government illegal||Calcutta - The West Bengal Legislative Assembly was prorogued tonight. The Secretary of the Assembly, announcing this, said the “Governor has directed that the Assembly do stand prorogued with effect from Nov. 30.” This followed an unprecedented ruling of Speaker Bijoy Banerjee in the State Assembly earlier in the day that the dismissal of the Ajoy Mukherjee Ministry was illegal. Mr Banerjee, who was elected Speaker with the backing of the UF, declared that he was adjourning the House since he was satisfied that prima facie the dissolution of the Mukherjee Ministry, the appointment of Dr Ghosh as Chief Minister and the summoning of the Assembly on his advice were unconstitutional and invalid. The Speaker held that these decisions were effected “behind the back of this House.” According to him, the only authority competent to decide whether or not a Council of Ministers should continue in office “is this House.” He questioned the discretion of the Governor in regard to the appointment of Ministers refused to recognize Dr Ghosh’s Ministry and expressed “grave doubts” about the validity of this session of the Assembly. Pending a full and proper examination of the issues involved, he said, he was adjourning the House sine die in exercise of powers vested in him under Rule 15 of the rules of procedure. No UF motion Immediately after the House dispersed, Dr Ghosh’s Progressive Democratic Front and the Congress Assembly party at an emergency joint meeting decided to table no-confidence motions against the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker. In their view the Assembly was still in session. A letter signed by 146 members (128 Congress and 18 PDF) was sent to the Speaker, with a copy to the Governor, stating that the Speaker had no right or jurisdiction to go over the order of the Governor dismissing the Mukherjee Ministry. They regretted that the Speaker had thought it fit to pass a “wholly illegal and unjustified” order adjourning the House and declared that his action was a “total nullity” and beyond his legal competence. Significantly, the United Front had ‘ not tabled a motion of no-confidence in the Ghosh Ministry nor was it willing to face a vote of confidence tabled by the PDF and the Congress Party. The adjournment of the Assembly has no impact on the Ghosh Ministry which continues in power. There is no constitutional breakdown since the Ministry has not been defeated in the House nor has it been dismissed by the Governor. Some constitutional method has, however, to be found in case the Speaker refuses to reconvene the Assembly to face the no-confidence motion against him. This is being examined by legal experts. Tense atmosphere The Assembly met in tense atmosphere. In view of elaborate police precautions, there could be no march to the Assembly by UP supporters. But UF MLAs entered the House in a militant mood, shouting anti-Ghosh slogans. Dr Ghosh, who had occupied his seat on the treasury benches, took the insults calmly. However, immediately after the Speaker had left the House, opposition members surged towards the Chief Minister and one of them threw a wooden piece on Dr Ghosh. A few books and other things were also hurled on Dr Ghosh. As a result, Dr Ghosh was slightly injured. Reacting sharply to the incidents in the House, Dr Ghosh said: “They (UF MLAs) have behaved like cowards. I will not be cowed down by such goondaism. If they want to behave in this way, they will have to face the consequences.” UF MLAs were understandably overjoyed by the Speaker’s action. Mr Jyoti Basu commented: “History has been created. A great fight for democracy has been put up by the Speaker.” Talking to newsmen in his chamber, the Speaker made a grievance that he had not been invited to the swearing-in ceremony of the Ghosh Ministry at Raj Bhavan. He came to know of the dismissal of the Mukherjee Ministry and the assumption of office of the Ghosh Ministry only through radio. ‘I’he Governor had done everything behind the Speaker. He said he had only adjourned the House sine die. This did not mean that the session was over. He did not know when he could recall the Assembly. He would take time since he had to examine the constitutional position regarding the new Ministry. Some Congress members tried to raise objections when the Speaker read his statement, but he did not give way. Congress members were saying that since the Speaker had adjourned the House in his opening remarks, the rest of his statement from the chair had no validity. Speaking to newsmen outside the House, Mr Bejoy Singh Nahar, deputy leader of the Congress Party, said: “The Soeaker cannot criticize the Governor’s actions nor can the House discuss any such action on the floor.” Mr Pratap Chandra Chunder, secretary of the Congress Assembly party, said the Speaker’s action was illegal. The UF had been given a chance to prove their strength, if they thought they had the majority. But by creating disorder, they had exposed their own weakness. The following is the full text of the Speaker’s speech: “Honourable members, this House meets under extraordinary circumstances. I am prima facie satisfied that the dessolution of the Ministry headed by Shri Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee, the appointment of Dr P. C. Ghosh as Chief Minister and the summoning of this House on his advice is unconstitutional and in valid since it has been effected behind the back of this House. Pending a full and proper examination of the matter, in exercise of the powers vested in me under Rule 15 of the rules of procedure of this Assembly. I adjourn the House sine die. “The House will remember that when it was prorogued on Aug. 3, the Council of Ministers was headed by Chief Minister Ajoy Mukherjee and others. This was the Council of Ministers that was collectively responsible to this House in terms of Article 164(2) of the Constitution. “As I understand the constitutional position, the only authority competent to decide whether or not a Council of Ministers should continue in office is this House. An adverse vote against the Council of Ministers in this House necessarily leads to a position when that particular Council of Ministers no longer enjoys the confidence of this House and hence its continuance in office would be a violation of Article 164(2) of the Constitution. ‘High precedent’“I am happy to state that this understanding of mine is supported by high precedent. In March 1945, the then Government of Bengal was defeated in a vote taken on the demand for a grant in respect of agriculture.“The question arose as to the constitutional consequence of such a defeat. At that time my predecessor in office, Shri Nausher Ali, put the essence of the matter in clear terms. “To quote him: “Sir Nazimuddin (the then Chief Minister) said yesterday that he would treat this as a snap division and not a censure. I am afraid the constitutional position has not been properly conceived. The Ministry is the creature of the House. This House can make and unmake the Ministry and the Governor is but the registering authority of the House. Any other course, I am afraid. would strike at the very root of democracy.” “No doubt the circumstances facing Shri Nausher Ali were different. But the essence of the matter, namely, that this House is the supreme authority in regard to making and unmaking ministries, is the same. And this statement came from the lips of a presiding officer of this House when India was not free. Today when a sovereign Indian people have given to themselves a Constitution, surely the authority of this House has increased and not diminished. Governor’s position “This is why I find it extremely difficult to recognize Dr Prafulla Chandra Ghosh as Chief Minister and his colleagues Mr Harendra Nath Majumdar and Mr Amir Ali Mollah as members of the Council of Ministers. Both the text of the articles of the Constitution and the precedent quoted above recognize no discretion in the Governor in respect of the appointment of the Council of Ministers. He is merely a registering authority to use the expression of my predecessor, an authority whose constitutional duty is to recognize and implement the decisions of this House. “To an extent I have attempted to examine the method of which behind the back of this august Assembly, the Council of Ministers responsible to it has been removed. It would appear that on 21-11-6’7 the Governor of this State issued an order under Article 164(1) whereby he proposed to order that the Chief Minister, Mr Aloy Kumar Mukherjee, shall cease to hold office with immediate effect. He further “directed that the Council of Ministers headed by him stands dissolved and other Ministers cease to hold office.‘Prima facie’ “A careful reading of Article 164(1) does not disclose the vesting of any such power of dissolution of a Council of Ministers by a Governor. Hence I do not find any legal basis for the act of dissolution. “I may also mention that the argument has been advanced that the words in Article 164(1) ‘the Ministers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Governor’ vest in the Governor me power to dismiss a Ministry. But this argument is without merit. For the same expression ‘pleasure of the Governor’ finds place in Article 165(3) with regard to the appointment of the Advocate-General. And none will question the appointment of the Advocate-General is not within the Governor’s discretion but has to be done on the advice of the Council of Ministers. “On a prima facie examination of the constitutional questions involved, I find it impossible to recognize as legal, valid and constitutional the dissolution of the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee. “It follows then that the appointment of the Council of Ministers headed by Dr P. C. Ghosh as Chief Minister is invalid and unconstitutional. “The order by which the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Ajoy Mukherje was dissolved is dated 21-11-67. This Assembly, however, has been summoned ‘ under an order of the Governor which was issued only on 22.11.67. In view of this I am unable to appreciate how this session of this Assembly can have any constitutional or legal validity. For if the order of the Governor of 21-11-67 is illegal and unconstitutional, evidently the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee not only continues in office but it alone is competent to advise the Governor on the manner in which he is to exercise his powers under Article 174(1), namely, the power to summon this Assembly. And only an Assembly summoned by the Governor acting under such advice would be validly and properly summoned. I must, therefore, confess my grave doubts about the validity of this session of the Assembly. His duty “Honourable members will appreciate that the Constitution and the rules of procedure charge me with the high responsibility of protecting the dignity and privileges of this august Assembly. And I would be failing in my duty if I did not uphold the rights and powers of this House in the face of attempts to infringe and restrict such rights. “The matters in issue are of higher constitutional importance. It is my regret that when an attempt was made to refer them for the opinion of the Supreme Court under Article 143 such attempt was frustrated. It is beyond dispute that the issues go to the very root of democracy. It is obvious, therefore, that if I am to find out how exactly I should act so as to preserve and protect the privileges of this House I should need more time and then only give a considered ruling on the grave issues at stake. “This is why in exercise of my powers under Rule 15. I have adjourned the House sine die.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-30-1967-west-bengal-assembly-prorogued-speaker-adjourns-house-holds-ghosh-government-illegal-101638211109117.html
30-11-2021||India||No plan to recognise Bitcoin, Sitharaman tells Parliament||The government is not considering any proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency in India, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told Parliament on Monday.In a written reply to a specific question – whether the government has any proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency in the country – Sitharaman said: “No, sir.” The query on Bitcoin was jointly raised in the Lok Sabha by two members of Parliament.The government plans to introduce a bill in the Parliament’s ongoing winter session to ban all private cryptocurrencies, or virtual currencies (VCs). Bitcoin is one of the popular private cryptocurrencies.Replying to another question on a similar matter in the House, minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary on Monday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in October, proposed including digital currency in the definition of a bank note, something that will require an amendment to the RBI Act, 1934. “Cryptocurrencies are unregulated in India,” he added. Private VCs do not carry any sovereign guarantee and offer anonymity, unlike a fiat currency. The government has scheduled the introduction of the “Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021” in the Winter Session of Parliament with the purpose to “prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India”, but the bill will have “certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses”, according to a bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha last week.The government, however, intends to move ahead with a plan to authorise RBI to float its own digital currency. Technically known as a central bank digital currency (CBDC), these are distinct from cryptocurrencies in the manner that they are regulated by a centralised authority – the central bank.On another specific query – whether the government is aware that Bitcoin transaction is silently blooming in India in the recent years – Sitharaman said: “The government does not collect data on Bitcoin transactions.”The currency is not banned and the government has initiated the process of enacting a law to regulate VCs.There’s also a school of thought that believes the government could continue to allow cryptocurrencies as an asset class (like mutual funds), not currency. “It has been stated position of the government that it does not consider private cryptocurrencies as legal tender, and it will take all measures to eliminate use of these assets as a payment system, which can often be used in financing illegitimate activities,” an official aware of the development said, requesting anonymity.Earlier in 2018, the central bank cautioned both people and its regulated entities such as scheduled commercial banks against the risks associated with cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, and advised banks not to deal with such currencies. The Supreme Court, however, set aside the RBI circular on March 4, 2020.Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das sounded an alarm on cryptocurrencies, cautioning investors on the potential pitfalls of the digital currencies. The central bank says private VCs pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country, and also doubted the number of investors trading on them as well as their claimed market value.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-recognise-bitcoin-sitharaman-tells-parliament-101638210869169.html
30-11-2021||India||Bill to repeal farm laws passed||It took three minutes in the Lok Sabha and 35 in the Rajya Sabha to pass a legislation repealing three contentious farm laws amid protests by opposition parties on Monday.The bill now awaits the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind for the formal withdrawal of the three laws, whose repeal was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 after yearlong protests by farmer groups who opposed the pieces of legislation that were aimed at liberalising farm trade.“During the Covid period, farmers worked hard to increase production and fulfil the needs of the nation. As we celebrate the 75th Year of Independence — ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development,” said the statement of objects and reasons of the repeal bill.The legislation noted that “the operation of the aforesaid farm laws has been stayed” by the Supreme Court. The statement also mentioned that “even though only a group of farmers” were protesting, the government “tried hard to sensitise them” on the importance of the farm laws and explain the merits.Opposition parties, who planned to use the opportunity to demand a law on guaranteed crop prices and corner the government on agricultural issues, will meet on Tuesday to decide a future course of action. Farm unions, who led a yearlong agitation against the three laws, welcomed the repeal but criticised the government for passing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, without any discussion.Protests by the Opposition erupted as soon as the Winter Session of Parliament began at 11am. By that time, government managers had indicated in the business advisory committee meeting of the respective Houses that the bill would be passed without debate, said people aware of the developments. They had argued in those closed-door meetings that repeal bills didn’t require a debate and a divisive discussion could be avoided when everyone wanted the laws to be repealed.To be sure, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said at least five times that he would allow the debate, but protesting opposition leaders who had trooped in the Well of the House didn’t stop protests. “Today, at the start of the Winter Session, when we took up the bill in Lok Sabha for repealing, why did Opposition create ruckus? What is Opposition’s intention behind delaying the repeal bill?” asked parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi.In the Rajya Sabha, leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge spoke briefly.“There would be elections in five states. And they (the ruling side) thought that after the recent bypoll results (where the Bharatiya Janata Party suffered some reverses) , what might happen in those state elections. So, they turned their attention to these bills,” he said. He also said that lawmakers in both Houses, non-governmental organisations and farmers maintained that the bills were not helpful for farmers, but the government didn’t listen.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hit back at Kharge. “The Congress in its manifesto had promised to bring these bills. Now they have a double standards. We brought the bill for farmers’ welfare. Since we couldn’t convince all farmers, the PM showed a historic magnanimity,” the minister said.After the bill was passed, Tomar also pointed out that procurement under the minimum support price (MSP) regime had doubled since 2014, when Narendra Modi swept to power at the Centre. “Earlier only wheat and paddy came under the MSP. But now, under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, MSP procurement also covers oilseeds, pulses and cotton,” he said.Government functionaries gave out data to show that in 1998 and 2006, two bills were passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the same day. Opposition leaders argued that in 22 cases, repeal bills were discussed and debated in the House before passage.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the way the repeal bill was passed was “an insult to the farmers”. “We wanted to discuss MSP (issue), we wanted to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, we wanted to discuss the 700 farmers who died in this agitation and unfortunately that discussion has not been allowed,” Gandhi said, alleging that the laws were withdrawn for the upcoming assembly elections.The reference was to the deaths of eight people in violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri last month. Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, is one of the accused in the case.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were passed in September last year. Almost immediately, protests began in the grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana and snowballed into a full-blown political uprising, spreading to several states in the course of a year, including Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.The three laws were aimed at opening up farm trade but farm unions said the legislation left them at the mercy of large corporations. During a nationally televised address on November 19, PM Modi said his government will withdraw the three laws. The decision came ahead of high-stakes elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential bloc.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 farm unions, said the repeal was proof of success of its yearlong agitation. It vowed to continue the farmers’ movement until all their “rightful demands” were met.Also Read | Farm laws repealed: First major victory of farmers’ protest, says SKM“History has been made today. This is the first major victory of the farmers’ movement today, while other important demands are still pending,” a joint statement by farm unions, issued through the SKM, stated.Ahead of the Parliament session, Tomar appealed to farmers to end their agitation. Key farm leaders responded by saying they would wait till December 4 for a response on a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, enlisting their demands that are yet to be met.Besides a statutory guarantee for MSP, the farmers want a parcel of land for a memorial to peasants who died during the yearlong protests and all criminal cases slapped against farmers during the course of their agitation to be withdrawn.They have also sought changes to a proposed electricity bill to keep energy prices cheap for farmers and modifications to an anti-pollution law in force in the national capital region that includes provisions to penalise farmers burning paddy straw, the cause of the deadly winter smog in north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-repeal-farm-laws-passed-101638210810517.html
30-11-2021||India||No fatalities linked to new variant but WHO cautious||The World Health Organization (WHO) warned on Monday the new Covid-19 Omicron variant poses a “very high” risk globally, despite uncertainties about its behaviour that will be established only in the next few weeks, as more countries rolled out new curbs to keep the mutation at bay.Also Read | ‘Be alert to threat of Omicron’: PM Modi warns amid rising concernsThe global health body said it was coordinating with a large number of researchers around the world to better understand Omicron, with studies underway, including assessments of transmissibility, severity of infection (including symptoms), performance of vaccines and diagnostic tests, and effectiveness of treatments.For now, Omicron appears to be a “highly divergent variant with a high number of mutations... the likelihood of potential further spread of Omicron at the global level is high,” the WHO cautioned in a technical note.To date, no deaths connected with the new variant of concern (VOC) have been reported, it added. But even if “another surge of Covid-19 takes place driven by Omicron, consequences may be severe”, the agency added.Researchers in South Africa, where the variant was first discovered and where the largest numbers of people confirmed to be infected with it are, said their early assessments show Omicron is more transmissible than its predecessors, but existing vaccines are still likely to offer good protection against severe illness and death.Also Read | India offers vaccines, medical supplies to support African countries hit by Omicron variantSalim Karim, a South African clinical infectious disease epidemiologist, said on Monday that there is no need to panic, AP reported. “We know how to assess this and adjust our strategies accordingly,” he said during an online briefing.South Africa anticipates that it will be detecting more than 10,000 new coronavirus cases by the end of the week, up from fewer than 3,000 on Saturday, with hospital admissions already showing a slight increase.Nations around the world sought to keep the variant at bay with travel bans and further restrictions.Japan announced it was restricting the arrivals of all international passengers, and Australia said it will delay its planned reopening of borders to foreign citizens migrating for study and work.Elsewhere, more regions confirmed they have detected the new VOC: Canada said it detected two cases in people linked to travel with Nigeria, and Scotland said it found two cases of local transmission and 13 people were discovered to have contracted it at a Portuguese soccer club.Besides South Africa and UK, Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Italy, Czech Republic and Australia have confirmed cases of the variant.Even as countries consider these steps, experts and scientists said the true nature of the threat will only become clearer over the next couple of weeks. “What we do not know yet is vaccine efficacy – what is the impact of the variant on vaccine protection. This will only become clear in the next one or two weeks,” Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, said in an interview to CNBC on Monday.“I don’t believe many people would have predicted such a big jump in evolution in one variant,” he said.Both Moderna and BioNTech, the developers of the two successful mRNA vaccines, said they are exploring Omicron-targeting doses which could be ready within the next three months.WHO in its note on Monday said countries should enhance their surveillance to try to get a clear overview of where and how fast it is spreading and urged accelerated vaccinations, especially among vulnerable populations who have yet to receive any jabs.But it has cautioned against imposing travel bans, fearing that blocking travel from countries where new variants are first spotted could be unfair and dissuade surveillance.The UK government has asked its experts to consider the merits of expanding the booster program to millions more people under the age of 40 and cutting the time period for a third jab.Anthony Harnden, deputy chair of the Joint Committee on Vaccinations and Immunisations, told the BBC that it was “really important that we get the immunity levels in the population high” in case the Omicron variant is more transmissible or protection from the vaccines is reduced.India on Sunday unveiled new guidelines for international travellers, dropping vaccinations as a condition to exempt people from mandatory test-on-arrival if they are travelling from a list of “at risk” countries.Now, anyone flying in from these regions will need to wait at the airport till test results arrive, and will be taken to isolation facilities if they are found infected, following which samples will be genotyped to see if the pathogen they are carrying is Omicron. Those who test negative will need to quarantine at home for a week and take a test on the eighth day mandatorily.All European and most southern African countries are on the list of 12 at-risk regions identified by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fatalities-linked-to-new-variant-but-who-cautious-101638210747975.html
30-11-2021||India||Bombay high court asks Centre for update on proposed cryptocurrency bill||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Union government to update it on the proposed cryptocurrency legislation expected to be tabled during Parliament’s ongoing winter session.The high court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions for the government to enact appropriate laws to address the growing threat of cryptocurrencies and malpractices at trading platforms. The petition, filed by advocate Aditya Kadam, stated that in the absence of appropriate legislation and statutory authority, aggrieved persons do not have a redressal mechanism.Investors face problems as their rights were being violated and their investments were at risk as the cryptocurrency business in India is unregulated, Kadam said.The HC bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice M S Karnik then asked the Centre to update it on the proposed legislation and posted the matter for hearing on January 17, 2022..Also Read: No proposal to recognise bitcoin as currency, finance ministry says in Lok SabhaA bill seeking “to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India” is among 26 legislations planned to be brought to Parliament in the winter session, which started on Monday.Kadam argued that the Centre had made a statement regarding the issue in 2018 as well, but no action was taken thereafter. The court said it would take up the issue at a later stage.India currently has no regulation on cryptocurrencies, a set of decentralised digital currencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum that are not overseen by any sovereign banking regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-ask-centre-for-update-on-crypto-currency-bill-101638177566829.html
30-11-2021||India||No panel set up for national jobs policy: Minister||The minister for state for labour and employment Rameswar Teli has said in a written reply to a Parliament question that the Union government has not set up any committee to frame a proposed national employment policy.The minister said the government had launched three employment surveys, namely the All-India Quarterly Establishment-Based Employment Survey (AQEES), the All-India Survey on Migrant Workers and the All-India Survey on Domestic Workers.“Information gathered through these surveys would enable the government to understand significant issues and help to frame evidence-based National Employment Policy,” the minister said in his reply. But “at present there is no such committee” to create a National Employment Policy, he added in his answer.Based on an earlier interaction with officials aware of the development, HT in a report on Monday said that the government would set up an expert committee to frame a draft national employment policy that will likely have employment targets in sectors with potential for mass employment.In his response, the minister added that the Union government had taken “various steps for generating employment in the country” such as projects involving substantial investment and increasing public expenditure on schemes like the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY) and Deendayal Antodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission.The Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana was also launched in October 2020 as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package 3.0 to incentivise employers for the creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister said.Five ongoing surveys of the labour markets are expected to help formulate policies for both formal and informal segments of the economy. They will also help design social security measures for workers, including those employed in the gig economy.The surveys are critical as they will provide insights into the employment and socioeconomic condition of migrants and other informal workers.In September, the government released the results of the first All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey (AQEES) for the April-June 2021 quarter. The AQEES showed a 29% increase in employment in nine sectors during the peak Covid-19 months of April-June 2021 over a base of 2013-14. The survey showed a jump in jobs in sectors such as IT, business process outsourcing and manufacturing.Along with the latest survey, the AQEES is part of four other annual surveys conducted by the labour bureau. These are the All-India Survey of Migrant Workers, All-India Survey of Domestic Workers, All-India Survey of Employment Generated by Professionals and All-India Survey of Employment Generated in the Transport Sector.India lacks an official short-term, high-frequency jobs data and the AQEES is meant to fill the critical gap. Economists usually depend on the Periodic Labour Force Survey, a government jobs survey, or data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private data firm.According to the latest data from the CMIE, India’s unemployment rate in October 2021 rose to 7.75% from a three-month low of 6.86% in September 2021.(This story has been updated to incorporate the minister’s answer in Parliament)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-panel-set-up-for-national-jobs-policy-labour-minister-101638123441784.html
30-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: Govt imposes new rules for arrivals from 'at-risk' nations||The government on Sunday said that international arrivals will now have to upload their 14-day travel history and valid negative RT-PCR test reports on Air Suvidha portal before embarking on their journey to India amid threats of Covid's omicron variant looming large.The RT-PCR test report should not be more than 72 hours old.The government in its order also said that passengers travelling from countries that are categorised as ‘at-risk’ will have to undergo testing on arrival. If the passengers test positive, their samples will be sent to INSACOG for genomic sequencing and they will be sent to institutional quarantine. If they test negative, they will be asked to remain in home quarantine for seven days following which they will take a test on the 8th day and continue monitoring their health for the next 7 days.The government said that the rules will be effective from December 1. The government also said that 5% of the passengers not travelling from the at-risk nations will also be subjected to random testing. The tests for passengers from ‘at-risk’ nations will be self-paid while the cost of the random tests will be borne by the civil aviation ministry.The countries assigned at-risk by the government are - South Africa, China, the United Kingdom, European countries, Bangladesh, Brazil, Botswana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel.The government earlier held meetings with top officials and the health ministry over the omicron variant. The decision to resume regular international flight services from December 15 will be reviewed in the changed situation, the government said.Omicron, which was first found in southern African nations has been detected in several European nations and has led to travel bans and imposition of fresh restrictions on several parts of the world.The variant is feared to be more contagious than the previous variants and experts also fear if it may affect the ability of the vaccines against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-govt-imposes-new-rules-for-arrivals-from-at-risk-nations-101638116231753.html
