01-04-2021||---||The new detente||On the eve of its birth in December 1971, Henry Kissinger proclaimed that an independent Bangladesh would be an ‘international basket case’, dependent forever on foreign aid for its survival. Like in everything they said and did, during the Bangladesh liberation struggle, Kissinger and his boss President Nixon were soon proved wrong. Bangladesh has substantially outpaced Pakistan in virtually every social and economic indicator. At the same time, Sheikh Hasina has skilfully managed her relations with China, the West, India and other friends, to their mutual benefit.It is Pakistan, which is today an ‘international basket case’, constantly looking for doles from China, and G20 nations, apart from international financial institutions, like the World Bank, IMF and Asian Development Bank. It is also struggling to repay its debts and borrowing from Chinese banks to meet its repayment liabilities. Bangladesh is, however, fiscally and economically strong. It is important to bear these facts in mind, when looking for options when dealing with Pakistan.The warmth with which PM Modi was received in Bangladesh is testimony to how people in Bangladesh still remember the affection with which India received 9 million refugees. The refugees had been driven out of their homes by the depredations of Pakistan’s Gen Tikka Khan. This was an occasion to remember nationally, with Modi praising Indira Gandhi for her decisive leadership in 1971.Time has moved on, and Bangladesh is today one of the leading exporters of textile products globally. It is proud of its achievements in key human development indicators, like women’s education. India and Bangladesh have resolved their age-old differences, including the demarcation of their land and maritime frontiers. It would, however, be only appropriate to exercise due restraint while speaking on issues of Bangladeshi immigrants in India.While Bangladesh has made rapid strides in boosting exports, accelerating economic growth and improving human development indicators, the same cannot be said of Pakistan. Islamabad is falling well behind Bangladesh in virtually all development indicators. Apart from fomenting tensions within Bangladesh by its links with radical Islamic groups like the Jamaat-e-Islami and Hefazat-e-Islam, Pakistan has done little to promote economic cooperation with Bangladesh, either bilaterally or regionally.Having already handed over the Shaksgam Valley in J&K to China, the stage is now being set for China to progressively take over the control of Gilgit-Baltistan, with its growing economic and military presence there. It is only a question of time before China takes over greater control of the port of Gwadar, which it has built in Balochistan. Beijing is already experienced in such takeovers, after assuming control of Sri Lanka’s Hambantota Port. Moreover, Pakistan is in contract for the purchase of four Chinese frigates and eight submarines from China — a move that will only enhance Pakistan’s immense external debt.Amidst these developments, came an unexpected announcement on February 25, from the Directors General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan. This announcement was made amidst continuing incidents of ceasefire violations across the LoC in J&K. India and Pakistan sought to address each other's concerns by agreeing to strictly observe the provisions of all agreements for a ceasefire. It would be reasonable to conclude that discreet ‘back-channel’ discussions had paved the way for this decision. Pakistan army chief General Bajwa went a step further on March 16. He averred that it is ‘time to bury the past and move forward’. Not surprisingly, his statement was hedged and accompanied by conditions like ‘India would have to create a conducive environment, particularly in Indian Occupied Kashmir’. This was predictably accompanied with the usual ‘blackmail mantra’ that both countries possess nuclear weapons.While Imran Khan has been less than diplomatic in his references to India, General Bajwa has been more restrained. He is more nuanced and sophisticated in his references to India than his predecessor Gen Raheel Sharif. This is not a new feature. While General Musharraf was initially hawkish, he learnt his lessons from the fiasco he led the Pakistan army into, in Kargil. Cross-border terrorism ended in 2003, and a framework for resolving the issue of J&K was broadly agreed upon. Musharraf’s chosen successor, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, disowned everything Musharraf agreed to. Kayani was responsible for the 26/11 terrorist attack by the LeT on Mumbai. Musharraf himself was initially very different from his predecessor, Jehangir Karamat, a soft-spoken officer, careful about his rhetoric and decision making. There is no guarantee that Bajwa’s successor will carry forward what his predecessor has initiated. Bajwa, under extension, is scheduled to retire in November 2022. It is, therefore, logical to recognise that unless something untoward happens, we can be reasonably assured that a carefully crafted dialogue process, largely behind the scenes, can be crafted. The only fly in the ointment would be the tempestuous Imran Khan.Pakistan will, hopefully, learn that India is not going to be guided by Islamabad’s demands on the dialogue process, or on J&K. The entire process of taking forward the constitutional changes in J&K will be determined by India, at a pace decided by its government and people. Relations with Pakistan will hopefully focus on the ‘Four Ts’ — trade, travel, transit and tourism. Talks on J&K are best left to a ‘back channel’.India will have to carry forward its efforts to strengthen its strategic autonomy, even while moving ahead on Quad. It will continue to work on its ties with Russia, while strengthening its relations with Japan, France and the UK. Neighbours like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Myanmar, are now clear about India’s strategic compulsions. There is, however, much still to be done to get friends in ASEAN to show greater unity in dealing with territorial challenges posed by China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-new-detente-232930
01-04-2021||---||No roadmap to double farmers’ income||Finally, the bluff of doubling farmers’ income has been called. Not by any critic of the government, but by Dr Ramesh Chand, Member (Agriculture) of the Niti Aayog. No, it was not a confession. You don’t expect that from functionaries in the Narendra Modi government. Rather, the truth tumbled out in the course of a casual and disingenuous plea for the three farm laws. This is what the PTI copy of Chand’s interview reads: “I will say that if these three farm laws are not adopted immediately, then I don’t see that goal (of doubling farmers’ income by 2022) getting fulfilled.”Just chew on this one. The grand mission of doubling the income of farmers was announced in February 2016. The deadline for meeting this target is 2022. We are already in the fifth year. Now, the Modi government’s top expert on agriculture admits that the target may not be realised, neither because it was unrealistic to begin with, nor because of any failure on the part of this government, but because of non-adoption of the three laws that were introduced in course of the fifth year that have been stalled for the last three months. Weird logic? Well, you have not followed the story of the mirage called DFI — Doubling of Farmers’ Income.No homeworkPrime Minister Narendra Modi had made this announcement at Bareilly on February 28, 2016, a day before the Union Budget. This was not one of the manifesto promises of the BJP. So, you would imagine that some homework had gone into such a major declaration. Presumably, the government would know, first of all, what the farmers’ income was in 2016. It must have done some basic arithmetic on what it would take to double that income within six years. You hope that the government would have at least a rough roadmap of policies that help achieve that target. Finally, you would expect that regular monitoring and review of the farmers’ income follows such a major declaration. You are wrong on every single count!As soon as Finance Minister Arun Jaitley repeated the PM’s announcement in his budget speech, questions were asked about what was the farmers’ income at that time and what it would take to double it. No one had any answer. It took the government a few months to answer an elementary arithmetic question: was the calculation going to happen at constant price or current price? In other words, was the target of doubling going to discount inflation? Thankfully, the government finally acknowledged that the target was to double the real income of the farmers, controlling for inflation, and not just their nominal income.So, what would it amount to in rupee terms? Well, the government appointed a committee, six weeks after making the announcement to the country, to find this out. The Doubling of Farmers’Income Committee (DFIC), headed by a sensible and knowledgeable civil servant, presented the basic arithmetic of doubling income in August 2017. The committee had to extrapolate from an old survey carried out by the National Sample Survey in 2011-12, as there was no other reliable source of data to benchmark the starting point. It estimated the annual income of a farm family in 2015-16 at Rs 96,703. That works out to about Rs 8,000 per month for a family of five or more. Mind you, this income included earning from non-farm activities like service, business or dairy. Doubling of farm income by 2022 would mean an annual family income of Rs 1,72,694 at the prices of 2015-16 (doubling of farm income, but not that of non-farm income of the farmer household), or about Rs 2.5 lakh at the expected prices in 2022. This would require income to grow at an annual rate of 10.4 per cent in real terms — something Indian farmers had never experienced before.We were already one and half years into a six-year mission by the time its starting point and the target was clearly identified.No policy roadmapWhat, then, should be the policies to achieve this unprecedented growth? It took the DFIC another year to submit its substantive report in September 2018. The 14-volume report 0is undoubtedly a comprehensive document on agriculture policies. By the time the report arrived, two and half years had passed and India was already in election mode. The government had no time to consider the report. The only major step that the BJP government took then, following its defeat in assembly elections, was something the DFIC had not recommended: a handout of Rs 6,000 a year to every farm family.So, at the halfway mark of this historic mission, the Modi government did not even have a plan on paper on how the farmers’ income was going to be doubled. None of the budgets of this government has made any separate allocation for this publicised programme. Indeed, we do not know, if this is a “vision” or a “mission” or a “scheme”. No one has ever clarified its official status. Yet, no BJP leader or spokesperson can speak for a minute on agriculture without mentioning the DFI. The most generous reading of the party’s claims would be that the DFI is not a separate plan or programme, but a vision to be realised through all the agrarian policies put together.No monitoring, no dataIn that case, what about monitoring and review? So far, there is none. In the last five years, the Modi government has not gathered or released a single piece of information about the increase in farmers’income ever since the announcement of DFI. It has not commissioned any ground survey to check the progress of this national mission. In 2020, it announced an ‘empowered body’ to ‘review and monitor the progress’. It is yet to put out any document in the public domain.The closest, though not strictly comparable, survey carried out by the NSS in 2018 was junked by this government, apparently because it showed a decline in the real income in rural India. It is fair to assume that we don’t have data on farmers’income because the government is not interested in bad news.The closest proxy for trends in farmers’ income during this period is the official data on Gross Value Addition (GVA) in agriculture and allied sectors. The latest official data in the Economic Survey of 2021 (https://www.indiabudget.gov.in/economicsurvey/doc/vol2chapter/echap07_vol2.pdf) shows that the average rate of annual growth of agri GVA during the seven years of the Modi government has been 3.3 per cent, compared to the average of 4.6 per cent during UPA-I and UPA-II. In the last five years, the agri GVA grew by a total of 24.5 per cent. Ramesh Chand expects a growth of 3.5 per cent in the coming year.So, the six years of grand national mission for raising the farmers’real income by 100 per cent are likely to end with less than 30 per cent actual increase. That works out to about 4 per cent per annum against the target of 10.4 per cent. This is no different from the real increase in farmers’ income between 2002 and 2012.What, then, has the DFI achieved? Nothing for the farmers. Not to put too fine a point, it was a cynical propaganda devised to create positive vibes about the BJP government. Its success is to be measured not by cold agricultural statistics, but by air-time, TRPs and votes for the BJP. If there ever was a contest for super jumla of the century, doubling of farmers’ income would be among the top contenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-roadmap-to-double-farmers-income-232932
01-04-2021||---||Realism tempers govt’s move on privatisation||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her reply to the insurance amendment Bill in Lok Sabha on March 22, explained that there were far more private players in the insurance sector and raising the limits of foreign investment from 49 to 74 per cent was meant to help these players. She said that the IPO (initial public offering) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) was meant for the Indian public to buy shares in it.She was deflecting criticism that LIC is being pushed into the private sector as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s new drive to privatise the economy and keep the government away from business.The next day, while replying to the discussion on the Finance Bill, Sitharaman said there was no question of privatising the public sector banks because the government considers the financial sector to be strategic, and the public sector banks, as part of the strategic financial sector, are out of bounds for private players. She said the government may merge public sector banks to make them viable, but that is all there is to it.And she admitted member Pinaki Mishra’s point that the government failed to meet the target for disinvestment in 2019 and said that this was due to “tepid markets”. The minister also hoped that the disinvestment target would be met in 2021.There is more than a bit of handwringing in the statements of Sitharaman. The clarion call of the Prime Minister for privatisation seems to be just that — a clarion call. The Finance Minister’s statements indicate that there is no rush to privatise the public sector in a blind rush of adrenaline.The cheerleaders of liberalisation in the media and elsewhere had praised Modi and Sitharaman in uttering the magic word of ‘privatisation’ instead of the bureaucratic ‘disinvestment’. The government’s view on the issue seems to be nuanced, as it should be. But the pressure and the temptation remain to get rid of the public sector because it is seen as the evil symbol of socialism. Of course, the government, even the Modi government, knows better than to listen to the immature market enthusiasts.In one of her post-Budget interviews, Sitharaman had indicated that the Prime Minister wanted to avoid the extremes of a full market economy or an economy dominated by the public sector. This has indeed been the policy of the cautious, even suspicious, market reformer of them all, PV Narasimha Rao. He was no great fan of the market economy, but he knew that market must get enough play to deal with the crisis that he faced in 1991. Manmohan Singh, in his decade-long tenure as Prime Minister, followed the same cautious path, though he did appear to be a little more adventurous than Rao.Prime Minister Modi and his colleagues do imagine themselves to be pioneers of a market economy, but in practice, they have no option but to tread the muddled middle path of falling back on the ballast, that is the decades-old public sector born out of the socialist chrysalis. With all their faith in the private sector and its wealth creators, Team Modi knows that the public sector remains an essential bulwark and that you cannot dismantle it overnight.It is for this reason that Sitharaman had no hesitation in setting up the Development Finance Institution (DFI) or the Infrastructure Investment Fund because she acknowledged that public sector banks cannot support infrastructural projects with their long gestation, and that the public sector banks should deal with only short-term loans.There is the painful awareness that India is a developing, and not a developed, economy. Of course, the Congress can always be blamed for this, and it affords the BJP leaders, including Modi, Sitharaman and others, to go ballistic against a decimated Congress. It also serves as a good excuse for the slow progress of the Modi government on the economic front.In the long term, however, it would be better if the Modi government could spell out its privatisation policy. It could declare that not the whole of the public sector is up for sale, and to the extent possible, it should say what the ‘strategic sector’ is. Is an oil marketing company like Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPC) part of the strategic sector? It can be argued that the whole of infrastructural sector does not form a part of the strategic sector, and that makes sense too. Is defence production a part of the strategic sector? What then are the rules for private sector participation in this segment? It has for long been felt that the private sector has a greater role to play here. And through the years, India’s defence imports have been from the private sector in countries like the United States, Great Britain, France and even Israel.It would indeed be a good idea if the public sector withers away, and the whole economy is fully in the hands of the private sector. But it is quite clear that at the moment, the private sector in India is not in a position in terms of technology and finance to serve the strategic needs of the country. Of course, the Congress can be nailed as a culprit for this. But it will take time for the private sector to shoulder the responsibility of serving as a strategic shield for the country.It is then advisable that neither the government nor the supporters of the market economy should speak loosely and loudly about privatisation. It might sound attractively bold, but the reality is both complicated and untidy. Sitharaman’s piecemeal clarifications point to this inescapable fact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/realism-tempers-govts-move-on-privatisation-232933
