02-04-2021||---||Rebuild Indo-Pak ties with Indus Water Treaty||The Indus Commissioners of India and Pakistan met in New Delhi on March 23-24. The main issue for discussion was the designs of the upcoming hydel projects on the tributaries of the Chenab river.The Indus Water Treaty was signed by Pakistan and India at Karachi in 1960, with the World Bank being the third-party guarantor. India, being the upper riparian country to all six rivers (Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej), had the first right over the waters of these rivers. Yet, India gave to Pakistan, through this treaty, more than its due share of the waters (more than 80 per cent) of the six rivers. In addition, Pakistan got the waters of four Indian nullahs that join the Ravi. Through this largesse, India hoped to secure lasting peace with Pakistan.Even if one was to overlook the fact that India is the upper riparian country, basing the allocation on the Indus river basin area of the two countries, the division should have been 65 per cent of the waters to Pakistan and 35 per cent to India.India’s munificence did not end there. Canals which originated from India and carried waters to Pakistan’s fields were allowed to continue for the next 10 years, by which time Pakistan was expected to create a new set of headworks and canals as replacement of those flowing from India. India also provided funds to Pakistan for these new canals.To take further, and somewhat mistaken, advantage, Pakistan was able to insert the devil in the details of the treaty, which it figured would work in its favour. Though the treaty allocates the waters of the three western rivers to irrigate 1.3 million acres of Indian land (in J-K), action to implement this has come under objection by Pakistan. Thus, vast tracts of virgin lands in various valleys in the Ladakh region could not be irrigated.Pakistan was able to insert in the treaty the clause that the design of the dams to be built by India on the three western rivers could only be the ‘run of the river’ type. However, it has come to play a negative role for Pakistan. This restriction on the type of dams was, perhaps, due to apprehension that India may, in the event of a conflict, flood Pakistan.Further, even in the construction of various run-of-the-river dams, such as Sallal, Uri, Dul Hasti, Baglihar and Neelam, Pakistan, along with the World Bank, has been creating impediments and consequent inordinate delays in their completion. In the case of the Sallal dam on the Chenab near Ryasi, which was originally built as a storage dam, it had to be converted, on Pakistan’s insistence, into a run-of-the river configuration dam.These run-of-the-river dams have worked to the disadvantage of both countries, more so for Pakistan. For India, hydel power projects based on the run-of-the-river dams cannot fully exploit the flow of the water because during the rainy season, the flow is more but much less in the dry season, resulting in lesser number of turbines operating during the dry period. So, such dams are not cost-effective. There is also the problem of silting of the dams.For Pakistan, the disadvantage from such dams is greater because it cannot store excess water of these rivers during the rainy season and, consequently, it flows into the Arabian Sea. As a result, much less water is available during the dry season and Pakistan is highly water-stressed. In addition, fertile soil and nutrients which the waters from storage dams carry downstream are arrested in the run-of-the-river dams.On its part, India has tried to meet this shortage of water for irrigation by recklessly sanctioning tubewells and providing free electricity to them, which has resulted in the groundwater going down to dangerous levels. India has also failed to fully utilise the waters of the three eastern rivers (Ravi, Beas and Sutlej), more so of the Ravi, due to the delay in the construction of the Shahpur Kandi barrage and stopping of leakage due to poor maintenance of sluice gates at the headworks on these rivers.In the Ladakh region and at some locations in Himachal Pradesh, where the water current in various rivers/tributaries is very fast, it is possible to make channels and lower turbines into these waters (similar to Persian wheels working in the reverse order and with suitably designed blades). By such improvisations, electricity on a small scale can be produced for local use at remote places. A system to lift and lower turbines can be worked out, depending on changes in the water levels in these rivers.The current thaw in the strained relations between India and Pakistan needs to be carried forward by changing the clause pertaining to the type of dams that can be built on the three western rivers. Such an amendment to the treaty will be of advantage to Pakistan in four ways.First, wasteful flow of water into the sea during the rainy season would be reduced. Secondly, the flow of water would be regulated throughout the year for irrigation. Thirdly, abundant electricity generated from hydel projects in J-K and HP (based on storage dams) can be made available to Pakistan at concessional rates. Fourthly, soil nutrients, which otherwise get arrested at the run-of-the-river dams, would flow downstream to fertilise Pakistan’s fields.In any case, the two dams — 850 MW and 3,800 MW — are on the tributaries of the Chenab and not on the main river and, as such, fall outside the purview of the Indus Water Treaty.Equally, it should accept that some of the waters of the Chenab (Chandra Bhaga, as it is known in Lahaul-Spiti) be diverted into the Beas and, in lieu, some water from the Ravi can be made available to Pakistan to irrigate fields in the Kartarpur Sahib and Lahore regions. Water to this end can be released from the Madhopur headworks and, in exchange, waters of the Chenab can be diverted into the Beas. The height of the dam on the Neelam river, where its waters have been diverted to the Wular lake, can be adjusted so that downstream fields, earlier watered by this river, continue to receive the required quantity of water.It is time for the two countries to tread the path of goodwill, friendship, and prosperity. It is an appropriate time to carry forward the spirit of goodwill projected by both the PM and the Army Chief of Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rebuild-indo-pak-ties-with-indus-water-treaty-233484
02-04-2021||---||Shift from industrial to small-scale farming||A few weeks ago, French farmers hung suicide dolls on trees outside parliament to draw attention to the devastation brought about by continuously sliding market prices. In a country which follows modern agricultural practices, it is disturbing to know that while three farmers on an average commit suicide every two days, growing indebtedness is resulting in the closure of at least 1,500 farms every year.That such a grave tragedy should afflict the biggest farm producer in the European Union (EU), and ironically, which also happens to be the topmost recipient from the $100 billion agricultural subsidy kitty that Europe provides for every year, shows clearly how markets are tightening the noose, leaving the struggling farmers exasperated. “How can anyone want to be a farmer today?” Dominique Metenier, a farmer, told the French storytelling platform Narratively, adding: “What is the point to being in debt all the time, and toiling for no reason? We are sacrificed, so the consumer is always happy with low prices.”With very high crop productivity and market-oriented agriculture expected to provide a higher price to efficient producers, why the French farmers are increasingly in crisis remains baffling. Wonder what has happened to a progressive farming community that has always been at the forefront of adopting high-tech farming practices and innovations. To reiterate what I said earlier: the top 44 per cent of the French farmers are saddled with a bankruptcy of 400,000 euros each. In addition, an estimated 10 per cent of the French farms, carrying a gross debt of 1 billion euros, are fast heading towards closure.This is despite the huge subsidies French farmers receive year after year; significantly adding to the low incomes that markets otherwise leaves them with. And yet, nearly a quarter of the French farming population is somehow struggling below the poverty line, and in neighbouring Germany, an estimated 1,30,000 farms have closed down since 2005. Surviving literally at the mercy of supermarkets, farming has ceased to be profitable. Ironically, farms are dying at a time when ample capital investments have already been made in modernising agriculture with food processing, building warehouses, creating rural infrastructure like roads, providing Internet connectivity, scientific storage and a chain of cold storages. If the logic is that modernisation boosts farm incomes, then why after such huge farm infrastructure investments should the farmers struggle to survive? It clearly demonstrates that the benefits of modernisation are actually reaped by the agribusiness companies, and of course, the supermarkets.With farm mechanisation at its peak, and powerful market intelligence solutions available at the drop of a hat, one wonders why the European farmers have failed to take advantage of a policy prescription that is routinely doled out to farmers everywhere, including India. Already, the farming population in France, Germany and elsewhere has come down drastically, and if economists are to be believed, farm incomes should be going up when the number of farmers declines. That didn’t happen. The average farm size in France has grown to 135 acres and farm incomes have still declined.To add, in Australia, where the average farm size is 4,331 hectares (or roughly 10,827 acres) one would expect farmers to be dictating the prices. Going by the logic of economy of scale, Australian farmers should be super rich. But on the contrary, Australian agriculture too presents a gloomy picture. A report in The Guardian says that the rate of suicide among male farmers is double the national average. In addition, suicide rate among the farm workers is still higher. Economic hardship is among the reasons cited.Returning back, several studies have shown that European farmers are struggling for survival, the tragedy on the farm being compounded by the devastation and deprivation wrought by free markets. Still, what remains unexplained is the inability of economic leadership (and that includes university professors) to acknowledge that the idea of price discovery by markets has failed miserably. Although the economic textbooks say so, nowhere in the developed world have markets succeeded in turning farming into a profitable venture. Otherwise, I see no reason why subsidies should form 40 per cent of the farm income in America, and 57 per cent in the European Union.Economists Bruno S Frey and David Iselin have argued in their book Economic Ideas You Should Forget that many of the old theories are outdated and need to be discarded “because they are misleading, or at least no longer fruitful.” This holds true for the outdated belief that markets help in getting the right farm prices. Universities and management schools should make this book a part of the course curriculum to get over the fixation they have with certain failed ideas and concepts. After all, how can economists go on talking about the virtues of free markets in agriculture without ascertaining why the farmers are in misery? It only shows the disconnect economics has with the ground realities.In another book, Zombie Economics: How dead ideas still walk among us, Australian economist John Quiggin says that the time has come to discard the ‘efficient market hypotheses’, among some other outgrown ideas. I completely agree. Although his analysis was in relation to financial markets collapse, considering that the ‘efficient markets’ in agriculture too have failed to translate into higher farm incomes, the time has come to abandon the ruinous pathway that lazy economists still go on suggesting.An analysis published in Nature, examining 118 studies conducted in 51 countries over a period of 50 years, demolishes the general perception about the efficiency of modern agriculture, concluding that small farms have higher yields and are ecologically sustainable. This is what India needs, and should call for an immediate policy shift, from environmentally damaging industrial agriculture to an environmentally safe and productive small-scale farming. The new approach for a revitalised agriculture cannot be economically viable till it provides for an assured income by way of an assured price as a fundamental right for farmers. That’s the cardinal rule the world must adopt to move to a new agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/shift-from-industrial-to-small-scale-farming-233481
02-04-2021||SUCHARITA TILAK phoned me from New Jersey||Lament for days gone by||I was staying on the outskirts of the town in a bungalow owned by a Parsi resident that had been vacant for a long time. Karnik had arranged this for me. Nagarkar asked me to move in with him and his family into his allotted bungalow, as he wanted to mentor me not only in policing, but also on many ancillary qualities that made a police officer a true servant of the people. At home, and on tour, Nagarkar talked to me of many things — ‘of cabbages and kings’, as Lewis Carroll famously wrote.To a young man who had spent his first 24 years steeped in the Goan Christian tradition, favoured by the forward castes converted four centuries earlier by the Portuguese, the Maharashtrian Chitpavan Brahmin culture was a revelation. Since the values were similar, I took to it seamlessly. Simplicity in food and clothing, but profundity of thought and ethics in behaviour guided our journey. The time spent together was short; the effect permanent.I can never forget my old boss and mentor. I told Sucha that one of the lessons he taught me was to be courteous to elected politicians; those in power and those in Opposition. But I was not to support their attempts to place their favoured men in charge of police stations lest corruption was permitted to run amok. Rather, be ready with bag and baggage to move than allow the control of the force to go into non-professionals hands. That would enable them to administer injustice according to their party’s interests or their personal whims, and not according to the law.How prophetic does this sound to those living in the third decade of the 21st century? In Maharashtra, where a war has been raging between the state’s Home Minister and the now disgraced Police Commissioner, the former has been placing his own favourite officials at cutting-edge positions in the field. An upright DGP, Subodh Jaiswal, preferred to shut shop and move, rather than face the ignominy of leading a force over which he had ceased to have any control, except in name!The politicians in power have been itching to run the police force for the past three decades. If police chiefs are appointed on a groundswell of lobbying, ignoring merit and professionalism, and even more importantly, integrity, then you have a recipe for disaster. The saga of Sachin Waze is clear proof of the rot that has set in. Commissioners appointed on the basis of patronage have been signing on the dotted line, whenever asked to do so. The cosy relationship between the political boss and the police chief has worked to the detriment of the people – the end users of the service.When I joined the IPS in 1953, the politicians were different. They respected the ICS/IAS officers and the IP/IPS officers who manned the senior levels of the administration. In return, the officers respected their political masters and ensured that no injustice was meted out to the people at large. The politicians looked at their role as one which shielded those who elected them from misuse of power by the executive. The executive was left to lead and guide the men under their command by placing proper men in the proper slots and overseeing their performance. It worked.Alas, no longer does this happen. The politicians are more interested in placing those who have paid them or promised them freedom to dictate. The DGP knows each IPS officer personally. He knows what each is capable of. He knows his strengths and weaknesses. Today, the DGP has been reduced to a figurehead. His suggestions and written recommendations are ignored. The politicians in Maharashtra had the temerity to whisper to the press that ‘the DGP’ was interfering in transfers!Waze was obviously reinstated against all norms of decency, morality and jurisprudence because he was expected to collect funds. He organised the planting of gelatin sticks in a car parked outside Ambani’s house. Surely, the plan was known to the officer he reported to, possibly also the political master. Waze has been reduced to a scapegoat in the entire episode.The NIA entered the scene initially by subterfuge. A story was floated that a Muslim terror cell in the high security area of Delhi’s Tihar jail had ordered the planting of the car, the gelatin and the threat letter. Now, it has been proved (through newspaper leaks) that Waze planned every detail of the execution of the plan himself. Even the death of an associate in crime, the SUV owner, has now been pinned on him. How low can IPS officers, politicians and Mumbai City cops sink?I remember my yesteryear bosses with love and admiration. There was no DGP those days. The force was commanded by an IGP. Kaikushro Jehangir Nanavaty was the IGP I liked the most. He was ramrod straight, not only in his physical presence, but also in his dealings with his juniors. He was as just as he was strict. His son, Rustom, was awarded the Sword of Honour at the IMA and rose to be a Northern Army Commander.They do not make them in that mould anymore. And that is a great pity. So, also, our politicians. The likes of Yashwantrao Chavan are not visible now. And that, too, is a great pity. He was always correct in his dealings with officials, polite but never intimate. No personal wants were mentioned or favours asked. He was absorbed in his politics, of course, but did not involve government officials in this. He enquired about junior IPS officers, but with an eye on their development as servants of the people.From the ranks of the bureaucracy, if I was asked to pick an officer I admire, it would be Burjor Paymaster, ICS, who was Home Secretary and later Chief Secretary. His sense of justice and fair play was phenomenal. He would go to the extent of protecting junior officers from predatory seniors, if such an occasion arose. It was sheer comfort for new entrants to the service to know that there was a man out there, in the ‘mantralaya’, who you could count on to protect you from injustice.Today, we live in less genteel times. The politicians, bureaucrats and police leaders seem to have adjusted to a world where throats are routinely cut! What does a 90-plus man, dreaming of the old days, do? Grieve for his grand and great-grandchildren?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lament-for-days-gone-by-233480
