03-04-2021||---||Cut tax on oil to sustain economic revival||The saga of the Ever Given, the container ship that blocked the Suez Canal for a week has shown the fragility of global trade flows. Hundreds of cargo ships, including oil tankers, were stuck in the logjam waiting for the vessel to be moved while others opted to take the longer route round the Cape of Good Hope. The ship may have been moved finally, but the incident has demonstrated the impact of even a single unexpected event on global supply chains. This is true of international oil markets as well. The collapse of demand in April and May last year had led to such a precipitous fall in prices that for a day or two, suppliers were paying the buyers to lift stocks. Even now, the oil markets are going through volatility based on the ebb and flow of the Covid virus.International oil prices, which were subdued in the range of $40-50 per barrel throughout 2020, began firming up in December based on the encouraging news of vaccination being launched and the prospects of a worldwide economic revival. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, known as OPEC plus, had also imposed production quotas on members to curtail availability in the market. The net result was that benchmark Brent crude prices rose to over $67 per barrel by the beginning of March.The trend has reversed suddenly in the past few weeks. The causes were several, including a fresh surge in European cases and stricter curbs on movement being imposed in Germany, Italy and France. The rise in cases has coincided with the slow pace of vaccination on the continent. India and other countries are also reporting a new surge of Covid infections despite the vaccination drive being in full swing. The bearish trend in prices was aggravated by the news of US inventories rising by 6 per cent in mid-March.The trend now looks set to continue for some time, given that these factors continue to influence the market. Brent crude prices are currently ruling at about $63.55 per barrel and the US benchmark West Texas Intermediate at $59.75 per barrel. This is a considerable retreat from the high of over $67 per barrel about a month ago.The current oil market scenario will now have to be assessed by OPEC plus as it plans its next steps. OPEC, the biggest player in the market, is generally led by Saudi Arabia while Russia is the most significant among the allies. While India has better than cordial bilateral relations with both countries, there is little concession given to this relationship as far as oil pricing is concerned. In fact, a recent plea made by Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to OPEC, seeking moderation of prices to bring about stability in the market, received a sharp response from the Saudi Energy Minister. He suggested that India should instead draw on its strategic petroleum reserves that had been filled up when prices had collapsed to about $19 per barrel in April and May 2020. While this may be an undiplomatic response, it must be viewed in the backdrop of the uncertainties faced by oil exporting countries over the past year. From their perspective, prices need to be sustained at about $70 per barrel to provide adequate support to their economies. In contrast, prices were ruling at less than $50 per barrel throughout 2020.India, at the same time, has also to consider its own self-interest given that it is the world’s third largest oil importer. A few years ago, when prices had begun to soar, it sought to join hands with China to leverage its role as a major buyer to seek price discounts for developing countries. The move did not yield much result simply because oil exporting countries are more than conscious of the fact that their hydrocarbon resources are depleting. Besides, there is also the threat of the world moving to alternative fuels such as electric power in the case of automobiles. It has even been projected that in the coming decades, there will be a shift away from hydrocarbons towards renewable energy and oil producing nations may end up with surplus stocks on their hands.In this backdrop, India has no option but to try and diversify sources of supply to ensure sustained availability of crude oil supplies. It has now opted for higher purchases of US crude which are significantly cheaper than the West Asian options, though higher freight costs neutralise this advantage to some extent.For the time being, however, the lower oil prices are to this country’s advantage as it could reduce the oil import bill significantly if the trend continues for the next few months. Oil imports cost the country $120 billion in 2019-20 but are expected to dip to about half that number during 2020-21. The bill will be higher in the current fiscal but should be manageable if the market remains at the current levels.With the global oil outlook now looking more favourable for India, it is time for a relook at the heavy taxation on fuels like petrol and diesel. The raising of excise duty multiple times last year could have been warranted on the grounds that revenue collections had virtually ground to a halt, but there is no such excuse now that an economic recovery is underway. With GST collections coming back to pre-pandemic levels, it is the right time to roll back excise duties levied last year.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has conceded it is time to hold a dialogue on this issue with state governments which have also been guilty of imposing more taxes on petroleum products. Despite this conciliatory approach, there has not yet been any movement on this issue. Meanwhile, high fuel prices are having a cascading inflationary effect. Input prices have risen sharply owing to transport costs having gone up and manufacturers are reported to be gearing up to raise product prices. It is time for the government to act on cutting taxes on oil products before the price rise negates the impact of the nascent economic revival process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cut-tax-on-oil-to-sustain-economic-revival-233775
03-04-2021||---||Lessons from China’s nationalist narrative||India’s confrontation with China is not yet over. China is brimming with nationalist energy. Its booming economy, the pride that the people have in their ability to fight off the Covid pandemic, has only increased the assertiveness of the nationalist Chinese. Unaware of the transformations taking place in China, Indian thought leaders are still busy with meaningless identity politics, when they are making efforts to seek approval of the developed western nations and thinkers.From the Chinese point of view, the Indian Army, policemen and businessmen, were part of an oppressive colonial gang that kept China down through much of the 19th and early 20th centuries. A few gestures of kindness such as that by Dr Kotnis during the 1930s continue to be appreciated in China, but China also remembers the use of Indian forces in the Opium Wars and the domineering Sikh policemen in Canton, Hong Kong, Macao and Nanking. The military humiliation heaped upon India in 1962 had as much to do with China claiming the Tibetan highlands as its territory as it was to communicate to the Chinese people that they need not fear the tall and aggressive Indians any more. Since then, China has built up its nationalist narrative much more firmly.Few Indians, whether nationalist, anti-nationalist or extra-nationalists, realise that all nations are artificial constructs. At what point the people who constitute a nation would decide that they wish to live together, as happened for instance in the UK in the 18th century, and in France, Italy and Germany in the 19th century, is a matter of historical contingencies that forge such a will. At what point people decide they no longer wish to live together, as in the case of the USSR and Yugoslavia in the 20th century, is also a matter of popular will. It is the will to live together that is important.The noteworthy thing is that China is even more culturally, linguistically and religiously diverse than is India. What we know as the ‘Han’ that is supposed to be the majority in China, was before the 20th century merely a term used to denote a civilised person as opposed to the barbarians; much like the word ‘Arya’ is said to have been used in India before the Indians succumbed to the idea that ‘Arya’ stands for race. ‘Han — did not refer to an ethnic group. Modern Chinese scholars Zhang Lei and Kong Qingrongin, in their 1999 book Coherence of the Chinese Nation (Zhonghua Minzu Ningjulixue), write, “According to Confucianism, the distinction between ‘hua (xia)’ (civilised Han) and ‘yi’ (minority barbarians) was a cultural boundary rather than a racial and national boundary... The barbarian-civilised distinction did not indicate racial or national exclusiveness. Instead, it was a distinction involving differentiated levels of cultural achievement.”Actually, the Han Chinese profess different religions (Christianity, Buddhism, Taoism etc) and speak different languages. For China, creating the idea of a nation was more important than affirming divisive personal identities. Sun Yat-sen talked as early as 1912 of the need to weld together different groups of people who lived in China even while China was splitting up into numerous independent units headed by warlords. The student rebellion of 1919, which goes by the name of the May Fourth Movement, was a nationalist upsurge against the Chinese elite siding with the Japanese. The Chinese Communist Party, once it came to power in 1948, took forward the nationalist line of thinking.In the very first decade of communist rule in China, while on the one hand, the Chinese were paying homage to the Soviet idea of internationalism, they were also building up a strong sense of nationhood. The occupation of Tibet in 1951, just two years after China got rid of colonial domination, was but an assertion of an old historical presumption that the proper national territory of China extended from the Tibetan highlands in the west to the seas in the east. While Jawaharlal Nehru and his team of historians tried to find historical evidence to dismiss China’s claims, China had no hesitation in using military force to make its point.Also, few in India realise that China is essentially made up of six major nationalities whose languages and cultural practices are mutually as different (and unintelligible) as the languages and cultural practices of different regions in India. What holds them all together is the historic belief that they all belong to one single civilisational entity.India, on the other hand, found it difficult to assert that there could be an Indic reality. Indians have, since the so-called Bengal renaissance, tried hard to conform to European idea of a good society. Their popular notions of self-determination by ethnic and religious minorities are largely a product of trying to live up to the European ideals of 19th-century vintage.For centuries before British occupation, the idea of different languages did not trouble India. Civilised people routinely spoke four to five languages. And yet, the first few days of the Constituent Assembly were spent in heated debates on deciding the appropriate language in which that august gathering could conduct its deliberations. The impasse was resolved only after it was agreed to conduct most of the discussions in English while promising not to force any one Indian language on everyone.The import of a coeval fact was lost on most: that 566 Indian princes, with a combined military strength of over 200,000 well-equipped, battle-hardened soldiers, had little hesitation in accepting the sovereignty of the impoverished and helpless, independent Government of India, burdened by over 10 million displaced persons. These princes were essentially subcontractors for the colonial government. They had inherited their titles from a warlord who had been subjugated by the British a few decades ago. For reasons that are unclear, the departing British bequeathed to these sub-contractors the grand privilege of becoming ‘sovereign’ rulers of their lands. Many of the princes played for a few months with the idea of declaring themselves as independent nation-states. Yet, all but one of them quickly fell in line despite having a distinct administration, legal system, culture, language, and a battle-hardened army.Since the crisis at Pangong Tso in 2020, we know that only the demonstration of a confident ability to protect the nation has restricted the Chinese desire to teach India another lesson. To underpin that ability, though, we need to work towards strengthening the bonds which hold Indians together rather than trying to strengthen the differences that exist in any normal society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lessons-from-chinas-nationalist-narrative-233776
03-04-2021||---||Signs of a plutocracy||RUPERT HOOGEWERF, better known by his Chinese name Hu Run, went to Eton College, a school for the rich and the well-heeled. It is fitting therefore that he should track the rich in China and India. His latest Hurun Wealth Report for India paints an interesting picture of the direction India’s economy has taken.We learn that India has 200 families with a net worth of a billion dollars. Another 3,000 families have assets worth Rs 1,000 crore; 13,000 families have wealth between Rs 200-1,000 crore; 23,000 households fall in the Rs 100-200 crore bracket; 2.94 lakh families have wealth between Rs 10-100 crore and another 4.12 lakh households own assets worth at a million dollars, or Rs 7-10 crore. Add all of them and you get about 8.5 lakh families with assets ranging from Rs 7 crore to over a billion dollars. That accounts for 0.3 per cent of all households in India.The report also identifies a category called the ‘new middle class’. These are families which earn at least Rs 50 lakh per year and save an average of Rs 20 lakh out of that. One could assume that most of these would be households where at least one member works in the upper management private corporate sector. Most of these would be the bigger companies, which pay relatively high salaries to their middle and senior management. A mid-to-senior level manager would end up with a pay packet of Rs 50 lakh or more, while top management salaries would run into several crores per year.The entire class of affluent and rich families, who make up this top 0.3 per cent of Indians, derive their wealth stock from businesses, financial investments, real estate or high salaries. This is a typical picture of an economy where assets are highly concentrated and therefore there is a shortage of demand. Why should that happen? Simply because there’s a limit beyond which the rich cannot consume for the entire nation. Once you have bought two cars, you might buy another two. But what after that? You might put television sets in every room, but what happens when you have run out of rooms to spare? How many refrigerators is it possible for one family to buy?On the other side, if the rest of the population doesn’t have enough income, all they can spend on is food, health and education. They will cut down on buying white goods, avoid buying homes on EMIs they can’t pay, run old vehicles that they bought in boom years, and defer all non-essential purchases. The rich will then only be able to sell to each other, whether it is products produced in their factories or homes and offices they own. Unable to get returns from shrinking businesses, they will invest in stocks and shares and real estate to get rentier income. Productive investments will flow into services that cater to the affluent – faster broadband, retail, real estate, interior designing, high-end restaurants and hospitality, and most importantly, banking and financial services. Manufacturing will lag because the rich do not buy Indian brands.In such a scenario, we will see GDP growth faltering but stock markets shooting up. If the markets give good returns, HNIs will take out some profits and diversify their portfolio by investing in a second or third home. A slight uptick in the real estate market will lead to another peculiar trend. Many people who became HNIs during the boom years of 2003-08 are now facing a drop in their income flows. They are likely to monetise high-value real estate in the heart of top metros and move to the suburbs into swanky new condominiums, which cost less. This has a paradoxical impact – the old bastions of high-value realty begin to lose value and the suburbs see a revival.This is what we are currently seeing in India – lack of demand, low GDP growth, dropping sales, higher corporate profits through reduced costs, accompanied by a stock market boom and pockets of revival in high-end real estate. And the corollary of this is concentration of wealth and income right at the top, dropping incomes for the wider middle class, lower returns from savings instruments due to falling interest rates causing hardships to retired senior citizens.On the face of it, it appears to be an unsustainable situation. However, in reality such plutocratic economic systems have a very long shelf life. The rich continue to consume and invest in non-productive, rent-producing assets, while a vast majority of people adjust to reduced standards of living and lower income flows. A new generation of the middle class emerges which gets used to income and wealth inequality and adjusts its aspirations. A new ‘work ethic’ develops where people feel that it is their moral duty to work for low pay.You have to only think of Japan to see this. It is a society where a vast majority of people live in tiny homes, eating cheap food and working long hours. Through all of this, they have invented a modern tradition of unquestioning service to the large conglomerates that employ them. It is the flipside of the intricate system of oligopolistic control of the economy by a few large corporates — zaibatsu, shinko-zaibatsu and the keiretsu. One can see a similar structure in South Korea’s chaebol system.There are echoes of this philosophy in what the Niti Aayog chairman had to say late last year: ‘For the first time in India a government has thought big in terms of size and scale and said we want to produce global champions. Nobody had the political will and the courage to say that we want to support five companies who want to be global champions. Everyone used to say, “I want to support everyone in India, I want to get votes from everyone”.’ Perhaps this is a crucial glimpse into the Modi government’s mindset.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/signs-of-a-plutocracy-233777
