04-04-2021||The pandemic has curtailed the international travel of world leaders. Earlier||Witnessing birth of a nation and trip to Dhaka 50 years ago||Pakistan’s founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, had scornfully called the nation bequeathed to him as “moth-eaten”, since the two wings were separated by 1,600 km of Indian territory. Geography apart, Pakistan’s rulers favoured West Pakistan, while neglecting East Pakistan. For instance, 80 per cent of the army consisted of Punjabis from the West wing. Development funds were mostly allocated to West Pakistan. But the tipping point came when Islamabad tried to impose Urdu as the state language on East Pakistanis, who had a fierce love for their native Bangla. Not even the glue of religion could keep the two wings together.In the first ever general election held in Pakistan on December 7, 1970, the Awami League in the East wing, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, won 160 seats in the 300-member House. Constitutional propriety demanded that they should have come to power. But Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the leader of the biggest party in the West wing, would have none of that. He prevailed over the inept General Yahya Khan to order a military crackdown in East Pakistan. It was a monumentally disastrous move. Hence, Bhutto and Yahya Khan were, in a fashion, the real founders of Bangladesh.Some one crore refugees from East Pakistan poured into India. New Delhi was inexorably drawn into war, while Bangladeshi independence was declared from Chittagong. The war lasted just 14 days, with Pakistan’s Lt Gen AAK Niazi signing the Instrument of Surrender before India’s Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, and Maj Gen (later Lt Gen) JFR Jacob looking on. That photo is embedded with pride in the memory of Indians. It was an even prouder victory for India’s secularism. The Army Chief, Gen “Sam” Manekshaw, was a Parsi, Aurora a Sikh, and Jacob a Jew. It was Indira Gandhi’s finest hour, though there are some who feel she should have extracted more concessions from Bhutto in the peace negotiations in Shimla, considering India held 93,000 PoWs.I was fortunate to get on the first plane for civilians that flew into Dhaka after the surrender. There were mostly journalists on the plane. The runway at the airport was pockmarked with craters from bombing by the Indian Air Force to make it inoperative for Pakistani planes. The control tower was in ruins. As we drove towards our hotel (Hilton), we passed a train full of Pakistani PoWs being taken to their camps. They were guarded by Indian soldiers. Near the railway tracks, a big enraged mob had collected. Shouting “Joi Bangla”, I am sure they would have stopped the train and lynched the PoWs were it not for the Indian soldiers. At the hotel, Brig Kler regaled me with his heroics of being in an open jeep while driving into Dhaka, knocking out Pakistani snipers in buildings alongside the road. I wonder what happened to him?We later learnt of how “collaborators” were rounded up, herded into a stadium full of spectators, and bayoneted to death. A few Indian journalists witnessed the grisly proceedings. I am glad I was not one of them. But at the university I heard how during the last days of the war, Pakistani soldiers had got hold of scores of scientists, professors, teachers, doctors, and systematically killed them. The intention, clearly, was to deprive the new nation of its intellectuals, those who could guide the coming generation. We also heard narratives of mass rapes, again by soldiers and “collaborators”. Various commissions have inquired into these atrocities but I don’t believe any of the perpetrators have been brought before a war crimes tribunal.Sadly, Mujibur Rahman and most of his family were killed in a coup by young army officers (his two daughters were abroad at the time, one of them being the present Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina). However, in the last decade or so, after being labelled a “basket case”, Bangladesh has done surprisingly well. Its social and economic parameters, which determine the well-being of a people, are now among the best in major developing countries. The life expectancy of a Bangladeshi, which was 47 years in 1971, is 72 now, higher than India’s.Apart from the Bangladesh victory, India overcame its worst domestic crisis when it confronted terrorism in Punjab. After the disastrous miscalculation of launching Operation Bluestar, three people in Punjab played a key role in turning the tide. I happened to be in Chandigarh at the time and interacted with them closely: Chief Minister Surjit Singh Barnala, Chief Secretary Praful Vaishnav and Julio Ribeiro, the police chief. One was a Sikh, the other a Hindu from Gujarat who spoke fluent Punjabi, and the third a Roman Catholic who spoke no Punjabi at all. Three men who exemplify the best there is in their respective fields. As in the Bangladesh victory, this was secularism and inclusiveness at its finest. That is what keeps India together, and helps us to overcome whatever challenge lies ahead.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/witnessing-birth-of-a-nation-and-trip-to-dhaka-50-years-ago-234382
04-04-2021||The news was disconcerting||Farewell to Military Farms, an era ends||My thoughts went back to 1987-89 when I was posted as a veterinary officer at Military Farm, Deolali. I recalled how triumphant we had felt when the higher fertility at our farm had led to the number of gravid heifers being far more than needed locally, and so those heifers were shifted to Port Blair to open a new farm there. That was the period when new farms were being inaugurated near the frontiers. And now, it is all over!The Corps of Military Farms came into being on February 1, 1889, with the opening of the first such facility at Allahabad. This was the time when the country had neither adequate milk supply, nor was there any technology to increase the shelf life of milk. The organisation soon expanded to meet the requirements of fresh, hygienic milk and butter for the British army. They pioneered the artificial cattle breeding programme in 1925 in the country. And, with the pivotal support from Army veterinarians, the Corps spread out into large-scale, organised cattle farms, introducing precious and precarious exotic breeds to the inhospitable climate of the hinterland. It wasn’t an easy task, but a daunting duty requiring meticulous and rigorous care and management of the stock. This challenge was met through a mix of modern practices and innovative protocols, which not just made the exotic stock thrive but also scaled up the milk production to unprecedented levels. At the time of Partition, there were 130 farms, each holding a large number of cattle heads.The demonstration of successful management and upkeep of the so-called “difficult breeds” gave confidence to the civil side, resulting in the gradual expansion of the cross-breeding programme. The Military Farms catalysed the growth of organised cattle farms and dairy development in the country. Subsequently, the Corps collaborated with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in 1991 to develop a high-yielding cross-bred cattle breed in an ambitious project called ‘Frieswal’. It is among the largest contemporary cross-bred cattle breeding programmes.In the meantime, India became the world’s highest milk producer thanks to ‘Operation Flood’ and related programmes. The soldiers’ accessibility to fresh milk, even in remote corners and difficult borders of the country, became easier than before. The necessity, thus, of having a separate setup just to meet the dairy needs of the Army gradually became redundant. Among other reasons, the dire needs of rebalancing defence expenditure and enhancing combat capability stirred the impending decision of Military Farm closure in 2017.The flag ceremony for disbanding a Corps certainly is a sad moment, not only for its personnel but also those associated with it. Analysing it, however, with the head and not the heart and recalling the tenets of strategic management taught at the College of Defence Management that “organisations exist in an environment as per needs, which are dynamic, ever-changing” makes one sombre. The curtains might have been drawn on Military Farms, but not before their having played a crucial role for the Army and the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farewell-to-military-farms-an-era-ends-234384
04-04-2021||The West Bengal elections have begun and so has the familiar screeching on our TV screens and media portals. No one really knows which way the wind is blowing and speculations are rife about what will happen there and in the rest of the country after the results are announced on May 2. I often wonder whether we really care about consequences and issues at all or whether all elections are now played like one-day cricket matches. We have turned them into blood sports with battle lines drawn even between friends. Suddenly||Bengal hues, blues||I have had my own little insight into this history as I have finally submitted a translation of ‘Amader Shantiniketan’, my mother’s memoir of her time there in the early decades of the last century. She and her siblings were sent to Shantiniketan all the way from Almora by their scholarly grandfather to study in Tagore’s ashram, for he had been most impressed when he had visited it. The Bengal renaissance that gave us some of our finest creative artistes and public figures was blossoming and helped mould generations of young minds into an alternate way of living and learning. The book, which is due to come out in May, will celebrate two figures whose deep influence continues to inspire Bengalis all over the world: Tagore, who passed away on May 7, 1941, and Satyajit Ray, India’s most famous filmmaker, whose centenary falls curiously enough on May 2, the day the results of this momentous election will be declared. The book has long, loving recollections of both these extraordinary Bengalis.How much the state has changed from the Bengal my mother describes in her book! As for Shantiniketan, Tagore’s abode of peace, it has ironically morphed into a war zone with political leaders fighting to gain control over its legacy and reputation. How did a state that was the leader of the modernist impulse in Indian life become so regressive and parochial? Tagore sought to impart to his students a most liberal education that was premised on the kind of universal humanism and love for mankind that transcended religion and creed. That Shantiniketan is today a forgotten and overgrown garden with more weeds than blossoming plants, its fragrant mango groves and maulsari trees have been uprooted by the winds of change and turned this arcadian world into a battleground between two crass political parties.Bengal’s misfortune was that it never stopped living in its past. Doubtless, its glorious history had much to be proud of but when this pride descended into narrow jingoism, it lost touch with the rest of the country. Isolated, bereft of its thriving jute and engineering industries after the Naxal phase and the slow dismantling of its enviable educational institutions led to a brain drain that enriched other parts of the country and the world, but impoverished Bengal itself. Poverty in these circumstances became a romantic trope that was mined brilliantly in its literature and cinema, but left it a shadow of its former self. Today, even Bangladesh, once its poor cousin, outpaces it on all markers of development. Surely, someone needs to answer what brought this proud state to such a sorry situation.One of Ray’s most poignant films is ‘Jalsaghar’, his requiem on the death of feudalism. A rich zamindar hosts a last concert (played by the one and only Begum Akhtar) for his friends. His fortunes are long depleted so he sells his last elephant to pay off the debt he owes for this indulgence. The last frame of the film is of the elephant lost in the dust kicked up by a passing lorry as it is being led away to its new owner. A similar scene is Apu and his sister running across a field to catch a glimpse of a passing train in ‘Pather Panchali’. And who can forget the classic ‘Shatranj ke Khilari’ where the two nawabs are immersed in their game of chess even as Outram’s troops are going to dethrone Wajid Ali Shah, the last nawab of Oudh?It puzzles me how the Bengali elite chose to ignore a changing India, one where steam engines and factories were replacing the bullock cart and the rice field. All those great economists, historians, writers and thinkers who played such a vital role in the fashioning of a vibrant new world elsewhere were seemingly unable to persuade their comrades and fellow Bengalis to open the windows to let in this new world.It was once said that when Bengal sneezes, the rest of India catches a cold. So today, when one is watching the sorry spectacle of two leaders exchange insults and brickbats and operatic speeches delivered in the most a-bhadra language, one wants to ask: what happened to the famous bhadralok of the novels of Sharatchandra and Bibhuti Bhushan Bandopadhyay? Was that an imaginary world that never really existed save in the romantic world of literature and cinema? Were Ritwik Ghatak and Satyajit Ray making films about an imagined Bengal whose fragile huts could not withstand the Kaal Baisakhi storms that shook the earth and uprooted noble old trees?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bengal-hues-blues-234385
