05-04-2021||---||Why the BJP has grown so fast in West Bengal||It’s hard to call the West Bengal election beyond saying that the BJP has room to expand while the reverse is true for the ruling TMC regime led by Mamata Banerjee that is seeking a third term. Traditional wisdom in Kolkata has it that the TMC structures are too strong in the countryside to be uprooted by the BJP.But in a year when so many legislators of the state party have been purchased wholesale, anything can happen. Certainly, the idea of Bengal being immune to the BJP has been busted. Even if Mamata Banerjee returns to power — and she remains personally popular —the BJP could be in position to set several bushfires under her.Also readThere are many reasons why the BJP has grown so fast in West Bengal where it has not been a traditional player. The first and primary reason is anti-incumbency and the vacant Opposition space. After being re-elected for a second term in 2016, the TMC set out to crush whatever remained of the Opposition, presuming it was finishing off the Left forces that Mamata Banerjee or Didi had fought all her life.In a state known for political violence, another chapter was, therefore, added and the 2018 panchayat elections in the state became a symbol of repression. Candidates and their supporters were viciously attacked, culminating in nearly a third of the seats having no Opposition candidates. Sure, the Left and Congress were devastated, but the unintended consequence for the TMC was that in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP suddenly arrived and stunned it by getting 40 per cent of the vote share.Still, with several TMC members having defected to the BJP in the run-up to the 2021 state polls, in some places, people grin and ask of they wouldn’t be voting for the same lot. Because of the culture of political violence, some people are reluctant to talk of their preference, but many do say they would like to try a change.The BJP, meanwhile, having got a foot into the Bengal door, has put many familiar political templates into play. Most significantly, the outreach to non-dominant social groups, effectively used in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, has been pursued with a social engineering map in hand and will possibly pay dividends in Bengal.Here, it’s important to note that Bengal has not had subaltern caste assertion on the scale that Dravidian politics brought about in Tamil Nadu decades ago and the Mandal movement achieved in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in the 1990s. The Left that dominated the state till 2011 was packed with upper caste males and they basically denied caste as a valid lived reality. Mamata Banerjee herself is a Brahmin and recently said so in order to assert her “Hindu” credentials.The middle-class Bengali self-image can also be critiqued for existing in a culturally enlightened bubble that may be in denial about some realities of exclusion. The BJP may be aesthetically repugnant to large sections of the traditional ‘bhadralok’ (gentile folk), but it could be empowering for some sections of society in an age of party dominance.The outsider tag applied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi clicks only with a certain strata of society and for those who are choosing to throw in their lot with the BJP, he appears to be an emblematic figure that is making promises of improving their material life.The war cry of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Bengal is not necessarily understood only as a majoritarian slogan but also as one symbolising political change and protest. And while there is communal Hindu-Muslim mobilisation in some seats such as Nandigram, it is muted in areas such as South 24 Parganas, a TMC stronghold that is now facing a fair amount of anti-incumbency.That’s because the greatest misfortune for the TMC would be the Amphan cyclone that struck parts of the state on May 20 last year. The cyclone route cut a devastating path in TMC bastions and people complained about not getting the relief money that they believe was siphoned off by middlemen. Indeed, it’s quite likely that the TMC will lose some seats in these parts, although the party is reportedly poised to recover some Assembly segments in north Bengal where the BJP did well in the Lok Sabha polls.In South 24 Parganas, the state’s largest district that has five Lok Sabha seats (all won decisively by the TMC), even the minority community vote is splitting, with many gravitating towards the CPI(M)-Congress-Islamic Secular Front (ISF) alliance called the Mahajot.On the ground, the recently created party of cleric Abbas Siddiqui, just 34, from a locally significant shrine called Furfura Sharif, seems to have the greatest capacity to split the TMC votes in some seats (the communists appear to be his appendages). If the visible mobilisation translates into votes in these parts, then it’s worth remembering that split minority votes benefits the BJP.Hindutva mobilisation in Bengal is, however, nuanced differently from that in Uttar Pradesh. It varies from seat to seat and between candidates. In rural South 24 Parganas, for instance, local BJP candidates have also roped in some Muslim workers and they are not as strident about excluding Muslims as Suvendu Adhikari has been in his fight against Didi in Nandigram, east Medinipur. At the same time, in urban clusters, there is a lot of chatter and commentary about Muslims being the privileged community for the TMC and this image appears to have stuck.Hindutva is an element but not the main ingredient in the BJP pot. Deep financial reserves, specific social media cells for each seat, a long-drawn campaign schedule, transfer of officials close to Didi and continuing threat of ED and income tax cases, continue to be the other elements in this ruthless battle being waged in Bengal. Capitalism and communalism have seamlessly combined here.The great tragedy is that people here are overwhelmingly poor and live frequently at the subsistence level. Even the so-called ‘pampered’ Muslims of Bengal have some of the worst socio-economic indicators in the country.If the BJP is getting traction, it’s also because many people want to believe their lives could improve if they got a direct line to the Centre. The party has, however, not been able to repeat its 2019 Lok Sabha performance in subsequent state elections such as those in Jharkhand and Maharashtra — the states where it was in power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-the-bjp-has-grown-so-fast-in-west-bengal-234673
05-04-2021||---||The hollowness of a $5-trillion economy||It took the world a while to realise that the growth of Gross National Product (GNP) is not development. At best, the GNP per capita as a measure of the country’s output and well-being is growth in an extremely narrow sense. If the GNP per capita is growing at 6 per cent but the inflation is 7 per cent, there cannot be any improvement in the economic well-being of the country.Here lies the rub — differentiating the real nominal growth. If growth dividends are majorly going to a minority group at the top, development of the bottom half of the population could be a distant dream. When the Finance Minister announced in the 2019 Budget session that India was already a $2.7-trillion economy and it would try to reach $5 trillion by 2024-25, she was erroneously referring to the nominal GDP. The real GDP at that time was close to $2 trillion and has now further contracted because of the pandemic.In essence, there is consensus that development is a concept broader than just economic growth. By larger mobilisation of resources and raising their productivity, output levels can be raised in a relatively straightforward manner. Though it may be a necessary requirement, it is not a sufficient condition for development which requires a reduction in inequality, an improvement in employment and a drastic reduction in poverty. It will appear strange that even though the growth doubles, it will be foolhardy to call it development if the central problems remain unaddressed and unmitigated.If there is no improvement or there is an actual decline in employment, equality and in the real income of the bottom 40 per cent of the population, the growth will bring in egregious consequences. At least the following components will have to be there for equity and inclusiveness: distribution and access to food, shelter, health and protection; provision of more jobs; better education; and availability of economic and social choices.The achievement of an aspirational goal of $5 trillion in a limited timeframe, with an initial position of below $2-trillion real GDP post-pandemic looks difficult. Even if we come back to the pre-pandemic pathway by 2025, we may reach this target by 2035. That the destination has receded is not the point here. The point is what it means to the quality of life of the people at large.Economist Jagdish Bhagwati has found that it is not growth per se, but the type of growth that matters. Whether the growth dividends go to a minority or are more distributed, whether they create employment and basic quality of life for the majority or get spent on what the elite want will define their impact on the population.During the pandemic, nearly 31 million families have moved down from the middle class and nearly 100 million people have lost jobs. On the contrary, the industry is happy reducing the wage bills, doing mechanisation and raising its profits. The industries that are most likely to create employment, i.e. the medium and small industries, are going down under and the large ones which do not create employment are the poster boys. They are the ones that will get the 6 per cent productivity-linked incentive from the tax paid by the average taxpayers, with unknown consequences.Where does India stand now? Our health system is broken and our education system finds it difficult to fly out of the morass. India stands at the 102nd spot on the global hunger index, 102nd on the human development index, 4th from the bottom on the world happiness index, 141st on the gender equality index, 142nd on the poverty index and is slipping on every index where human life matters. Will this growth envisaged help improve the quality of life of the majority of the population?The GDP can jump to $5 trillion if the GNP per capita increases by $2,000. But how this $2,000 per capita goes and to whom it goes matters. If it majorly goes to the eight lakh dollar millionaires and the 5,000 ultra-rich billionaires, it hardly means anything for the improvement in the quality of life for the bottom 50 per cent of the population. Until now, wealth and income distribution is so skewed that 75 per cent of the wealth belongs to the top 10 per cent of the people and the wealth of only nine billionaires is more than the combined wealth of the bottom 50 per cent of the population. The top 1 per cent holds 45 per cent of the country’s wealth.Without a counterpart strategy, spurring just growth will mean a painful and inevitable realisation for us, the one that many countries had in the 1970s and 1980s to their dismay. With a $5-trillion economy, the per capita GNP will remain a little more than $3,000 which will mean that India will continue to be a lower middle class country with extreme inequality and distress.Governments typically allow themselves to believe that if the wealth pie increases, they can do the redistribution. Often, they fail to do the redistribution as they are aligned against powerful interests who are difficult to take on. Even here, tax marksmanship can be substantially off, as India’s tax-to-GDP ratio consistently demonstrates. But their ability to take up vanity projects goes up and leaders strut around on the world stage without much core strength.Instead of the governments either trying to do distribution (if at all they do, they do it poorly) or waiting for trickle-down — which has mostly proved to be a myth — it is better they strategise growth and development where all three essential objectives of development are met. In this convoluted world, a word like ‘vikas’, which is a loose translation in Hindi of ‘development’, has come to mean more flyovers and expressways, some freebies, vanity projects and more contractor-driven projects. It will be a pity to stay prisoner to such decrepit ideas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-hollowness-of-a-5-trillion-economy-234672
05-04-2021||---||Bajwa’s geo-economic vision||The National Security Division of Pakistan held the first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue (ISD) on March 17-18. The aim was to divulge the new strategic direction based on a comprehensive security framework and to factor in the realities, especially economic, of the country and the region. This direction was meant to showcase Pakistan’s desire to change the narrative from ‘geopolitical contestation to geo-economic integration’ and in the process ‘recast Pakistan’s image’ as a ‘peace-loving nation and a useful member of the international community.’The flip-flops on whether or not to import from India is a clear indication of the conflicts within Pakistan on walking the talk about a new security paradigm.The key speakers were PM Imran Khan and army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. What was new in the dialogue was that instead of being stuck in the traditional grooves of ‘national security’, a euphemism for military security built on hard power (conventional and nuclear), there was a focus on non-traditional security. These elements included economic development, the role of technology and regional connectivity. Bajwa underlined this when he stated: ‘The contemporary concept of national security… is not solely a function of armed forces anymore. National security in the age of globalisation, information and connectivity has now become an all-encompassing notion; wherein, besides various elements of national power, global and regional environments also play a profound role.’ Imran Khan spoke of climate change, food insecurity and economic vulnerability as the main threats. Such an acknowledgement, if followed through, would mean a major transformation in Pakistan’s security narrative.Underpinning such a transformation was a geo-economic vision, centred around four pillars: lasting peace within as well as outside the region, non-interference in internal matters of neighbouring countries, boosting intra-regional trade and connectivity, and sustainable peace and security through establishment of investment hubs.The stress on geo-economics was grounded in the reality of the Pakistan economy which, if not on a ventilator, is fairly close to it. No amount of hard power can fix the economy. Being dependent on doles from brotherly countries has not only been humiliating, but also has led to Pakistan being pushed around when it came to foreign policy choices.On India, both Imran Khan and Bajwa refrained from using the acrimonious language they have been against PM Modi. Neither did they directly mention the events ofAugust 5, 2019, relating to J&K, though both asserted that Kashmir, along with all bilateral issues, needed to be addressed for lasting peace and prosperity in the region. As Bajwa put it: ‘Without the resolution of Kashmir dispute through peaceful means, process of subcontinental rapprochement will always remain susceptible to derailment...’ At the same time, the key takeaway on Indo-Pak relations was Bajwa saying that Pakistan was keen to ‘bury the past and move forward.’ For this he sought help from the Biden administration. He mentioned how his country had seen the need to ‘set our own house in order’ and take action to contain and eliminate terrorism. This was a clear recognition of how vulnerable Pakistan had become to the forces of terrorism that it had used for the past few decades in support of its foreign policy objectives.References to China were significant. Bajwa stated: ‘…only seeing Pakistan through the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor prism is misleading’. This seemed to indicate a certain distancing from China and meant to dispel the impression that Pakistan had put all its eggs in China’s basket. Two factors would have contributed to this: The early signals of the strengthening Indo-US relations under the Biden administration and the momentum of the Sino-US conflict. Pakistan would hate to be caught on the wrong side.While articulation of a new vision is important, the real test would lie in following up with concrete proposals that match the vision and its implementation. The world and the region, as also Pakistan itself, would be watching whether the leadership walks the talk.If this is to happen, then evidence of it should be seen in the budget that would be presented in June with substantial increases in outlays for non-traditional security. It should also be visible in a reorientation of foreign and defence policies as per the new geo-economic vision that prioritises connectivity, regional integration and trade and transit corridors. If Pakistan actually implements the vision, it would have taken important steps to reorient itself from a security state to a development state.However, the new vision is certainly not going to go unchallenged in Pakistan, especially because of the suspicion that Pakistan may have implicitly accepted India’s actions in Kashmir. Already questions have been raised about how could there be trade, let alone a dialogue, without India restoring the status quo ante in J&K.As a former High Commissioner put it: ‘Defeat cannot be dressed up in “geo-economics”. It can only exist in a political and geostrategic context... Similarly, a “geo-economic” initiative towards a hegemonic and intransigent India can only indicate a lack of options.’ These are strong words and underline the existence of a strong lobby for who the precondition for any engagement with India would have to be it reversing its actions on Kashmir.The debate in Pakistan has centred on the issue of whether to resolve the Kashmir issue first and then commence trade and economic ties or vice versa or both. The flip-flops on whether or not to import sugar, cotton and yarn from India is a clear indication of the conflicts within Pakistan on walking the talk about a new security paradigm and geo-economics. It remains to be seen whether Bajwa and Imran Khan will have the courage to translate their realism and high-sounding words into reality, despite the opposition or whether the ISD would go down in history as yet another paper exercise.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bajwas-geo-economic-vision-234671
05-04-2021||While growing up in Pune in the early 1950s||Fall of mighty Mumbai Police||I do not propose to bring in the Ambani affair, that is a matter of investigation which will soon get muddled up in a maze of enquiries by various agencies with no clear end result. Let me stick to the ‘transfer’. I’ve waited for over a month in which I kept on scanning newspapers to find reactions to this episode. As far as I’ve seen, there has been no reaction from the IPS associations, either Central or state. Nor has there been any reaction from the organisation of junior officers. Similarly, the NGOs and various other civil society groups have kept quiet. The silence of retired officers, especially those based in Mumbai, Delhi or other metros, is intriguing, to say the least. The Maharashtra government and the political parties in power have thrown the allegations into the dustbin after calculating for a few days the pros and cons of any government reaction. We now await the verdict of the Bombay High Court but already the media and the people have moved on to juicier topics and Param Bir Singh should consider his days in the sun as over. I’ve written about the lack of reactions in some detail because how come not a single protest has taken place in the aftermath of the CP’s abrupt transfer? How come such a deafening silence on the part of the people and the police?I’ve written earlier about the gradual decline in the professional and moral standards of the police over the years, especially since the mid-1970s. Without going into details, it is the entry of the politician into the bureaucratic structure and the havoc he has wrought in the day-to-day administration that has led to this miserable decline as far as the police is concerned. The politician discovered that recruitment and transfers at all levels are his best weapon which bring both money and power. Pliable officers had also realised the potential of cooperating with the politicians and so the tango began. Other groups in society also sensed the true worth of the police, especially in all metropolitan cities and more so in Mumbai, which was growing at great speed, with huge amounts of black money floating around. Many incidents have happened in the brief history of this metropolis, which has come to represent so much of both the good and bad in India — Mumbai is the financial hub and is therefore representative of the economic growth which the country has seen, and has been the centre of both the formal and the black economy. With the entry of the black economy, smugglers, drugs, criminal underworld and its various gangs and lobbies, the importance of the police protection system came into being. They were all initially interconnected and the same sources financed bootlegging, drugs, films, laundering of black money and smuggling on international levels. All these activities needed police protection and so the leaders joined hands with the politicians to control the police through prized postings and appointments. The political-criminal-police nexus was born, with police officers vying for prized postings.The lobbies mentioned above started sponsoring candidates for their lucrative positions and thus having obtained prized postings, they had to deliver results, as a consequence of which normal standards of professionalism and integrity suffered heavily. The Bombay riots of 1992, the subsequent bombings in 1993 and the massacres of 2008 were the fructification of this evil nexus. Mumbai Police failed on almost all fronts. Haphazard individual efforts could not replace a trained, coordinated response and so many died in vain. No special cells had been set up, no efforts made to gather specific intelligence and no problems anticipated.I have given a brief description of a city bursting with activity, of a police force besieged from within — do we expect them to come out in support of Param Bir? What has he done for them? These are not personal but rhetorical questions, which is why even today Pawar wants a 92-year-old retired police officer to inquire into this sordid affair. I’m sure that there are other equally good officers, but Mr Ribeiro struck a chord with his officers and men wherever he went and looked after them as he still does. It is not only the state governments and their officers and men who have done the maximum damage to police professionalism and integrity. Law and order being a state subject and control of the police such an important matter, the MHA has been trying to nibble away at these powers and acquire for itself an important role. It was the CBI at first through which the Centre operated and inquired into serious cases in which it had political or business interest. This led to weakening of the state police and a fall in its professional standards. The CBI experiment has proved to be a success for the interests of the Centre and today the MHA is using the CBI, NIA, ED, IRS, Customs and Excise, Narcotics Bureau, etc.Without the knowledge of the state government or police, hundreds of them descend upon dozens of locations and you read about hundreds and thousands of crores recovered and then the news dries up. All is gradually forgotten until the next target is unveiled and proceeded against. A police force brought to heel by state governments is further ground into the dust by the Central organisations, which imply that the state police is party to all these nefarious activities and so the knights in shining armour come from Delhi and do the needful. Let me disabuse them of their ignorance. In the eyes of the people, they are considered far worse than the state police because their targets are given to them from Delhi, the actions are virtually supervised from Delhi and people are left guessing as to what happened.So, to conclude, back to the question as to why Param Bir stands alone today. He chose to do so when only he knows under what circumstances he accepted the posting. Forgetting all this, why did he keep quiet when an illegal demand was made by the HM? He chose ‘Omerta’ and hence must take the fall. However, let us not worry too much, the sponsors behind the scenes will sort it out. That is why godfathers have ‘consiglieres’.— The writer is ex-chairmanof UPSC, former ManipurGovernor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fall-of-mighty-mumbai-police-234387
