06-04-2021||---||Tackle Maoists with a top-down approach||The latest ambush by Maoist rebels on a large contingent of security personnel in Bastar is yet another well-planned and ruthlessly executed attack in a long line of similar attacks in the Maoist-infested regions of central India.Hundreds of policemen from various cadres have been killed in attacks, mostly in the past two decades, by well-armed Maoist rebels in the region. Often, the pattern of their ambushes is similar to that of the past. It’s either on a large posse of security personnel making their way back to camp after a tiring few days of operations in the jungles and when their guard is down. Or, it is an attack on a police camp, which can never be quite completely fortified.But there are ways to prevent such massacres. This requires a top-down approach, and not a bottom-up one, to address the challenges across the several states where insurgency has existed for at least three decades, much like the way the Indian Army has been deployed in the north-eastern states.Maoist insurgents have been expanding their footprint across the heartland over the past three decades and their red line of rebellion now runs from Pashupati (in Nepal) to Tirupati (in south India). At its height, the Maoist insurgency was visible in over 200 districts across, most severely, in central India.And though our earlier Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has stated on record on more than one occasion that the Maoist insurgency “was the single biggest internal security challenge ever faced by our country”, Delhi’s efforts then and now have been a piecemeal exercise.One problem is the federal nature of India, and the resistance of state governments. It limits what the Central government can do to tackle the challenges comprehensively. One state’s insurgent cannot be a vote bank for another state! Sadly, politics often takes precedence over the safety of citizens, and, in this case, the overstretched policemen operating in these areas, without an adequate senior police leadership.A decade ago, a DGP of the CRPF had told me that it was a challenge for him to get enough CRPF senior officers (IGs and DIGs) to move out of the comfortable cities that they were based in to command their forces on the battlefields. Since IPS officers neither have the experience nor the inclination to battle insurgencies, they are reluctant to be based in operational areas and their troops are devoid of effective leadership, unlike the Army officers who have to command their troops from operational areas.One way out is to get the Army to depute senior officers (from colonels to generals) with experience in counter-insurgency operations to command CRPF paramilitary men under the Home Ministry. If the Army can provide officers for the NSG and Establishment 22, which are under the Home Ministry or the PMO, then why not for anti-Maoist operations? Moreover, with the Army being so top heavy, the opening of new avenues for officers will be an opportunity for them, many of whom are doing the job that one brigadier or major-general did decades ago in the corps/command/Army headquarters. And those JCO/NCOs retiring at a relatively young age, with experience in CI Ops can be offered the opportunity to serve in the Maoist-infested zones.There would be the usual objections — from the Army headquarters and the CRPF — about how this can create inter-service manpower and budgeting issues, but if there is a will, there will be a way. A year ago, a Chinese incursion on the LAC led us to abandon the plans and doctrines that seemed to have been etched in stone. What will it take us to wake up to the threats posed on the lives and limbs of the policemen who are sent into the jungles, again and again, to be slaughtered? A decade ago, the then Home Secretary RK Singh wanted to up the ante by asking for 30,000 men from the Army’s Rashtriya Rifle units and helicopters. But he had run into opposition in Delhi, with the Army Chief reluctant to apply “quick-fix-solutions” by using excessive force.And with the Maoists having shot down an IAF helicopter in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district a decade ago, the reluctance to use helicopters — even for non-aggressive operations like reconnaissance and movement of troops to reinforce operations — gathered momentum in New Delhi. This must now be reviewed.Historically, insurgencies have been contained and eliminated by a three-part strategy that involves: (a) The use of necessary military force to counter the aggressiveness of insurgents; (b) and while military operations are being enforced — although this could take from a few months to few years — the government must have ideas and initiatives ready, with plans for infrastructure upgrades that would address the basic grievances of the alienated people, who took to arms in the first place. (c) finally, when military operations are reduced to a minimum and the ground situation is under control with the implementation of such initiatives, then ‘talks’ must be initiated to address the political demands of the locals, with fixed timelines for political deliverables.Essentially, there are two ways to confront insurgencies. One is to manage it at a low-key level, like New Delhi has done for decades in the North-East. The other is to go hammer and tongs, as the Sri Lankan forces eventually did against the LTTE, to finish off any serious resistance by the Tamil militants.Above all, to successfully battle an insurgency, all major governmental agencies must be on the same wavelength. For the armed forces to distance themselves from the challenges of this grave challenge by claiming that this is not their battle (while the insurgencies in the North-East and Kashmir are) shows double standards. The PM and the National Security Adviser would do well to exercise their authority to get the forces to participate in and collectively address a problem that cannot have a knee-jerk approach, notwithstanding strong political warnings that translate to little on the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tackle-maoists-with-a-top-down-approach-235143
06-04-2021||---||Recalibrating strategic ties with China||For almost 50 years, the bilateral relationship between India and China was able to keep the thorny issues of border settlement and of deeper economic engagement separate. Bilateral trade grew at 20 per cent per annum during the first 15 years of this century. India went from being number 19 to six in Beijing’s list of export destinations.Both were enthusiastic supporters of the BRICS grouping which has led to the formation of a development bank and an annual summit, of which the thirteenth one will be held in Delhi next month. Over the years, the frequent meetings between President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have created an expectation that this could truly be the hallmark of an Asian century when the two countries could work as partners and friends.But the events of the summer of 2020 and the Galwan conflict have irreversibly changed the equilibrium. With this military conflict, which follows the long standoff in Doklam in 2017, China has unilaterally dismantled the status quo, and has signalled a more hostile stance towards India. This has raised important questions for policymakers in India. How should India navigate this new landscape in which the relationship is evolving? The immediate response to the Galwan incident was correctly to mobilise our troops and the Indian Army gave a fitting reply to the aggressors. This was combined with economic sanctions like the banning of Chinese apps, restrictions on capital flows and emotional boycott of Chinese goods. What of the medium-to-long term? What should be the strategy?This calls for seeing the challenge on a larger scale of time, space and force. What are the forces shaping Chinese behaviour? What is their path of evolution in the coming decades? What is the best path for India in the short term and the long term? How can diplomacy and economic policy work in an intertwined fashion, to best further India’s interests?These questions have been addressed in a recent comprehensive policy paper authored by six people (including the present two authors) associated with the Pune International Centre. It is ironic that the recalibration is happening when China continues to be India’s biggest trading partner. India’s import dependency in key areas like pharmaceutical intermediaries, capital goods, electronics and telecom equipment cannot be eliminated overnight. But we believe that the long-term strategy calls for lesser economic dependency, stronger diplomatic and geopolitical coalitions with likeminded democracies, and a stance of calm confrontation of Chinese aggression.We argue that in the short run, India will have to build balancing coalitions with likeminded countries, as, indeed, we are doing through Quad with the United States, Japan and Australia. We envisage three groups of countries that we can engage with in such coalitions: major democracies of the world, countries bordering China, and India’s own neighbours, all of whom have a lot to gain in preventing the rise of China as a malevolent and autocratic superpower. We need to go beyond treaties and agreements and engage deeply with these 20 countries, encouraging frequent exchanges at multiple levels: diplomats, economists, scientists, academics, innovators and entrepreneurs.There have been many discussions and debates about protectionist measures to keep Chinese imports and Chinese firms from playing any role in the growth of the Indian economy. We believe that a significant proportion of such moves will be self-defeating because they can hurt India’s productivity and exports. There is certainly a case for three groups of restrictions: limit companies controlled by the Chinese State from controlling stakes in a number of sensitive infrastructure assets, including 5G and telecom, steer clear of China-controlled technology standards and block any surveillance of Indian persons.A selective retreat from economic engagement with China and increased emphasis on the global market would be an ideal approach to take in the next two decades, which can result in starting with ‘less China’ and eventually approaching a near-‘China-less’ state of our nation.This represents a call to action, which the military demonstrated so admirably and which now must be heeded by political parties, diplomats, policy planners, bureaucrats, industrialists, indeed, all citizens. And the starting point of the new race is less than equal, which is only to be expected. Whether we look at the size of the economy, state capacity, capabilities of the best firms, extent of internationalisation, mastery of science and technology or the pace of filing of patents, China is significantly ahead of India. China’s economy is five times bigger, and the bilateral trade balance is heavily skewed in its favour.The trade imbalance can be partly corrected by a focused approach. India has recently launched the productivity-linked incentives (PLI) and chosen sectors for deep investments and creating ‘global champions’. Investments of over $28 billion from India and abroad have been announced. Iconic companies like Apple are the early beneficiaries of this PLI opportunity. We did an assessment of the global opportunities and the relative status of India and China to identify and advocate industry-specific strategies in the following three broad categories of the industry sectors:1. Huge asymmetry areas where India must progressively reduce dependence. Rare Earths are a classic example.2. Opportunities to focus on atmanirbharta and meet all domestic demand. Telecom is an immediate imperative.3. Global industry-building opportunities. These exist in chemicals, pharmaceuticals — where we have made a good start with vaccine manufacturing — automotive, particularly with autonomous connected and electric vehicles and hydrogen as an alternative fuel source, hardware, consumer electronics and even agriculture — where a resolution of the current standoff can become the beginning of a practical domestic and exports policy that would help millions of farmers in the country.In the medium-to-long term, China has its own vulnerabilities. Its demography is ageing and workforce declining. Its growth will surely slow down. It has an uneasy geopolitical relationship with several countries. It has adopted an adversarial relationship with large private sector companies like Alibaba.It is possible that China may grow at four per cent while India can grow at close to eight per cent for the foreseeable future. This changes the skewed ratio of economic size from 5:1 to just about 2:1. To achieve this high and sustained growth, India has a domestic economic reforms agenda to pursue.As a nation, we can and must move towards being an alternative centre of the global supply chain and join the race for being a major global manufacturing hub. This needs strategic patience and has the potential to create additional employment for 200 million people. The atmanirbharta strategy has to be combined with reforms which can make India globally competitive and give it atmavishwas or self-confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/recalibrating-strategic-ties-with-china-235140
06-04-2021||---||The celebration of power||Recently, a leading newspaper made me aware of the list of 100 ‘most powerful’ persons in India. As an ordinary mortal, I looked at this list and began to ask myself two disturbing questions: Why is it that, despite the presence of these powerful persons amongst us, we continue to live amid the all-pervading decadence with gross inequality, societal neurosis and collective violence? And is it that a list of this kind (or its celebration) also reveals our hidden aspiration — the urge to become like them?Why not seek the power to be ‘powerless’, the courage to be kind, the ability to radiate one’s fragrance without any utilitarian motive?As the list indicates, these people are primarily our political bosses and those who own and run the gigantic corporate empires. And quite often, we like to know about them — their ‘success’ stories, and even all sorts of gossip centred on their personal lives. It will not be wrong to say that as a society we celebrate this sort of power. Hence, it is important to reflect on the discourse of power. Possibly, the power we worship is the egotistic power: the power to dominate and control others; or, the power to establish one’s ‘superiority’ over others in the name of techno-economic capital, politico-administrative authority, and even specialised knowledge (this knowledge often manifests itself in the form of power — the power to exclude someone as ‘mad’, or the power to diminish the opinions of others as they are ‘lay’ persons). As a matter of fact, some illuminating social scientists like Karl Marx, Max Weber and Michel Foucault reflected on this entire dynamics of acquisition, possession and exercise of this sort of power, and its inevitable consequences — our alienated existence amid the ‘iron cage’ of bureaucracy and the chains of surveillance, or our dependence on the benevolence of this brigade of powerful people. Even democracy, as we are witnessing, has degenerated into a ritualistic process of consuming our narcissistic ‘masters’; and socialism with its gospel of the ‘dictatorship of the proletariat’ didn’t take much time to turn into a Stalinist nightmare.Yet, power continues to tempt us as it nurtures our inflated egos, and activates the victim’s wish to be a victor. Isn’t it true that our fancy schools often conduct workshops on leadership skills, and want their students to internalise the psychology of self-promotion, dramaturgical performance and narcissism? Or, isn’t it the fact that our education system is obsessed with the narratives of the toppers (billboards in our towns and cities demonstrate the victorious expressions of these IIT-JEE toppers)? Or, isn’t it true that often we love to impress others by demonstrating our social capital, or connections — the mighty politicians we know, IAS/IPS officers with whom we are in touch, the brand of corporate houses we wish to associate with, or even the academic and cultural celebrities with whom we drink at the India Habitat Centre? The smell of this sort of power is intoxicating; it fulfils the egotistic urge to look ‘special’, and dominate others. Some sort of narcissism or authoritarianism is implicit in this discourse of power.Is there any alternative? As we see the rising authoritarianism throughout the world, the militarisation of the human consciousness in the name of narcissistic nationalism, the reckless neoliberal global capitalism with its select billionaires amid hunger and malnutrition in different parts of the world, and the promotion of exhibitionist/possessive individualism through the mythologies of celebrity culture and seductive consumerism, no alternative, it would be argued, looks feasible. Yet, what we cannot deny is that throughout human civilisation the trace of an altogether different sort of quest can be seen. It is not the quest of Nietzsche’s ‘superman’ driven by the ‘will to power’; nor is it about timidity, or passive withdrawal from all worldly affairs. Instead, it is a quest for a qualitatively different form of power — the power to be ‘powerless’, the courage to be kind and compassionate, the ability to radiate one’s fragrance without any utilitarian motive: the way Alyosha in Dostoyevsky’s ‘The Brothers Karamazov’ bloomed like a flower. This is the ultimate power: the power of love that enables one to see beyond egotistic boundaries, and experience the abundance of the infinite. This was the quest of Buddha and Jesus, or Rumi and Kabir. And possibly, in the active political realm, as some might say, this was the quest of Gandhi, Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela.In fact, the list I referred to indicates our ways of seeing, or our priorities. At a deeper level, it indicates our obsession with ranking and associated hierarchy. Hence, we love to classify 10 ‘beauty queens’; 10 top universities; and even 10 top Marxist intellectuals. It is an extremely difficult task to question this hierarchical mind, see the uniqueness of each of us, and appreciate diverse articulations of life energy. A village woman buying a toy in the local ‘mela’ for her daughter is no less beautiful than Aishwarya Rai with her daughter in front of the television camera; a dedicated teacher in an unknown school is not inferior to a Harvard professor as far as the urge to disseminate knowledge is concerned; and even the likes of Modi and Ambani can learn a couple of lessons of meaningful living from a Sufi mystic. It is only through this profound art of understanding and empathy can we move towards a world that, instead of privileging 100 ‘most powerful’ persons, sees the possibility of inner flowering of every human soul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-celebration-of-power-235136
