07-04-2021||---||The role of agents in materiel procurement||Indian armament agents or ‘middlemen’ appear to have an explanation for the recent French media reports regarding the ‘unexplained’ payment of 1 million euros(Rs 8.64 crore) by Dassault to a local businessman following the euro 7.87 billion (Rs 59,000 crore) deal with New Delhi for 36 Rafale fighters in 2016.Several such intermediaries claim that the euro 1 million paid to the Gurgaon-based Defsys Solutions was a ‘success fee’ for assisting in the government-to-government Rafale buy for the Indian Air Force (IAF). “In all likelihood, this fee was for organising meetings between Indian and French officials and providing related logistic support for the tender,” said the representative of a European armament vendor in Delhi. The amount of 1 million euros, he added, was too paltry to be deemed a bribe in the euro 7.87 billion deal.France’s Mediapart, an online investigative journal, had reported onApril 5 that their country’s Agence Francaise Anti-corruption (AFA) — analogous to India’s Comptroller and Auditor General — had stumbled upon this curious payment to Defsys whilst auditing Dassault’s business records. Dassault, for its part, had declared this to be a ‘gift’, which under French — and Indian — law is illegal in all military deals. Established in mid-2017, the AFA operates under France’s National Financial Prosecutor’s Office, auditing government and privately-run companies in a bid to stem corruption.Mediapart further stated that euro 1 million was disbursed to Defsys, headed by Sushen Gupta, to make 50 large replica models of the Rafale fighters, which the IAF is presently inducting into squadron service at Ambala, and thereafter in Hashimara in the north-east. Mediapart also disclosed that though Dassault could not furnish any proof to the AFA that these models had, indeed, been delivered to India, it intriguingly opted against referring the matter for prosecution. The journal also disclosed that Dassault was unable to provide the AFA with even a single document or photograph proving the Rafale models’ existence.“It seems Defsys, which had allegedly played a major enabling role in several previous IAF combat aircraft and rotorcraft purchases, was in some way associated with the Rafale tender, possibly in providing administrative support to the French company,” said one other ‘facilitator’ in Delhi, working for a Western armaments manufacturer.In a contract of this kind, he declared, there were innumerable managerial details that needed working out, which could only be expedited by an outside party for a variety of reasons. Consequently, payments to any and all such individuals or companies, could not be made public, prompting the vendor to ‘shroud’ their fee under innocuous heads, like making life-sized models of Rafale fighters, he stated.According to media reports, Gupta, who is a US national, had worked as a Dassault representative in India and was reportedly associated in an undefined manner with the Rafale purchase. He is presently on bail after being arrested in March 2019 by the Enforcement Directorate in the Rs 36,000-crore import of 12 AW101 helicopters, which was terminated in January 2014 for wrongdoing, and remains under investigation.But military and Ministry of Defence (MoD) sources said this was not the first time that ‘facilitation or enabling’ services had been employed to effect military purchases by India. Operating between the lines, several such agents like Gupta had, over decades, become vital to India’s weapons acquisition processes, helping the buyer and seller navigate the Byzantine MoD procurement guidelines.Armament industry executives said the periodically revised procurement procedures were so convoluted that few at home or abroad could fully comprehend or decipher them. Consequently, the omnipresent agent, essentially an entrepreneur with a flair for public relations and man-management, gradually became indispensable to the country’s materiel procurement process. And, through experience, patience and tenacity in dealing with the Indian bureaucracy and the MoD’s hidebound systems, he unravelled for his principals the multi-tiered tortuous procurement processes. In return, he received handsome retainers and working expenses and a hefty commission on contract closure, similar to what probably transpired in the euro1-million payout in the Rafale contract.Successful agents had also perfected the tactic of marshalling their clout to intervene in contracts nearing closure in a process that was compared by the former Army Chief General VK Singh, to a game of snakes-and-ladders, where there is no ladder, but only snakes. “If the snakes bite you somewhere, the whole thing comes back to zero,’ he had said in an explanation of why Indian defence equipment purchases took ages.Privately, Indian military officers concede that no materiel can be imported without assistance from agents or local representative of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). “We frequently meet these agents to exchange information, discuss requirements and above all liaise for trials, which in themselves are a complex bureaucratic affair requiring innumerable clearances,” a senior military officer said.In late 2001, the BJP-led NDA government had come up with a proposal to register agents by recording amongst other minutiae, their contractual, banking and financial details. At the time, the MoD reluctantly conceded that though agents performed ‘useful functions’, their working needed stricter regulation to prevent them from influencing decision makers. But the conditions imposed for agents’ registration were so harsh, invasive and draconian that the proposal was scrapped, leaving the agents to function in a twilight zone that was to the advantage of all concerned.However, unlike media reports glamourising agents, their expensive accoutrements and playboy lifestyles, there is little allure attached to their work, which in reality is a gruelling, at times, soul-killing and humiliating enterprise. It requires them to ingratiate themselves with grasping military men, unscrupulous MoD officials, politicians and power brokers, continually flattering them, in addition to proffering incentives for clearing their deliberately delayed paperwork in labyrinthine military departments and the MoD in the Sena Bhawan and South Block, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-role-of-agents-in-materiel-procurement-235545
07-04-2021||---||Poll-2021 marked by greater brazenness||Mamata Banerjee’s recent missive to the Opposition parties, calling them to unite, raised many an eyebrow. It was curious, coming in the midst of a no-holds-barred campaign in West Bengal and two days before her own election in Nandigram.Naturally, it made many wonder. Is Mamata viewing a larger canvas for herself? If she wins again, she will undoubtedly give new heart to the entire Opposition that is fighting with its back to the wall. But if she loses, she will hardly be a contender for leadership of the Opposition nationally. Since everything hinges on victory or defeat, why raise the issue in the midst of a raging campaign?The answer lies more in Bengal, than outside it.The Mamata message was to her own state. She has tried to forge a tacit understanding with both the Left and the Congress, constituency-wise, the idea being to enable the party be best placed to defeat the BJP and win.The Congress, many believe, will join the government if Mamata comes to power or if the Assembly is hung. Surveys show that she has the edge. But the battle she is waging against the BJP is the toughest one she has ever fought. That’s why she is repeatedly urging the minorities not to waste their votes. It is significant that neither Rahul Gandhi nor Priyanka Vadra have campaigned in West Bengal.The gist of Mamata’s words is clear. All Opposition parties are at the receiving end of the BJP’s onslaught, as it moves towards its goal of a one-party dominant India. They have to come together, in the states and the Centre, to survive. If a feisty Mamata can be cornered, it will be so much easier to get to the others. Election-2021 has only gone to underline the point once more.Every election in India is fascinating because it brings to light the shifts taking place at the ground level, both societal and political; and to project future trends. The BJP’s strategy will be to try and piggyback the regional parties where it is weak, like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the way it is doing in Tamil Nadu today.In Kerala, the BJP may not be able to win many seats, but it may be able to influence the outcome in many more. Its interest lies in allowing the Left Front to win. It may calculate that eliminating the Congress this time would leave the field open for it in the next bout and it can start to position itself, as it has done in West Bengal over the last three years.The Left parties also stand to gain from a weakening of the Congress and the rise of the BJP, up to a point. This will lead to a division in the anti-Left votes, enabling it to remain in power even the next time round.The Congress tends to wilt when out of power. The absence of a chief ministerial face does not help the Congress when the Left has someone like Pinarayi Vijayan.Whether or not Edapady Palaniswamy retains Tamil Nadu, he has shown promise in the way he has dealt with the Covid challenge. He managed to persuade one-time rival O Paneerselvam to be the number two. He manoeuvred the situation in such a way that Sasikala decided to quit politics, for the moment at any rate. She would have really queered the pitch for the AIDMK. And “EPS” displayed quick reflexes to make A Raja’s (DMK) derogatory comments about his late mother into a poll issue.The DMK chief ministerial candidate MK Stalin — surveys predict victory for him — has already launched his son Udhayanidhi, even before he has occupied the CM’s chair. So, that is another star rising on the Tamil horizon.Gaurav Gogoi may be treading carefully, but he seems to have taken charge after the death of his father Tarun Gogoi. Conspicuous by her absence is Sushmita Dev, a one-time rising star in the Congress. Assam could have been there for the taking had the Congress knuckled down to work three years ago — as the BJP did in West Bengal.Election-21 is notable in several other ways. There is a greater brazenness in evidence. Raids against opponents by Central agencies had become commonplace, but they are now taking place in the middle of the polls (against DMK leaders in Tamil Nadu). An opponent is threatened with action by the NIA in Assam. There were EVM machines found in the car of a BJP worker in Assam. The explanation: it rained and there was no other vehicle available to transport the machine! Such an explanation would have been unthinkable in the past. So, even niceties are going out of the window. Given the way the Central agencies are being used against opponents, corruption is increasingly not an issue anymore.Elections are the heartbeat of any democracy. The BJP fights the elections as if it is a do-or-die affair and any poll, even a local election, is its last battle. But the way the election campaigns are being carried out at the cost of governance has serious implications. The deadly Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh that killed 22 jawans took place when both the Home Minister and the Chief Minister were out campaigning for days. Even the Parliament session was cut short because of the polls. This, when Parliament could not meet for the winter session last year because of Covid. The Finance Ministry admits an ‘oversight’ on a decision involving a cut in interest rates on small savings of millions.The Covid cases are going through the roof. Now Central teams are being sent to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chandigarh. This should have happened weeks ago, when the first warning signals came. If only the ruling party and, indeed, all parties would be concerned about people’s woes, as they are about gaining power themselves! It’s as if nothing else matters today, other than winning an election. Not the lives of citizens, nor their rights, not their savings nor their security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/poll-2021-marked-by-greater-brazenness-235544
07-04-2021||---||The Myanmar muddle||The situation in Myanmar continues to deteriorate as the military raises the level of violence unleashed against peaceful pro-democracy demonstrators. According to the UN Human Rights Office in Southeast Asia, to date, over 500 lives have been lost in firing by security forces at protesting crowds. As many as 2,600 others have been detained since February 1 when the coup took place. There are reasons to believe that this time round, the Myanmar military may have miscalculated its ability to frighten ordinary citizens into abject submission. This playbook of unmitigated violence against its own citizens has worked in the past, whether the protesters are political party workers and civilians or Buddhist monks who enjoy deep respect in a devout Buddhist country. It is now two months since the coup took place but large-scale demonstrations have continued on the streets in several cities, including the capital city of Naypyidaw. The barbaric violence indulged in by the security forces has led to greater outrage and anger and a determination not to submit to such repression. Furthermore, the very constituencies that the regime depends upon to run the state and its agencies and the economy, are also joining the protests, crippling administration in many areas. The impact on the economy, which has already been badly damaged by the pandemic, is severe. It could well descend into a free fall if the political unrest continues, and, worse, if it escalates.The barbaric violence indulged in by the security forces has led to greater outrage and anger and a determination not to submit to such repression.There is another important difference from the past similar instances. Politics in Myanmar works through a ‘three-legged’ dynamic, the military, the mainly Burman civilian political constituency and the 17-odd ethnic groups, some of which are heavily armed. If two legs come together, the remaining leg will come under intense pressure. In the early 1990s, when the military overturned the results of elections which were also won by the National League of Democracy (NLD), it managed to neutralise the various ethnic groups by concluding ceasefire or arms for peace agreements with them conceding a high degree of autonomy to them in their respective regions. The Chinese who had maintained strong links with some of these groups located in the China-Myanmar border, such as the Wa and the Kokang, helped the Myanmar military in negotiating such agreements. This time, several of the ethnic groups have shed their reservations about the NLD and the leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi and are joining in the popular protests against the military. Clashes between the ethnic armed forces and the Myanmar military are growing. It is estimated that these ethnic armed forces may number at least 1 lakh. If two legs of the stool come together, the military will find itself under great pressure. Of course, thanks to their close connections with China, the Wa and the Kokangs have maintained a studious silence so far but other groups are not only joining in the condemnation of the military but also providing shelter to Burman activists in areas controlled by them. The aerial strikes against the Karen National Union on the Myanmar-Thai border appear like an act of desperation and as a warning to other ethnic groups.Currently, there are two opposition groups that are active, one being the Committee Representing the Parliament (CRP), which is composed mainly of the NLD members of the elected body, and the General Strike Committee of Nationalities (GSCN), made up largely of various ethnic groups. While the CRP is pressing for the convening of the newly elected parliament and release of ASSK, the GSCN has a more ambitious political agenda. The latter wants the abrogation of the current military-inspired constitution of 2008 and the adoption of a new federal polity with significant local autonomy for Myanmar’s numerous ethnic groups. Even the CRP is talking about the need for a federal, democratic, civilian political dispensation. This would be an anathema to the military. While in the past, the military could tap into the majority Burman anxiety about national unity being undermined by powerful ethnic groups seeking autonomy, what we are witnessing is the coming together of these two key constituencies in the face of indiscriminate violence perpetrated on both.What about the external environment? Since its takeover in 1991, the Myanmar military has been relatively insulated from external pressures by the tacit support of China and key ASEAN countries. Since the late 1990s, India, too, decided to engage with the military government. As long as its borders to the east (India), west (Thailand) and north (China) remained open and trade could continue despite western sanctions, it could afford to ignore external pressures. That situation continues to prevail, as of now. But prolonged unrest and growing violence is already affecting the substantial economic assets which China, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand have come to acquire in Myanmar. Chinese projects, in particular, are the target of attacks by demonstrators leading to Chinese demands on the military government to protect these assets. Anti-Chinese popular sentiment is growing and this cannot be a good augury for the future of the ambitious China-Myanmar economic corridor. Myanmar is the key to resolving China’s ‘Malacca dilemma’, enabling direct access to the Bay of Bengal. Would China play a more active role in resolving the current political crisis? This is unlikely because even in the military, the suspicion about Chinese intentions runs fairly deep. This is reinforced by Chinese links, with some of the important ethnic groups on the border. Could India have a role to play? While expressing concern over the growing violence in the country and conveying support to the democratic transition, the Indian position has been cautious and in the nature of watch and wait. India has one advantage. It has maintained a good relationship with Myanmar’s military leaders and has also earned a degree of trust with the NLD. India has assisted the NLD in nurturing the nuts and bolts of democratic functioning and contributed significantly to capacity building. This goodwill could be useful if deployed together with ASEAN countries, and perhaps Japan as well. Maybe the military is ready to consider walking back from the brink and these efforts could offer a way out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-myanmar-muddle-235543
