08-04-2021||---||Pak’s puzzling U-turn on trade policy with India||INDIA-PAKISTAN relations resemble nothing more than a game of snakes and ladders, with more snakes than ladders. That tendency was worsened recently by the Imran Khan government taking yet another U-turn on its policies, this time on reopening trade with India, making everyone wonder whether it was even worth trying to get the relations with this troublesome and erratic neighbour on an even keel.First, the clearance for importing sugar and cotton from India was done by Pakistan’s Economic Coordination Committee headed by Finance Minister Hammad Azhar, who had attended this meeting on his very first day in office. Till then, it was Prime Minister Imran Khan who was holding charge of the Finance Ministry, after the unceremonious exit of his predecessor Hafeez Sheikh after less than two years in office on March 30. But he was luckier. Another Finance Minister — Asad Umar — lost his job in just eight months. Now, there are rumours that another of Imran Khan’s affiliates, Shaukat Tarin, may be considered for the job or to head the Economic Advisory Board. In short, it’s complete chaos.Whatever the context, the meeting itself seems to have made clear the reason for this decision. Sugar is clearly cheaper in India; and as for textiles, it’s no secret that while production has seen some recovery after the government offered several sops, it’s far from being in even recovery mode. Apart from a poor cotton harvest driving up prices to a 10-year high, industry leaders also observe that the quality of Pakistan cotton is poor, leading to a demand for imported cotton.Meanwhile, an interesting fact. Pakistan’s order books could benefit due to the strained US-China relations, particularly after the ban on cotton from Xinjiang on grounds of forced labour. There’s money to be made. So, it’s no wonder that textile exporters are upset at the sudden reversal of the government policy. People on the ground are likely to be upset too. After all, it employs about 40 per cent of the workforce, employing relatively unskilled labour as well. It also comprises 60 per cent of the total exports. This deal with India matters to the Pakistani people.Then came the complete turnaround — so complete as to risk upsetting the applecart altogether. The Cabinet reportedly decided that the decision had been ‘deferred’ until a complete reinstatement of Article 370 in Kashmir.True, decisions by any ministry have to be endorsed by the Cabinet, and some of them do get rejected. But as Pakistan’s daily Dawn commented, the reversal “is a bizarre development — one that falls squarely under the unfortunate category of the left hand not knowing what the right is doing.”Obviously, even if the minister was new to the job, the ministry itself doesn’t work on its own, especially on such a sensitive subject as trade with India. Someone okayed the discussion on the proposal, and someone else or the same person got cold feet. It now appears that the item was not even on the agenda of the cabinet. It was ‘raised’ at a meeting on Gilgit-Baltistan, and Imran Khan promptly opposed it and called for a review. This kind of policymaking falls squarely in the category of “cutting off your nose to spite your face.”Meanwhile, opposition to the idea was expected from the usual quarters. Sections of the Urdu media declared that Pakistan would rather die of starvation than give in on Kashmir. Television anchors debated the ‘wisdom’ of the move, but the overall reaction was speculative rather than negative. Post the turnaround on trade, the general tone has been critical of the government and Imran Khan, in particular, in terms of the recent events. In Kashmir, entirely expectedly, the All-Party Hurriyat Conference and the Jammu and Kashmir Democratic Political Movement issued separate statements welcoming Khan’s refusal on trade.Finally, there’s one important input. According to veteran journalist Najam Sethi, the Chief of Army Staff, General Bajwa, recently summoned six Cabinet ministers to give them a talking-to on the abysmal performance of the government, particularly on the economic front. It appears that the sacking of Finance Minister Hafeez Shaikh occurred shortly thereafter. The COAS is also credited with the sudden invitation from Saudi Arabia to visit Riyadh, thus possibly ending a chill that led to the stoppage of the badly needed economic aid from that quarter.The bottom line seems to be that the Pakistan army is prodding the government to forget about the Kashmir issue for the moment, to deal with a crisis which is making it difficult for the army to keep itself afloat in unremitting operations along the Line of Control, not to mention the continuous counter-terrorism operations in the tribal areas.The World Bank report released recently paints a grim picture of the economy, predicting that growth would slow down further, and that the debt-to-GDP ratio, already at 87.2 per cent, would worsen to 94 per cent. The writing is on the wall. The Army Chief and the Chinese, not to mention the US and Pakistan’s international lenders, see it. The Prime Minister and his warring ministers don’t.The U-turn, perhaps, may be explained by the party’s recent political embarrassments, including the election of former Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to the Islamabad Senate general seat, which, in turn, led to Khan seeking a vote of confidence from the House.While it may be Dutch comfort to point out that the Opposition — the Pakistan Democratic Movement — is embarrassing itself to an almost equal extent, the truth is that Khan remains secure as long as he retains the backing of the military establishment. Now it seems that he’s in danger of losing that as well. Experts talk of his ‘voodoo vision’ of the economy, which has contributed to the free fall of the economy, while the rapid changes in crucial posts have upset the market.But this is Imran Khan, a Prime Minister, not quite even a first among equals, and who is not quite in his prime in terms of his ability to manage what is admittedly a very difficult situation. That inability is, however, giving everyone else a massive headache. The trouble is that, rather like India, there doesn’t seem to be anyone who is even remotely a viable political alternative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/paks-puzzling-u-turn-on-trade-policy-with-india-236050
08-04-2021||---||Why no govt wants OBC count in Census||What Does the Ruling Class Do When It Rules? This was the title of a classic book on Marxist theory by Swedish political scientist Göran Therborn. If the title was not enough, the book also carried an equally wordy subtitle: ‘State Apparatuses and State Power Under Feudalism, Capitalism and Socialism’. I could never read the entire book, but the mouthful of a title stayed with me.Someone should write an Indian sequel: What Does the Ruling Caste Do When It Rules? State Apparatuses and State Power under Brahminism in a Constitutional Democracy. The book could be a study of the myriad ways in which the caste order continues to rule India, using all forms of formal and informal State power. The story of how various governments of different political hues conspired to not count Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the Census must find a place in this book.Last week, the National Commission for Backward Classes appealed to the Modi government to count the OBCs in the 2021 Census. To be more precise, it advised the government to file an affidavit supporting the counting of OBCs in a case coming up before the Supreme Court. In all likelihood, this intervention is too little, too late. The government has already gone back on its promise to enumerate the OBCs and is unlikely to retract. We may already have missed the bus, once again, for 10 more years.Counting OBCs in the Census is a simple idea. Our decennial Census, like such an exercise all over the world, is not merely a headcount. It puts all persons and households in various categories. It records the age, sex, education and occupation of each individual. It also records the language, religion, house type and major assets of each household. As for caste, it uses three categories: SCs, STs, and General. If a household falls under SC or ST, then the enumerator also records the exact caste from the official list or the schedule.The long-standing demand for OBC count is simply this: besides SC and ST, there should also be a column for the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes or the SEBC (the official nomenclature for OBCs) in the Census enumeration form. As in the case of SC and ST enumeration, once someone falls in the SEBC category, their exact caste will be recorded. Mind you, this task is different from the demand for a full-fledged caste census that entails a complicated exercise of categorising all castes, for which we do not yet have an official compendium. So, the OBC count is a limited and simple exercise because there already exists an all-India list of OBCs that qualify for quota under the Central government.The rationale is equally simple. A modern State cannot but count every category of citizens that it recognises for purposes of any social policy. The US, like most multi-racial societies, enumerates race in its Census. Britain does it for immigrants by their origin. There could be arguments for and against OBC count before the introduction of nation-wide OBC reservations in 1990. You may like it or dislike it, but to not count the category for which you have such major affirmative action programmes is plain ridiculous.Just look at the consequences of this information vacuum. We don’t know the population size of the largest social category of our citizens. The Mandal Commission used some guesstimate to arrive at the mythical figure of 52 per cent. Other claims and counter-claims of the OBC population vary from 36 per cent to 65 per cent! Besides resolving the needless mystery about the size of the OBC population, Census enumeration would yield a wealth of demographic information (sex ratio, mortality rate, life expectancy), educational data (male and female literacy, ratio of school-going population, number of graduates) and policy relevant information about economic conditions (house type, assets, occupation) of the OBCs. All this information would be available not just for the OBCs as a whole, but also for each caste that falls within the OBC category, for every state and district, and so on. This information can go a long way in evolving and fine-tuning evidence-based social policies. This could also bring down avoidable street fights over which caste should or should not get reservation.Over the last three decades, successive governments have come up with ploys and pleas to defy this straightforward reasoning. Intellectuals have spread paranoia about the rise of casteism as if closing our eyes to caste will wish it away. The bureaucracy has used the alibi of ‘operational difficulties’, without specifying how counting OBCs is more difficult than counting SCs or STs. The latest gem of bureaucratic nonsense is the reason offered by the government: OBC count will “adversely affect the integrity of the Census exercise”. Whatever that means!By the time OBC reservations were introduced, it was too late for the 1991 Census. A decade later, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government simply nixed this idea for the 2001 Census despite a clear request from the Registrar General and Census Commissioner. The UPA government, too, dodged the issue till it was caught in an unprecedented storm in the Lok Sabha in 2010. The government was forced to concede the unanimous demand for a ‘caste census’. Yet the caste order managed to subvert this decision by shifting caste enumeration outside the main Census operations. Smart bureaucrats came up with the idea of a Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC), only to report that the caste data gathered from that huge exercise could not be classified and used. Three decades gone and no data yet!The Modi government resorted to a U-turn. In 2018, then Home Minister Rajnath Singh declared that the country would have its first-ever OBC count. The decision changed, without any debate or public reasoning after the 2019 election. It is only when the draft schedules for Census 2021 were released that we learnt about the missing OBC column. Since then, many stakeholders have made fervent appeals for reversing this decision. The National Commission for Backward Classes, now a constitutional body, has recommended it. So have the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Welfare of the OBCs and the Ministry of Social Justice. The government of Rajasthan and state assemblies in Bihar, Odisha and Maharashtra have endorsed this demand. Clearly, not enough to shake the order of things.Why is the caste order so determined to foil OBC enumeration? Not just because such a count may reveal the very large numbers of OBCs. That is more or less known, if not precisely. Nor because it might expose the plight of OBC communities, many of whom are worse off than the top layer of the SC communities.Arguably, the deepest anxiety of the caste order is that such an enumeration might unmask the nature of caste privileges. Once you count SCs, STs and OBCs, you automatically get information on the residual category, the upper caste. Since the Census also collects information on religion, it should not be difficult to generate fine-grained data about the social, educational and economic privileges of the upper-caste Hindus. This category counts for less than 20 per cent of our population, but occupies broadly 80 per cent of all positions of power and privilege. It hides under the umbrella category of General. It has good reasons to fear the naming and counting of its privileges. After all, the ultimate caste privilege is to remain “caste-less” — to make its own caste privileges invisible. This is what the ruling caste does when it rules.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-no-govt-wants-obc-count-in-census-236049
08-04-2021||---||Save the small savers||An old acquaintance from the management side of the newspaper house, in which I once was ‘business editor’, was on the line not so long ago. He was bemoaning that interest rates on small savings had been cut again. The return on the deposit in his PPF account, in which most of his life’s savings had been placed, would be hit. This interest income was his pension as his lifelong private sector employment did not fetch him a pension which government service would have. I could do little more than sympathise. These past few days, I have been expecting a call from him again, bemused by the interest rates being cut yet again, and then restored in less than a day.There is good economic logic and political compulsion behind not tampering with interest rates.The gentleman’s plight and the volte-face on the part of the government highlight the vulnerability and implicit power of the middle class. It does not have the numbers compared to those below it in the economic hierarchy, but makes up in terms of being able to set the public mood. Nothing turns the mood more sour than the sight of a pensioner’s income being threatened even as prices have started to go up again.Small savings schemes — grouped under post office deposits, savings certificates and social security schemes, like PPF and senior citizens savings schemes — are an important source of household savings. The money collected under the entire gamut of small savings schemes is used by the Central and state governments to finance their fiscal deficits. The balance left over is invested in government securities.The decision on the part of the government’s economic administrators to advise and implement the rate cuts in the first place cannot be faulted. The fiscal deficit, the primary benchmark of the stability of the government’s finances, must be brought under control after it had gone haywire in the preceding year of lockdown and economic slowdown. A good way to do this would be to reduce expenditure by bringing down interest outgo on government borrowings, and this is best done by lowering the rate of interest at which the government borrows.In the hierarchy of interest rates — right from what is paid by the government on its long dated bonds to what banks pay their depositors — small savings interest rates (a form of government borrowing from you and me) cannot be the odd man out. If interest rates for the most part are going down, then those on small savings must follow suit.If small savings rates remain out of line, then money will flow out of banks into small savings. This will prevent banks from giving higher accommodation to commercial borrowers so that they can bump up business levels and overall economic activity. This, in turn, will stymie the nascent recovery that is taking place in the economy which will prevent a rise in the government’s revenue earnings and put paid to efforts to bring down the fiscal deficit, which is where we began in the first place.A government is asking for trouble if it tries to lower small savings rates even as a vigorous election campaign is entering its final phase. This is particularly so when inflation seems to be on the way up again. The February figures, the latest available, show an uptick for both consumer prices and food inflation. When they fell during the previous few months, the expectation was that the high inflation rates through 2020 were now behind us.So the dilemma is that to keep bank interest rates low to aid credit expansion and economic recovery, it is necessary to bring down the entire interest rate regime of which small savings interest rates are a part. But lowering small savings interest rates during election time is to antagonise the middle class, of which pensioners are a part.Is there a way out? Yes. What the government must learn to do is not to miss the wood for the trees. The fiscal deficit number is important, but more important is the need for overall economic recovery. Once that begins to take place, aided by growing bank credit facilitated by moderate bank lending rates, the growing volume of economic activity will increase the government’s tax revenue collection, and thereby, address the fiscal deficit number after a time lag.Clearly bank lending rates should go down or remain low. But simultaneously, there is good economic logic and political compulsion behind not tampering with small savings interest rates. Not lowering them will increase confidence levels among the middle class and aid consumption expenditure. This is particularly so because pensioners who depend on survival on the interest income from their small savings, and do not save anymore to keep creating a post-retirement nest egg, spend all on keeping body and soul together, that is, channel the entire interest earnings into consumption expenditure.What we are arguing for is small savings rates be left intact in a regime of declining interest rates. This will undoubtedly make them more attractive vis-à-vis bank deposits, but there will not be an automatic and similar outflow from one to the other, as small savings are typically long-term savings which are planned well in advance. On the other hand, bank deposits fall in two categories. Current and savings bank deposits represent the amount customers leave aside to meet day-to-day cash needs and there is a disincentive to pre-encash bank fixed deposits as that attracts an interest penalty.Over and above all this, there is a welfare argument in favour of ensuring that the superannuated are able to look after themselves by ensuring that their post-retirement incomes are not impeded in any way. Just as basic healthcare and up to secondary level education need to be adopted as social security goals — that is, the state should foot the bill and to the needy citizen they should be free — a post-retirement cash flow, or a pension by whatever name, should also be provided by the state to the not so well-off.The bottom line is — don’t tamper with the middle class’s superannuation-related savings, whatever a narrow reading of economic theory might suggest.(Interest declared: I am a superannuated private sector employee!)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/save-the-small-savers-236048
