09-04-2021||Giving its judgment in a clutch of PILs filed before it||Games politicians play||The accusation may be true, though figures could be exaggerated. It is not uncommon for Home Ministers in Maharashtra to summon Inspectors and instruct them on ‘official’ matters. All instructions should be channelised through the CP, but no CP has the gall to tell the minister that he should not break the chain of command. Param Bir himself, when he was a middle-ranking officer, used to visit the office of the ACS (Home) and remain closeted there for lengths of time.The court felt that the CBI was an ‘independent’ body. That is in stark contrast to the opinion of the SC which had famously dubbed the agency a ‘caged parrot’. The agency will surely book Anil Deshmukh because the BJP is hell-bent on toppling the coalition government in Maharashtra. But will it also expose Param Bir if he, too, had been a collaborator before he was fired? Will it also expose the sins of the City Police’s Crime Branch after its Commissioner brought in Sachin Waze to be his hatchet man? Param Bir is back in the BJP camp now, after his diatribe against Deshmukh. That would provide the protection he needs.Param Bir has some difficult questions to answer. How did Waze get reinstated after 13 years under suspension? Why was he posted in the Crime Branch instead of being put on Covid-related duties, on which excuse he was sought to be reinstated? Why was he given independent charge of the crime intelligence unit, a position normally held by a senior Inspector? Why was he allowed to report to the Commissioner instead of his hierarchical superiors?There are some more tricky questions! Did Param Bir know of Waze’s plan to plant a car with gelatin sticks and a threat letter near Ambani’s house? Waze, an Assistant Inspector, could not have conceived of this plan. Did Param Bir know that Waze arrived and left his office in the Commissioner’s compound in a Mercedes car? If he knew this, what was his advice to Waze? Did he know that Waze operated from a room in a five-star hotel? If he did not know these facts, now established in the NIA’s investigations, was he truly in charge of matters? His control over a former ‘encounter specialist’ reporting to him alone was lax!Sanjay Pande, the senior-most IPS officer in the state, known for his scrupulous honesty, was entrusted by the Home Minister with some delicate inquiries concerning his IPS colleagues. He now alleges that Param Bir had requested him to close one such inquiry, and Pande says that he has recorded this conversation. This revelation has added fresh grist to a drama which shows no sign of subsiding. What can the public make of this sordid affair involving crucial players in the security management system of this metropolis? Should the politicians and the police leaders be allowed to play around with people’s lives?Rashmi Shukla, another senior IPS officer in her capacity of Commissioner (Intelligence), had intercepted conversations between IPS and state service officers with the Home Minister where postings and cash for transfers had been discussed. Rumours about this were floating around police circles. Now, it is in the public domain.If it is true that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had met Amit Shah in Ahmedabad, prior to checking into hospital for gallbladder surgery, the Waze saga could take a more dramatic turn. Waze’s benefactor Param Bir had taken back into service another dismissed ‘encounter specialist’, Pradip Sharma, in 2017, when Param Bir was CP, Thane. Param Bir’s penchant for gun-toting police officers was known to his colleagues and even to the public.The first joust between Pawar and Shah was won by Sharad Pawar. After getting his nephew Ajit off the hook in the multi-crore irrigation scam, a farce was enacted in Raj Bhavan by waking the state’s Governor at the crack of dawn to swear in a BJP-NCP government, with Ajit as Deputy CM in the Devendra Fadnavis-led coalition government. It lasted till lunch was served that same afternoon.The Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau who had obliged both Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar was Param Bir, the very same who was later elevated to the prized post of Police Commissioner of Mumbai. He was removed a year later because of Waze’s gaffe in mishandling an insane plot to part Ambani from his money! Param Bir had helped Fadnavis in the past by addressing a press conference in his capacity as ADGP (Law and Order) to justify the arrests of the left-wing intellectuals in the Bhima-Koregaon case. In the normal course, this press meet should have been called at Pune and addressed by that city’s then Police Commissioner, Dr KK Venkateshan. Obviously, Fadnavis reposed more trust in Param Bir, who was not directly involved in the investigations.Sharad Pawar’s meeting with Shah, if it did happen, would necessarily touch on the allegations of the demand for a monthly pay-off made by Param Bir against Deshmukh. The NIA had got involved in the investigation of the car with the gelatin sticks by floating a tale of an Islamic terror cell set up in Delhi’s high-security Tihar Jail. The CBI, controlled by the Centre, has been asked by the Bombay High Court to inquire into the demand of the pay-off. All cards fall neatly into Shah’s hands! And Sharad Pawar knows his task is cut out for him. If he is about to strike a bargain with the BJP to topple the Shiv Sena-led government, the fate of Param Bir will again hang by a thread. He is a clever operator, but politicians thirsting for power and revenge are a dangerous lot. If Param Bir has to face the combined might of a Sharad Pawar and an Amit Shah, the battle will take a one-way trajectory. The public and the police of this city are waiting with bated breath. The politician-police-criminal nexus needs to be broken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/games-politicians-play-236510
09-04-2021||---||Covid endgame not without jabs, safeguards||After a lull, the coronavirus has hit back. The numbers are rising in many states and the highest single day rise in new cases nationally has surpassed the peak reported in September 2020. Experts had predicted a second and possibly a third wave right at the beginning of the pandemic in 2020 because waves are a recurring theme of pandemics. The influenza pandemic of 1918 occurred in three waves spread over two years. A surge in the number of cases, with a clearly defined peak, makes a new wave. The waves may surface in different parts of the world at different times, but their duration and magnitude are highly unpredictable. The severity or lack of it in a new wave may differ vastly. For instance, the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Africa was slower than in the rest of the world while the second one is turning out to be more aggressive and severe. Canada is going through a third wave, more severe than the first two.The second wave in India came at a time when people started celebrating the country’s success in tackling the first wave effectively, resulting in a dramatic drop in numbers in the first two months of 2021. Some in the government claimed the world needs to learn from the ‘Indian model of Covid-19 management’. On March 7, 2021, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan declared that ‘we are in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic’. The vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers as well as the elderly also started, and it was celebrated as ‘the world’s largest immunisation programme’. Generally, there was a self-congratulatory atmosphere and a whiff of premature victory celebrations. All this, coupled with behaviour fatigue that had set in 2020, may have resulted in people developing a sense of complacency. People started travelling to the hills, beaches and other tourist destinations, throwing Covid-appropriate behaviour to the winds.The period also coincided with assembly elections in five states and mega religious events like the Kumbh. Holding elections in time is a constitutional requirement. Many countries have done this during the pandemic, and assembly elections took place in India during the first wave. However, what differentiates the current elections is the extended period of campaigning owing to the polling schedule and the intensity in the form of mega rallies and roadshows. The Election Commission pandemic guidelines are silent on this while restricting door-to-door campaigning to groups of five persons, use of sanitisers and social distancing in polling booths etc. The Assam Health Minister refused to wear a face mask saying he did not want to spread panic by wearing one. Besides the possibility of infection spread among those physically present, mega rallies fuelled general complacency about Covid-appropriate behaviour. Citing election rallies, people are questioning pandemic management measures like capping the number of guests at weddings. Students in some universities are demanding the resumption of offline classes. The pandemic was an opportunity for the Election Commission to encourage innovative methods of campaigning and greater use of technology. In the case of the Kumbh, the Uttarakhand High Court had to intervene to make the RT-PCR test mandatory for devotees.In addition to the laxity in public behaviour due to such factors, several biomedical and epidemiological variables are contributing to the new surge. These include the emergence of new variants and mutants, availability of pools of susceptible populations and a possible drop in immunity induced in the first wave. Sero-surveillance studies, genomic surveillance for detection of new variants and age- and gender-specific epidemiological data can help fine-tune the response to the second wave. There are gaps and a lack of transparency in this area. Recently, a member of the Covid-19 task force in Maharashtra and the Director General of CSIR got into a wrangle over delay in sharing of genome sequencing data, while being live in a television programme. To defuse the situation, the CSIR official shared his email ID with the Maharashtra doctor asking him to write to him. The lack of coordination between the Central agency and states on such a vital issue — and public display of it — after one year of pandemic management is appalling.In addition to sero and genomic surveillance and enhanced testing, we need to speed up vaccination. Two vaccines are currently available and more could be approved in near future. The vaccination net is being gradually expanded. As this happens, the availability of enough doses may become a key factor. Already some states are running dry and stocks available in some districts are too thin. As of the morning of April 7, a total of 8.71 crore doses of the vaccines had been administered. This includes fully vaccinated people (who got two doses) and those who have received only the first dose. On the other hand, 6.45 crore vaccine doses have been ‘exported’ till April 6. The biggest chunk — 3.57 crore doses — has been exported under commercial deals signed by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech with foreign entities, while 1.81 core doses were contracted under the Covax facility of the WHO. The remaining 1.05 crore doses have been distributed as grants by the Indian government. So, even if there was no ‘Vaccine Maitri’, only one crore additional doses would have been available for the domestic programme.A Russian entity, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, has signed deals with Indian companies (other than SII and Bharat Biotech) for the supply of close to one billion doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. Shockingly, Indian agencies couldn’t tap this spare capacity or encourage Bharat Biotech and SII to enter into local contract manufacturing deals to boost production for domestic needs. This is despite the government allocating Rs 900 crore as a stimulus package to the Department of Biotechnology for vaccine development. The fund could have been used to boost the capacities of Bharat Biotech and SII as well as to buy spare capacities from other manufacturers. This is critical because the rapid rollout of vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour are the only ways to address pandemic waves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-endgame-not-without-jabs-safeguards-236511
09-04-2021||---||Grand alliance fancies its chances in Assam||Assam’s three-phase polling took place on March 27,April 1 and 6, but for the Opposition parties in the state, three-leg elections imply voting dates, counting day and a tricky government formation process. In the Congress’ internal assessment, Assam is heading for a change. But there is a caveat. Even the most enthusiastic Congress leader in Assam is not sure of a clear or decisive mandate for the Mahajot, a 10-party alliance consisting of Maulana Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party (JDPP), Adivasi National Party (ANP), CPM, CPI, CPI (ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha, Bodoland People’s Party (BPF) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).In the 2016 Assembly polls, the Congress had won 19 while the AIUDF and BPF that had fought separately, had 14 and 11 seats respectively, in the House of 126. This time around, the Congress has a task of winning at least 40 seats in order to edge out the Sarbananda Sonowal government in Dispur. The task is daunting, but not impossible. The Congress and AIDUF, in 2016, had fought against each other, often finishing second and third. A post-poll analysis had revealed that had the two sides been together, they would have won 38 more seats. This realisation alone prompted the Congress to accommodate Ajmal in spite of vocal opposition from former Silchar MP Sushmita Dev, Barpeta MP Abdul Khaliq and several others. On his part, Ajmal too has refrained from making provocative or controversial remarks. He has openly been saying that in the event of Mahajot winning Assam, the AIUDF would let the Congress have its chief ministerial nominee.Many Assam watchers think the Congress did well to get the tie-ups right. The 10-party alliance is broad-based, having a range of oufits such as the CPM, ANP and BPF that neutralise the ‘Ajmal factor’ from becoming communal. Unlike in West Bengal, the BJP has remained silent on the issue of CAA during campaigning in Assam, apparently to not annoy Assamese voters in the Brahmaputra Valley. The Congress and the AIUDF, have on the other hand, adopted an aggressive anti-CAA stand.The Assam Congress is, however, extremely wary of Hemanta Biswa Sarma, a former Congress leader and now a senior minister in BJP-ruled Assam. Sarma’s cottage number 6 in Dispur’s Minister’s Colony stood out as a centre of political activity throughout the electioneering period in Assam. Sharing the boundary wall with Sarma in Dispur’s Minister’s Colony is Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi, two-time Lok Sabha MP from Kaliabor, and son of former CM Tarun Gogoi.Interestingly, Sarma was Tarun’s protégé. Gogoi senior had mentored both Sarma and Rakibul Hussain, aka Rocky, with care and patience. It is said that Sarma wanted to take over from an ailing and aging Tarun Gogoi, but the Congress central leadership, i.e. Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, stonewalled it.The Tarun Gogoi-Sarma rivalry may have become a thing of the past, but the grand old party in Assam is still suffering from lack of a chief ministerial face in Assam. There are several aspirants for the top post but each suffers from one drawback or the other. The most influential and deserving candidate in Assam Congress is Rakibul Hussain ‘Rocky’, who many consider as capable of checkmating Sarma by the rule of the square in the endgame. But the fear of polarisation on communal lines, has kept Rocky, a four-time MLA from Samaguri, out of contention. Assam is incidentally among very few Indian states (other than J&K) to have a Muslim as chief minister. In December 1980, Anwara Taimur had created history of sorts, becoming the first woman and Muslim chief minister of Assam.The sharp Bengali-Assamese divide has put a question mark over Sushmita Dev’s prospects of bagging the coveted post. Congress insiders insist that in the event of a good showing, both Sushmita and Gaurav Gogoi will be in the race because Rahul Gandhi would want to present a youthful face of the party. However, there is near unanimity that the chances of Gogoi or Sushmita would brighten if the Congress-led alliance manages to cross the 70-seat mark, regarded as a challenging possibility by most analysts and pollsters.Questions have also been raised about the manner in which the Congress ran its campaign in Assam. The party kept counting heavily on Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi to shore up its prospects. It remained inexplicit why former PM Manmohan Singh, who had been a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, for several terms, was not invited to campaign or hold press conferences. The former prime minister held a video conference once. Senior party leaders think even P Chidambaram’s services could have been requisitioned in Assam. The former Union finance minister has a knack for delivering punches at public meetings.On the positive side, the party’s reliance on Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel worked well in Assam. Baghel’s team of about 700-odd workers from Raipur set up camp offices in Dibrugarh, Tezpur, Tinsukia, Silchar, Jorhat, Nagaon and Bongaigaon. Baghel himself addressed 38 public meetings, unusual for a party leader who does not belong to the Nehru-Gandhi clan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/grand-alliance-fancies-its-chances-in-assam-236513
