10-04-2021||---||Covid-apt practices, not lockdown, the way ahead||The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted mankind as a whole — physically, financially and mentally. The decline in the number of cases towards the end of 2020 was a positive development, and brought hope. Dire predictions of gloom in the winter had been proven wrong. Reports about the availability of vaccines added to the sense of optimism, and people had begun to expect that the pandemic would soon be behind us and some semblance of normalcy would soon return to our lives.Alas, that was not to be. The reversal of the declining trend in the last few weeks, the rapidly increasing numbers and reports of mutated virus variants have created disquiet. The problem has assumed disturbing proportions in states like Maharashtra, and big cities like Delhi and Chennai. Uncertainty has gripped us, and people are wondering whether 2021 will be another year of stress and waste. Going by recent signs and trends, the Covid-19 virus isn’t likely to go away any time soon, and it may take a few years for life to return to normal. What, then, is the way forward?An often under-appreciated fact is the vital importance of what can be termed as Covid-appropriate or Covid-protective behaviour. Simple, yet effective daily practices such as effective use of mask, keeping desired physical distance and hand sanitation will go a long way in helping contain this virulent virus. It is hardly a happenstance that the return to increased Covid numbers coincided with a general laxity in enforcing and practicing these precautions. The appearance of other variants, such as the UK one in Punjab, which is highly contagious, aggravated the surge in the absence of precautions. Further, this UK variant affects younger age-groups much more than the original virus. In March, 35-40% of Covid-positive cases detected in Punjab were below the age of 30. In Punjab, it seems the schools and colleges became ‘super-spreaders’ as the necessary behavioural precautions were not rigorously insisted on. Recent data also shows that the UK variant is more virulent and thus results in increased mortality even in younger people.The effectiveness and feasibility of ‘lockdowns’ are again the subject of public debate. Experience has perhaps taught us that a full-fledged lockdown can have serious unintended consequences and cause unpalatable collateral damage on the poorer sections. Yet, some science-based (and perhaps common sense-based) restrictions are the order of the day and can effectively prevent and control the surge. Non-essential activities need to be regulated, albeit in a manner that minimises the negative impact on resources and livelihoods and the economy as a whole. As far as possible, work should be carried out to ensure livelihood of the underprivileged sections while ensuring steps which control its spread.It is imperative that large gatherings — social, religious and political — the main stimulus to spread, be prevented and avoided. Both indoor (more harmful) and outdoor gatherings are bad during this surge. Any limited gatherings that are allowed, in exceptional circumstances, must take place only with all necessary safeguards, including the wearing of masks. Restaurants, cinema halls and malls should restrict their numbers to ensure the desired physical distance and ensure proper ventilation, including the required precautions while using air-conditioning. This will ensure that the desired objective is achieved without resorting to harsher measures like a complete lockdown. Of course, a good measure of political and administrative will is necessary, and I wonder whether the intervention by the courts would also be helpful in order to achieve this end. One way or the other, the significance and importance of these restrictions cannot be overstated if we wish to control the surge without affecting much the economic activities.We must, at the same time, avoid a sense of panic, and make every attempt to generate a sense of confidence. While people must be educated about and sensitised to the contagious nature of this virus, it is important that no sense of stigma be permitted to arise against those who test positive. Contact-tracing procedures as well as quarantine guidelines must be rationalised, so as not to discourage testing. Any hesitation in regard to testing must be removed to enable early detection.To this end, the Government of India could reconsider its suggestion that 25-30 contacts traced be isolated and tested. Perhaps, the CDC recommendation for testing 10 close contacts could be adopted, and testing should be carried out within the first four days or so. These measures will go a long way in removing anxiety or fear about the fallout of a positive test. Even family members of those who test positive must have the confidence that by maintaining the desired distance, using masks and following other hygienic practices like hand-washing, they could avoid a further spread of the virus within the household.Of course, an aggressive and comprehensive rollout of the vaccination programme is now a must. Vaccination must be undertaken on a war-footing across the country. We must make every attempt to cover as much of our population as we can, in the shortest possible time, given the obvious time constraints arising from a two-shot vaccine. Fortunately, the atmosphere of indecision or vacillation about the vaccination, which we witnessed in the early days of the rollout, now appears to have been replaced with a sense of urgency and enthusiasm regarding the vaccination. Full information in regard to the vaccines should be made available in the public domain, and doubts/queries should be addressed by the authorities, in order to instill further confidence. We need to innovate ways to ensure easy and safe access to the vaccine for every needy person.In the final analysis, it is only a concerted and coordinated effort by all segments of society that can defeat this virus. We are going through a difficult phase, and some course correction is needed. The political and technocratic class must lead by example in adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour and encouraging others to do so as well. Medical professionals, who have played a stellar role so far, must not allow their efforts to slacken and make use of the best evidence-based practices learned since the beginning of the pandemic. Generating confidence in the common man is necessary, so that we are not overwhelmed by the crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-apt-practices-not-lockdown-the-way-ahead-237070
10-04-2021||---||India eyes strategic interests in Myanmar||The coup in Myanmar is in its third month with battle lines drawn clearly between the military and an effective non-violent campaign threatening to blow up into a civil war. The Tatmadaw (military) did not expect people’s resistance on this scale and intensity, making the coup a miscalculation. It peaked on Armed Force Day (March 27) when 110 persons were killed, taking the coup death toll to 560. The coup has united the people though Buddhist monks have not joined. While the junta has established a State Administration Council (SAC), an underground group of NLD lawmakers calling itself the Committee Representing National Parliament (CRPH) has declared the 2008 military-drafted Constitution void replacing it with an interim charter. It has secured an alliance with the Ethnic Armed Organisations (EAOs) as a federal army against the junta.The Civil Disobedience Movement (CDM) of unarmed protesters has escalated vertically and horizontally with bank and revenue officials, hospital staff and garbage collectors on strike. The General Strike Committee of Nationalities has urged the EAOs to support CDM. In the industrial zone of Yangon, 32 Chinese-owned factories and shops of Myanmar Economic Holdings linked to the military were set ablaze causing damage worth $34 million and anti-Chinese sentiment due to Beijing’s muted criticism of the coup. The military is suspicious of China and seeks India’s countervailing influence. China’s objective is to protect its $100 billion China-Myanmar Economic Corridor connecting Yunan province with oil and gas fields in Rakhine state.Myanmar is the least developed country in ASEAN and accounts for just 2 per cent of its GDP. The US has applied blanket sanctions, suspended bilateral trade agreement and targeted specific military and police officers and nine military-owned companies. The Federal Bank of New York halted withdrawals of $1 billion by the military. Threats of nationalisation could reverse liberalisation reform and kill investor confidence. Resistance to the coup has created financial chaos, shortage of fuel and commodities. Trade and development were going good, especially in the power sector, given the six to seven hour power cuts in 2019. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has backed a 170-MW solar plant and universal electrification by 2030, supported by an NLD approved $ 21 billion project in the power sector which is more than the investment in defence. Japan is also invested in Thilawa Special Economic Zone though Singapore is the largest FDI holder. Due to daily protests, the country’s fledgling stock market lists only six stocks with trading volumes dipping more than 60 per cent. The crackdown has crippled the private sector and spooked investors. Twenty years ago, Myanmar was worse off than North Korea. Now, the youth feel their future has been snatched.The military parade on March 27 was a display of pomp and power with the Russian deputy defence minister as the chief guest. Moscow has become an alternate and additional source of military hardware, other than Beijing. Attending the parade were defence attaches from Russia, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos, Thailand and notably India. Conspicuously absent was Indonesia whose military chief berated the junta and advised building a professional armed police in a democratic context. Myanmar has the second largest army (350,000) after Vietnam, consisting of 10 light divisions. The 33 Light Infantry Division (LID) is an elite and loyal combat unit earmarked for situations of civilian unrest. The 1962 coup by General Ne Win was internal to the military and almost bloodless. In 1988, Senior General Saw Maung overplayed his hand killing 3,000 protesters across Myanmar. In the 2007 Monks Uprising (saffron revolution), 31 civilians were killed. In 2017, the 33 Light Infantry Division was used against the Rohingya in operations masterminded by the present coup leader, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, who is an LID veteran and served in 88 LID under Colonel (later Senior General) Than Shwe, who ultimately handed over the C-in-C charge to Hlaing. The junta’s revised roadmap to democratic transition is through military rule in civilian clothes with elections as an exit strategy which is also the modus operandi for Hlaing to become the next President of Myanmar. He wants a return to 2011 when the USDP (military-backed political party) formed the government.There are no young Turks in the SAC to challenge the old order making any counter-coup far-fetched. The military will hold an election when conditions permit for a disciplined democracy. Bamars and ethnic groups are fleeing across the border in Thailand and India into Mizoram and Manipur where the initial orders to block their entry were rescinded. India has only recently celebrated 50 years of Bangladesh’s independence when it hosted 10 million refugees.Torn between values and interests in 1988, India opted for a democratic transition and rule of law to side with NLD’s Aung San Suu Kyi over the military which had seized power. As this choice backfired, a course correction was made. With a hybrid power-sharing arrangement of civil-military rule in place since 2015, New Delhi was able to balance the two power centres. Last year, it sent for the first time, a joint civil military delegation to Myanmar consisting of Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Army Chief General MM Naravane.New Delhi has a lot going for it across its third frontier in Myanmar: Neighbourhood First, Act East and the Indo-Pacific Strategy. In keeping the India-Myanmar border free of sanctuaries for Indian insurgent groups, Tatmadaw has helped significantly. Much was made of Senior General Hlaing when he visited India in 2019, including the gifting of a conventional Russian Kilo-class submarine.New Delhi has neither condemned the coup nor the military for violence against the Myanmarese protesters. India has walked a diplomatic tightrope in preserving ties with the military that it needs for its strategic security, connectivity and countering China. Combating the CDM, CRPH and EAOs will be long and bloody for the junta. Resonating on the streets of Myanmar are two words: ‘youth’ and ‘their future’. India must creatively maintain equidistance from the military and the resistance forces. This botched coup is going nowhere anytime soon and requires a political exit under the new India-Japan Act East Forum with ASEAN legwork to circumvent its non-interference in the internal affairs clause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-eyes-strategic-interests-in-myanmar-237031
10-04-2021||The Covid spike may soon touch 1.5 lakh cases a day||Don’t lock us down||Before unleashing the police on anxious breadwinners, governments must think about the lives that would become meaningless without their livelihoods.For the ruling party — which has a militaristic ideology, seeking its adherents to sacrifice their lives to uphold the nation’s collective good — it is strange to advise curfews, plate-clanging and diya-burning while the nation loses its will to stand up, fight back and regain its financial sinews. After the initial lockdown of April-May-June, the surge of infections in September 2020 only established the fact that a Covid curfew or lockdown can only postpone and not stop the infection. Even a partial repeat of this strategy, be it a weekend lockdown, night curfew or week-long containment, can become immensely counterproductive because by then a lot more people would have lost their jobs, purchasing power and ability to push the wheels of the nation’s growth. We did it once, failed miserably and hence should no more do such experiments.Governments do not create jobs that are getting endangered and hence they have no right to take them away. A night curfew would mean the curbing of activities of malls, retail outlets, flea markets, restaurants, pubs, wayside eateries, street vendors, rickshaw-pullers, autorickshaw and cab drivers and a lot more in the unorganised and informal sector. Instead, the government needs to strategise on how these businesses can be protected and nurtured while ensuring that there is minimal viral load in the public space. It is incomprehensible that the netas and their minions did not think of testing and tracking at market places, instead of closing them down or forcing them to adhere to government-dictated time tables. For instance, there could be X amount of viral load in one part of Mumbai and X/2 in another part and X/10 in a suburb — so how can the response be the same in all these places without tests or a sero survey establishing the need to have a lockdown? Random testing and tracing of patients have not even taken off in any of the states and it is only those who are symptomatic or who have come in contact with infected people who are still getting themselves tested. There is no reason why the government should not allow those who have tested negative every week or those who have antibodies to go about their business without any hindrance.It is interesting to note that while the panacea offered by Indian politicians is partial or full lockdown/curfew, the newly-elected US president offered an added $1,400 each to all US citizens who earn less than $75,000 a year and to all dependents, taking the total payout to $2,000 to beneficiaries. Blindly converting this into Indian rupees would mean a stimulus package of Rs 1.40 lakh to all those who earn below Rs 50 lakh a year. There cannot be a bigger booster dose for the economy than this kind of extra purchasing power and the government’s guarantee to watch your back. Added to this was the promise for vaccination to all adults by April 19. In the US, there is no distinction between those who ‘need’ and those who ‘want’ the vaccine, as is being insisted in India by the Union health secretary. In fact, when the Covid death figures of the Tricity of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula were closely scrutinised, The Tribune found that 13 per cent of all those who died were below 45 — the cut-off age for vaccination. How do we categorise those 13 per cent who died of Covid? Did they need or did they want the vaccine?India cannot afford to quibble over who wants or who needs the vaccine. Everybody needs it, particularly those who are of an age-group which is engaged in productive employment. In March, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry had asked the government to include workers in the Indian retail and e-commerce industry — which employs 40 million people — in the frontline warriors’ category and offer them vaccination. In the Chandigarh Tricity, those below 45 have had the maximum share of infection (40 per cent), and these are super-spreaders because they are the most active and move about the most. Unless these super-spreaders are vaccinated and protected, no number of curfews will serve any purpose because a temporary curfew will only be temporarily postponing the pandemic.Of course, vaccines are in short supply and we need to do vaccine diplomacy as well. But nothing stops the government from putting up stalls in all the big markets in various cities to have random testing for the virus and its antibodies. It could even be made mandatory for all those who want to keep their shops open after 9 pm. Then, there is no point in talking about Covid-appropriate behaviour — it does not exist for politicians and their incessant campaigns, so why blame those who are merely trying to eke out a miserable living? Thus, before unleashing the police on anxious breadwinners, governments must think about the lives that would become meaningless without their livelihoods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dont-lock-us-down-237022
