11-04-2021||History is cold||The Pontiff & the Ayatollah||Could this meeting be called a diplomatic triumph for the Pope? I would discount any such speculation. It was just two very God-fearing, holy persons meeting. Both seemed to be burdened with history.The Indian media, preoccupied with Amit Shah and Mamata Banerjee, not forgetting Jayalalithaa (though no one dared to talk about her corruption), had no time for some meeting of two old men in some unknown desert. Pope Francis also went to Mosul, where he criticised fanaticism among religions — hinting at the ISIS, which had committed barbarities against Yezdis, Christians and Muslims also. Just as Dresden had been turned into a ruin during the war by Allied bombing, Mosul had been laid waste by the Islamic State. Such aberrations will erupt; some Mahdi will turn up with a fake message from above.Let us turn to nearer climes, the Indian Ocean and Sonar Bangla. It was very good to see the Prime Minister’s Bangladesh visit. Especially noteworthy was the temple tour. He visited the temple at Orakandi and reached out to the Matua community there, and started by saying, “Who would have thought that India’s PM would come to Orakandi?” We, as humble listeners, were on the same page with the PM. I also thought that Bangladesh must be having a sizeable community of Matuas for the PM to make such an effort. Then light began to fall with the very next sentence he spoke. “Today I share the same feelings which my lakhs of Matua brothers and sisters living in India experience after coming to Orkandi.” He was nailing our ignorance one after the other. I did not know that he had brothers and sisters in Bangladesh among Matuas. There were other speeches in other temples, other deities. But did the words help in our relations with Bangladesh and its people? Did the trip give a push to our MEA initiatives, if any, towards our most friendly neighbour? Diplomacy can be made subservient to national interests. But it should not be made subservient to party interests, especially during a fierce electoral battle.The Home Minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh, charged with asking the police to collect a hundred crores per month, held his ground for a fortnight. He was awaiting an auspicious moment to quit, he may be a believer in the dark or lighted phase of the moon? Then the High Court got the CBI into the act and he resigned. Both Deshmukh and Pawar stand diminished due to the delay.The Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat, kept us amused with remarks on torn jeans worn by girls. That can be forgiven. The next remark was insidious. He stated a day before the spring solstice on March 20 that people with fewer ‘units’, meaning family members — Rawat is very articulate — got less rations during the lockdown than those “who reproduced 20”. The dart was aimed obviously at Muslims. He needs to read reports on our demography. Muslims are ‘producing’ almost as few children as others are.But let us skip the nitty-gritty, grittier than usual, of political India, the €1 million commission allegation from France, cow slaughter prosecutions under the NSA in Uttar Pradesh thrown out by the Allahabad High Court. Let us just celebrate. VS Gaitonde’s 1961 Zen-inspired canvas, a fine meditative piece, has sold for Rs39.98 crore, breaking all Indian records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-pontiff-the-ayatollah-237488
11-04-2021||Our overnight stay in Spean Bridge in the Scottish Western Highlands culminated in our host trying to cajole us into tarrying for another day. Mr McCluskey expatiated on walking trails in the proximate Grey Corries||Loveliest spot||Speeding past the unremarkable Ben Nevis distillery, we were soon in Fort William, the second largest town in the Highlands named after Prince William, known to the Scots as the “Butcher of Cumberland” for ruthlessly suppressing the Jacobite uprising in the mid-18th century. Serving basically as a base for climbers, skiers, and the like, it did not offer any noteworthy sights. What followed on the route was Rannoch Moor, a boggy moorland, reckoned to cover 40-50 square miles, with significant peat deposits and some wildlife. Its treacherous sub-stratum had posed quite an engineering challenge during construction of the singular road and rail alignments that traverse it. We exited the Highlands at Crianlarich, a village remarkable for a rather low railway bridge. The first halt was at Stirling Castle, one of the largest castles in Scotland located on a volcanic crag astride the line separating the Highlands from the Lowlands. It had often housed members of the Scottish royalty, who enjoyed hunting game found aplenty in the vicinity. Well-preserved large and intricate hand-woven tapestries capturing the atmosphere of Scotland’s Royal Court were a special attraction therein. Stragglers from a disembodied Highlander Regiment awaiting absorption into other units were in the process of vacating their quarters within the Castle. About 90 miles from Stirling, we passed through Lockerbie that had hosted a Second World War Prisoner of War camp for Ukrainian members of the German SS. Some six weeks later, this unremarkable town was to attract world attention: debris of the bombed Pan Am Flight 103 fell there. None of its 270 passengers and crew survived and another 10-odd locals on the ground perished.A further 10 miles saw us cross the Scottish border into England and after yet another 10 miles, we got to Carlisle, the “Great Border City” which had flourished in the 19th century with mills and engineering units spawned during the Industrial Revolution; it was earlier an important supply point for forts along Hadrian’s Wall. The City Centre with a castle, cathedral and semi-intact city walls, largely pedestrianised, was a delight to walk through, providing a peep into its history back into Roman times. Responding to a tip from the salesman at a fuel station, we made a brief halt at Penrith, on the northern margin of the Lake District National Park, not to see its many tanneries and breweries but to get a sense of the tradition of “well-dressing”. Known for its many wells, Penrith is one of the seats of a ritual in which wells and other water sources are decorated with floral designs in May each year. Sketches made on wooden frames covered with clay are filled with flowers, moss, beans, seeds and other natural materials. It is speculated that veneration of wells began as a pagan custom of registering gratitude to the Gods for a reliable water supply.It was past mid-day and we were nearing the high point of the day: the Lake District National Park, which has attracted international tourists in millions each year. Our circuit commenced at Keswick, wedged between Bassenthwaite and Derwentwater Lakes, which became home for Samuel Taylor Coleridge in the early 19th century. He frequently received fellow poet William Wordsworth, who lived 12 miles away in Grasmere village, which the latter described as “the loveliest spot that man hath ever found”. Poet Percy Shelley, historical novelist Sir Walter Scott, authors Charles and Mary Lamb and essayist William Hazlitt, who were also hosted by Coleridge at his Greta Hall abode, wrote eloquently about the beauty of the environs. Skirting Thirlmere Lake, we got to Bowness on the ribbon-like Windermere Lake, the most visited among the 21 lakes in the National Park. And, sadly, we were drowned amidst hordes of tourists milling around waiting variously for a boat ride, or a meal, or entry into one of many souvenir shops. We beat a hasty retreat in search of renewed contact with nature. And this we achieved in Ilkley Moor, famous for the “Cow and Calf,” with the former represented by a rocky outcrop and the latter by a boulder. This was not far from where, one year earlier, a retired policeman had photographed an UFO and what he believed to be an alien.At the end of a long day, my wife and I rejoiced at a friend’s home in Cleckheaton for different reasons — she since the tiresome two-day road journey covering more than 750 miles had ended, and I for having had the opportunity to see some very beautiful parts of Central Scotland and a few in England.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/loveliest-spot-237489
11-04-2021||The futility of life strikes everyone at some stage in life||An anti-depressant for low-rung players||Several years ago, I met a cricketer who had once been on the verge of playing for India — measurements had been taken for his cricket flannels, passport formalities had begun, and he was mentally preparing to face Wasim Akram and Imran Khan in Pakistan in 1989. But when the squad was announced, his name was absent. He nearly lost his mind; he was reported to be spotted walking around streets with batting pads on, even boarding Delhi buses with them on.He later told me it was his faith in God that saved him. Several others said the same — Obaid Kamal, for instance, said he didn’t take his own life over frustrations in cricket because his mother had impressed upon him that suicide is ‘haraam’, an unforgivable sin.Around 12 years ago, there were several cases of Indian cricketers, in the prime of youth, dying by their own hand. It’s impossible to say what the final trigger was — it could be something as seemingly trivial as an argument with family — but failure in cricket was a common thread in their stories.IPL moneyThe IPL may be tawdry, it may not be a connoisseur’s delight and the most lightweight format of cricket, but it gave the players a commodity that will never be out of vogue — money. IPL has made cricketers richer than ever before. Earlier, only 15-odd elite players could play for India, earn big money and be the object of hero worship. In the 1970s and 1980s, top Indian cricketers played exhibition matches across the country to supplement their income. Because the payments were unequal, there were jealousies and disputes; old-timers say that the seeds of the discord between Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev were sowed in such tournaments.After the IPL, the players who toiled for years in empty stadiums, for meagre fees in the Ranji Trophy, now can hope to be picked up by one of the eight IPL franchisees. The minimum a cricketer makes from the IPL is Rs20 lakh, the sum designated for an uncapped India player. It’s not a terrible deal for two months. In recent years, IPL has spawned copycat tournaments in several states — that means more money for more lower-rung cricketers.In recent times, two senior writers with strong aversion for Twenty20 cricket — and especially the “IPL tamasha” — told me they’ve found something to admire in this tournament, after all.One of them was impressed by the stunning hook for six by Washington Sundar off Pat Cummins in the most intense moments of the Brisbane Test against Australia — in the IPL, unknown players treat Cummins with the same disdain, and Sundar took it to the Test level. Familiarity with Cummins bred in Sundar, or Shardul Thakur, the confidence to attack him fearlessly, right at the start of their Test career.The money attracts the world’s best players, who often put their IPL club over their country. The most recent example — key South African players David Miller, Kagiso Rabada, Anrich Nortje, Quinton de Kock and Lungi Ngidi left their national team to join their IPL teams. This irked Shahid Afridi, the former Pakistan captain, but 10 years ago, he himself was practically pleading that Pakistani players be included in the IPL.It’s not about the money alone. Cricketers say they want to be in the IPL for cricketing reasons. Earlier this month, Ben Stokes said: “You’ve got billions of people watching you and you’ve got the pressure of the franchise on you. Being constantly exposed to that is a huge benefit to us as a team…”The second writer said that due to the IPL, the hitherto ignored domestic cricketers — who played in empty stadiums all their lives and were often dejected and depressed — are financially secure and have a sense of achievement.Money is no guarantor against depression, but money and fame perhaps do cause cricketers — and people in general — to not reject life and end it prematurely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/an-anti-depressant-for-low-rung-players-237491
11-04-2021||Our first-born daughter||About the privilege and pain of the first-born child||“Doomed,” she repeated.“Yes, this is our fate. We cannot escape it.”“You mean destiny?”“Yes,” one of us said.“This is your destiny and your doom,” said Aliza, beginning to enjoy the moment.“Yes,” I said. “Is this a phrase from a movie?”“From Merlin, a TV show,” she answered.This weekend, I become an adult as a parent as our first child turns 18. I don’t want to make too much of it and yet how can I not? Some milestones feel so overwhelming that left to myself, I would rather sneak past them quietly, looking away, acting distracted. Thankfully, there are others in my daughter’s life determined to make a big deal of it.When she was still in my womb, I used to refer to Sahar as Baby Popo. I would text my brother in a faraway city and mention Baby Popo. He would text back sending love for her. Every time I caught sight of my big watermelon stomach in the office bathroom, I would laugh out loud and grin in the mirror.When she was born, she seemed so regal and self-contained that Popo didn’t seem to fit and we chose to name her Sahar — a word that means dawn. A new beginning.Conceiving her had brought an unprecedented calm into my life. It was a fragile pregnancy in the beginning and often the doctors would allude to the fact that we shouldn’t get too attached to the idea of this baby. To me, this meant something else altogether. Without any effort or planning, I became detached from everything else that sought to consume my energy. It didn’t matter what anyone expected from me. Workplace anxieties faded into the background. My inner world expanded and my baby and I became a universe in ourselves. It was my job to nurture and protect myself so that I could keep her safe. And that’s what I did.It is a perspective Sahar has brought back to my life repeatedly as I juggle between home and the world, choosing and changing my priorities as I try to be both a responsible adult and a good parent.I tend to take everything too seriously — including myself — and she reminds me to slow down, to look at her and listen. She makes endless concessions, at times having to resort to bitter anger to get my attention. As mother and daughter, we can find ourselves too close and yet unable to reach the other.As we complete one year of being trapped by the pandemic, I realise that one of the unexpected gifts of being locked down is that we were forced to confront our conflicts. We could not pretend to go for relaxed walks on empty streets at the end of the day when we were also dragging the weight of unspoken words with us.We began to talk. I do not want to hear accusations. She does not want to hurt me. She has unmet needs. She wants her mother to know. On the cusp of adulthood, she does not have the resourcefulness to filter the uncertainty, anxiety and inhumanity of the times we are living through. What is she supposed to do? She is overwhelmed.“I feel like Sherlock when his brain lets him down,” she tells me. “He has always been able to rely on himself, and suddenly nothing makes sense. I have always been able to figure things out, to find a solution, to talk to the right people, read the right things. But now I feel lost.”As a parent, I struggle with my own inadequacy. I can no longer hold her in my lap and reassure her that everything will be alright. I have to let her muddle through her distress. Be available, and yet not attempt to offer solutions.In all this, I often forget to do the simplest things. Hold each other. Validate the other’s feelings by listening deeply. Lighten the moment by doing things that spark joy. Offer a hug. Eat ice-cream. Try a hop, skip and jump. Paint something. Share a joke.Don’t do anything. Just be.Over the years, I have repeatedly stumbled upon the answer that Sahar is the key. She reflects what the rest of us are going through. She absorbs our unspoken anxieties. They get amplified in her. When she is at peace, it is because the rest of us are doing okay too. Perhaps this is both the privilege and the pain of the first-born in every family.The writer is a filmmaker and author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/about-the-privilege-and-pain-of-the-first-born-child-237492
