12-04-2021||---||Prescribe time frame for appointing judges||The statistics of ever-increasing cases in judicial courts at all levels and a large number of vacancies in courts, sometimes reaching 60 per cent of the sanctioned strength, are sobering. On March 24, at a Supreme Court hearing, the Bench asked the Union government to clarify on the status of 55 recommendations made by its collegium to various High Courts and sent to the government six months to nearly a year and a half ago. Forty-four of them were made to fill vacancies in six High Courts. Ten of the remaining recommendations fall in a special category. With initial recommendations by the collegium, these were sent to the government. The latter raised some objections and referred them back to the collegium. After considering the objections, the collegium sent them back to the government (for making appointments). Under the constitutional law as settled by the Supreme Court, such reiteration by the collegium is binding on the government. However, there has been no response from the government for months together.Of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080 of 25 High Courts, they have been functioning with only 661 judges, leaving 419 vacancies (nearly 40%) as on March 1. The number of vacancies in five leading High Courts — Patna (60.4%), Calcutta (55.6%), Rajasthan (54%), MP (49.1%) and AP (48.6 %) — speak for themselves.Ever-increasing pendency is also a dismal message from the judiciary. Overall, the pending cases in the subordinate judiciary increased from 2.92 crore in December 2018 to 3.72 crore at the end of January 2021. The backlog of cases 30 or more years old has increased by 61% in the past two years (till January 2021). The prevailing situation prompted Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul to suggest that the ‘thought process’ of both the government and the collegium should be modulated.Various problems facing the judiciary are inter-connected and inter-related. Long, sometimes calculated and motivated, delays by the government in filling the vacancies on the Bench is bound to affect the health and image of the judiciary in a number of ways. It is bound to exacerbate the already intractable problem of judicial pendency and the ever-mounting heap of old cases. This problem has been aggravated by the Covid pandemic. There is a common belief that governments do not want an independent judiciary and want it only to function as a government department. This wish is likely to be fulfilled when the judicial docket is clogged and it looks to the government for help and rescue.The independence of the judiciary begs the question — who appoints the judges and what is their calibre? Through the collegium system, the judiciary took over the power of selecting judges in the hope that the government’s control over their appointments would be a bit loosened, but that was not to be, thanks to the long-drawn-out delays adopted by the government. We are back to square one where the effective power of appointments still remains with the government.How calculated and motivated delays by the government in filling vacancies on the Bench affect the quality of judges and justice is not difficult to understand. These long delays are bound to demoralise some of the self-respecting aspirants for HC judgeship and they may, and do, opt out. Bad judges make bad law, in turn jeopardising democracy and the rule of law. The then CJI M Patanjali Sastri and India’s first Attorney General MC Setalvad, who also served as the first chairman of the Law Commission, had expressed concern about the deteriorating quality of HC judges. More than 60 years have passed since then, and things have only worsened.It is the solemn duty of the SC to ensure that the workload at all levels remains under control, that vacancies on the Bench are promptly filled and that justice is delivered within a reasonable time. Constitutional historian Granville Austin in 1999 put on record in his seminal treatise Working A Democratic Constitution that speedy resolution of cases seemed to be beyond the capability of the Bench, the Bar and court administrators.Coming back to the wish articulated by Justice Kaul that the government and the collegium should modulate their ‘thought process’, Attorney General KK Venugopal tried to justify the government’s position. The government’s excuse for the delay in filling vacancies is that it takes time for the verification of antecedents of appointees. It’s a patently false excuse as government agencies like the CBI, NIA and ED act with lightning speed to slap charges on suspects. It is ludicrous to assume that such a team would take seven months to a year for verifying the antecedents of an appointee.With a palpably hostile, or at least a non-cooperative government, is it possible for the SC to salvage its image? The Constitution answers in the affirmative. There are adequate provisions in Article 129 and Article 142(2) of the Constitution and the Contempt of Courts Act to discipline the government and its erring officials. However, it is highly unlikely that the court would prefer this option. A milder course would be to prescribe a time frame for completing different stages of the selection process and appointments, to be strictly adhered to by all concerned. The Supreme Court has the best minds and human resources. It should not be difficult for it, if it wills, to successfully tackle mounting pendency, ever-escalating number of vacancies on the Bench and related problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/prescribe-time-frame-for-appointing-judges-237944
12-04-2021||---||Lankan Tamils no more a poll plank in Tamil Nadu||Last week’s Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu were a turning point in freeing foreign policy from being held hostage to state politics and narrow ethnic chauvinism. These were the first elections in Tamil Nadu in 40 years in which Sri Lanka was not even a bit of any poll plank. The Tamil problem across the Palk Strait in Jaffna did not figure in any campaign speeches by the main aspirants to offices in Fort St George, the seat of the Tamil Nadu government.This was a sea change from the time politicians in Tamil Nadu effectively undermined the India-Sri Lanka Agreement of July 29, 1987 reached between Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Sri Lanka's President JR Jayewardene and undercut the Indian Army, which subsequently operated in Sri Lanka under the banner of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF).Rajiv Gandhi had taken into confidence MG Ramachandran, then Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on the agreement with Jayewardene. Moreover, as an insurance against the agreement collapsing, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was persuaded to give commitments to MGR that the LTTE would fulfil its part of the bargain in that accord. As it turned out, Velupillai Prabhakaran, the founder of Tamil Tigers, had no intention of sticking to the accord. No sooner had the ink dried on the Rajiv-JRJ agreement that Prabhakaran resorted to large-scale violence and terrorism to achieve his objective of a separate Tamil state.MGR’s death, five months after the India-Sri Lanka Agreement, led to free-for-all among Tamil Nadu politicians from all state parties in seeking control of India’s Sri Lanka policy. For the first time in independent India, the Central government surrendered to regional politicians on a matter of external affairs. Since then, it has been a downhill journey under successive governments.When the UPA government was in power, the contortions it went through before a UN vote in Geneva on Sri Lanka’s human rights record was a mockery of the Central government’s prerogatives on foreign policy. The DMK effectively usurped that role. Similarly, the Central government surrendered to Mamata Banerjee on Teesta waters after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was all set to sign a water sharing agreement with Bangladesh during his visit to Dhaka. The signature had to be aborted.In the same vein, Singh had to cancel a visit to the UAE after an Indian fisherman was fatally shot and three others injured off the UAE coast by an American naval ship, USNS Rappahannock in 2012. The US ship got away without taking any responsibility for the wanton killing. The most notorious case in this class was when India's relations with Italy were put in serious jeopardy by the total mishandling of a similar incident of an Italian oil tanker firing and killing two Kerala fishermen. The Central government surrendered to Kerala’s Congress-led government in this case.Traditionally, even courts in India have acknowledged the authority of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to practice diplomacy in national interest without being hamstrung by regional considerations or narrow political exigencies. Until the Central government’s ham-handed approach to the Italian tanker Enrica Lexie incident, courts generally acceded to MEA requests which would help overcome roadblocks to its practice of diplomacy.Such a scenario is not peculiar to India. In a landmark case in the US, the exclusive authority of the federal government in Washington to conduct foreign policy was challenged by Massachusetts through a 1996 state law prohibiting trade with Myanmar. In 2000, the US Supreme Court struck down the state legislation and upheld the federal government’s sole authority in such matters. No country can practice credible diplomacy if its external affairs are subject to parochial pulls and pressures to a point where meaningful foreign policy becomes redundant. That was the case in Tamil Nadu since Tamil separatism in Sri Lanka found fertile ground there in the 1980s.It is now a distant memory that when the Indian forces wound up their Sri Lanka operations on March 31, 1990 and the last IPKF contingent came home to what was then Madras, it was insulted and there was no gratitude to the force which had sacrificed hundreds of its men in the Sri Lanka operation. Never mind the politics of the Rajiv-JRJ accord, these were members of the Indian Army. In popular descriptions, the IPKF had come to be known in Tamil Nadu as the “Indian Tamil Killing Force”.By then, M Karunanidhi had become the Chief Minister. He continued MGR’s policy of providing financial and logistical support to the LTTE, even though the Indian Army was fighting the veryTamil Tigers on the island nation. LTTE cadres who were injured in fighting Indians were freely smuggled into Tamil Nadu and offered free treatment in state hospitals. Tamil Nadu had become a state within the Indian state on matters of Sri Lanka policy.How did a sweeping change come about that the Sri Lankan Tamil problem was not a campaign issue in the current elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly? Like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, throughout his political career, Narendra Modi as Prime Minister has been firm that regional parties should not be permitted to meddle in matters which are solely the preserve of the Union government, such as foreign policy and defence. Second, unlike Manmohan Singh, Modi is not dependent on support from any Tamil party for his survival in office.Besides, the Sinhala-dominated Sri Lankan government has decisively crushed Tamil separatism on the island, but in the long run, this can be a double-edged sword. That is obvious from the considerations which went into India’s abstention from the vote on a resolution on Sri Lanka in the UN Human Rights Council last month. With the poll campaign in Tamil Nadu in full swing, most people expected Modi to support the resolution which the Sinhalas rejected from the start.But in an assertion of the MEA’s regained autonomy on policy choices, India opted for abstention. It is an acknowledgement that India is uniquely placed as an external factor in Sri Lankan affairs and that it must, therefore, stand aside from other international powers on Sri Lankan reconciliation, power sharing with Tamils and devolution for the island’s minorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lankan-tamils-no-more-a-poll-plank-in-tamil-nadu-237928
12-04-2021||---||Turkey meeting holds the key||Amidst the confusion and contradictions of the current situation in Afghanistan, three elements stand out. First, US President Joe Biden wants to end his country’s longest war, even if he is considering the possible need for some continuing US force presence in Afghanistan to fully ensure that its territory is not used for a terrorist attack on American interests, particularly on its mainland, and also outside it. He does not want Afghanistan’s ‘descent into chaos’. That would profile the failure of two decades of US presence in Afghanistan.He may not find it possible to adhere to the US-Taliban agreement’s May 1 deadline for the withdrawal of US troops. Reports indicate that US negotiators are attempting to persuade the Taliban to extend the deadline. The deal will not break down on this issue, but the Taliban would want concessions in return.Second, with continuing Pakistani support, the Taliban has eclipsed the government to become the primary factor in the contemporary Afghan scene, at least in perceptual terms. While its ideology rightly evokes abhorrence, the fact that its insurgency is largely succeeding is undeniable. If that was not so, it would not have gained international legitimacy or negotiated with the Kabul political elite from a virtual position of strength. It is difficult to quantify its territorial sway in Afghanistan, but its influence extends over large swathes of territory where it manages a shadow administration, even if governance structures exist. The Taliban has also displayed a large measure of cohesion.Third, unlike the Taliban, the Kabul political elite is frayed. Factional and ethnic divisions as well as two Presidents who failed to provide inspiring leadership to knit a diverse people and imbue them with a sense of national purpose have contributed to the present sorry state of political incoherence. While the US must share the major blame for its inability to militarily crush the Taliban insurgency by permitting it, inter alia, the safe hinterland of Pakistan, it was for Afghan leaders, especially the Pashtuns among them, to have taken risks to politically wean the Afghan Pashtun away from the Taliban. They failed to do so, giving the Taliban the opportunity to consolidate itself.The interplay of these three elements has contributed to shape the current realities of the Afghan situation. While imponderables remain, their interaction will also determine the future of this fractured land. What is happening now and what can be expected?The result of political divisions in the Kabul political elite at this crucial time is a sapping of popular confidence in it. This is leading the well heeled to make arrangements abroad, in case they need to leave at short notice. It is also resulting in a yearning for peace among the people at large. There is great suspicion of the Taliban among the non-Pashtuns, but there will be those among them who may make compromises for peace. All in all, a sense of uncertainty is prevailing in the country.Taliban and Kabul elite leaders met in Moscow 10 days after US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken’s blunt, if not rude, letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani as well as the US-prepared Draft Peace Plan (DPP) became public around March 8. Russia had arranged a meeting of the US, China and Pakistan, apart from itself. It also invited Qatar and Turkey. Afghan government representatives maintain that in Moscow, the Taliban exposed their intransigence and arrogance and refused to show any flexibility which led to the extended troika publicly declaring, ‘We do not support the restoration of the Islamic Emirate.’ This assertion would not however deter the Taliban from refusing to accept the DPP’s recommendation that the Afghan republic’s constitution be the ‘initial template’ for the preparation of the future constitution.All eyes are now on the Turkey meeting, as proposed in the DPP, in the week beginning April 12. The US will desperately attempt for a common Taliban-Kabul elite roadmap on the curtailment of violence and a ceasefire, power sharing and some agreed elements of the future system to emerge from the meeting. It is engaging the Taliban for this purpose. At the same time, the Kabul elite is trying to reconcile differing viewpoints on these issues. Meanwhile, Ghani has put forward ideas that emphasise ceasefire and a political settlement leading to presidential elections and a government of peace followed by talks on the constitution. Ghani’s real purpose — the continuation of his government — is hardly disguised in this proposal. He does not want to hand power to anyone, but an ‘elected’ President. However, if the Taliban show flexibility, the US would exert maximum pressure on Ghani to give up the presidency so that an interim government is formed under a new leader.At this stage, three broad scenarios are possible. One, the US manages to secure Taliban flexibility, leading to an agreement between Afghan parties on a large curtailment of violence, an interim government and some principles on the future system; two, the situation continuing much as now with the Taliban gaining ground; and, three, the US withdrawing completely and the country relapsing into ethnic fiefdoms and large-scale violence. Based on the three elements currently in play — the US wish for a managed exit, Taliban coherence and the incoherence of the Kabul elite — the third scenario is most unlikely, for that would deprive the US of even a fig leaf to cover its strategic defeat in Afghanistan. The second is possible, but the US will try for the first outcome and its success should not be ruled out, especially by Indian policy makers who seem unprepared for it.For India, this is a time not to base its Afghan policy on wise and pious platitudes, but through a vigorous and open engagement with all Afghan parties at senior levels. This must necessarily include the Taliban, notwithstanding its ties with Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/turkey-meeting-holds-the-key-237897
