13-04-2021||---||Quantify violence against women to check it||No nation or society can progress unless violence against women is addressed and they feel free to live their lives as they choose. Peter Drucker, the famous management thinker, once said, “If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it,” meaning you can’t possibly get better at something that you can’t measure. To be able to move ahead and abate all forms of violence against women, we need to be able to measure it with clearly established metrics and then address it by robust strategies, with success that can be defined and tracked, or else, we would be running blind plans.The life cycle of violence against a woman starts in the family she is born in or the family she gets married into and then there are some external factors. The spectrum of this violence begins at its low end from coercion and arbitrary deprivation of liberty and moves on to serious crimes. With the entire gamut of this violence extending well beyond the physical, sexual or psychological harm, there is more to it than meets the eye. Though some violence is captured as crime under various criminal statutes, there are forms of violence for which hitherto there are no measurable metrics.The criminal laws enacted during recent times have penalised some forms of violence against women, but the Punjab Police Rules, which govern day-to-day working of the police in the north Indian states, were framed circa 1930 to establish a system of policing to serve British imperial interests, with focus on control and surveillance to nip threats to the empire in the bud. Thus, the purpose of the police stations, police work and the system of crime records put in place through 25 police station registers was to control rather than serve. Mindful that these registers did not adequately catch violence against women, we took new initiative to start a few registers to capture all forms of violence against women and bring them on our radar.As the station commander of a UN police station during the UN mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country emerging out of post-conflict trauma, I was fortunate to work with police officers from over 50 countries and learn from their experience. One such discourse with a Miami police officer who was a career sex crime investigator is deeply etched in my mind. We got into a discussion about the two theories of sex crimes, namely, ‘sex drive and drive to possess and control’. He commented that sex crimes were about ‘sick mind’ or else, how would you explain the rape of a six-year-old girl or a 75-year-old woman and what sexual pleasure or powers were to be derived from such acts. He added that people who have ‘sick mind’ are likely to perpetrate such crimes again and again unless their mental sickness is dealt with.Leading US police departments maintained a profile of all sexual offenders in their jurisdiction. I put this learning to practice and we introduced register number 26 for “offenders of crimes against women and children” in Himachal Pradesh. We accrued three distinct benefits of introducing this register. First, it has provided the much needed data on the quantum and profile of sexual offenders. Secondly, it is much easier to police these sexual offenders numbering in thousands than to secure 35 lakh women in the state. Thirdly, and most importantly, it has brought down violent crimes against women and children.For every suspicious death of a woman, there are doubts, whether it is a homicide or suicide. Delving deeper into our data revealed that suicides, though high in numbers, never rang bells on our radar. Suicides can be classified largely into two categories. The first being pushed to commit suicide or ‘abetment to suicide’, covered under Section 306 of the IPC. The second is committing suicide of one’s own volition, dealt by the police as inquest procedure under Section 174 of the CrPC. While women constituted only 30% of the victims under Section 174 of the CrPC, they were 60% of the victims under Section 306 of the IPC, indicating that a large number of married women or young girls were pushed to commit suicide. To capture such suspicious deaths, we introduced register number 27 for ‘suicides’ in the police stations in two parts, capturing both (a) abetment to suicide under Section 306 IPC and (b) suicides under Section 174 of the CrPC. This register has helped us to maintain a reliable record of suspicious deaths, analyse their causes and intervene where they can be prevented.Every year, we recovered several unidentified dead bodies (UIDBs), many of whom were of women. Apparently, some of these were subjected to violence before their death, but there was not much that we could do unless the bodies were identified. Determining their identity was essential, first to be able to investigate their cause of death and bring the perpetrators to justice. Secondly, we were obligated to give them an honourable funeral or leave their last rites to be performed by the municipal bodies or panchayats. We wrote to the UIDAI authorities to allow us limited biometric access of the UIDBs to enable us to determine their identity, but since the matter wassub judice in the Supreme Court, they could not offer us help. Then, there is the issue of missing women and children, who need to be traced post-haste, or else, are likely to be abused and exploited on account of their vulnerability. To meetboth these objectives, we started register number 28, in two parts: (a) register of unidentified dead bodies; (b) register of missing women and children. This register has facilitated in keeping track and managing the hitherto unreported and unmeasured aggravated forms of violence against women.We have moved the wheels of time past where the British left them in 1930s and tried to capture and measure all possible forms of violence against women. However, it is still work in progress, with the rise of offensive sexual content across the cyber-space posing a new challenge. It will take a while to reliably measure this emerging crime till both the technology and the profile of crime stabilise. As Ban Ki-moon, the former Secretary General of the UN, said, “There is one universal truth, applicable to all countries, cultures and communities: violence against women is never acceptable, never excusable, never tolerable.” Let us work to make that happen and as a first step in this direction, reliably measure the violence and then deal with the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quantify-violence-against-women-to-check-it-238308
13-04-2021||---||India, Russia to build on time-tested ties||The visit of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to India soon after his remark that “India is currently an object of the western countries’ persistent, aggressive and devious policy to engage it in anti-China games” was of considerable interest as it alluded to an assessment on Moscow’s part that despite some differences, its relationship with New Delhi was too important and needed further nurturing.India, on its part, sent signals through the visits of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who attended the 75th World War II Victory Day parade on June 24, 2020, in Moscow; External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar, who attended the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Russia-India-China (RIC) Grouping meetings in September 2020; and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla in February 2021, conveying that it was keen to continue its ‘time-tested relationship’ with Russia despite the warming of its ties with the US.India made an exception for Russia by accepting Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi (April 5-6) along with a trip to Pakistan (April 6-7), which it had declined in the case of other major countries (refusing equivalence). The EAM said that the discussions between them were “very warm and comprehensive’ and they had “updated their shared interests” cognisant of the “multipolar and rebalanced’international relations.Key takeaways of the visit include augmenting “long-standing partnership in nuclear, space and defence sectors, joint manufacturing of new weapons, exploring prospects of economic cooperation in the Russian Far East, International North-South and Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridors, Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme and a free trade agreement”.Lavrov said Russia remained India’s leading defence partner, the only country which is giving India cutting-edge military technology and the two countries would collaborate further in manned flight programmes, rocket engine production and satellite navigation. He appreciated India’s ‘responsible approach’ in world affairs (not succumbing to US pressures) and coordination of positions (with Russia) on issues important to both countries in various fora such as the UN, G20, SCO, BRICS and others.Differences, however, remained on the Indo-Pacific (IP) issue as Moscow views it through the prism of its differences with the US and its courtship of China to oppose the US hegemony. What the Russians fail to appreciate is that Beijing’s support to Moscow currently is at best tactical and before long, it will oppose Russia too, as it is on course to seek global supremacy and can’t forget the Chinese territories annexed by Moscow in earlier periods and has already started expanding its reach in Russia’s sphere of influence (Central Asia, Iran etc.)India is hoping that with greater interaction at the highest level, Russia would show greater understanding of India’s security concerns arising from China’s aggression in its territories. EAM Jaishankar conveyed India’s interest in holding the annual summit with President Putin later this year (cancelled last year).Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan was part of Russia’s efforts to improve ties with her since Pakistan’s relations with the US have cooled off (note President Biden is yet to call the PM of Pakistan or invite him to the Climate Summit on April 22). Now that the US has decided to leave Afghanistan, Russia has hosted several rounds of talks to establish itself as a key player in a future Afghan settlement. Russia is hoping that it would be able to use its influence with Pakistan and Taliban to contain the infiltration of the Islamic State (IS) into Central Asia and its own territories-hopes which may be belied as Taliban's main interest is in consolidating its occupation of Afghanistan rather than fighting the IS.Russia has sold some MI-35 helicopters to Pakistan and has held some joint military exercises with her. Economic cooperation including the setting up of a Lahore-Karachi gas pipeline has not made much headway due to the US sanctions on companies working with Russia. Prospects of sharp improvement of Russia’s ties with Pakistan are limited as the Pakistani elite mainly looks to the West for closer political and military engagement, Pakistan’s poor financial situation, deep involvement of China and India’s sensitivities.Russia’s global standing has nosedived after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. But it believes that as a Great Power, it is entitled to a “sphere of influence” and the US humiliated her by extending the reach of NATO and EU to the former Soviet states. Relations with the US have deteriorated further after reports of Russia’s recurring interference in the US presidential elections in 2016 and 2020 and cyber attacks on the sensitive US installations. America’s National Security Strategy (December 2017) describes Russia (and China) as ‘revisionist’ powers which want to realign the global order in their favour and which the US must oppose (to retain its global supremacy).The rapid progress made by China in economic, technological and military fields, its aggressive policy towards its neighbours and its determination to seek global primacy is resetting the relationships among the major powers. India has no choice but to seek closer ties with the US, EU, UK, Japan and other countries to address its asymmetry and security challenges with China. Russia, even with its best intentions, can't persuade Beijing to give up its aggressive stance towards India.President Putin, in an article on “Russia and the changing world” published in Moscow News in February 2012 recognised India as one of the rapidly growing Asian giants with whom Russia has traditionally enjoyed a privileged strategic partnership. Lavrov’s discussions with Jaishankar have made it clear that notwithstanding some temporary blips, both India and Russia are interested to augment this relationship in innovative and beneficial ways.Russia has been India’s traditional defence partner, a global power with extensive outreach, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, and the two countries don’t have any adverse interests. It is New Delhi’s assessment that a closer relationship with Russia will help us in balancing negative edges in our relationship with the US and expanding our strategic choices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-russia-to-build-on-time-tested-ties-238287
13-04-2021||---||The world in 20 years||The US National Intelligence Council’s 20-year forecast, released last month, makes for disquieting reading. Issued once in four years, the seventh edition of the Global Trends Report is coming out at a time when the world, and especially, the US is reeling from the consequences of the Covid pandemic, as well as deep social and political divisions in its society, something not very different from what we are experiencing back home in India.The challenge for India will be to ensure that the young are provided adequate nutrition, healthcare and education. Failure to do so would result in large-scale social breakdowns.Global Trends 2040 talks of scenarios that will shape the global environment in the next two decades and their implications for US national security. The NIC supports the Director of US National Intelligence and its focus is on longer-term strategic analysis. It relies on expert opinion in the US and abroad and is aimed at alerting policy makers and the broad policy community of the emerging developments. The report is not a simple prediction of what will happen in 20 years, but an examination of past and future trends, working out of scenarios of evolving developments, their dynamics and the key uncertainties ahead.The experience of 2020 tells us that even the best forecasts can be upended by the black swans and grey rhinos on the path ahead. The former refers to highly improbable and unexpected events like the Covid pandemic, which impact on the unfolding of social and political trends. The latter are obvious and foreseeable events which we sometimes willfully ignore till they hit us, such as the global financial crisis of 2008 or climate change.The report has identified four structural forces that are likely to shape the world — demographics, environment, economics and technology. Demographic trends are the easiest to predict and we know that the populations of well-off countries will age and even shrink in size. But areas like Sub Saharan Africa and South Asia will continue to show younger population profiles and their numbers will continue to grow.There is an obvious challenge for countries like India which need to ensure that these young are provided adequate nutrition, healthcare and education. A failure to do so would result in large-scale social breakdowns. As it is, the World Bank has estimated that as many as 75 million people have slipped back into extreme poverty in India because of the pandemic.An equally easy prediction is the impact of climate change whose burdens will be unevenly distributed around the world and result in social and political unrest. This is a classic grey rhino standing on the middle of the road ahead of us, and yet, we don’t seem to care as we drive on. Just three months ago, we had a President in the US who did not believe that there was any such thing as climate change.India’s population, likely to overtake that of China by 2027, its geography, nuclear weapons and economic prospects make it a potential global power, but, says the report, ‘it remains to be seen whether New Delhi will achieve domestic development goals to allow it to project influence beyond South Asia.’ It says that India faces ‘serious governance, societal, environmental and defense challenges’ that will constrain how much it can invest in developing military and diplomatic capabilities for playing a larger global role.Incidentally, whatever the high-flying rhetoric about India and the US being the world’s largest democracies, as far as the report is concerned, there are no ‘liberal democracies’ in South Asia as of 2020. India is presumably one of four ‘electoral autocracies’ in the region which hold free and fair multiparty elections, and guarantee freedom of speech and expression, ‘but do not uphold the rule of law and/or do not have constraints on the executive.’The biggest black swan ahead is technology. This is also the fuzziest area to forecast. The next two decades will see increased global competition for ‘core elements of technological supremacy’ such as talent, knowledge, markets which could lead to a new crop of tech leaders and hegemons. The US has long used it as a tool of national power, but the next two decades will see increasing competition for the core elements and the competitor here is China.Technology can help us mitigate climate change and disease, but it can also aggravate societal disruption as it is doing today by manipulating information on a large scale or through job displacement. The report forecasts that some technologies that are already showing their hand such as AI, biotechnology, smart materials and manufacturing, and ‘hyper connectivity’ could, in the next 20 years, have a transformative effect on the world.As for the international system, the report forecasts that it will be ‘more contested, uncertain, and conflict prone.’ The US and China will have the greatest influence on global dynamics and their rivalry ‘will affect most domains’, reshaping today’s alliances, international organisations and the norms and rules that we call the international order. This competitive environment makes the risk of conflict more likely and deterrence more difficult.Looking at the future, the report rolls out five alternative scenarios — a renaissance of democracies with the US in the lead, a world which is adrift where China is a leading, but not the dominant state, competitive coexistence where China and the US compete for leadership, separate silos where globalisation and countries are divided into ‘aatmanirbhar’ security and economic blocs. And finally, the possibility of ‘tragedy and mobilisation’ where a devastating global environmental crises and collapse leads to a bottom-up change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-world-in-20-years-238284
