15-04-2021||---||Covid surge taking its toll on economic recovery||The International Monetary Fund’s upward revision of the India growth forecast for 2021 came at a singularly inauspicious moment last week. The surge of Covid-19 throughout the country, especially Maharashtra and Kerala, had just given the country the dubious distinction of having the second highest number of total cases in the world. Curbs on economic activity and movement were also imposed in Mumbai, not only the country’s financial capital but also one of its biggest industrial and commercial hubs.In this backdrop, it seemed inexplicable that the IMF would be enhancing its original projections of 11.5 to 12.5 per cent growth for the year. The mystery was solved when IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath mentioned in a media interview that the assessment had been finalised in the first week of March when a Covid resurgence was just a blip on the horizon.Even so, she maintained the forecast would remain unaltered in the face of regional lockdowns or restrictions. The projections would only change in case of a national lockdown, which looks unlikely for the time being.It is clear, however, that the economic recovery process is getting derailed by the second wave of the pandemic. Apart from the strict measures being imposed in Maharashtra, several other states are now implementing night curfew. These have a direct impact on supply chains throughout the country as much of the work is done at night.Numerous reports speak of migrant labour moving out of key industrial centres like Maharashtra and Delhi as commercial establishments are either closed or face restricted hours. Some migration is fear-based, on the assumption that a full lockdown would be imposed like last year and workers will be stranded without any means to return to their homes. The result is that manufacturing units are beginning to face labour shortage. This has, in turn, pushed up wages of temporary or contract workers but it cannot be viewed as a positive simply because it will inevitably be a temporary phenomena.The experience of last year cannot be discounted in relation to migrant workers and unemployment. About nine million jobs are estimated to have been lost during the pandemic last year. A continuation of restrictions on factories and commercial establishments could mean a fresh wave of misery for those who had barely begun to recover from the wage losses of last year.To get an inkling of the widespread nature of Covid curbs, one must point out that these have been extended in Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Haryana and Puducherry. Uttarakhand has imposed night curfew but, ironically, is also hosting the Maha Kumbh which could be turn out to be a super-spreader as thousands of pilgrims are arriving every day. As for the other states, industrial and commercial activity will be affected, especially in industrial hubs like Jodhpur and Ludhiana which are centres for the export of furniture and apparel, respectively.The manufacturing sector already reached a seven-month low in March, according to the IHS Markit Purchasing Managers Index (PMI). The PMI is a survey-based indicator of business activity. Other indicators like power consumption, GST collections and freight revenues may continue to be positive, but the PMI shows that business and industry are witnessing a definite downward trend. The question is: will the economy be resilient in the coming months or will earlier expectations of a buoyant recovery be belied?As of now, it looks as if the chances of a V-shaped recovery, seemingly visible, based on many green shoots just two months ago, are now receding into the background. It may be more realistic to expect a K- shaped recovery which can be described as a more uneven and much slower process. This is a likely scenario in light of the Covid surge that is now spreading throughout the country, even into the Hindi heartland states of UP and Bihar. Some elements of the economy may continue to grow rapidly such as agriculture and digital economy, as in 2020.The manufacturing sector, however, looks set to face constraints yet again.The Index of Industrial Production has given a glimpse of the coming upheavals, recording a seven-month low of 3.6 per cent contraction for February 2021. The data continues the declining trend of the previous month. Simultaneously, inflation has reached a four-month high of 5.5 per cent while the Sensex remains volatile. The overall outlook for growth in 2021-22 continues to be pegged at double-digit levels by most agencies for the time being, but a clearer picture will emerge after the April-June quarter.What is of most significance going forward is the impact on small industry and those at the bottom of the pyramid — the migrant workers. The budgetary stimulus did not provide enough for either of these two segments that have been the hardest hit during the pandemic. Investment in infrastructure was a notable element of the budget, but it failed to provide an adequate safety net for small business or those employed in the unorganised sector. The fresh wave of restrictions now can only serve to increase the inequality recorded by the Oxfam study that showed a 35 per cent increase in the wealth of Indian billionaires during the pandemic.The outlook for the current fiscal in the midst of the raging wave of the pandemic, thus, remains fairly uncertain. Much will depend on the reaction of both the Central and state governments to the new situation. The Centre is urging the states to focus on containment zones rather than damaging lockdowns but has done nothing to prevent events like the Maha Kumbh or the massive rallies in all the state elections that are fuelling the present crisis.The states, on their part, should have taken steps to curb Covid-inappropriate behaviour in public places and ramped up testing much earlier rather than clamping down at this late stage on trade and industry. Livelihoods are at stake ultimately. Health and pandemic policies in the coming days must be aligned with the needs of the economy, rather than moving on separate tracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-surge-taking-its-toll-on-economic-recovery-239160
15-04-2021||---||Communal undertow of Bengal violence||DILIP GHOSH, the BJP’s West Bengal president, gave a warning to his political opponents a day after four persons were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of polling on April 10. Ghosh, never known to nuance his statements, called the victims ‘dushtu chelera’ (naughty boys) and let it be known that there was no place for such elements in West Bengal. This is the beginning, he declared, as Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency in Cooch Behar registered 86 per cent turnout, undeterred by the bloodshed. The Sitalkuchi episode marked the first major violence in the 2021 Assembly polls but it encompassed the elements defining electioneering in the state.The communal undertow was unmistakeable. The CISF could not have chosen its targets by design but implicit in Ghosh’s ‘naughty boys’ statement was a reference to the fact that the casualties were Muslims, who worked in Kerala and had returned to vote. The state BJP chief used their fate as an example of what could befall the ‘others’ if they similarly took on the forces. The upcoming poll phases cover several Muslim-dominated constituencies where conventional wisdom would give the Trinamool Congress (TMC) an upper hand. The BJP, its principal adversary, could acquire an edge only by forcing a reverse consolidation of the Hindu votes, a tactic that works for it in the North and the West.Chief Minister and TMC president Mamata Banerjee fashioned her response in line with the ‘outsider-native’ theme dominating her campaign. The Central forces were ‘outsiders’ (have they never been deployed in West Bengal?) and, therefore, must be challenged. The Sitalkuchi occurrence was reportedly sparked by the CISF when they allegedly beat up a boy who could not comprehend their questions in Hindi. The TMC’s inference was that the jawans were ‘aliens’ who spoke an incomprehensible language. Mamata expediently forgot that Bengalis were among the early migrants within and outside India.The violence underscored the significance of party affiliations and not personal rivalries in an election. In West Bengal, party loyalty is the sine qua non of political survival. It must be worn like a badge, or better still, tattooed on one’s person, because it is the passport for access to entitlement, authority, jobs, ration cards, statutory funds — the works. A ‘renegade’ is not only denied his/her rightful claims from the state but also faces penalty that can be extreme.The dead men in Sitalkuchi were supposed to be TMC workers or supporters. The ensuing reprisal from the TMC gave a foretaste of the attacks that might come in the next rounds. Mamata is up not just against a bellicose BJP but also the Left-Congress alliance that tied up with the nascent Indian Secular Front (ISF), founded by Abbas Siddiqui, an influential cleric. Mamata doesn’t need to lose as much sleep over the Congress and Left as the ISF. Siddiqui is determinedly making a play for the Muslim votes, using the very Sachar panel report on the condition of the minorities that the TMC had propagated in the earlier Assembly polls to ‘expose’ the Left Front’s failure to deliver anything substantive to Muslims. Mamata’s campaign paid off, but the ISF has questioned her own record to act upon the Sachar committee’s proposals. Siddiqui’s discourse might have rung credible with sections of Muslims because Mamata beseeched the minorities not to split their votes. If their votes are fractured, the BJP could level the field for itself.Violence — random or organised —took on a communal colour since 2016 and indicated that the BJP was hard at work to polarise the polity. A few serious incidents need recounting to show that the communal fault lines did not surface in West Bengal overnight. In October 2016, at Hazinagar town in the Naihati industrial belt (North 24 Parganas), a procession to immerse Durga’s idols turned violent when the crowd hurled stones at a Sufi saint’s mazaar (shrine). A bomb was thrown at the house of Mohammad Jiaul Haque, a TMC leader and a former municipality chairman. A Moharram procession, that was to wind down the streets that night, was toned down and shortened after an appeal from Arjun Singh, a former TMC MLA, from an adjoining constituency. Singh joined the BJP subsequently. In 2019, a Muslim shanty town outside the Kankinara Jute Mills (also North 24 Parganas) was ransacked. The attack was the outcome of a communal riot that erupted in 2018 after a Ramnavami cavalcade provoked Muslims with offensive slogans. It was said that Arjun Singh instigated the attack, despite then being in the TMC.Of course, for long the TMC had an upper hand over the violence. According to the National Crime Records Bureau’s 2019 report, of the 61 political killings nationally, West Bengal topped the list with 12, followed by Bihar and Jharkhand with six each. The 2018 panchayat elections, another inflection point, claimed more than a dozen lives and had the dubious record of electing an unusual number of TMC candidates unopposed. The Opposition’s nominees reportedly withdrew from the fray, fearing for their lives.The TMC did not pioneer and patent the use of violence to establish political hegemony. Before 1977, the Congress ushered in an era known as the ‘hoodlum years’. Through its 34-year regime, the Left institutionalised an ‘anarchic’ template of governance that used the party cadre to exact compliance from people or face the consequences. When the TMC looked like a sure-shot winner, the Left cadre shifted fealty and provided Mamata the muscle and a loose and undisciplined organisation to help her run her writ over the state.Now that the BJP has packed its rank and file with TMC imports, especially the local overlords, the political collisions will intensify in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/communal-undertow-of-bengal-violence-239161
15-04-2021||---||The ‘Naya Pakistan’ rhetoric||Tensions with Pakistan have been a continuing feature of India’s problems in its neighbourhood. Are we, however, seeing after a long time, the emergence of a ‘Naya Pakistan’, with its perennially hostile military, favouring a cooling of tensions with India? There has been a feeling in recent days that there are good reasons for cautious optimism in India and Pakistan that the two countries could negotiate ways to live in peace. Most Indians feel that for the past four years, India is dealing with one of the most opinionated politicians in Pakistan — Imran Khan. His Tehreek-e-Insaf Party was ideologically moulded by the anti-India, former ISI chief, Lt Gen Hamid Gul.China has naturally regarded Imran Khan’s anti-India diatribes as a blessing. It complements the daily dose of anti-India rhetoric dished out by Beijing’s official mouthpiece, the Global Times. All this is having an impact within Pakistan, where there are many who understand the urgent need for economic realism to meet challenges posed by the pandemic. Pakistanis would surely have noted that while their foreign exchange reserves have dwindled to a mere $14.8 billion, Bangladesh, whose people have traditionally been looked down upon by their erstwhile West Pakistani brethren, has steadily growing foreign exchange reserves of $44 billion. Bangladesh has overtaken Pakistan in virtually every financial, social and economic indicator, within half a century of its birth in 1971.There are now many in Pakistan who believe that it is imperative to focus on economic development with their neighbours. Pakistan army chief General Bajwa, who, like his predecessors, is Pakistan’s de facto ruler, called for measures to boost intra-regional trade and connectivity. A few days earlier, the DGMOs of India and Pakistan had reached an agreement on a ceasefire across the LoC. Meanwhile, the economic coordination committee of Imran Khan’s cabinet, headed by Finance Minister Hammad Azar, recommended that trade with India needed to be resumed to revive the economy.The cabinet rejected the recommendations of the committee the very next day. Those leading the rejectionists included minister for human rights Shireen Mazari, who has a track record of vitriolic anti-Indian writings and pronouncements, SM Qureshi, the hawkish minister for foreign affairs, and Sheikh Rashid, the interior minister. Mazari asserted: ‘The cabinet stated clearly that there could be no trade with India. The Prime Minister made it clear there can be no normalisation of relations with India, until they reverse their illegal actions of August 5, 2019, on Jammu and Kashmir’. Imran Khan appears determined to ridicule what was an action to cool temperatures in relations with India, initiated by General Bajwa. He was, thereby, sending the message that he remained a ‘hawk’ on J&K. This will, no doubt, please Bajwa’s rivals in the army, who reportedly include the ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, who is in the running to succeed Bajwa. The ISI chief is, no doubt, pledging eternal loyalty to the army chief at the same time.While his actions may have enabled Imran Khan to strengthen his position amongst those opposed to General Bajwa, he could well find that he has opened the doors for his political opponents like Asif Ali Zardari of the PPP and Maulana Fazlur Rahman of the JUI, who has conservative, Islamist support within Pakistan, to pose a serious political challenge. Imran Khan remembers that in his early days in politics, he had the strong army support to pose challenges to his then rival, Nawaz Sharif. Even as his present relations with General Bajwa are not as cordial as they were earlier, he is making sure that he retains support in the higher echelons of the army. He is, at the same time, working to convince US President Joe Biden that he will facilitate a smooth withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan, while remaining a trusted loyalist of Presidents Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping. Both China and Russia have their eyes on Afghanistan’s immense resources.India needs to play its cards skilfully in this complex scenario. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who was posted in our embassy in Islamabad in the early 1980s, developed a perceptive understanding of the complexities of the internal situation in Pakistan. The two countries should have ambassadors in each other’s capital as a first step, for any move forward. It is only natural for Doval to continue guiding any ‘back channel’ negotiations. India’s highly respected, former High Commissioner to Pakistan, Satinder Lambah, did a commendable job as Special Envoy in his ‘back channel’ meetings with General Musharraf’s confidant, Tariq Aziz, after the 2003 Kashmir ceasefire. That entire dialogue process was undermined by Gen Ashfaq Kayani, who succeeded Musharraf as army chief. Imran Khan would be well advised to study details of those talks, instead of shooting from the hip. That dialogue was based on then PM Manmohan Singh’s simple proposition: ‘Borders cannot be redrawn, but we can work towards making borders irrelevant — towards making them just lines on a map’. He added: ‘People on both sides of the Line of Control should be able to move freely and trade with one another’.The way ahead for maintaining peace on our borders is going to the complex. One hopes that the Biden administration will show wisdom and foresight by ending sanctions on Iran. Teheran has a vital stake in seeing that its eastern borders with Afghanistan are not administered by ISI-backed, Wahhabi-oriented fundamentalists. Democratic processes can be revived in J&K with the revival of statehood for the Jammu region and the Kashmir valley, when the situation stabilises. Pakistan will have to be cautioned by those desiring peace and stability against any effort to resume infiltration across the LoC. This process can also be facilitated if China ends its efforts for ‘salami slicing’ of Indian territory in Ladakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-naya-pakistan-rhetoric-239185
15-04-2021||---||Ambedkar put equality at the core of democracy||We Indians have a way of belittling our icons. We turn Gandhi into a naive saint, a harmless preacher of non-violence, Bhagat Singh into a hot-headed rebellious nationalist, and Charan Singh into a caste leader. We have done something similar to Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar’s intellectual legacy. Reclaimed from decades of neglect, his thinking has now been reduced to his reflections on the caste system. It is time we recovered some other, deeper dimensions of his thought and secured a due place for him in the canons of intellectual history. His reflections on democracy qualify him as the first candidate for such a recovery.Babasaheb Ambedkar was the first Indian, and arguably the only Indian in the 20th century, who offered a theory of democracy, a theory that can guide us in the 21st century. This needs to be remembered because the celebration of his intellectual and political legacy tends to focus almost exclusively on his critique of caste-based injustice. This needs to be reminded today, when India’s democracy is being dismantled by those who preside over his birth anniversary celebrations.Dr Ambedkar was not the first Indian thinker to reflect on democracy. But he was the first one to offer original answers to the three basic questions that a theory of democracy must address. One, a theory must set out a norm, an ideal of what democracy should be like. Two, it must evaluate the current state of democracy in the light of its ideal and offer a critique. Three, it must spell out a path to a democratic ideal, from where we stand to where we should aim to be. Ambedkar’s answers were original because these were not drawn from some abstraction. His reflections were firmly located in the Indian context.Dr Ambedkar’s answers were strikingly different from the two ways of thinking about democracy that dominated his times. On the one hand were ‘liberals’ like Jawaharlal Nehru who expected the western fairytale of democracy to be replayed in India, albeit with a time lag. For them, western democracies were the model towards which India had begun its journey by enacting a Constitution and holding free and fair elections. On the other hand were the critics, mostly from the Left, who thought that the democratic experiment in India was a sham, nothing but a rule of the capitalist class cloaked in procedures of democracy. Gandhi, too, shared this disdain for Westminster-style democracy. Dr Ambedkar offered a theory of cautious and conditional optimism, an optimism drawn from the abstract promise of democracy and a caution rooted in the Indian context.He offered a substantive definition of democracy, radically different from the procedural definition that dominated the 20th-century theories of democracy. He was not unmindful of the procedural aspects of democracy, but for him all these democratic mechanisms like elections and parliament were there for a purpose: “to bring about welfare of the people”. He went on to offer a definition of democracy for our times that would set him apart from the dominant theorists of democracy. For him democracy was “a form and a method of government whereby revolutionary changes in the economic and social life of the people are brought about without bloodshed.” (Conditions Precedent for the Successful Working of Democracy, 1952).Departing from western democratic imagination that foregrounds liberty, Dr Ambedkar put equality at the heart of democracy. “The roots of democracy lie not in the form of Government, Parliamentary or otherwise. A democracy is more than a form of Government. It is primarily a mode of associated living. The roots of Democracy are to be searched in the social relationship, in terms of associated life between the people who form a society.” (Prospects of Democracy in India, 1956). For this ideal, he turned to the Buddhist tradition. He insisted that Buddhist Sanghas were the models for parliamentary democracy.In the light of this ideal, Dr Ambedkar offered a thorough-going critique of the existing societies that claimed to be democratic. Though his critique was general, his focus was, understandably, on Indian society. The ‘associated living’ that democracy presupposes simply did not exist in India. Caste system divided Indian society into many parallel, self-contained communities that did not allow for the conversation and negotiation necessary for a healthy democracy. Thus, Ambedkar’s critique of the caste system was not merely that it was unjust and oppressive for the ‘depressed classes’, but also that it fractured national unity and made democracy impossible.Dr Ambedkar turned this critique into a general theory of preconditions for a successful democracy. He reminded us, “democracy is not a plant that grows everywhere”. He would often cite the cases of Italy and Germany where the absence of social and economic democracy led to the failure of nascent political democracy. For him the first and foremost condition for democracy was that there should be no glaring inequalities, that every citizen should enjoy equal treatment in everyday administration and governance. This needs to be backed up by popular acceptance of constitutional morality, widespread public conscience and the upholding of moral order in society. Dr Ambedkar reminded us that there is no democracy without the existence of and respect for opposition, that tyranny of the majority is antithetical to democracy.Finally, Dr Ambedkar had an unusual approach to making the transition from the present to the desired future. Unlike the social revolutionaries of his time, he did not advocate a violent or even non-violent overthrow of the existing democratic order. In fact, at one point, he argued against the continuation of satyagraha or civil disobedience in independent India. This might look disappointingly conservative for a radical theorist of democracy. But a closer look would show a more nuanced radicalism at work.In India, Ambedkar was the first serious student of social consequences of political institutions. He understood that every institutional design has a built-in drag, that it has consequences irrespective of the intent of those who designed it. Whether it was the choice of the parliamentary system over the presidential, or the role and powers of an elected panchayat in a village, or the formation of linguistic states or the partition of the country, Dr Ambedkar brought a razor-sharp understanding of how each of these decisions would affect the most marginalised sections of society. The institutional design he proposed in ‘States and Minorities’ showed a nuanced approach to using the political form of democracy for social transformation. Needless to say, none of his apparent moderation took away his resolute commitment to nothing short of annihilation of the caste order.We don’t need to stretch our imagination far to anticipate what Dr Ambedkar might have said about the continuation of inequalities, including caste inequalities, and on the rise of majoritarian democracy in today’s India. What does require careful reflection and imagination is turning these fragments of original thinking into a coherent theory of radical democracy for the 21st century. That is a task for those who take Babasaheb’s intellectual legacy seriously, beyond the birth anniversary celebrations.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ambedkar-put-equality-at-the-core-of-democracy-238801
