16-04-2021||---||Stronger US-Japan ties augur well for India||AS the world watched the US-China diplomatic dust-off in Alaska, India took solace in the attention evoked by the Quad virtual summit and US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin’s visit last month. The summit was indeed successful beyond expectations, particularly as it moved from being a security dialogue to a framework. The Japan-US partnership, which has seen smooth continuity, is a cornerstone of the Indo-Pacific policies and the Quad. It is perhaps the model on which the Quad could work further.The visits of US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin to Japan and South Korea and the latter’s trip to India and Afghanistan have demonstrated the priority the Biden administration accords to Asia. This is particularly welcome since the Trump Administration was seen as missing from diplomatic parleys in Asia.Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga was among the first leaders whom US President Joe Biden spoke to after taking charge. The mid-March meeting between the foreign and defence ministers of Japan and the US in Tokyo, amid the pandemic, gave positive signs for the development of this relationship and the partnerships built around them. For the first time in seven years, the US secretaries of Defence and State travelled to Tokyo, whereas almost every year the Japanese ministers had been travelling to Washington DC.Another significant aspect was that the US Secretaries of State and Defence made their first foreign visits since assuming office to Japan, and that too during the season of the Sakura cherry blossoms. Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi had his first interaction with his US counterpart, though Foreign Minister Motegi had met Secretary Blinken at the Quad FMs’ meeting in Tokyo in February.This 2+2 dialogue is officially called the Security Consultative Committee and has been held for several years as the US and Japan discussed the dynamic international order. Japan always sent its ministers and from the US side the interlocutors were the US Ambassador to Japan and the commander-in-chief of the US Pacific Command. The US upgraded its participation in the 1990s by deputing the Secretaries of State and Defence, making this an important 2+2 meeting.Initially, the dialogue focused on Russia. Subsequently, the Japanese threat perception from North Korea was the main point discussed. Now, the focus has clearly turned to China and the Japanese were pleased that the US shared their point of view and are willing to openly discuss the challenge from China to the regional and international order. The US-Japan alliance is being strengthened as the kerbstone of peace, security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and seems ready to counter the 'malign influences and provocation in Asia and elsewhere of the People’s Republic of China’.Significantly, for Japan the US reaffirmed that the Senkaku islands, where China challenges Japanese control, are within the ambit of Article V of the US-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security. American commitment to resist unilateral efforts to alter the situation in the East China Sea or challenge Japan's administration of these islands would attract the invocation of the treaty. Joint military exercises in the vicinity of the Senkaku in the East China Sea were conducted by Japanese MSDF and the US navy just as the 2+2 talks concluded. The Japanese have been reticent in challenging growing Chinese coastguard incursions but the pace of joint exercises is picking up and these are likely to be held frequently.The meeting was preceded by the US State Department publishing a document ‘Reaffirming the Unbreakable US-Japan Alliance’ on March 14. The document said that the US and Japan would work together on common challenges like the pandemic, climate change, democracy and human rights, free trade and countering Chinese influence. The document emphasises the common values between American and Japanese people and the mutual help rendered in times of crisis, besides the public-private partnership.With bilateral trade of $300 billion, the US-Japan relationship is one of the strongest globally and Japanese companies generate nearly a million jobs in the US, as Japan is a major source of FDI for the US, having invested $644 billion in 2019 across most states of the US. The Japan-US Strategic Energy partnership, the science and technology engagement, the digital economy, national security-based investment screening, artificial intelligence, space and biosciences are other areas where Japan and the US hope to work together. Cooperation on 5G networks, innovative businesses and open radio access network technologies seek diversified, secure and cost-effective development.With India being a key member of the Quad, having a steadfast relationship with Japan and a growing one with the US, it needs to catalyse the US-Japan ties by invoking complementarities. Some aspects of security are mirrored and there are some common challenges. On the economic front, India needs to expand ties with both the US and Japan. These partners need to be more cognisant of India's domestic requirements and respond in a better manner to support strategic investments as in the vaccine initiative of the Quad.Expansion on technology and academic issues, space, biosciences and more non-governmental activity among students, academic exchanges and the like could benefit the partnerships. The role of civil society organisations could be encouraged. These would provide soft power to the relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stronger-us-japan-ties-augur-well-for-india-239665
16-04-2021||---||Vax key to combating second wave of Covid||India recorded over two lakh cases of Covid-19 on April 14, crossing the grim milestone for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic more than a year ago. The rate of increase in the number of daily cases is much faster than before, making the second wave more ominous. As Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, has said, “It’s a perfect storm of careless crowd behaviour, laxity in government vigilance and a misleading perception of herd immunity. The virus rode through gates which were left wide open.”Many countries are witnessing an upsurge of cases, often surpassing the previous highs. They include Brazil, France, Germany, Italy and Poland. Several countries have reimposed lockdowns and travel restrictions.While it had taken over 90 days for the caseload to increase from 15,000 a day to the peak of 97,000 a day in 2020, the second wave has seen cases jumping from one lakh per day to two lakh per day in just 10 days. Equally worrisome is the fact that the positivity rate (percentage of positive tests done) crossed 14 per cent in April this year.Covid fatigue is one of the most important causes of the surge. As there was a decline in cases from November 2020 onwards, a sense of complacency had set in among the people who had stayed indoors since the outbreak began. Encouraged by the lower case fatality in India, relaxations in enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour, and a belief that the worst was over, both the state and the people lowered their guard. This was, perhaps, also the reason why the initial response to vaccination among healthcare workers, which began on January 16, was lukewarm.The message from the authorities has added to the laxity. Crowding in religious places, election campaigning, agitations and social events have allowed the virus a free hand to spread. Governments have been issuing advertisements for visiting their states. International travel has resumed in high volumes, bringing in new variants from the UK, South Africa and Brazil.What makes matters worse is the high proportion of rapid antigen tests (RAT) that are being used currently. With RAT positivity being only 50 per cent, a large number of infections are being missed. A few weeks ago, Mumbai's RAT tests show a positivity of nine per cent versus 34 per cent for the RT-PCR. The large numbers of those not detected by RAT roam around freely and infect the others. The Centre wants the RT-PCR share in tests to be at least 70 per cent. The vigour seen last year in contact tracing and testing is also lacking this time.The emergence of mutations in the viral genetic structure, resulting in the generation of new variants is another cause of the surge. The US Center of Disease Control (CDC) classifies variants as Variant of Interest (VOI), Variant of Concern (VOC), and Variant of High Consequence (VOHC). Some of the prevailing variants of concern are B.1.1.7 or the UK variant, B.1.351, the South African variant, P.1, the Brazilian variant and B.1.427 and B.1.429, the California variants.The South African variant is associated with faster transmission and possible adverse illness in the young while the British variant is 70 per cent more transmissible than the others. The Brazilian variant is linked to the resurgence of infection in people already exposed and even re-infection. There are reports of children getting the disease from California and back home in Bengaluru. Infected children are very effective in transmitting the virus further. They could bring the virus home and pass it on to their family members. B.1.1.7 has been confirmed in Punjab, Telangana and Delhi while the South African variant has been seen in Telangana and Maharashtra primarily.In the PGI, Chandigarh, from a peak of 250 cases with moderate-to-severe disease admitted last year, the number had come down to 30 in January and this month, it has again gone up to over 200, that too of severe or critical cases.The increasing numbers will put pressure on healthcare facilities and the already overburdened healthcare personnel. The pinch has already started to be felt. From March 26 to April 1, the ICU bed availability fell from 527 to 263 across hospitals in Mumbai, and from 271 to 141 in ventilator beds. A double mutant viral strain has been recently detected in many states. It is named B.1.617, which contains E484Q and L452R mutations and it could have contributed to the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in India.The resurgence of Covid-19 has huge implications for the economy. Weekend and night curfews are in place in many cities. Some states are asking for Covid test reports from travelers.We need to get back the same seriousness we had six months ago with strict adherence to social distancing, hand hygiene and masking. Even with the vaccination drive, we need to adhere to these three principles. Aggressively isolating the infected ones and developing containment zones will reduce transmission. We need to prevent crowding, be it political rallies or religious congregations.The Spanish flu of 1918-20 had devastated the world till herd immunity developed. Most scientists agree that over 65-70 per cent of the population would be required to get infected or vaccinated to generate herd immunity. Data from Israel shows that with the majority of its population getting vaccinated, the number of new infections has drastically come down.Curtailing the spread of infection also reduces the chances of new mutations. India has embarked upon an ambitious vaccination programme. At the current rate of vaccination of 35-40 lakh shots a day, it will take at least till the end of this year to vaccinate enough people to reach herd immunity.We need to increase vaccination by throwing it open to more categories. We could grant approval to more vaccines to augment supplies and at the same time restrict exports. We should ramp up vaccination in areas of high transmission and in states where elections are being held to prevent the virus from spreading. India should also step up genomic surveillance to track down variants.We need to urgently overcome vaccine hesitancy. A sustained campaign in the media should be launched to educate people about the benefits of the vaccine and dispel doubts about adverse effects. We do not yet have a robust system to monitor adverse events and the media keeps highlighting reports from other countries. Celebrities, local singers, sports icons or industry leaders should be roped in to motivate people to get vaccinated.Both the government and public should fight the second wave together. The public should strictly adhere to masks, social distancing and hand hygiene and avoid crowding. People must get themselves vaccinated. The local administrations should enforce Covid norms sternly and reinforce testing, tracking and treating. The government could ramp up the vaccination drive with more vaccine-manufacturing and targeted vaccinations. We cannot let the virus overwhelm us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vax-key-to-combating-second-wave-of-covid-239664
16-04-2021||All that is talked about these days is the lockdown and Covid that necessitated the stringent measure. But this old policeman refuses to ‘go gentle into the dark night’. The anger that sizzles because some officers of an elite service of which I was once a proud member have sunk very low makes me ‘Rage||A chance to do it right||I am reverting to the subject that I have dilated on twice already — the police, politician, criminal nexus so clearly pictured in the Anil Deshmukh-Param Bir Singh spat in Maharashtra. From all the evidence now disclosed in the Press, most pieces in the jigsaw puzzle seem to have fallen in place. Param Bir Singh was obviously chosen for the top job in the city police to help in the collection of funds for the party. He asked for the services of a suspended encounter specialist with 63 scalps under his belt to help him in the task. That request was conceded. It was not easy to reinstate an officer facing a murder charge in a court of law and who had been suspended 17 years ago! Yet, it was accomplished.Normally, the appointing authority has the power to lift suspensions but the Police Commissioner of Mumbai had not appointed Sachin Waze. He was on the roster of the Thane police, whose cadre control was with the DGP. Since the presiding DGP at that time, Subodh Jaiswal, was made of sterner stuff, a two-member committee consisting of the ACS (Home) and CP Mumbai was set up to do the job.The presence of the ACS meant the hand of the politician in charge, the Home Minister. Even with the politician on board, an excuse had to be concocted to justify an illegal, unethical and immoral order. That excuse was Covid. But it was summarily discarded after Waze was back in uniform. He was placed in the chair where he could indulge in his favourite pastime of amassing wealth — for himself and his benefactors.The Pradip Sharmas and Sachin Wazes, who are now in the news, are products of the police force’s necessity for men with courage, initiative and ability to take on-the-spot decisions. Whereas such men with special qualities are sorely required, the temptations these men face soon nudge them to turn rogue. The supervisory officers can succeed in obtaining the required results only if they can rein in juniors and keep them on the straight and narrow path. That is a tall order but achievable. An appeal to self-respect and satisfaction for work well executed are useful recipes to tackle the malaise of greed. The leader needs to play his cards tactfully. Besides money, there are several other temptations on offer. If even one in the team succumbs, his ‘buddies’ will soon line up for the good life!Sir Peter Imbert was the Commissioner of the London Metropolitan Police when I met him in his office at Scotland Yard. We discussed several problems that face a police chief in big metropolitan cities. Corruption in the ranks was one of them. He had a serious problem with officers chosen to work in the special units. The problem was similar to the one we faced in Mumbai. The approach to tackling the problem differed because of cultural and institutional differences. The British public, for instance, does not support human rights violations by their police, like encounter specialists are supported here by the middle class. Politicians tend to lend their support to the specialists because people are supportive of the shortcuts adopted by them.The police in the UK enjoy operational independence. The ministers and politicians do not dictate postings and transfers, nor do they interfere in investigation of cases, even those with political flavour, like the north-east Delhi riots, for instance.The case of Waze should open the eyes of the populace on the true nature of ‘encounter specialists’. Waze was facing trial for the murder of an under-trial prisoner charged with a terrorist crime committed in 2002. The trial has not begun, though nearly two decades have elapsed. Waze applied in 2007 for reinstatement in service. It was rejected. In 2020, he applied again and the committee facilitated the wrongdoing. On reinstatement, he reported directly to Param Bir, seven ranks his senior, ignoring the intervening supervisors who could do nothing about it because the Commissioner was Waze’s patron. Waze drove to his office in the Commissioner’s compound in a Mercedes. The register that recorded the entry and exit of all cars has mysteriously disappeared. The NIA, which is inquiring into the planting of gelatin sticks and a threat letter to the Ambanis, has fixed the crime on Waze, to whom the case was initially entrusted! It also suspects him of causing the death of an associate in crime in order to screen his own culpability. The NIA has found that Waze possessed many more high-end cars. He was operating from a room in the Oberoi Hotel that had been booked in some other name for a hundred days!This then is the story of an encounter specialist who featured as the hero in a Marathi language film called ‘Rege’. How has the public digested all the muck that is being published in the newspapers daily about the findings of the NIA? People should open their eyes to reality. The criminal-police-politician nexus is clearly pictured in the Waze episode. It is necessary to break this nexus if crime is to be checked. The politicians need money and muscle to vie for power. It is not the job of the police to help them to acquire power. The police can do nothing to discourage the political class, but it can shake one leg of the three-legged stool on which this unholy nexus hinges and cause it to totter.The Home Minister could not have summoned two comparatively very junior officials to his house and asked them to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bar owners and others who contravene regulations unless he was aware that these are the officers entrusted with the collection of the spoils. And he could not but have known that the Police Commissioner relied on Waze for special tasks.Will all these questions be put to the former Home Minister and the former Police Commissioner by the NIA and the CBI? The people’s safety depends on the nexus being buried. The chance has come. The BJP-Shiv Sena divorce has made this possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-chance-to-do-it-right-239640
