17-04-2021||Historian ||For growth, revive the spirit of entrepreneurship||Two recent articles in The Tribune (Satya Mohanty’s ‘The hollowness of a $5-trillion economy’ and Aunindyo Chakravarty’s ‘Signs of a plutocracy’) join the chorus on the growing inequality in economy. In our effort at improving India, should we go back to our mean povertarian existence of the past and punish those who are creating wealth or explore ways that enable everyone to grow?After all, the object of growth has to be that everyone is well off enough to provide a decent existence for themselves and their loved ones. Shedding tears that some among us are doing better than the rest is immoral. As immoral as the celebration of Harshad Mehta’s success by those who knew that his success was based on cheating the system. Presuming that not all Indians approve of cheating, the only explanation for the media lauding him could be that he came at a time when everyone was mired in poverty, with no possibility of getting out; the simple fact of at least one person having risen above the mire seemed to give people heart.It is in the nature of human beings to appreciate success achieved through means that are fair according to popular mores. But ethics that admire cheats are best abandoned and circumstances that create such ethics should be changed.It is bogus to talk about income inequality where people don’t recognise that income is a function of value created by an individual. Income is not a handout. What we call ‘growth’ is mostly increase in productivity of whatever we do — whether we write, read, make films, offer a service or produce some goods or sell something. Increase in productivity rarely happens without making efforts to improve abilities.All other factors remaining the same, when there is an increase in efficiencies, more value is added to whatever is being done and, thereby, an increase in income. Admittedly, not all jobs are open to an increase in income merely by improving efficiency.We have argued in various articles that the farmers’ income in present days can only be increased if the farmer weds farming with industry.Among the non-farming professions, too, there are many which are not amenable to increase in income merely by improving efficiency and productivity. Haircutting would be one such. A barber typically spends 15 minutes with a customer who comes for a haircut. In an eight-hour work day, this would translate to a maximum of 32 customers every day. At a rate of Rs 200 per haircut, a barber could then hope to generate a maximum of Rs 6,400 a day. Value-added services like a shampoo or head massage would increase the income only marginally. The only way a barber could further increase income is by charging more. But that runs the risk of customers opting for fewer haircuts.There are, however, millions of other jobs where increase of productivity — and of income — is possible. The neighbourhood kirana store is a good example. A recent Accenture report estimates that there are roughly 13 million kirana stores in India. The same study reported the findings of a survey of kirana stores that had undertaken modernisation. It reported an increase in the turnover for modernised stores from 20 per cent to 300 per cent, with the average increase being 135 per cent. The modernisation initiated varied from improving store layouts such as walkthrough aisles to installing inventory software.Incomes in unorganised retail are always low. The 73rd NSSO survey in 2015-16 estimated that the annual income per trading enterprise in India was Rs 1,94,877. For such enterprises, gross value added per worker per year was Rs 1,15,885. Most of them are run as family businesses with almost no hired labour. They are also enterprises with captive markets, determined by location. Some increase in the efficiency of these enterprises can improve incomes considerably and create an estimated three million jobs. But that effort needs to be made.The simple point is that economic growth, or its absence, is about much more than economics. Most likely, it is our shared historical memories that make us fearful. Most who mourn the current increase in incomes are, perhaps, still trapped in memories of a life where whatever one did produced no results. India’s foray into a socialist planned economy soon after Independence destroyed whatever little entrepreneurial spirit had survived the shackling of Indians by the Raj.At least during colonial times, it was possible for enterprising Indians to create wealth despite all the restrictions put by the British. Almost 2,50,000 weavers of cloth lost their livelihood in the first few decades of colonial occupation when the markets of Britain and India stopped buying their cloth. Their cloth was three times costlier than that produced in a mill. It took a few decades for Indians to figure out how to set up cloth mills of their own. Once those mills started functioning, they quickly pushed away the cloth produced in England from the markets of India. This despite a desperate effort by the colonial government to stymie their growth by imposing harsh taxes and freight rates on them. By the 1920s-30s, when Gandhi convinced Indians to burn ‘European cloth’ in sympathy with the poor Indian workmen, most of the cloth that was being burnt was not of European provenance at all. It was being produced in Indian mills, by Indian labour, working under the supervision of Indian foremen, funded by Indian money. The only thing European about these mills was their machines which Indians had not yet started making in India.The spirit of entrepreneurship among Indians could not be hindered by colonial obstructions. One of my favourite examples is of Sri CR Kesavan Vaidyar, an impoverished man of the Ezhava caste, who in the early 1940s started producing a vegetable oil-based soap as an adjunct to his practice as a vaidya curing people of skin ailments. On his honeymoon, he preferred to have his wife pack the cakes of medicinal soap that he had produced in the morning, which he would then carry on his head to supply to the local grocers. Chandrika soap still remains a favourite of discerning Keralites across the globe.This spirit of entrepreneurship was completely killed by India’s unfortunate turn towards a socialist economy and the corruption that it engendered.Few today recall the horrible experience of Ashok Leyland, set up by Nehru’s close friend and colleague and run by his widow. They had grievously erred by producing a few more trucks than what the socialist hegemons had allowed them. In an economy which direly needed trucks to transport goods, the company management twisted and turned for the next few months, trying to hide and justify the overproduction and escape being punished by the socialist bureaucrats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/for-growth-revive-the-spirit-of-entrepreneurship-240193
17-04-2021||Former Special Secy||Crystal-gazing sees rise in global challenges||Global Trends-2040, released by the US Director of National Intelligence (DNI) on April 8, is the seventh in the series starting with the first report in 1997 which was a 15-year global strategic security projection till 2010.In 1996, the US government asked its civilian intelligence and analysis body, the National Intelligence Council (NIC), to conduct periodical studies on the emerging global trends that might affect its strategic security. This was in the background of a smug feeling that had emerged even within its intelligence community that the role of the US as the supreme global leader was unchallenged after the end of the Cold War with the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991.The NIC was created in 1979 to produce integrated intelligence assessments for the President. Till 2005, it was placed under the CIA Director, who wore two hats as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Chief of US national intelligence agencies. It is not a clandestine organisation like the CIA, although it produces the US President’s top-secret Daily Brief. In 2005, a separate post of the DNI was created to supervise all intelligence agencies, as recommended by the 9/11 Commission.In 1996, the NIC held consultations with the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at the US National Defence University to identify key global trends and their impact on major regions with special focus on America. Participants included academics, businessmen, media representatives and government officials. It was also decided to release a public version of their conclusions. The result was their first publication, Global Trends-2010, in 1997. Subsequent reports were produced after consultations with non-American experts too.It would be interesting to assess how far they were correct in their strategic clairvoyance. In 1997, they had correctly assessed that a new world order was emerging, replacing the post-Second World War ‘Super Power’ politics consisting of stable states. This pattern was replaced by uncertain internal control in many states with new problems created by technology advancement resulting in globalisation, migration and elevated public expectations, combined with resource limitations.The entry of multinationals, NGOs and criminal groups on a transnational pattern worsened this problem. National governments which were initially happy with the flow of technology, faster flow of goods and services suddenly found that internal control was slipping out of their hands which directly affected their security.Interestingly, their prediction that China would continue to face difficulties in funding its development programmes even by 2010 was not borne out later. The report had said that China “has a long way to go to develop a modern economy on a nationwide basis”. Ironically, the US and Taiwan contributed to China’s development by transferring their productions lines. Also, in 1999, the NIC recommended that the “WTO membership for China is strongly in our interest”. As a result, China-US trade jumped from $5 billion in 1980 to $660 billion in 2018.Strikingly, Global Trends-2030, released in December 2012, had predicted eight ‘Black Swans’, including a pandemic hitting the world by 2030. It had said that scientists were beginning to recognise worldwide ‘viral chatter’ on previously unknown pathogens in humans “that sporadically make the jump from animals to humans”.These included “a prion disease in cattle that jumped in the 1980s to cause the variant Creutzeldt-Jacob disease in humans, a bat henipavirus that in 1999 became known as Nipah virus in humans, and a bat coronavirus that jumped to humans in 2002 to cause SARS”. The report feared that a “novel respiratory pathogen that kills or incapacitates more than 1 per cent of its victims” and its transmission could result “in millions of people suffering and dying in every corner of the world in less than six months”.Global Trends-2040: A More Contested World begins with a preamble that 2.5 million had died in the Covid-19 pandemic by early 2021. The virus has also shown how interdependent the world had become and how in the “coming years and decades the world will face more intense and cascading global challenges ranging from disease to climate change to the disruptions from new technologies and financial crises.”Faster technologies will appear which would disrupt jobs, industries, communities and the nature of power and “what it means to be human”. Global migration, estimated at 270 million in 2020, is exacerbating global and state-to-state tensions. “These challenges will intersect and cascade, including in ways that are difficult to anticipate.” It anticipates that national security would mean not only defending our borders “against armies and arsenals but also withstanding and adapting to these shared global challenges”.Another important point mentioned is the explosion of Internet connections, 10 billion in 2018, to reach 64 billion by 2025 and “many trillions by 2040”. Along with “new efficiencies, conveniences and advances in living standards”, the danger would be to divide society over their assumed ‘core values’ and deepen the societal divide based on national, religious, cultural and political preferences. India has already seen the pernicious effect of this Internet explosion. As a result, the world is both “inextricably bound by connectivity” and “fragmenting in different directions”.The estimate finds that by 2040 individual states would find mounting internal pressure to satisfy a more empowered population while internationally the world would be ‘adrift’ with no single state emerging to dominate across all regions. The US and China will dominate others to influence global dynamics, which would force other states to accept ‘starker choices’. The world would be fragmented into several economic and security blocs of varying sizes and strength, increasing state-to-state conflicts.Lastly, by 2040, China would be the most significant rival to the US in space, competing in commercial, civil and military areas. China will continue to develop in these areas independent of the US and Europe and will choose its own set of foreign partners participating in Chinese-led space activities. “Chinese space services, such as the Beidou satellite navigation system, will be in use around the world as an alternative to Western options,” the report says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/crystal-gazing-sees-rise-in-global-challenges-240199
17-04-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Capital gains and losses||Nature has no design. It does not defer to higher sentient beings. If a virus without a brain is fit enough to beat a human being’s defence mechanism, then nature simply doesn’t care. The human condition is subject to the laws of nature that unfold through a series of accidents. Yet, how nature affects us is determined by the structure of social relations that surround us and make us what we are.In reality, it is the system that we live in which both causes Covid surges and their attendant economic impact.The Covid pandemic is no different. The recent surge was inevitable, oddly, because we are a democracy. There had to be elections to local municipalities and panchayats and state Assemblies. Joe Biden might have become President by campaigning online, but it is impossible to do that in India, however low the cost of data might be. Netas had to address big rallies to display their strength, and dive into adoring crowds, often mask-less, to be one with the people.The surge also has to do with what we value as a society. Central to that is the idea of private enterprise and accumulation of wealth. Days lost due to a pandemic are as good as lost wealth. This is a crucial aspect of market capitalism; time is quite literally money. Those who can control productive time, setting people to work on machines they own, accumulate wealth. So, shutting a part of the economy in the name of Covid, while letting other parts continue, amounts to a state-directed transfer of capital from one side to the other.In countries where a large chunk of people is employed in the public sector, the state can absorb loss of workdays. It can even reorient output towards industries which can be run with social distancing, without keeping the profit motive in mind. That means the state can encourage employed and economic activity, but later redistribute the accumulated profits towards industries and sectors that had no option but to shut down because of the pandemic. The free market system can never do that. If the balance of accumulation of profits is disturbed through external circumstances, it is skewed permanently.Therefore, it is impossible to impose lockdowns and restrictions in a planned manner in free market economies. Ultimately, all entrepreneurs have to be given the freedom to start functioning, simply because they must fend for themselves. The corollary of an entrepreneur-driven economy is also that others are dependent on them for their jobs. If the business reopens, employees have to go back to work as well, whether it means risking their lives or not. More often than not, the business owner will have a room of their own, where they can socially distance themselves from others. Their employees rarely have that luxury.Then there are the millions of hawkers, traders and daily wagers who can’t afford to miss a single day’s work to survive. CMIE’s March count tells us there were nearly 128 million such people, up from 115 million one year ago. They have no option but to be in close proximity of the people they serve, or with each other, whether it is at a small grocer’s shop, a tea stall, inside a home while fixing a tap, or on construction sites where they pass bricks and cement to each other. Unless they are paid to sit at home, there is no way to stop them from catching Covid or passing it on.There are also the bulk of Indians who live cheek-by-jowl in congested slums and tenement quarters. Entire families who share a couple of rooms, migrant workers who live 10 to a cramped dorm, sometimes taking turns to sleep. If one person catches the virus, it is only their luck and hardiness that will keep the rest safe. It is easy to tell them to mask up or wash their hands repeatedly. Braving the sweltering summer, under a creaking old fan, masks are the last thing on their mind. They don’t have enough water to drink and we are asking them to wash their hands 30 times a day.Finally, there is the all-pervasive culture of machismo. Upper middle-class men, who have made good money by taking risks in business and the stock markets, believe that they can ride through the pandemic by embracing the risks. For such people masks are a sign of weakness, social distancing a symptom of effeminate cowardice. They imbue their families with this attitude as well. The contagion of brashness spreads through an entire social class, leading to a culture of laxity towards a serious disease.Of course, one key reason the upper middle class does not take Covid seriously is because they know if it strikes them, they will be guaranteed a hospital bed, top doctors, insurance and medical leave. It doesn’t matter to them that their life choices could cause a surge in infections that could affect the less fortunate. The affluent feel stifled by lockdowns and restrictions — it costs them money. They actively oppose government action, which involves giving money and food to the poor and the needy, because it threatens the very basis of market capitalism.In reality, it is the system that we live in which both causes Covid surges and their attendant economic impact. If jobs and livelihoods are entirely dependent on free market-driven private enterprise and self-employment, shutting down economic activity is as good as destroying livelihoods and profit- making. If most employment is in consumer-facing services, then social distancing amounts to unemployment. Only economies that are planned, where the state plays a significant role and where the public sector is a big employer, can withstand pandemics economically.Herein lies a lesson for India — the free market economics that we embraced three decades ago has laid the structural foundations for our response to Covid and how it has affected us. Even now, there is an opportunity for a rethink. Unfortunately, interests of capital are too deeply entrenched in our political economy for any change of direction to be possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/capital-gains-and-losses-240207
