18-04-2021||Given the frightening situation regarding the surging pandemic||The base widens||In contrast, look at the way the rest of the civilised world is handling this crisis. The state funeral for Prince Philip has been limited to just 30 persons who can attend the private ceremony inside the Windsor Castle. The British Prime Minister, sober after his close-death encounter with Covid, has decided to give up his place so that someone from the family can be accommodated. And in India? Our Prime Minister and his Home Minister, who should be at the forefront encouraging people to stay home, are openly exhorting them to come out and attend mega rallies, week after week in Bengal. Why does the Election Commission not step in and ban all rallies until the end of the month? In the eyes of the common citizen, all political leaders have lost the respect they had. One party or the other will win this election but the country, and certainly Bengal, will be the real loser.That said, let us turn to more pleasant topics. These days, when digital media is our only means of listening to sober panel discussions and interviews, I chanced upon an interview conducted by Karan Thapar with Sanjaya Baru, whose latest book is just out. Titled ‘India’s Power Elite: Caste, Class and Cultural Revolution’, it is an interesting analysis of the rise of a new power elite that is radically different from the ancient regime. Behind the rise of this new class of power wielders is the story of India’s resolute shift from the cosy club that had thus far run the country to the mofussil lads, who studied in vernacular schools and are more comfortable in their own languages than in the Queen’s English. Until the rise of Modi and his team, no matter which party won, the power behind the institutions was firmly in the hands of an entrenched elite that had been to the posh public schools, elite Indian colleges or foreign universities and who, more often than not, came from distinguished families. So whether they ran the PMO, the powerful ministries in North and South Block or whether they headed our best academic institutions and think tanks, the more things changed, the more they remained the same. All of the old elite spoke flawless English and were completely at home eating with forks and knives in exclusive clubs such as the Gymkhana or the India International Centre. Those of you who remember the brilliant BBC series, Yes Minister and Yes Prime Minister, will recall Sir Humphrey, the suave Cabinet Secretary, who ran rings round his boss, a provincial politician.The huge tectonic shift that Modi has brought, says Baru, is to induct the small-town boys and give confidence to those who suffered from a crippling lack of self-esteem because they were unable to match up to the bully boys of the Harvard and Oxbridge gang. It does not take a Freud to discover that Modi’s pride in speaking in Hindi is also an act of thumbing his nose at all those who must have humiliated him for a lack of English. The witch-hunting of the so-called Lutyen’s gang and their total emasculation stems from Modi’s firm belief that those who have never suffered from a lack will never understand the aspirations of a rising middle class. Moreover, the effete sons and daughters of the entitled and privileged class have nothing to offer India’s new middle class. Similarly, the Brahmins and upper castes who had ruled right up to the time of Vajpayee have been given the heave-ho, and in their place are those who are eager to work if given the opportunity.This may seem like a simplistic and facile reading of the new power elite but reflect on programmes such as Indian Idol and SaReGaMaPa and the enormous success they have among viewers. Apart from locating new talent, they have encouraged all those young people who have enormous talent but little opportunity to shine. Those who could only dream of fame and recognition now find an environment that does not hold their humble education and background against them. Our cricket team is another good example of new discoveries that have taken our national team to unforeseen heights. The playing fields of public schools no longer matter. The result is that every small-town boy dreams of becoming a Dhoni or a Rishabh Pant one day. And why not?Call this a widening of our democratic base or its nemesis; we can no longer ignore its impact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-base-widens-240466
18-04-2021||With state elections taking place in West Bengal and Kerala||Why communism has not done better in India||The contrasts should be intolerable in any civilised society. One would have imagined that such a scenario would have been fertile, breeding ground for Marxist ideology, and violent revolt. I mention Kerala and West Bengal because these are the only two Indian states where the communists had a degree of success and where they still have a substantial following. Kerala was the first state in the world to freely elect a communist government in 1957. And West Bengal at one time boasted of having the longest surviving communist regime (34 successive years), also democratically elected. However, nowhere else in India have the communists succeeded in coming electorally to power. That is a strange, confounding reality.“Workers of the world unite,” declared the Communist Manifesto, as fashioned by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, “You have nothing to lose but your chains.” It was a stirring rallying cry directed at the proletariat, and it had enormous appeal. In the years following the Industrial Revolution, workers in factories and coal mines of Europe led a miserable, dehumanising existence, while their employers and owners, the “capitalists”, raked in the moolah. Marx and Engels predicted that the workers would revolt, overthrow their oppressors, leading to the “dictatorship of the proletariat”. They said this would happen first in the most industrialised nations, like Britain and Germany. Ironically, what really happened, long after Marx and Engels were dead, was that communism initially came to a country that was barely industrialised, Russia. In fact, Russia became the vanguard of the worldwide communist movement, first under Lenin and then Stalin. Though communism was kept at bay in the rest of Europe, a milder form of it, “socialism”, took root there, inspired by Marxist ideology.Actually, Marxism attracted not only the workers and the poor, but a great many well-off people as well, especially the idealistic young (disillusionment would only set in later). It was once said if you were not a Marxist when you were young, there was something wrong with your heart, and if you were still a Marxist when you were older, there was something wrong with your head! In the years after the Second World War, virtually all of Europe, with the major exception of Germany, either had a socialist or a communist government. In the UK, the Labour Party, which had defeated the Conservative Party led by Winston Churchill, was, in effect, a socialist party. Most sectors of the economy were run or owned by the government. The same was true in France and Italy. In a sense, Marx was triumphing, though not in the way he had predicted.Turning to India, India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, even though he had an upper-class “bourgeois” upbringing, similarly developed Left-wing leanings and an admiration for the Soviet Union. He put the public sector in charge of what was called “the commanding heights of the economy” (luckily, he left agriculture alone). Unfortunately, the public sector performed very poorly, not just in India, but elsewhere as well. The Conservative Party, under the leadership of Margaret Thatcher, initiated the liberalisation of the British economy and ended the stranglehold of the trade unions. The country’s main powerhouses, such as the railways, were privatised. This had spectacular and positive economic results. India, under Indira Gandhi, on the contrary, went disastrously further “Left”, with even more nationalisation. Other “socialist” countries had realised their mistake, and changed course. Not India, however.Meanwhile, West Bengal ploughed its own, lonely furrow. A Nehru-like, upper-class charismatic figure, Jyoti Basu, brought his communist party to power in 1977. He served as the Chief Minister till 2000. But disillusionment set in with his uninspiring successor, Buddhadeb Bhattacharya. Meanwhile, the trade unions had run amuck, there had been constant strikes and “gheraos”. The law and order situation had deteriorated, much-needed capital had fled the state to more welcoming shores, and unemployment had risen. In effect, West Bengal had become de-industrialised. The public were fed up with the way they had been ruled for three-and-a-half decades, by a regime that promised much but delivered little. Into that vacuum stepped in a feisty lady from a humble background, with no ideological baggage, Mamata Banerjee. Almost single-handedly, she blew the communists away. Whether the West Bengal public is now as disillusioned with her 10 years in power as they were with the communists, we will know on May 2.I have still not really answered my query: why communism has not done better in India. I believe the main reason is the fatalism that is deeply embedded in Hindu culture, which, in turn, is closely linked to caste. It resists radical change. You are fated to be under-privileged, goes the reasoning, and there is little you can do about it. Another factor is also at play: The loyalty demanded by the communists to either Moscow or Beijing. With nationalism still such a powerful force in India, any hint of extra-territorial loyalty is highly suspect. These are clearly inadequate explanations for such a complex issue, but they will have to suffice for the time being.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-communism-has-not-done-better-in-india-240465
18-04-2021||Towards the end of the 1971 India-Pakistan war||Parting gift to a Pakistan village||The first week of December 1971 saw us on the outskirts of Shakargarh in Pakistan. For more than 24 hours, we had been without food or water as we closed in on to their defences 20 km in depth. Further attempts to breach the defences did not yield results and after the ceasefire on December 17, we firmed in along the Shakargarh-Nainakot road.A young Second Lieutenant having ‘celebrated’ my 20th birthday in the trenches, I was fortunate to be in the screen company.On the outskirts of Shakargarh, next to the tiny deserted village of Badwal, without rations and maps, we found ourselves grounded by fire from the other side of river Bein that prevented our advance. I took a patrol to the adjoining village to get food, and despite being strafed by a couple of low-flying Sabres, we managed to gather enough from the village to fortify our company.With no further headway, the ceasefire found us in the same position next to this abandoned village. Nestled inside Badwal was a mosque. As the troops started shaking off the war stress, they were instructed to keep the mosque in good repair. Mixed troops in our battalion, 9 Mahar, were a delight to lead in war.Clearly we were to be firmed in here for a long haul. Construction of bunkers, reorganisation of defences, sprinkled by VIP visits, engaged most of our time.Over a month later, following the pre-dawn stand-to (alert just before first light), our Company Commander and I settled on our camp stools with a cup of hot tea. That’s when our jaws dropped. Illuminated by the rising sun, we sighted the mosque, resplendent in a new exterior, shining white. Unknown to us, our men had gone into action the previous evening. These enterprising chaps had washed the interior and swept the floor, and even managed to whitewash the mosque’s exterior.The stout Havildar Gurdial Singh, forever cutting jokes, even while those menacing Sabres circled overhead, had been the working party commander at the mosque the previous night. Duly summoned, he appeared with his men, somewhat apprehensive. When told that it was a job well done, his face lit up and he received a pat on the back with utmost modesty. Other men responded similarly, taking pride in the uniform and in having upheld another man’s religion, even if he was the enemy.Is there a message here about the universality of human kindness and respect for the other’s God? Sepoy Lal Singh recovered a Koran and brought it to me. A fleeing villager might have dropped it in a moment of panic before we arrived. This Koran I placed with utmost respect in my bunker. Later, I sent it to my mother in Chandigarh, who believes in all gods.She placed the Koran in her prayer room, along with pictures of Guru Nanak and Christ. Later, she offered it to the Sindgi family, our kindly neighbours, who were overwhelmed on hearing of the safe passage of the holy book.As the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ lit by Prime Minister Modi on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war circulates all over India, let it carry with it an attendant message of love, peace and understanding among all people for the betterment of humanity. Our men of 9 Mahar exemplified this so beautifully in a remote village inside Pakistan in keeping with the Indian Army’s ethos engrained over a long period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/parting-gift-to-a-pakistan-village-240464
18-04-2021||THE pandemic brought with it a sense of impending doom||As flies to wanton boys...||Now once again the beast is at the doorstep and our wise leaders, in their wisdom, lock us down. The proverbial wolf will ‘blow’ at the homes and barring a few brick ones, the rest will be blown away. Do they not use us for their sport when they gather millions at their election rallies, at festivals and pilgrimages? Do they not play with us when the modern-day gladiators are brought to the new ‘Colosseum’ and the drama of cricket matches unfolds while regaling the masses? Do the same ‘Gods’ not play with us when they weigh us down with rules and curfews when it comes to our work and our right to earn our daily bread?If we had a government that could have visualised the next wave, it could have planned for it after the first one. If we look at our past budgets and the allocation for health, we will see the very low priority given to it. Even in our latest budget, the allocation for health is abysmally low given the crisis being faced. In the present context, the Union government and the state governments should have utilised the time available after the first wave to give top priority to upgrading the health infrastructure. If China could raise multi-storied hospitals in a couple of weeks, we could have done it also. New hospitals and infrastructure could have come up exclusively for this purpose. They should have been equipped with the required number of beds, ICUs, ventilators, oxygen, etc. A top-level committee comprising political leadership, bureaucrats and professionals should have been set up and given a time-bound task to come up with a national plan and state-level plans and the means to achieve these because the second wave was only a question of time. Had this been done on an emergency basis and its implementation closely monitored, we would have been better placed to meet the challenge of the second wave. Today we have an overwhelmed health infrastructure (be it beds, ventilators, oxygen, drugs, etc.) and the government is falling back on its first and last bastion of a lockdown.The developed countries, after the initial hiccups, were quick to react. They have thrown huge resources into safeguarding their citizens, both monetarily and through well-implemented health plans. One can see this in the mass vaccination programmes in the UK and the US, the trillions of dollars spent by the USA, Canada and others in Covid relief measures… it’s a long list and I could go on and on. We have probably one of the largest capacities for vaccine development in the world but what have we done with this advantage? Why were we gifting it away while most of our population remains inoculated, remains ignorant of the need to do so and is still either in denial and suspicious of the disease, or in terror of it? Why were we frittering away the precious window of time given to us in the past few months and not building the requisite know-how and infrastructure, the awareness programmes and extensive outreach needed to deal with this menace? We were too busy declaring victory, tom-tomming GDP growth figures in the double digits and our leadership was gleefully basking in the glory of victory gained by the collective amnesia. Now the terror of the second wave is upon us and the solution which government has is to lock everyone up again.The logical question to ask is why were rational, logical steps not taken to mitigate this unfolding disaster — do we not have the wherewithal? The problem is that it was not the priority of the Government of India, for we can see the efficiency and planning when it comes to fighting elections. The entire gamut of the government has today been converted into a formidable election-winning machine. One can see the depth of planning, implementation, attention to detail and master strategists at work. One can see it in the way the build-up to elections happens, with the announcements of Central Government schemes, the mass outreach programmes that follow through a compliant media, the various departments which run to implement them. Last but not the least, the alphabet soup of central organisations (the CBI, NIA, IB, ED, IRS to name a few), the veritable knights in shining armour who ride out in defence of the powers that be and bring to heel all opposition. The coordinated dance would be a delight to watch if it were conducted in the fight against the pandemic and not simply in the pursuit of power.This activity regarding the elections has kept both the Central and state governments busy and left them with very little time to tackle the Covid situation. Furthermore, the states have neither the funds nor do they have the vaccines. All this is in the hands of the Government of India and they dole out as they want to — in the absence of transparency, one can only guess what the plan is, which if the opposition is to be believed is largely partisan.Lacking has been the proverbial ‘mirror’ which needs to be shown to the government which has, in its impudence, allowed many transgressions — mass political rallies, mass pilgrimages, and even unresolved protests, which have followed negligible preventive protocol are a case in point. The relative silence of the media in openly critiquing these events and their organisers which, even to an amateur mind, are ‘super spreaders events’ has been, to say the least, scarce at best. To ‘Name and Shame’ in this scenario is the duty of the media. Also, well-informed educated debates and briefings by domain experts are a rarity on most channels as they mostly tend to round up the usual suspects (all-purpose experts).Last but not least, one expected more from the higher judiciary. There was nothing to stop it from hauling up the government and asking for reasons for an abysmal failure which is affecting the health of millions. They could have taken it up suo moto and ensured proper results after hearing the government. Isn’t a threatened and endangered national health crisis a grave emergency? Isn’t the second highest case load in the world, and nearly two lakh dead, an emergency and priority? This is in contrast to say a country like the USA where an active and alert judiciary has not only helped in saving their democracy but has been a facilitator in the fight against the pandemic. If proper planning and proper action had been taken in the first place, we would be positioned differently today and not saddled with a destructive second wave, a reeling economy and high unemployment.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/as-flies-to-wanton-boys-240463
