19-04-2021||---||Pakistan’s tottering economy||Earlier this month, while responding to people’s telephone calls, Imran Khan claimed, inter alia, that Pakistan’s major economic indicators were moving in a positive direction and painted a rosy picture of the country. What overshadowed his comments were, of course, the highly misogynist comments blaming women for getting raped. The reality of Pakistan and Imran Khan’s report card so far are, however, quite different as a series of recently released reports indicate.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) recently forecast a growth rate of just 1.5% for Pakistan, coupled with a higher rate of inflation and rising unemployment, during the current fiscal year. These estimates are in line with those of the World Bank that has projected growth at 1.3%. Other IMF documents show the country’s development expenditure that stood at 4.2% of GDP in FY2017-18 plunged to 2.7% of GDP in 2019-20 and to 2.6% of GDP in 2020-21. Unless there is a substantial increase in the 2021-22 budget, the high-sounding vision of geo-economics propounded at the recent Islamabad Security Dialogue would remain only on paper.According to a Pakistani economist, 80% of Pakistani families spend roughly 80% of their incomes on food. Two years ago, an average family spent around Rs 27,000 a year on wheat flour. Today, the same family would have to spend Rs 58,000 — a 100% increase in two years. Similarly, an average consumer is paying an additional Rs 66,000 a year for electricity than what he paid two years ago. More increases are on the way as per the agreement with the IMF to restart the $6 billion bailout package. How can an average family cope with such increases?A major issue in Pakistan has been debt and consequent debt servicing. Here, too, Imran Khan has beaten previous records with debt-to-GDP ratio going up to 107% from 73% in 2017. According to an economist, under the Asif Zardari government (2008-13), Pakistan took additional debt of Rs 5 billion a day, every day for five years; under Nawaz Sharif (2013-17), the additional daily debt was Rs 8 billion; and under Imran Khan (2018 onwards) additional daily debt has gone up to an astounding Rs 18 billion a day.In 2018, when Imran Khan became PM, debt servicing constituted 39% of the total Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) taxes; today, it is 74%. It is estimated that by 2025, 100% of FBR taxes would go towards debt servicing. This is unsustainable and reinforces that the lack of fiscal space has resulted in drastic reductions in developmental expenditure.The poor state of agriculture can be gleaned from the fact that cotton output has dropped to its lowest in several decades — seven million bales — while the average consumption is between 13-15 million bales, making Pakistan a huge importer of cotton.The latest National Human Development Report of the UNDP released on April 6 showed that the middle class had come down from 42% a decade ago to 36%. The pressure of inflation, unemployment among educated workers, and decreasing purchasing power parity was ‘squeezing’ the middle class to the bottom of pyramid. Moreover, 5.8 million additional people fell into poverty in 2020 as a consequence of the Covid pandemic.A survey by IPSOS, a global market research and consulting firm, in March revealed that rapidly escalating inflation was the single most worrisome issue for Pakistanis (32%), followed by unemployment (20%) and Covid-19 (16%). As many as 64% said the economy was in bad shape and 41% thought the economy would weaken further. Only 3% said corruption and bribery were an issue. This showed how out of sync Imran Khan was with the pulse of the people since he has prioritised eradicating corruption rather than reviving the economy.The recent report of the US State Department on Human Rights is a scathing indictment of Pakistan. It documents unlawful/arbitrary killings, including extrajudicial killings; forced disappearance; torture; arbitrary detention; serious restrictions on free expression, the Press, and the Internet, including violence against journalists; severe restrictions of religious freedom etc. It held that most of the abuses were carried out by the government or its agents who enjoyed a culture of impunity and were seldom punished.There is also the issue of governance with Imran Khan yet to settle down with a team. He has appointed three finance ministers, five chairmen of Federal Board of Revenue, four chairmen of the Board of Investment, four commerce secretaries, three finance secretaries, five interior secretaries, six Inspectors General Police, Punjab, and four Chief Secretaries, Punjab. With such musical chairs of top appointments, any kind of stability in governance is impossible.While his comments on women have received much criticism across the world, they are in line with the ‘Global Gender Gap Report 2021’ that lists Pakistan at 153 out of 156 countries on the gender parity index. Of a potential full term of 60 months, Imran Khan has completed 32. Though his mandate runs till August 2023, by next year this time, if he is still in office, he will be fast approaching the election sequence when governments tend to become lame ducks. Even without the complication of a surge in Covid cases, he would have found it difficult to turn the economy around, given his focus on decimating the opposition, limited understanding of serious economic issues and limited talent pool in the government. The impact of the pandemic has made the task infinitely more problematic.Imran Khan has been fond of reassuring people ‘aapne ghabrana nahin hai’. The reality, however, is that the time has come for Pakistanis to be very scared.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistans-tottering-economy-241020
19-04-2021||---||Surrendering to Afghanistan’s social realities||In the last quarter of 2009, the Barack Obama administration was considering modifying the US strategy in Afghanistan as there were contesting arguments on the question of whether a surge of troops should be attempted or not. Ultimately, General Stanley McChrystal, the overall military commander in the country, made a case that more troops were needed to fight the growing insurgency and make some social gains. This argument prevailed.The US troops’ strength in Afghanistan increased to 98,000. Instead of counter-terrorism, a strategy of counter-insurgency, as was done in Iraq, was promoted with an aim to win over the hearts and minds of Afghan people. During his trip to Afghanistan in December, 2009, the US defence secretary, Robert Gates, reportedly noted that the US mistakenly abandoned Afghanistan in 1989 as it fought the Soviets and that he understood Afghans’ concerns that they would be left alone against the Taliban. He added he would try to assure President Karzai and his advisers “that we are not going to repeat the situation [of] 1989” and that “we intend to be their partner for a long time to come.”On April 14, 2021, President Biden, who as Vice-President had opposed the troop surge, announced the end to the presence of US troops in Afghanistan on September 11, 2021. In practical terms, the decision is more symbolic as the US troops have already dwindled to 2,500, with the US allies contributing 9,500.The then President Trump may have been reckless and undiplomatic, but his view on bringing troops back to the country was a reflection of the sentiment that existed across the US, particularly in mid-western and southern states where the bulk of military recruitment takes place. Even though many Republican senators have protested, Biden’s decision to bring back troops has a wider appeal domestically, though many assumptions about peace were and are still predicated on brittle foundations.Biden has said: “We were attacked, we went to war with clear goals.” He added, “We achieved those objectives. Bin Laden is dead and al-Qaida is degraded in Afghanistan, and it’s time to end this forever war.”The attack on Afghanistan led to the quick downfall of the Taliban as regime leaders and Bin Laden fled the urban centres. Ultimately, Bin Laden was killed in 2011 in Abbottabad, eastern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, nearly nine years after the Taliban rule was dislodged in Afghanistan. The Pothwari-speaking Abottabad is closer to Pakistani-administered Jammu and Kashmir in ethnic and geographic terms and is far away from Afghanistan.Secondly, al-Qaida and Taliban are different entities and it took time for this reality to sink in within the US security apparatus. Actually, it was Saudi-born Bin Laden’s transnational connections and deep pockets that enabled him to conspire to attack the US on September 9, 2001, and not al-Qaida’s mere presence in Afghanistan.Moreover, the linkages of the Taliban — who are local Pashtuns — with Arab fighters, which became al-Qaida’s main ethnic base, were forged during the Afghan jihad sponsored by the US.Pakistan, Russia, India, China and Turkey were the countries identified by Biden in his televised address, which, according to him, should play their part in bringing peace in Afghanistan. At a practical level, China is not yet a player in Afghanistan and has generally been reluctant to expend resources in the complicated landscape of Afghanistan. Russian influence in Afghanistan is mainly on account of Central Asian countries like Uzbekistan and Tajikistan which share ethnic ties with the Uzbeks and Tajiks, ethnic groups living in the peripheral areas of Afghanistan.The mention of Turkey, not an immediate neighbour of Afghanistan with limited historical ties, seems to be a way to undercut the potential influence of Saudis over Afghanistan that had fueled the rise of extremist Islam. In addition to US and Saudi money helping support the war against Soviets in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia infused Deobandi seminaries with the Wahhabi ideology.There is hardly any doubt that the Pashtuns are the ones that hold the key to immediate peace as all Taliban belong to that ethnic race. With a possible security vacuum after the US withdrawal, strong ethnic affiliation on both sides of the Durand line and a landlocked Afghanistan’s dependence on its eastern neighbour, Pakistan emerges as the most important external influencer. It will both shape as well feel the impact of Afghanistan’s future.Pakistan’s own disjointed institutional approach toward Islamic extremism, its vulnerabilities in its own Pashtun heartland and suspicion over India’s role in Afghanistan are some of the vectors that may influence this complex relationship. Iran could provide alternative seaport access to Afghanistan for trade. Biden didn’t mention Iran because of the animus-ridden US-Iran ties.India has its limitations — because of no direct land route — as well as strengths. One of the lesser known facts is the Pashtuns’ ties with India's Deobandi Islamic School which was founded in the latter half of the 19th century. The bifurcation of British India in 1947 severed the institutional links between Deobandi seminaries in Afghanistan and Pakistan and in India. Pashtuns played a big role in the Afghan jihad, and a large number of these fighters were drawn from the Deobandi seminaries.Going forward, India, by promoting ties between Deobands and Pashtuns in Afghans, may help to moderate the Deobandi Islam as practised in Afghanistan. This approach could help the Pashtuns to have a more contextual interpretation of various religious edicts and promote debate, engagement and coexistence with the non-Pashtun Muslims. This could also help in supporting efforts in the direction of national conciliation among the diverse array of ethnic and sectarian groups in the country.Biden’s announcement reflects a sobering reality that the exercise of state/nation-building, even with a vast corpus of external resources and backed by the strongest military the human history has seen, has its limits.Biden and the American policy elite have reconciled to the fact that Afghanistan’s internal social realities and geography would shape its future, for good or bad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/surrendering-to-afghanistans-social-realities-241021
19-04-2021||---||Stem systemic rot laid bare by Waze case||Sachin Waze’s sinister underhand operations have besmirched the image of the Mumbai Police and led to the resignation of Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The NIA is investigating the cases lodged against Waze, while the CBI has started a probe into allegations levelled against the former Home Minister by former Police Commissioner of Mumbai Param Bir Singh. Many more skeletons are likely to tumble out of the cupboards.Such a crisis was long in the making. Its roots lie in gradual politicisation of a professionally competent force, leading to the emergence of encounter experts like Waze. He is a frightful specimen of a new species that has sprouted in many other police forces of the country. In his notorious but colourful career in the police, Waze earned kudos of his seniors and political bosses by killing many criminals in fake encounters. He is credited with more than 60 killings. His guide and mentor was another officer named Pradeep Sharma, who is now being interrogated by the NIA.Waze was in a scrape in a case of custodial death and had to resign from service. He found his refuge in the Shiv Sena and became one of their important brown shirts. He set up some agencies and made a pile. However, he was desperately hankering for a return to the police force. His mission was successful when the present government of Maharashtra reinstated him through an order issued by Param Bir Singh. It was indeed an egregious blunder.In his second coming, though junior in rank, Waze lorded over the Mumbai Police, having direct access to the commissioner. He was in charge of investigating important and sensitive cases. In our country, due to the malfunctioning of the criminal justice system and a number of adjournments, cases take an inordinate time to finish. In such a scenario, encounter experts are in demand in all police forces. Their extra-legal work is approved by the public and lauded by their seniors, most importantly by their political bosses. Hence, there is great demand for ready and quick justice for dreaded criminals and terrorists, who cock a snook at the justice delivery system.However, the consequences are pernicious. These so-called encounter specialists, in turn, metamorphose into vicious extortionists, amassing enormous wealth by threatening innocent people. Details of investigations by the NIA appearing in the media show that Waze was an extortionist par excellence and his seniors in the police force and political bosses were well aware of this. But he continued to remain the blue-eyed boy.A study of the patterns of operations of some encounter specialists shows that before long, they develop a nexus with criminals and promoters and degenerate into gangsters in uniform.Earlier, I had written about Assistant Commissioner of the Delhi police Rajbir Singh, an encounter expert who won acclaim for his daredevil acts. He also won the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. His corrupt propensities were well known, but his seniors turned a Nelson’s eye because Rajbir was delivering results and eliminating criminals although through extra-legal means. Ultimately, he was hoisted with his own petard and killed by criminals.Supervisory cowardice allows criminals in uniform to strut and fret and function as they like and become a law unto themselves. But when troubles deepen, they are cast away by their departmental and political masters. Rajbir’s bosses quietly distanced themselves from him and no wreaths were offered by senior officers at his funeral. Only a junior officer represented the Delhi Police.In this context, one must bear in mind that encounters per se are not illegal or unethical. The police and the security forces have to use force in private defence when attacked by terrorists or criminals. Legal provisions do exist in Sections 93,100 and 103 of the Indian Penal Code to provide cover for genuine encounters. But false encounters must be strongly discouraged.The National Police Commission has recommended that false encounters are to be discouraged because these are not the remedy for the situation. The answer is to strengthen the law and the legal processes. Violating the law in the name of law enforcement is not desirable even from the police’s limited point of view. There are instances where criminals have used the police to bump off their rivals in gang warfare. Research studies have shown that notorious gangster Dawood Ibrahim used to eliminate his underworld rivals by tipping off the police. The police would arrive at the scene not to arrest the criminals butto eliminate them.In the police profession, there are many who believe that the end justifies the means and there is need for what Edwin Delatre calls noble cause corruption. But the hard fact is that adoption of impermissible means undermines the end. Violating law in the name of law enforcement will be arbitrary as a process and random in its effect. Police leaders must remember that when the police resort to extra-legal methods to make up for the deficiencies of law, they are seeking to remedy the inadequacies of the system they did not create. Illegality in the service of public safety, as David Bayley has aptly said, “makes policing a furtive and anxious activity” and undermines the pride, which is the basis of job satisfaction.No doubt, the sordid Waze episode and its ramifications have disgraced and defamed the Mumbai Police. The role of the ex-Commissioner is under scrutiny because of his alleged close links with Waze. Bypassing established procedures, he was reportedly dealing with Waze directly, leaving other senior officers fuming. Waze’s links with the Home Minister and other Shiv Sena leaders were known to him, but he did nothing to clip his wings.He should have also strongly protested against the Home Minister directly dealing with his officers and thus undermining his command. He felt that discretion was the better part of valour and, hence, his belated self-righteous letter bomb to the Chief Minister fails to carry conviction.It is hoped that in due course, Waze and his accomplices will get their just deserts under law, but the systemic malaise in the police highlighted by the case has to be corrected. The police have to be depoliticised and violence-prone encounter experts shown the door as speedily as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stem-systemic-rot-laid-bare-by-waze-case-241025
