20-04-2021||Former IG||Neutrality of CAPFs should not be compromised||THE death of four young men at a polling booth in Sitalkuchi area of Cooch Behar during the fourth phase of polling in West Bengal on April 10 has led to allegations that the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel were responsible for the incident. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of using the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) that comprise the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the CISF to intimidate the voters to vote for the candidates of a particular party.Quite a few versions are floating around about the firing incident at Sitalkuchi, one of which is that a 14-year-old boy who had accompanied his mother to the polling booth, fainted outside while his mother was inside the booth. When other women around him were trying to revive him, some CISF personnel went to them and offered to take him to the hospital which later led to a fracas between them. According to another version, word had gone around that the boy was assaulted by the CISF men which irked the villagers and they tried to attack the CISF personnel. In the melee, some villagers attempted to snatch the weapons of the CISF personnel who had to open fire in ‘self-defence’.During basic training, it is hammered into every paramilitary trainee’s brain that his service weapon has to be guarded at all times because it will protect his life as long as he is in possession of it. Hence, any attempt to snatch the weapon will be fully resisted and drive the person to retaliate by firing — not just to safeguard the weapon in his possession, but also to disperse the unruly mob that could have endangered his life and that of his colleagues.Having served in the CRPF for nearly four decades and having been involved in the conduct of elections all over the country several times, this writer never once came across any such instance where the CAPF personnel intimidated or asked any voter to vote for any particular party. The neutrality of the CAPF was never questioned. On the other hand, almost all political parties demanded the deployment of CAPFs, more particularly the CRPF, which has earned the reputation of being fair and impartial in the conduct of elections in every corner of the country.The very composition of the sections, platoons, companies and battalions is such that every section would normally have personnel from different states and religions and thereby every battalion is a mini-India in itself with no political affiliations. Such a mix of personnel would by itself hinder any person from showing any bias or leaning towards any political party.All personnel of the CAPFs are considered to be on deputation to the Election Commission of India (ECI) when they are engaged in the smooth conduct of the elections. Prior to polling, senior officials of the ECI brief all commanders of the CAPFs about the way they are to perform their job and the rules that need to be strictly adhered to, though a majority of them are well conversant with the way the polling booths are to be secured. These commanders then brief all their personnel and depute them to various booths.While the elections are on, the battalion and company commanders move in the area of deployment of their men to ensure that the elections are conducted smoothly and to sort out any problems that may crop up.The heavy dependence of the ECI on the CAPF can be gauged from the fact that a senior CRPF official is designated as the senior coordinator for elections in all states with a control room in New Delhi. Not just the movement of CAPFs from different corners of the country to the states where elections are to be held are coordinated, even the deployment is coordinated with the nodal officers designated in every state.In recent years, allegations have been levelled against individuals from the CAPFs of playing a partisan role and intimidating voters, but these are exceptions. Exemplary punitive action is called for against such elements who attempt to thwart the democratic process of holding free and fair elections and dent the image of the CAPFs.The nature of duties related to elections are too arduous and hectic and call for utmost perseverance and dedication of a high order. Moving from place to place for weeks after weeks to conduct elections saps one’s energy. It speaks volumes of their grit and determination that they remain composed and go about their duties faithfully, shouldering the onerous responsibility of guarding the vital element of our democracy — the elections.Between 2013 and 2017, 13 CRPF personnel lost their lives while on election-related duties. They trudge miles after miles to reach the remotest villages in far off places so that no eligible voter is deprived of his right to exercise his franchise. In states affected by Left wing extremism or insurgency and terrorism, they ensure safe conduct of polling at grave risk to their lives.The Central Armed Police Forces have so far been apolitical and their neutrality is their asset, on which they pride themselves. Let us not pull them into the vortex of politics, lest our democratic values get compromised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/neutrality-of-capfs-should-not-be-compromised-241479
20-04-2021||Ex-Financial Adviser||Military upgrade must factor in fiscal reality||Influenced by India’s vocal strategic community, obsessed largely with abstract notions regarding modernisation of the country’s military, successive governments have impetuously taken steps to usher in half-baked ‘reforms’ to these ends, with little effort to assess either their efficacy or implementability.Many such putative reforms have gained currency in recent months, following the appointment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in December 2019, primarily to effect military modernisation by readying the services to fight the 21st century techno-wars and to economise defence expenditure. The ongoing armed standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, since May 2020, has only exacerbated the government’s and General Rawat’s formidable security challenge as India’s military scrambles to counter the daunting threat posed by Beijing.Other than creating a non-lapsable Defence Modernisation Fund (DMF) financed largely by monetising some 31,550 acres of military land, including 20,000 acres on which Military Farms, founded in 1887, were located and another 8,000 acres occupied by abandoned airstrips and sundry camping grounds, and reducing service salaries and pensions, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) is also focusing on Aatmanirbharta or self-reliance by sourcing military equipment locally. But in its misdirected zeal, the MoD fails to realise that such inchoate initiatives, though cursorily appealing in an optics-driven environment, are either unviable, or worse, hugely expensive, or both in the medium term once implemented.Initially proposed 17 years ago by the then Finance Minister Jaswant Singh whilst presenting the interim budget for 2014-15, the DMF proposition has recently been resurrected as a magical ‘silver bullet’ to dissemble innumerable flaws and complexities in the MoD’s hidebound procurement procedures. This is despite repeated warnings by senior federal officials that transferring funds to, and defraying moneys from the DMF too would necessitate parliamentary approval, analogous to the regular budgetary exercise, apart from exacerbating the burgeoning fiscal deficit.Simply stated, the projected DMF is in no manner comparable to a current account to ‘park’ surplus funds for the services to tap into whenever required. The DMF’s proposed quantum, however, is unknown, but according to the 15th Finance Commission’s estimates, it could be around Rs 1,88,000 crore for the five-year period from 2021 to 2026. If so, it would make it an average of Rs 37,600 crore per annum for all three services, a paltry amount by any standards, considering the gargantuan amounts needed for military modernisation.There is yet another related complication; if the DMF funds remain unutilised for three years — a distinct possibility, given the MoD’s extended acquisition processes — all unspent resources will revert to the Consolidated Fund of India. Hence, it may be far easier to append such a meagre sum to the regular budgetary allocation, instead of routing it through the DMF.Furthermore, monetising defence land cannot be a lasting solution to bankroll the DMF, as the family silver can only be sold once. Thereafter, the DMF will need to be financed via taxation or borrowing, or both, suppressing allocation to other crucial sectors of the economy, thereby running the entire scheme aground if the government fails in augmenting future revenue collections.And, though General Rawat has also proposed numerous ideas to contain salaries and pensions — equalling 54 per cent of the overall defence budget in the current fiscal — like limited colour service, extension of retirement age and graded pensionary benefits, serving and retired military personnel have summarily resisted all such ‘demoralising’ schemes. This influential lobby has outright condemned them as impractical and unworkable, seriously threatening to nobble General Rawat’s recommendations.Indigenously sourcing defence materiel, though a laudable objective, too needs to be rooted in fiscal reality as it cannot, under any condition, immediately deliver financial dividends and effect savings. The Aatmanirbharta mantra is simply another refrain many in the government swear by without adequate data to support their belief that it will imminently usher in financial frugality.If anything, indigenous production of military equipment desperately needed by India’s military like helicopters, submarines, combat aircraft, tanks, and even small arms, amongst others, is in the initial years, invariably more expensive than importing it till domestic manufacturing accomplishes amortisation. Domestically, this latter goal is wobbly as India’s military is the sole customer for this kit and the export of major platforms and systems, vaunted as yet another ‘silver bullet’ remains, for now a mirage.One simple illustration concerns the long-pending proposal by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to domestically licence-build 6,50,000 Russian Kalashnikov Ak-203 assault rifles. The OFB has reportedly costed each Ak-203 rifle initially at around Rs 86,000, amortised over time to average around Rs 80,000 per unit. Embarrassingly, the recent import of 1,44,800 assault rifles from the US-based Sig Sauer to meet the Army’s urgent operational needs was considerably cheaper. Each Sig Sauer SIG 716 rifle was priced at $990 (around Rs 74,000) — Rs 12,000 and Rs 6,000 cheaper than an Ak-203 rifle’s initial and amortised cost, respectively, projected by the OFB.There are numerous other such instances. In July 2006, for example, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had castigated Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for licence-building Russian Sukhoi Su-30MKI multi-role fighters for almost twice the amount it would have cost to import them directly.The CAG revealed that the total cost of locally building 140 Su-30 MKI projected by the MoD in 2002 was $4.91 billion, but it nearly doubled to $8.71 billion soon thereafter. And though there is irrefutable logic in augmenting domestic defence production, it needs selective implementation as it defies logic for the Indian defence industry to reinvent the wheel.In conclusion, the MoD’s bandolier of silver bullets to expedite military modernisation and augment operational capacity needs serious and practical re-evaluation backed by objective statistical analysis. To reword Chinese strategist Sun Tzu’s counsel, tactics without strategy is merely the noise before chaos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/military-upgrade-must-factor-in-fiscal-reality-241496
20-04-2021||Sociologist||Love more vital than vaccine||Love, whether it is of this world or the other, leads us to the Lord who is the Lord of all. — Jalaluddin RumiVaccines alone can’t give us back what we seem to have lost—the quest for a meaningful living amid the psychic storm and existential uncertainty.At a time when the process of vaccination has just begun to arouse some hope in the possibility of combating the Covid-19, the aggressive return of the virus is once again taking us to a psychic domain filled with fear, anxiety and a sense of meaninglessness. We rise up every morning, and we begin to consume the new statistics of death. We are repeatedly reminded of the chaotic and overcrowded crematoriums and the shortage of ICU beds and ventilators in our hospitals. We find ourselves wounded and crippled. For us, it seems, there is no sunrise anymore; no flower blooms; and no bird sings. Is it the end of prayers, gratitude and life-affirming vibrations? Or, is it like being surrounded by the all-pervading darkness, and remain obsessively preoccupied with only one question: Can the vaccines save us?Well, modern biomedicine can possibly give us the most efficient means to minimise the impact of the virus; and hence, the process of vaccination has its significance. Yet, we should not forget that the vaccines alone cannot give us back what we seem to have lost—the quest for a meaningful living (not merely a survival strategy with masks and sanitiser) amid the psychic storm and existential uncertainty. It is high time we began to realise that love—our ultimate quest— is no less important than the vaccines. And what is this love—the fountain of life energy in a dark world?Well, the gospel of modernity—with its ceaseless urge to conquer the world and establish human supremacy over the earth, and the vital energy it generates through the logic of unlimited techno-economic development and consumerism—is not comfortable with death. However, the fact is that death is implicit in birth, and to live with awareness is to die with grace, or to die meaningfully is to live and love intensely. But then, as modernity abhors death, it makes life superficial. In fact, modernity has not actually conquered fear; instead, despite the glitz of techno-capitalism, we live with chronic fear: the fear of old age, the fear of losing our material possessions and the fear of death. The virus has once again shown that we are terribly fearful. Hence, despite our instrumental reasoning and the proliferation of ‘life coaches’ with a mix of psychology and spirituality, we are broken. As moderns, we are not as powerful as we think ourselves to be.To acknowledge and internalise the reality of death in the very rhythm of life is not to fall into the trap of a nihilistic suicidal tendency. Nor does it mean that you and I would not congratulate our scientists, researchers and doctors who have come forward with the vaccines. Essentially, it means the ability to accept that the future—even after the vaccine—would remain unknown; and to live is not to be obsessed with the fear of ‘tomorrow’, and what actually matters is the reality of this very moment when you and I are alive. Let this moment be lived with gratitude, and with absolute mindfulness. If we miss the aliveness of this very moment, even the right dose of the vaccines will not be able to fundamentally alter our fear-centric living with all sorts of psychic nervousness.Only with this mindfulness can we cultivate the spirit of connectedness. Because to live deeply and intensely here and now is to hear the chirping of birds, feel the warmth of the sunray and experience the boundless laughter of a child. Indeed, at this intense moment of living, one breaks the egotistic wall of separation; one becomes the butterfly, the sun, the tide in the ocean; in other words, one becomes the universe. And this confluence removes all sorts of fear. Instead, what grows is the abundance of love. Imagine the intensity of fear we are passing through as the virus unsettles everything. This is the fear of loneliness which is further intensified because of social distancing; this is the fear of losing the warmth of human touch; and this is the fear of being stigmatised and left alone in the ICU of a hospital. In a very paradoxical way, the virus is teaching us that our egotistic pride is an illusion; and nothing matters more in life than love—the touch of a friend, a healer, or an illuminating sunset one likes to see with one’s beloved. This love is the ultimate medicine; it is more powerful than the vaccine.What an ugly world we have created! With inflated egos, reckless consumerism and arrogance of techno-science, we have erected huge walls of separation—life from death, finite from infinite, body from soul, reason from poetry, and science from the aesthetics of living and dying. The result is the all-pervading fear, or a sense of meaninglessness. Under ‘normal’ circumstances, we seek to hide from this spiritual impoverishment through our ‘productivity’, or our indulgence with the entertainment industry. And now as the irresistible Covid-19 has disturbed this normalcy, we are at a loss. Be it the anxiety over the efficacy of the vaccine, or the dependence on psychiatric drugs to combat depression and panic attack—life seems to have lost its creative abundance. This is the major existential crisis the pandemic has made us exposed to.Are we ready to redeem ourselves through a process of spiritual transformation?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/love-more-vital-than-vaccine-241506
