21-04-2021||---||US pullout and the road ahead for Afghanistan||A decade ago, doomsday scenarios were being painted over how American withdrawal from Afghanistan would lead to surplus Taliban being diverted to Kashmir and creating havoc. The pullout is happening from May 1, to be completed by September 11. At the Raisina Dialogue (April 16, 2021, New Delhi), Afghanistan’s National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib described the US withdrawal as a great opportunity for Afghans to take hold of their destiny. He said: “We don’t need US troops but we need US support,” presumably moral, material and financial. He emphasised that 90 per cent of all operations are being conducted independently by the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). The level of US support for the ANSF will be worked out by the Afghan and US transition teams.Mohib added that the “Taliban narrative of victory: ‘we have won the war. Americans have lost. We are ready for peace. We are ready for Jihad’, smacks of arrogance. They have destroyed $900 million worth of infrastructure in Afghanistan.” He said he had spoken to his counterpart Ajit Doval that morning to discuss the new Biden-Blinken peace plan which is surrounded by uncertainty.Mohib confirmed there was friction among the Taliban groups: Mullah Baradar who is leading the talks; Mullah Haibutallah Akhundzada, supremo of Taliban; Mullah Yaqub, son of Mullah Omar, the founder leader; Haqqani network and a group in Helmand but does not subscribe to the Quetta Shura. In the same session, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar declined to indicate whether India would engage the Taliban but stressed it supported the peace process which must be Afghan-owned, Afghan-led and Afghan-controlled. He mentioned that real peace in Afghanistan is about ‘double peace’ — peace within and peace in Afghanistan’s neighbourhood. India’s bona fides are well established with development projects in each of 34 provinces in Afghanistan, he added. Jaishankar was in Dushanbe recently for the 15th Heart of Asia conference of 15 countries that assist Afghanistan's development plan.At Raisina, CDS General Bipin Rawat, when asked about the impact of the vacuum caused due to de-induction of foreign troops, said it would create problems if vacant spaces were occupied by ‘disrupters’, referring to terrorist groups, including the Taliban entities outside the peace process. At Raisina 2018, it was General Rawat who had said India should engage the Taliban resulting in government clarification that General Rawat had spoken ‘in his personal capacity’. When India will formally recognise and confer with Taliban has become a minor mystery.Designed to jump-start the Trump moribund peace process, the BB (Biden-Blinken) abridged peace plan appears to have removed conditions of February 29, 2020, US-Taliban agreement on counter-terrorism guarantees by the Taliban, talks with Kabul and a cease-fire. The withdrawal will be without any framework political agreement and no intra-Afghan talks till foreign troops have vacated the soil of the Islamic Emirate.The BB plan envisages a transitional power-sharing government to replace the present one with a 21-member commission (10 from Taliban) to draft a new Constitution followed by a 90-day agreement on Significant Reduction in Violence. The Doha process is to be revamped between April 24 and May 4 with Ankara hosting the conversations. President Ashraf Ghani has indicated he will divulge his counter-proposal for early presidential elections at Ankara, provided Mullah Haibatullah or Mullah Yaqoob attend. A regional conference of stakeholders — on the lines of the Bonn conference in 2001 which the Taliban did not attend — is to be held with the US, Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran and India, along with the Taliban and other Afghan groups towards evolving a unified approach. The UN Secretary-General has appointed Jean Arnault as his personal envoy and Sherpa for this conference. Reasonable confusion prevails among the interlocutors with overlapping peace plans and Ghani’s own ideas on political transition.Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar, on a visit to Delhi on March 30, said that at Ankara, the Afghan government will discuss three issues with the Taliban: a permanent and comprehensive cease-fire (as opposed to 90-day reduction in violence); a political settlement including elections; and regional and international guarantees of peace. This is Kabul’s agenda, not necessarily in sync with the Taliban’s. Atmar virtually rejected the BB plan for interim government saying it was against the Afghan Constitution which is what is sought to be re-drafted. Atmar has canvassed for a bigger role for India in the peace process adding that Afghanistan does not wish to become a safe haven for international terrorists. Jaishankar informed Raisina 2021 that according to a UN report, there were some 8,000 foreign fighters in Afghanistan. In a cheeky comment, China said it will hold the US accountable for legitimate concerns of regional countries to prevent terrorists from taking advantage of withdrawal of foreign forces.The Ghani government’s acceptance of withdrawal of foreign troops by September 11 is not condition-based but accompanied by certain US assurances of combat support for ANSF. Besides the 2,500 US troops left in Kabul, another 1,000 boots are on the ground belonging to the Special Forces and Ranger units which are not on inventory. The Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA) US-Afghanistan 2015 is meant to be in force till the end of 2024 and beyond. The BSA refers to the retention of US bases in Bagram, Jalalabad and Kandahar and is governed by a Status of Forces Agreement. It is inconceivable that the Americans will vacate strategic outposts such as these that lean on Russia and China. Silence shrouds the BSA!Last week, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken paid a surprise visit to Kabul following one by Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin. He spoke to Pakistan's Army Chief General Bajwa who assured him of cooperation in the withdrawal process. He noted that the threat of terrorism has gone away from Afghanistan. The 132-day reprieve sought by the Biden administration will come at a cost. The Taliban has threatened consequences for overstaying the May 1 deadline. As many as 7,000 Taliban prisoners are still held by Kabul. These are in addition to the exchange of 5,000 hardcore Talibs released for 1,000 ANSF. Meanwhile, while no US soldier has been killed in combat last year, the monthly attrition rate for ANSF and civilians is a staggering 800 and 280.One has to see whether a permanent ceasefire or a 90-day reduction in violence is successfully achieved or neither; and if Ghani's proposal for a mid-term presidential election is acceptable to the Taliban when the Americans have offered to catapult them to an interim provisional government. All eyes are on Ankara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-pullout-and-the-road-ahead-for-afghanistan-241800
21-04-2021||---||Lessons for India from China’s food import||Speaking at an international conference in 1998 at the University College Cork, in Ireland, to commemorate 150 years of the Great Irish Famine that killed nearly one million people, I was asked a question: who will feed India? This question cropped up at a time when the world was already deliberating a hypothesis floated by the well-known environmental researcher and thinker, Lester Brown.Founder of the US-based environmental think tank, the Worldwatch Institute, and later president of the Earth Policy Institute, Lester Brown in 1995 had built on his analysis to come out with a book Who Will Feed China? This had triggered a hot debate, prompting numerous seminars and conferences across the globe. I remember having participated in a few of these conferences, witnessing heated debates that followed. There were terrific academicians who would support Lester Brown’s hypothesis, and there were experts who openly challenged it. Nevertheless, 25 years later, faced with record high domestic grain prices, China has emerged as the world’s biggest food importer — a reminder of what Lester Brown had warned decades back.While the severity of China’s food crisis is being denied, questions continue to be raised especially after President Xi Jinping launched an ‘Operation Clean Plate’ campaign in August last year, asking people to ensure that no food is wasted. With an estimated 6 per cent food wasted every year, good enough to feed 200 million people, the campaign even involved restaurants to ensure people are not provided with lavish spreads. If the consumers order for five meals, the restaurants would serve food for four people.This reminds me of the times when in 1965, the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had asked Indians to observe a fast every Monday. This was primarily to ensure that people learned to ‘share and care’ at a time when food was in great shortage. In fact, in 1965, a year prior to the start of the Green Revolution, India had imported 10 million tonnes of foodgrains to tide over the severe food crisis. It shows how precarious the situation was. But after the onset of the Green Revolution, India attained food ‘self-sufficiency’ but with the easy availability of food over the years, a kind of complacency has set in.Similarly, China too had taken long strides in food production. It was in 1996 that China had brought in a policy focus to ensure that it meets 95 per cent of its food needs from domestic production. But by 2011, as per the World Trade Organisation (WTO), China had become the world’s largest food importer. With rising incomes, the food preferences of the burgeoning middle-class had undergone a change that shifted the food habits from staples to an exploding demand for meat and nutritious products, including dairy.The changing food habits prompted the government to shift the policy focus from food self-sufficiency to allowing ‘moderate imports’. Denials notwithstanding, mass urbanisation and the efforts to move a bulk of the farming population away from agriculture to join the industrial workforce in the cities did leave a gap in production. At the same time, intensive farming practices resulted in heavy soil contamination, groundwater decline as well as pollution, and the resulting environmental degradation reduced the extent of arable lands, prompting China to announce that it will protect 120 million hectares of farmlands to meet its food security needs.As the average farm size in China declined to 1.6 acres, the growing appetite for chemical fertilisers, including nitrogen, coupled with direct income support for farmers had resulted in a grain surplus of 600 million tonnes in 2017. Although the silos were bursting, the growing demand for nutritious foods including beef, also soared meanwhile. The sale of beef to China, for instance, had grown by 19,000 per cent. A change in diet therefore forced China to scout for food all over the world, including India and Pakistan.According to Fitch Ratings, China’s imports of corn, wheat, sorghum and barley in 2020 soared by 136 per cent, 140 per cent, 437 per cent and 36.3 per cent, respectively. It expects the trend to continue in 2021 as well. Already it has exhausted soybean supplies from Brazil, the world’s biggest soya producer, and is now turning to the US. So much so, as Forbes points out that despite being the world’s second biggest wheat producer, China holds over half of the world’s wheat stocks. Similarly, it has 65 per cent of the world’s corn inventories.Unable to meet its growing food needs domestically, China has been on an aggressive spree buying farmlands in Africa and Latin America, and is now turning its attention to purchase farm lands in America, European Union and Australia. The website farmlandgrab.com estimates that since 2010, China has already made an investment of $94 billion in farm activities abroad, purchasing 3.2 million hectares.While China is clearly on the brink of a severe food crisis, there are important lessons here for India. In a country where mainline economists revel in cut-paste prescriptions in the name of agricultural reforms, the Chinese example illustrates how the transformation from state-regulated farming to market-oriented agriculture has brought it closer to an unmanageable food crisis, perhaps pointing to a bigger crisis ahead. With the experiment to transform China into a manufacturing hub going awry, especially after Africa was able to provide cheap workforce, restoring farm viability now is becoming a still bigger challenge.China provides $206-billion farm subsidies every year (add to it tens of billions spent on importing food year after year) that shows if the same amount had gone into converting small farm lands into an economic powerhouse, the world’s biggest grain producer could have easily avoided turning into world’s biggest grain importer. There was an alternative economic pathway, more sustainable in the long run, that China failed to undertake.India cannot afford to go on the same beaten track. Or else, the question as to who will feed India will continue to haunt future generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lessons-for-india-from-chinas-food-import-241793
21-04-2021||---||Global focus back on climate||US President Joe Biden has convened a virtual climate change summit later this week at which 20 top world leaders, whose economies contribute 80% of the global carbon emissions, are expected to be present. It is still not clear whether Chinese President Xi Jinping will avail of Biden’s invitation. Though his special climate change envoy, John Kerry, recently visited China and held talks with his counterpart, Xie Zhenhua, no assurances were forthcoming. The US insists that climate change is a ‘stand-alone’ issue and should be insulated from other contentious issues in US-China relations, such as the raising of human rights issues in China’s Xinjiang and Tibet. More recently, the issue of Taiwan has also surfaced as a source of tension. China has objected to former senior US officials being despatched to Taiwan by the Biden administration to convey support to Taiwan’s security. The US Congress is considering legislation that would restore official level contacts between the two countries. This has further angered China. The Chinese spokesman has categorically rejected the US position that climate change should be considered as a stand-alone issue for cooperation between the two countries, asserting that the whole gamut of relations is interlinked.Modi must draw attention to the importance of adaptation to developing countries and the need to arrange multilateral finance and technology for their efforts on this score.On the eve of the Washington summit, Xi Jinping held his own virtual trilateral summit with President Macron of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany with climate change on the agenda. This, too, seems to put in doubt whether Xi Jinping will eventually avail of Biden’s invitation. If he does not, Biden’s initiative to re-establish US leadership on climate change will receive a major setback. China is the largest emitter of carbon emissions, responsible for 30% of the global total. The US has half this volume, while India is half again of the US figure. So without China, no multilateral initiative is likely to have much credibility.During his recent visit to India, John Kerry made it clear that one of his key objectives was to get India to announce its adherence to the goal of carbon neutrality by the year 2050, which the other major emitters are expected to endorse. China has already declared that it will achieve a peaking of its carbon emissions ‘around 2030’ and carbon neutrality by 2060. These Chinese targets are being leveraged to put pressure on India to follow suit with similar targets. We should not fall into this trap. We should welcome a global target of carbon neutrality by 2050 but to be achieved through national contributions based on the principle of common and differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities enshrined in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. PM Modi should make the point that one cannot treat a country with only 7% of global emissions in the same manner as a country responsible for 30% of such emissions. This is the occasion when India should be ‘decoupled’ from China. The world should not expect India to match commitments that are expected from China. This does not mean that India and China cannot work together on climate issues where their interests converge. Recently, the group of BASIC countries (Brazil, South Africa, China and India) released a joint statement opposing the European proposal for a border carbon tax.PM Modi should use the summit to draw the attention of his summit partners to the parallel importance of adaptation to developing countries and the need to arrange both multilateral finance and technology for their efforts on this score. The frequency of extreme climate events is rising. The world’s ice caps are melting at an alarming rate, as are our own Himalayan glaciers. These are affecting weather patterns and ocean currents. There are both current impacts and the prospect of future, even more serious impacts, with the developing countries being the most vulnerable. Even if global emissions become zero, climate change will continue to affect our planet since it is the stock of emissions in the earth’s atmosphere which is the cause of climate change and this stock will diminish only gradually over several decades, even a century or more. And yet, the focus is singularly on mitigation of emissions. Adaptation, which is a bigger challenge for most developing countries, continues to be neglected. India should mobilise international opinion to redress this relative neglect.India pioneered the International Solar Alliance at the Paris climate summit in 2015 to promote international collaboration on harnessing the infinite power of the sun to provide clean and renewable energy. India has made impressive progress in promoting solar energy and its own experience can be an example for other developing countries. It should be a signal achievement if PM Modi succeeds in obtaining the adherence of all participating countries in this ambitious project, the US and the EU as a community in particular.From Kerry’s remarks, one gathered the impression that there will be little by way of government-level finance available for climate change action by India. He stressed the importance of private capital and technology flows. Whatever commitments India will make at the summit, these will have to rely on domestic resources. Thanks to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the country’s economic prospects have dimmed and are likely to remain uncertain for some time to come. We should commit India to a ‘green recovery’, making certain that we put in place an alternative economic strategy of sustainable growth. The current trajectory of our economic development will lead to a dead-end. International credibility will be earned by the formulation and adoption of a sustainable growth strategy, which puts India on the path of low emission growth rather than through the announcement of ambitious targets for the achievement of which the wherewithal is missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/global-focus-back-on-climate-241788
