22-04-2021||---||Jury’s out on how Covid will impact Bengal outcome||One could pun that the West Bengal elections are indeed ‘super-spreaders’, spread out as they are over eight phases of polling. But the serious question is inevitably linked to the spread of coronavirus and whether there is a political price to be paid for the large human gatherings that have been mobilised for the polls up to the fifth round of voting. Middle class and media outrage have now compelled the parties to state that they are curtailing the size of the crowds (BJP), minimising the time of the campaign (Trinamool Congress) or ceasing the in-person rallies altogether (Congress) and taking the campaign online and door-to-door (CPI-M).But since the architecture and pitch of this ongoing Bengal campaign has been determined by the BJP, it’s worth exploring how the national party views the scenario in the backdrop of India breaking records in Covid infections but persisting with election mobilisation. We are acting in ways that defy common sense: there is a huge shortage of vaccines and the already poor health system is broken, yet not a word from the authorities against the mega gathering of millions at the Kumbh mela in Hardwar.But will it matter in the electoral reckoning? In Bengal, the BJP does not believe that Covid has become an issue except in urban pockets and that too in a particular section of society, from which the media is also drawn. The suffering and desperation caused by the disease, amplified on social media, they say, is not a reality in Bengal. The BJP’s principal gains are being made in the countryside among a rural population voting for change where the virus has not yet spread on an alarming scale.Therefore, the party does not believe that it will damage it in the ongoing state elections (although after each phase of polling, health data shows a rise in coronavirus infections).The BJP’s cynical calculation, therefore, is that should there be a virus surge in the hinterland, it would come once the polls are over. In the meantime, the party believes, that as a non-traditional player in Bengal, it must not slow the campaign momentum at all. And, that is why the flurry of visits of national BJP leaders will not cease till the last day of campaigning.If the narratives of the Covid miseries and disaster in BJP-ruled states have not penetrated the Bengal countryside, it’s because it’s not a lived experience and by the time it may be so, the elections would be over.The BJP is relying on that, having tasted political blood. The TMC is literally and metaphorically injured with leader Mamata Banerjee soldiering on with her leg injury. But it must be stated that just as disasters don’t seem to damage Narendra Modi’s image, Mamata too remains more popular than her party.The May 2 results can be analysed to see if indeed the sudden surge in Covid infections impacted the BJP’s performance, but that could also be put down to different demographies and local dynamics in the very diverse state.Fundamentally, whatever the outcome, it would still be wise to see Bengal 2021 as an Assembly election where people are voting for a state regime or against it. The strong messaging by national leaders of the BJP is designed to make the party look like a potential winner as people vote for new forces only if they mark a presence.Some of the support that the BJP is getting draws from a desire for change and accumulated anger with the so-called ‘syndicates’ — that is individuals who get their clout from being in the structure of the TMC and extracting a price for any job to be done. The BJP has essentially filled in the Opposition vacuum after the TMC went about systematically decimating the old opposition of the Left.Yet, the party has undeniably also taken the election in an altogether different direction. First, the BJP played a very interesting brand of cultural politics in Bengal, reaching out to subaltern groups, enhancing their sense of sub-identity and promising them political clout if they vote as a caste group. This is now one of the tried and tested techniques in the Hindutva handbook of creating a new citizen/voter. But it also reveals interesting contradictions.The ultimate stated aim of the RSS (expressed by its overwhelmingly Brahmin leadership) is the utopia of a casteless society. But on the ground, this is actually being done through enhanced caste awareness. The BJP/RSS methodology is fascinating in that it does give some marginalised groups a sense of inclusion and purpose, howsoever fleeting. The stage one of the process would be identity assertion, stage two a sense of inclusion (however imperfect and temporary) as everyone is handed a banner and told to mobilise through cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’; and then comes stage three that involves polarising against the ‘other’ — in this case, Bengal’s very large Muslim population.As the wheels of the BJP electoral machine turn, by the time this battle is lost or won, the state would have been polarised on communal lines as never before since Independence. That’s the powder keg in the election, the sentiment created by narratives of supposed Muslim entitlement and appeasement, along with the familiar tropes of cattle-smuggling, love jihad et al, in districts bordering Bangladesh.It has not yet reached the level of persistent and settled hatreds as visible in Uttar Pradesh, but a beginning in that direction has certainly been made. Whatever be the rate of coronavirus infection, the contagion of communalism has certainly spread on the fault-lines of Bengal’s history, partitioned twice: in 1905 and 1947.There is a section of the Kolkata society that argues that news of the disastrous Covid situation in BJP-ruled Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh has also opened a front for anti-incumbency against the national party. There is, however, no convincing proof, beyond a few opinions, that a certain ‘Covid anti-incumbency’ could be building or that there are separate types of incumbency, divided between the Centre and the state. That may just be the view of a section of society in Kolkata that sees the BJP leaders as outsiders who are wrecking everything that contemporary Bengal stood for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/jurys-out-on-how-covid-will-impact-bengal-outcome-242411
22-04-2021||---||PM’s speech offered no credible assurance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first address after the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 made one thing clear: the Modi government has decided to wash its hands of the worst public health crisis faced by India. The Prime Minister’s designer look of a sanyasi did not indicate any desire to renounce power, but it did betray a proclivity to abjure responsibility. He had nothing to offer. He knew it. And it showed.The speech was not ill-timed. If anything, the nation has been waiting to hear PM Modi. The number of Covid-positive cases has been rising exponentially. The number of deaths is reported to be much higher than the official count. Health infrastructure is crumbling. Public as well as private hospitals have no ventilators, no beds, not even oxygen. The one thing not short in supply is dead bodies in crematoria and burial grounds. Life-saving medicine is being traded on the black market. Number of vaccinations has come down. Everyone is worried, trying hard not to panic. Everyone needs an assurance. Everyone has questions about India’s preparedness for the crisis that is upon us. Everyone wants to know about the government’s plans.PM Modi’s speech was mercifully short. It was also woefully short on everything people needed, wanted and were entitled to know. People demanded answers; he offered none. People needed credible assurances; he offered empty words. People were angry at the criminal negligence of their elected government; he trivialised their suffering by treating it as personal misfortune. It was not the speech of a democratically elected leader submitting a report to his masters. It was an imperious ruler telling his subjects that all is well, that they must trust him and his government.There was no dramatic announcement, nothing that could cause public panic. The closest PM Modi came to announcing something was to indicate that his government was not considering another nationwide lockdown. That was perhaps the only real relief in the speech. But you don’t need to keep the nation in suspense at 8:45 pm for this reward.There was no account of the work done over the last one year. Not a word about why we find ourselves in the midst of a second wave despite his earlier claims of India being a model of Covid management for the rest of the world. He chose to present the second wave as if it was the aftershock of an earthquake, a natural calamity beyond our control. Nor did he bother to offer any details of what his government had done in the last 13 months to safeguard the country against this possibility. As he was addressing the nation, medical superintendents of some of the leading hospitals in the national capital were raising a red flag that they had only a few hours’ supply of medical oxygen left with them. The PM, of course, assured that plans were on to make medical oxygen available, but said nothing about why this was being planned now. Same with hospital infrastructure and medicines. Everything was in present continuous tense: “Prayas kiya jaa raha hai”.There were no future plans either. The PM had suggestions for everyone else. The state governments must inspire confidence among the workers so that they stay back. So, if there is another exodus of migrant workers, the responsibility lies with the state government, never mind the fact that it was the Modi government that invoked a Central Act overriding the powers of the states to deal with the pandemic. He asked the NGOs and social organisations to help the needy. So, relief work is not the responsibility of the government. He wanted the media to ensure no panic and rumour-mongering was happening. He advised the youth to form committees to enforce pandemic-appropriate discipline. He forgot to tell them how to cultivate this discipline among the leaders who continue with election rallies in the midst of this crisis. Not content, he also recruited the children in this crusade. In sum: Everyone except his own government is responsible for facing this second wave of Covid. For the Modi government, there were no targets, no roadmaps, no benchmarks, no tasks.There was not even the usual attempt to bluff on his part. There was only one concrete detail that the PM shared with the public. He claimed that India was the fastest country to give 10 crore doses of the vaccine. This claim is incorrect and misleading. Dr Rijo M. John confirmed that the US took 82 days to reach this landmark, while India took 84 days. In any case, the success of vaccination should be counted not in numbers, but as proportion of the population. On that count, India is way behind many countries. Going by the PM’s standards on the economy of truth, though this would be considered a small lie.What, then, was the point of PM Modi’s address to the nation? What was the speech all about?Well, the PM’s address to the nation was a PR exercise, a high TRP show on national television. My friend Rakesh Sharma, who has tracked Modi for over a decade, calls it “Pran jaye par PR na jaye”. The TV show was to ensure that the public gets to see the Prime Minister and not notice his absence at this critical juncture. His lofty but vacuous assurances were calculated to give enough reasons for his supporters to continue to suspend their disbelief. The rhetoric was intended to distract the public from the tragic images of hospitals and crematoria that are now doing the rounds in the media. The entire ritual was designed to cover up the growing impression of a ruler indifferent to the plight of the public and, worse, a leader who is solely interested in electoral victory at all cost.The trick has worked for long, with active support from the darbari media. But the law of diminishing returns is beginning to set in. It is one thing to lose territory to China in far-flung Ladakh and yet convince the public that it was China that got a thrashing. It is quite another thing to convince that we have done our best in this pandemic to those who are running from hospital to hospital for a bed, trying to purchase medicines on the black market and watching the pyres lit outside a crematorium. Sooner than later, this recognition is dawning upon the Indian public: Mr Modi knows how to win elections, but he does not know how to govern.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pms-speech-offered-no-credible-assurance-242391
22-04-2021||---||Another economic shadow||After the Indian economy contracted by a massive 7.7 per cent last year, much official hope was reposed in a V-shaped recovery with forecast of a rebound in growth in the current year (2021-22) to 11 per cent. But the second wave of the pandemic has already led to local lockdowns in severely affected areas.The economic disruption and fear that this has generated (migrant workers have again started to journey back home) have cast a massive cloud over the recovery hopes. Analysts’ projections for the current year’s growth are already being scaled down from as high as 13.5 per cent to as low as 10 per cent.The course that the pandemic will take is unknown. So sectors and policy makers have to make contingency plans — hoping for the best while preparing for the worst. The foremost concern of the government must be to try and ensure that the entire economy does not grind to anything like a near-total halt. Within this, different economic sectors will look for policy signals while preparing their own plans.The best way to prevent a total halt to economic activity is to keep away from a total and extended lockdown of the kind that was imposed last year. Thankfully, the union government is aware of this, and any kind of total lockdown is not on the official list of choices. What we are likely to see instead is partial lockdowns and night curfews, particularly during weekends, that will keep the economy ticking up to a point while sentiment plunges.But even this partial negative is taking its toll. Small businesses are scaling down operations without fully closing down. This is leading to partial staff layoffs (for example, if a shopkeeper has three helpers, one is being asked to go home), which, in turn, are going to lead to cuts in consumption expenditure. We are thus likely to see a contraction in demand from levels expected earlier, the only redeeming feature being that the bottom will not entirely fall out of purchasing power.The slowdown at the bottom of the economic pyramid will transmit signals upward, with the energy sector likely to be one of the first to be hit. Demand for electricity (and in consequence coal) and diesel and petrol is likely to be partially hit.A similar impact is likely to be transmitted to entities engaged in the manufacture of industrial raw materials. Some of the impact will come from the pandemic itself. To meet the sudden rise in medical demand for oxygen and the government’s guidance to industries consuming it step back, Tata Steel, for example, is diverting oxygen supplies away from steel making to the healthcare sector. Hence, there is likely to be a negative impact on the country’s steel output. Another major user of steel, the automobile industry, is already seeing the demand recovery that it was preparing for lose steam.While the producers and users of industrial raw materials will be tangentially hit, two sectors which are already on the way to taking direct hits are hospitality and airlines. Bars and restaurants, already hit by people being asked to stay away from crowded places, have begun to see a fall even in people’s basic desire to spend. (As for cinema halls, which had begun to open up, the less said the better.) Discretionary spending has already begun to take a hit, affecting employment. This, in turn, will affect consumption expenditure.The other industry likely to be severely hit is air travel. Trans-border travel has already been hit as countries not yet seriously affected by the virus are locking themselves in to avoid travellers bringing it in with them. Bubble arrangements between countries which are not seriously affected will be able to save only a small part of the global travel demand.Against this gathering gloom, two sectors stand out. The software and services industry is going great guns as firms redouble efforts to go digital and shift as much of their data-related activity onto the cloud as possible, and this is creating renewed demand for the IT industry.The other sector which sees bright prospects ahead of itself is e-commerce. Right now, under newly introduced restrictions in severely affected areas, only grocery and medicine stores are being allowed to operate during non-curfew hours. This, plus people’s desire to go out as little as possible, is creating good additional demand for e-commerce firms.This has given rise to a lively debate as to what is essential and so allowed to move and what is not, with e-commerce firms claiming that the laptop and the mobile phone be declared as essential items which people need to use when they are advised not to go out.The impact of all this is sure to affect the government’s tax collection. There will be renewed demand among sections of experts to put some buying power into the hands of poor people so that they do not starve. Demand under the rural employment guarantee programme is already seeing a rise and there will be acute pressure on the government to up direct benefit transfers.Overall, the second wave is likely to seriously affect the economy and the hope earlier in the year that things will go back to normal soon will be belied. A huge amount of hope is being reposed on speeding up vaccination levels and the government has just announced major policy changes to facilitate this. But much time has already been lost, and with vaccination till now covering only under 8 per cent of the population, the year will be out before anything like herd immunity can be achieved. Thus the second wave is set to negate at least another year of our lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/another-economic-shadow-242390
