23-04-2021||The defining feature of the 2021 Assembly elections in West Bengal is the image of a lone intrepid woman with a broken leg in a wheelchair. She is dressed simply in her trademark white sari. She has taken on the country’s most popular politician and his retinue consisting of the Union Home Minister||Stooping to conquer||How did she break her leg? She was boarding her car after an election rally, when the crowd that had come dangerously close to her put pressure on the car’s door when only one leg was safely inside. In numerous rallies supervised by me in my halcyon days, I have witnessed this mad rush of admirers, or may be just onlookers, towards the presiding star.On one memorable occasion in the Mumbai suburb of Chembur, Indira Gandhi was escorted to her car after a rally, when the crowd rushed to greet her. One portly woman of overbearing mien used her ample strength to muscle her way to the car and poke her head through the window adjoining the PM’s seat. Indira Gandhi was visibly upset!It was out of the question to lay our hands on the offender as she was a woman. I was nonplussed, but a junior police officer used his presence of mind, quickly removed his nameplate fastened by a pin to his shirt pocket, and stuck the pin into the ample derriere of the offender, causing her to first wince, and then instantly remove her mug from the car’s window.Some such out-of-the-box thinking would have prevented the bone injury to Didi, but then, the ‘bhadralok’ would have been deprived of the defining picture of the 2021 election that is bound to go down in the annals of Bengal’s electoral history, particularly if ‘Didi-oh-Didi’ emerges successful. There is a 51:49 chance she will, in which case the broken bone will mend faster than her age would normally demand!The broken leg and the wheelchair would be of help in her campaign for a third term, neutralising the incumbency’s negative factor. Her popularity as a selfless worker with minimum wants is a second advantage that would neutralise Modi’s popularity with the Indian masses. In a state election, a local demigod like Mamata Banerjee takes precedence over a national demigod like Narendra Modi. That the BJP was forced to divest a sizeable portion of its war chest, and train all its big guns on this single warrior woman will not be lost on Bengal’s electorate.And what does one make of the CISF firing near the election booth at Sitalkuchi in Cooch-Behar that claimed four lives? The CISF, like the CRPF and the BSF, is a paramilitary force controlled by the Union Home Ministry. Under normal conditions, it can be deployed only at the request of the state government. As Special Secretary in the Home Ministry, I had personally supervised the induction of several paramilitary battalions of the BSF and the CRPF by air into Assam to help the state government in the conduct of Assembly elections in January 1986. They operated under the instructions of the state government, as was always the rule.The Home Ministry’s forces must have reported to the DGP of West Bengal. Their deployment and utilisation should have been left to the state government. If the rules have changed after Amit Shah assumed the mantle of the Home Minister, I am not aware. From what I have read, there is an uneasy feeling that these forces reported to the Election Commission directly, which was earlier never the case. It is the state administration that is responsible for law and order. During elections, the Chief Secretary and the DGP do report to the Election Commission on matters related to the conduct of the elections. The latter can direct increased deployment at certain places at certain times, but the EC cannot instruct the armed forces of the union on how, when and where it should use force. That is the duty of the state.So, the accusations flying thick and fast between Modi and Mamata give the impression that the rules of the game have been altered. When were they altered? Are the altered instructions put down in writing? Do the paramilitary forces operate under the state government’s officials or not? If the old rules still apply, the firing by the CISF had to be ordered by a Magistrate specially deputed to the spot, or the local police officers present at the site.And, finally, there is the unfortunate feeling gaining currency that the Election Commission of India is losing its old sheen. It was nationally and internationally recognised as a strictly impartial umpire which routinely ensured free and fair elections, bereft of any bias, real or perceived. The BJP’s assaults on institutions of governance have unfortunately gone beyond the fringes of this fine institution, whose base was constructed by a giant called TN Seshan, and then, nurtured by a succession of gentler giants, but giants all the same.The commission’s one-day ban on the TMC’s sole star campaigner for an arguably explainable default did not go down well with the more justice-conscious members of the public. It gave an advantage to her opponents, for which she partly compensated by sitting on a dharna in a public square, drawing and sketching, and thereby drawing attention to the injustice.The thinking public of our ancient land will appreciate a little more civility during elections. The electioneering in Bengal has crossed all limits, and not only in the number of days it took to complete the process. The BJP upped the ante with all the money and organisation at its command. But its election talk could have been way more civilised than it proved to be. From my PM, in particular, I as a patriotic citizen expected much more refinement.The three words, ‘Didi-oh-Didi’, drawled and punctuated in the tone used by Modi, will remain embedded in Bengal’s memory for a long time. Who knows the words may boomerang on Modi, as the ‘chaiwala’ jibe boomeranged on Mani Shankar Aiyar and the Congress on another occasion in an earlier election!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stooping-to-conquer-242849
23-04-2021||---||Tackling Covid needs course correction||It is no sin to falter and fail, but it is indeed an unforgivable sin to try and gloss over it. It leads to further mistakes and failures. It is this sin of glossing over its mistakes and failures of the Modi government that is a matter of concern. The second wave of Covid-19 that burst upon the country was waiting to happen. Somebody in the government should have anticipated the problem, and some preparation should have been made to tackle it. But the Modi government just failed to be prepared for the eventuality.The election rallies in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, Assam and West Bengal are not the issue, nor is the Kumbh Mela at Hardwar. These needed to be regulated but this could have been done only if the government had understood that Covid-19 was still in the air after the first wave subsided from October 2020 to March 2021.There were quite a few mistakes along the way, right from March 25, 2020, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it. It is overlooked that the lockdown till the end of May did not in any way contain the initial phase of the pandemic. This became evident by July 2020 when the lockdown regulations were eased and the numbers shot up, and the explosion lasted from July 2020 through August and September 2020. Then the tide receded, and this was much before the announcement of the vaccine rollout on January 3, 2021.Consequently, Prime Minister Modi and his colleagues made the false claim, and many of us were taken in by it, that the March 25, 2020, lockdown decision was a farsighted one. The first wave trajectory of Covid-19 clearly indicates that the numbers in April and May 2020 were relatively modest in terms of the spread of the infection, and the numbers jumped in the following months. The lesson was a simple one. Lockdown was not exactly a miracle cure against the pandemic.What was needed for Covid-19 management was avoiding crowding, observing social distance and wearing of the mask, and this much more than that of using sanitisers indiscriminately and in a manic fashion. The medical assumption during the earlier phase that the novel coronavirus spread through droplets from the mouth has now been replaced by the assumption that it is airborne. Call it a genuine mistake and that our understanding was incomplete. In the meanwhile, more than a crore people had been infected and they have been cured as well, but the medical researchers concluded that they could not prescribe any reasonable therapeutic protocols based on the clinical data of crore-plus people.There was no vigorous medical research based on the data which should have produced scores if not hundreds of epidemiological studies. Genome sequencing was at its tardiest because through February 2020 onward, it was only the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune that was burdened with genome sequencing of the virus. As the Covid-19 infections spread and thousands of samples became available — of course, there was the inherent difficulty that it was not easy to get reasonably stable samples of the virus’ genome which could then be used for sequencing it to study the structure — the exercise of sequencing it was not spread across many more laboratories across the biological and chemistry departments in the universities and at research institutes.When the government was looking for pharmaceutical companies that could work on the vaccine, the research institutes and laboratories that could work with the companies were not too many. Bharat Biotech, which had come up with Covaxin, had to join hands with the NIV to work on the development of a vaccine. Another research laboratory, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology at Hyderabad, was able to create a sample of the virus’ genome sequence which could serve as a basis for further development. But that was an isolated and lone example to do things. The government seemed to have picked on Bharat Biotech and paired it with NIV in the hope of getting at the vaccine.It looks like the government had waited till Bharat Biotech had managed to get at its vaccine solution before it had announced the rollout of the vaccine along with that of Oxford AstraZeneca’s Covishield manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. The order for the SII’s Covishield was held back though the SII was ready with about 70 million doses based on the trials carried out in the United Kingdom. The political motive was clear. The government wanted to prove that an Indian company, Bharat Biotech, had developed a vaccine based on an Indian genome sequence. It was the Modi government’s misplaced sense of nationalism. Covaxin was not ready to be rolled out like Covishield. The phase three human trials were not yet done with though Covaxin, its owner, took a belligerent nationalist position at a press conference in response to a snide remark by the SII.It was clear as daylight that neither the SII nor Bharat Biotech could have met the demand for the coronavirus vaccine of the country. There was a need for shopping around in the world, or the government should have pushed other pharmaceutical companies in the country to work out the vaccine as it did with Bharat Biotech. So, it is only in the middle of April that the Modi government decided to shop for other coronavirus vaccines like Russia’s Sputnik V, and give a green signal for its production by the Reddy Labs in the country. And now the government is considering the possibility of other vaccines like that manufactured by Pfizer to be imported.The Modi government had clearly failed to pursue a vigorous vaccine development and manufacture policy in the country when it picked up Bharat Biotech and a few others in May 2020, and it seemed to have backed Bharat Biotech more than it did others. Today, the only India-developed vaccine is that of Bharat Biotech, and its projected peak production of 700 million doses sometime in September this year, and it would not be able to meet India’s needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tackling-covid-needs-course-correction-242851
23-04-2021||---||The unpredictable course of US policy in Asia||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar may have been expressing the anxiety being felt by the South Block over the zigzag course taken in foreign policy by the Biden administration when, in a span of one week, he twice declared that the Quad will never become an Asian NATO.It now emerges that when the first-ever Quad summit convened by US President Joe Biden on March 12 was waxing eloquent on the launch of a “landmark partnership” with India to further accelerate the end of the Covid pandemic, the White House was doing the exact opposite.A fact sheet after the Quad summit spoke of undertaking “shared action necessary to expand safe and effective Covid vaccine manufacturing in 2021”. But the on-ground situation in Washington was vastly different. Indian Ambassador to the USTaranjit Singh Sandhu was at the same time telling the Biden administration that its invoking of the Defence Production Act has affected vaccine production in India due to a shortage of cell culture media,single-use tubing assemblies and certain chemicals.The end-game of enticing India into a Quad grouping with military teeth had already been jolted when the US Navy’s USS John Paul Jones sailed unannounced into the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) on April 7. The “freedom of navigation” sail could have been brushed under the carpet like the US Navy’s many such earlier forays.But for those who might have missed out on this brief India-US scrimmage-that-wasn’t, the US Seventh Fleet helpfully put out a press release that declared its warship sailed “inside India’s EEZ, without requesting India’s prior consent”.The US Navy did clarify that its Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs) “are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements.” But if the USprofesses to place India in thetop drawer of its allies, why was there no prior word to the Indian Navy or its liaison officers posted in several of the US Navy’s Asian outposts? Otherwise, the Indian Navy would not have reacted with a counter-press release that stated the US warship was tracked as soon as it entered the EEZ, about 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands.On March 18 and 19, in stark contrast to its public image of going for an all-out war against Beijing in supply chains, defence build-up and high technology, Biden’s two top foreign policy czars, Tony Blinken and Jake Sullivan were closeted with their Chinese counterparts for two days in Alaska.The opening lived up to the public billing of an extremely upset US trying to pressure China on all its vulnerabilities — Hong Kong, Xinjiang, Tibet, South China Sea et al. In fact, it was an unprecedented diplomatic dust-up. But the opening exchange did not appear to materially affect the rest of the meeting. “A senior administration official told me that the moment the cameras left, the Chinese side went back to business as usual, working through the list of issues on the agenda, including non-proliferation and Iran,” said an Atlantic article.As is well known, China already has a substantial handle on the US economy which has kept itscitizens satiated with debt. The fiscal dependence — the US owes over $1 trillion to China — can shake the economy if it is suddenly dumped. The trend to lean on China had spiralled during the Obama years when Biden was his second-in-command.The US presidential elections, during which candidates are closely scanned for character flaws, saw the peddling of Hunter Biden’s business deals with China (besides Ukraine) by the pro-Trump media. The Biden team dismissed most of it as “Russian disinformation” but it is incontrovertible that Hunter flew with his then Vice President father to Beijing in 2013. While there, he also shared a cup of coffee with an investment banker and was on his company’s board 12 days later.There is no evidence that the US foreign policy was influenced by the deal, but the charges cut to the bone. Joe Biden had to promise during the Presidential stumping that no one in his family will hold a job with a foreign corporation or government.This incident, however, leads to the assumption that the US under Biden might not be thinking of a zero-sum game against China, as is being fondly imagined in many quarters in India. The vaccine dust-up apart, the Quad merely renewed the long-pending promise of meeting acute Indian strategic interest in critical and emerging technology by setting up a working group. This leads to the apprehension whether the current contradictions between the US and China have a temporary character? The Donald Trump-Mike Pompeo duo, which put the Quad in high gear, in contrast had an existentialist fear of China putting an end to the American exceptionalism that has ruled the world after World War II.There is certainly a vacuum as multilateralism has fallen short. This has led the trend to move towards groups of countries that can work together. But Biden’s national security policies premised on a “growing rivalry with China” are grating with the on-ground situation. This may have led Jaishankar to issue two clarifications within a week about India seeing no dividend in forming a military block with the Quad in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-unpredictable-course-of-us-policy-in-asia-242853
