24-04-2021||---||Signs of Congress regrouping amid Covid crisis||Just as speculation was rife over a possible split in the grand old party around May 2 when the Assembly results of four states and one UT will be announced, the Congress seems joining ranks at all levels of the party hierarchy and accepting Rahul Gandhi as its leader.The reliance on Rahul is coming amid a rather grim scenario which has little to do with politics. The enormity of Covid-19 pandemic or its second brutal wave has shaken everyone to the core. The government of the day may not say it officially but the health emergency has put the Indian nation at war. As former Army chief General Ved Prakash Malik said rather dishearteningly in his April 18 tweet, “Our nation is at war. 1,338 Indians died due to the pandemic yesterday (1,182 the day before), more than 2.5 times the total killed in action in Kargil war. Is the nation focused on this war?”The Narendra Modi government’s inept handling of the Covid-19 crisis, acute shortage of oxygen cylinders, injections and medicines, the mindless focus on electioneering and political rallies have taken the sheen away from the Prime Minister, who for the past seven years had built a formidable reputation as a hands-on man, always confident, in command and leading from the front.The erosion in Modi’s ability to flawlessly and effortlessly deliver anything and everything has been Rahul’s gain. Suddenly, Rahul’s consistent doomsday prophecies about the possible consequences of the coronavirus crisis, which were earlier dubbed as ‘scaring people’, turned out to be right. Rahul’s cause was greatly helped with the Modi regime facing a public outcry and social media outrage, and took a series of decisions that were suggested by both Rahul and former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh. The CWC that met earlier this week, released a 14-point “chargesheet” accusing Prime Minister Modi of pushing the country towards an unprecedented catastrophe and observed what Rahul had been saying for the past year, “We regret to say the nation is paying a very heavy price for the thoughtlessness and unpreparedness of the NDA government to tackle the gravest disaster that has hit the country and has affected millions of families claiming 1,75,673 lives so far.”For once, the Congress’ in-house dissidents, known as the Group of 23 or G-23 are in agreement with Rahul that a “constant declaration of victory” by the Modi government led to a grim situation. “The government has taken off all the warning systems and shut them down.”Rahul’s bid to offer constructive suggestions regarding vaccine distribution, reduction in the age of immunisation, fast-tracking of emergency approval for foreign-produced shots etc. which were evenutally announced by the Modi government, seems to have enhanced the young Gandhi’s stature within the Congress parivar.However, there is still no clear indication that Rahul would be taking over as the Congress chief in June this year. Last heard, the 87th AICC president between December 2017 to May 2019 appeared a tad reluctant. But in more substantive terms, Congress insiders feel Rahul’s line of thinking and style of functioning is finding far greater acceptance now than before. This factor alone can provide Sonia and Priyanka Gandhi an effective handle to influence Rahul to take over swiftly. The current Covid-19 crisis is such that a possibility of physical, no-holds-barred contest in a party polls are remote.Congressmen of various hue and shades are beginning to realise that Rahul is every bit an unconventional politician. His economic and political thinking seems deeply influenced by the left-of-centre, causing disquiet within the grand old party. Senior Congress leaders recall Amartya Sen’s interview conducted by Vinod Mehta and Anjali Puri in the Outlook issue of August 2009 where the Nobel laureate had described Rahul as ‘talented’ and as someone deeply concerned about deprivation in India and wanting to make a change. The noted economist had remarked, ‘I know him (Rahul) a certain amount. I once actually spent a day with him when he visited me in Trinity (Cambridge) and I was very impressed with him.’In the interview, Sen had said that the possibility of Rahul becoming the Prime Minister someday could not be ruled out. Sen said he had told Rahul that there were ways for him to ‘dazzle the world’ with the money he could make. “But he wasn’t in the least interested. I would say, since I have known Manmohan at the same age, that there was a very similar commitment in both of them, in terms of being deeply concerned about deprivation in India and wanting to make a change in that. And to devote one’s lifetime to that.’Cambridge seems to have influenced Rahul quite a bit. Speaking to the Cambridge campus paper, Varsity, in 2010, Rahul had told Merrow Golden and Ashleigh Lamming, both political science students, that the most important thing he learned at Cambridge was the ‘importance of compromise’. Lamming recalls Rahul as saying that the Cambridge system had helped him learn how to not just ‘argue for his own opinions, but to find a solution that takes all points of view into account’.The key question in the present context is whether Rahul would implement the ‘importance of compromise’ within the Congress. Will it be the way forward?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/signs-of-congress-regrouping-amid-covid-crisis-243188
24-04-2021||---||Raise special civilian force to tackle exodus||We are again seeing on TV screens the painful plight of migrant workers leaving Delhi because of the lockdown announced on Monday by the Chief Minister. It is a replay of the similar situation about a year ago. Then, it was a sudden announcement by the PM, and now by the CM, though there was a bit of indication a little earlier. The result is the same. We haven’t learnt lessons from the fallout of such sudden announcements affecting the livelihood and health of these workers who are the backbone of the Indian economy and breadwinners for their families. In fact, we should have learnt lessons during the lean period of the pandemic, when many workers returned for work and proper contingency plans for such an emergency in future should have been put in place. Again, Delhi and the home states of the migrant workers are struggling to put forward some arrangements because appeals by the CM and the PM to the workers not to leave have had no effect.Similar is the situation with Mumbai from where also an exodus has started. The Delhi CM has now announced Rs 5,000 per registered worker as help, but it's not enough as many are already on their way back. And, how about the unregistered workers? The panic is so much that according to reports, in one bus, about 350 persons travelled by paying a heavy ticket price while some lost lives when this bus met with an accident on way.With the PM calling the second wave a ‘toofan’ (storm), it’s time to put up a permanent machinery to deal with such a situation in future as the virus may have many variants for some years to come. Many countries are already having the third and even the fourth wave and we’re having only the second deadly wave right now just when we thought that all was well. We became complacent too soon. It seems the virus is not going anywhere. We have enough experience in our country in dealing successfully with disastrous situations like the tsunamis, floods, earthquakes etc. So, it shouldn’t be difficult to come up with a solid plan to deal with such a situation of a large-scale movement of migrant workers in future.The first requirement for the returning workers would be money. Considering an average income of Rs 15,000 per month for a worker, an immediate provision should be made to give him this amount per month for two months through an insurance policy or some other financial instrument by the Central government for all registered and un-registered workers. This database may be there with the Delhi government but needs to be updated regularly since there will always be new workers who will be unregistered and they also have to be looked after.Secondly, a civilian Central force should be raised to deal with such a situation on the pattern of the NDRF. As the DG, Civil Defence, with the Government of India, I had mooted the proposal of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which is a reality now and doing good work. In fact, the civil defence department at the Centre and in the states has two wings, Home Guards and Civil Defence. Whereas the former is used extensively by employing youth on a temporary basis on a minimum daily wage announced by the state government, the second is non-functional mostly because their help is taken in war-time generally, except for training during peace time.This outfit can be revived fully by recruiting young people on the pattern of the Home Guards and given training for dealing with different aspects of the movement of the migrant workers on a large scale. For this purpose, the role of the civil defence department needs to be expanded by an executive order. Or, we can have a separate Force called the MWMF (Migrant Workers’ Management Force) for which a statutory backing will be required, but work can start immediately with an ordinance. This outfit should have branches in cities like Delhi, Mumbai and other metros from where the workers have been moving back to their home states. The RAF (Rapid Action Force) in the CRPF was raised as a specialised unit with some battalions to handle communal riots at once and stationed at communally sensitive locations in the country. The same principle can be applied here. This force should have in reserve enough equipment for erecting temporary shelters and other requirements. It should have big godowns for storage of reserve equipment. It should have enough money and wherewithal to arrange food for the migrants when required. Also, at the known places of exodus like Anand Vihar at Delhi, there can be permanent shelters and hospital buildings which can be operationalised at short notice. Plus, some buses. More buses when required can be arranged in coordination with the Delhi government and other state governments.A huge coordination effort is required in such cases and this force can do that by liaising with various departments, including the Railways for trains, and the state governments. For all this work, the force will have to draw up extensive SOPs and other guidelines with separate branches for establishment, procurement, transport, and different kinds of help. All this work needs to be done on top priority with speed if we don’t have to fail again. Such an arrangement is necessary as the normal government apparatus cannot handle such a big and serious emergency on its own as its hands are generally full with other work.Each state government can also have a similar set-up on the pattern of the SDRF to handle the situation at their end because the workers moving back have to be taken back to their homes in villages etc which is a huge work. In states also, either the civil defence department can be strengthened and given this responsibility or the state MWMF can be raised separately.Let us start work on this solution at once. Let’s us not leave our less fortunate migrant workers in the lurch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/raise-special-civilian-force-to-tackle-exodus-243187
24-04-2021||Whether we call ourselves a failed society or a failed state||Test, trace, vaccinate||The government needs to make weekly testing mandatory and isolate the infected 20-30 per cent, allowing the rest to carry on with their livelihoods.From superstitious Sangh Parivar activists to scientific-tempered Marxists, everybody was revelling in election euphoria from Kerala to West Bengal when the virus was stinging with all its might, creating the second surge. It was only when the healthcare system in Delhi collapsed and hospital managements threw up their hands in despair, revealing the fate of patients without oxygen, did the politicians relent. Despite newspapers reporting a new Bengal mutant, which could be the mostly deadly of all virus variants that have caused the worst caseload in the world so far, the ECI refused to club the remaining phases of the West Bengal Assembly election together. Why? Why did we not stock up oxygen, increase the container facilities and manufacture more cylinders? Why did we not hire more people and have more beds for the second wave? When there was hoarding of drugs like remdesivir in September, why did we not foresee a worse scarcity in the next wave? We are not vishwaguru, we are not even a decent third world country because we cannot assure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to gasping patients — a leak somewhere in the pipeline could kill a dozen or two, as happened in Nashik.Mercifully, we have been spared a second lockdown during the second wave; otherwise the country would have been shut down, causing an economic catastrophe compounding the medical meltdown. Imagine a curfew that stops caregivers from going out to buy or beg for oxygen cylinders and medicines. This is a failure of gargantuan proportions and no one — politician, bureaucrat, religious orders or the society at large — can escape responsibility. In times of competitive religiosity and whataboutery of identity politics, one Tablighi Jamaat congregation can only be surpassed in its foolishness by the maha-arrogance of the massive Kumbh Mela. Of the 800-odd pilgrims who crossed the Indo-Pak border during Baisakhi in a jatha, over 200 have tested positive. The power of religion and religion-based politics is, surely, more lethal than that of the deadly pandemic.We are at a crossroads — our healthcare infrastructure has collapsed, our capacities have been overwhelmed and patients are dying without oxygen. Something drastic needs to be done. A national testing drive is the best possible way out of this situation, wherein any person who interacts with others should get himself or herself tested every week so that infected people could be effectively quarantined. Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic people going out and meeting people at religious places, political rallies, protests, weddings, social gatherings, marketplaces and even workplaces have spread the disease to those who obviously have lower immunities, wrecking our already weak medical care facilities.In this situation, the primary way out is to keep the infected but asymptomatic people at home. And this can be achieved only by universal testing. Anyone who has to step into a shopping mall, wedding hall, a restaurant, a grocery shop or a barber shop ought to be tested, and so should all those who are manning these outlets. Once every person who is stepping out of the house to engage in a group activity gets tested, we could have a controlled environment of uninfected people creating safe public platforms of interaction. The testing centres should be linked to the Aarogya Setu application, allowing them to upload the test result directly on to the app, which in turn can provide a safety passport for uninfected people in public places. For instance, a shopping mall should allow only those employees and shoppers who have the Covid-negative certificate on their Aarogya Setu app, thereby creating an absolutely safe shopping experience for all. This practice can be replicated for hotels, restaurants, airlines and every other economic activity. An Uber driver and a passenger could be equally sure of their safety if both need an Aarogya Setu verification to book a trip.The only other mechanism that our rulers know to keep the infected out of the public places is to lock up the entire population. Maharashtra has enforced a strict lockdown — almost like the previous one — on Thursday. The Delhi lockdown for six days that began early this week was prompted by a staggering test positivity rate of 30 per cent, as against the national daily test positivity rate of nearly 17 per cent. If we extrapolate the numbers to assess the total infection rate of Delhi, we can assume that about 30 per cent of Delhi’s residents are infected — an alarming situation. Yet, a lot of asymptomatic people could still be out in the streets. Despite the strict lockdown, people have to fetch medicines, groceries, vegetables, milk and other essentials. So, even a complete lockdown for the 100 per cent population will not stop infected people from stepping out for essentials.Maharashtra has kept its government offices open with 15 per cent staff and local trains on limited routes. All this could be counterproductive if those who are going to office or are working strenuously to keep the wheels of life rolling are infected. So, instead of shutting down 85-100 per cent of the population, the government needs to make weekly testing mandatory and isolate the infected 20-30 per cent, allowing the rest to carry on with their livelihoods. Testing and vaccination are the only solution — not locking up the nation and throwing the keys away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/test-trace-vaccinate-243186
