25-04-2021||The best way to focus on writing this column is to confess right away that I am sick with the Covid-19 infection. This sentence may sound alarming but it also contains in itself the information that I have been incredibly lucky in this season of death||Covid-19 comes home to stay, and what it leaves behind||On my phone, there is a constant stream of distress messages from friends and colleagues, most of whom are trying to coordinate support for others. The mayhem and mismanagement is such that even people of privilege and power have been unable to get tests done and have searched desperately for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs for those close to them. Both mainstream as well as social media feeds have been strewn with videos of bodies from cremation grounds and people lying defenceless outside hospitals unable to admit them.I don’t know how we will recover from the trauma of the circumstances in which so many of us have struggled to find help. I do not remember this level of dissonance in my lived experience. It is beyond our imagination that despite scientific progress and systems of governance in 2021, people are suffering and dying because of the callous abdication of responsibility of India’s political and administrative leadership.Last year, at exactly this time of the year when India was under lockdown, we had felt similarly trapped as we watched millions of desperate workers stranded without work, shelter or food and walking across the country to reach their home districts. Volunteers across the world had confronted the forced helplessness by bonding together online and offline and starting food distribution drives in solidarity. People had organised buses and donated generously to ensure that others were able to survive the mass hunger that had been thrust upon them.We need to respond to the dystopian scenes of the present in the same way. As usual, action and solidarity with each other is the only way to dent the hubris that has created the panic we are in. The same social media feed that brings news of devastation is also the location where people are coordinating resources to try to save as many lives as possible. #PakistanStandsWithIndia is the top trending hashtag on Pakistani Twitter, reminding us yet again that human connections trump political divisiveness.In his book, ‘If This Is a Man’, Primo Levi, who had survived life in a concentration camp, writes: “…precisely because the Lager was a great machine to reduce us to beasts, we must not become beasts. One must survive to tell the story, to bear witness; and that to survive we must force ourselves to save at least the skeleton, the scaffolding, the form of civilisation… We must walk erect, without dragging our feet, not in homage to Prussian discipline but to remain alive, not to begin to die.”As we stand witness to another phase in human history when cruelty and ruthlessness is being normalised by those in power, we must fight back with the conviction that each individual life is precious. We, as a people, must have power over those who we have elected to govern. We need to keep telling stories that are sought to be buried, asking questions to hold others accountable and lending a hand to those in torment. The good within us must triumph over moral turpitude.The sense of shock that seems to overwhelm us now has a purpose to serve. Collective grief reminds us of our interconnectedness and how much we are all the same beneath the veneer of race, community and class. Let us resolve to never forget that it is not the Covid-19 pandemic that defeated us, it is the insensitivity and reckless arrogance of those who looked the other way when our people needed responsible and compassionate governance the most.The virus will come and go but the lessons we have learnt of loss and abandonment must always stay with us.The writer is a filmmaker and author natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-19-comes-home-to-stay-and-what-it-leaves-behind-243788
25-04-2021||Some years ago||The obit writer||This diminutive former Royal Indian Navy officer’s life story — encompassing calamity, pathos, adventure, glamour and success — demanded telling, and motivated me to call the Obituaries section of the nascent Independent newspaper. Louis Jebb, the taciturn but receptive Deputy Obituaries Editor, listened patiently, and immediately commissioned me to send in Axel’s obit, that was promptly published under my byline. The Indy’s practice of appending bylines to obituaries was an innovative feature for UK’s daily broadsheets at the time, having since become more commonplace.Thereafter, over the next 19 years till 2007, I wrote 800-1,000 word obits of some 150 Indians — politicians, diplomats, soldiers, civil servants, intellectuals, actors, businessmen, journalists, cricketers, maharajahs, gangsters, and even a wrestler. Their lives spanned the 20th and early 21st centuries and without exception, were interestingly spent, as most existed in restive times. All 101 such subjects featured in ‘The Last Word’ had contributed in some form and measure in nurturing newly independent India into adolescence and adulthood, and were, to a person people of substance.The sole guiding mantra was that the subject be captivating. Consequently, The Independent’s catholicity led to it carrying obits of personalities like Bollywood villain Ajit, JRD Tata, Pupul Jayakar, Kumar Gandharva, Victoria Cross recipient Umrao Singh and spymasters Atma Jayaram and Ram Nath Kao, among others. A few of these obituaries were written for UK’s Daily Telegraph. But the bulk were carried under the non de guerre ‘by The Independent’, whose print edition ceased publication in March 2016.The Obit pages in leading British, Australian and US publications are without doubt the most widely read five days a week, particularly by older readers, for whom mortality looms. Conversely, these pages are also the most elegantly written as they enjoy a longer gestation period in their construction. All these papers have a generous bank of elegantly penned obituaries of eminent and stimulating subjects that are periodically updated and re-worked, and in some cases even approved by the subjects themselves.Doubtless, the obits of the recently deceased Prince Phillip were such an instance, much like those of his narcissistic uncle Lord Louis Mountbatten, who reportedly spent an inordinate amount of time during his lifetime to ensure largely bespoke obits. For him, it was obviously important that he be remembered in the grand way he perceived himself, and he succeeded. Many obits also follow the dictum of not speaking ill of the dead but the liveliest ones, without doubt, remain those that are candid and salacious. After all, the aphorism that no one can libel the dead is in such cases, apposite.The obvious question such an obit collection might legitimately provoke could be the motivation in gratuitously publicising the life stories of scores of people long dead, irrespective of their renown. My response is that this anthology is by no means a macabre celebration of their deaths, but a salutation to their quirky lives, escapades, vicissitudes and animated existences. In a sense, these obits strive to demystify death, simply by highlighting the sprightly tales that lie interned within each one of the subjects. Not writing about them would be a disservice to their existence, all of which, to use a clichéd phrase, adds up to a rudimentary draft of contemporary history.Obituaries — derived from the Latin obitus, meaning death or the last day — also provide closure in times of uncertainty, anonymity and deracination. They offer the fading luxury of reminiscences, despite Internet’s supremacy: informality, nostalgia, irreverence, humour, sensitivity, and of course, long forgotten historical events. By transporting the reader to a bygone era, obits offer a transitory, but comforting reprieve from a dreary existence rife, amongst myriad other negatives, with disquieting technology and the equally bewildering and the de-humanising phenomenon of Twitter, Facebook and the like.Of all the obits in the book, some of the subjects I knew well, others superficially, a handful by association and the remainder, not at all. But substantial portions were published before the Internet epidemic, necessitating extensive inquiry, meetings with relatives or friends and research in musty archives. All these years later, all I can say is that the entire exercise was a challenge and gratifying as my subjects’ lives revealed India’s depreciating human resource heritage.After a certain age, many of us avidly scan newspaper death notices, not just to keep abreast of the declining scorecard of our acquaintances, but as a gratifying testament simply to being alive. In short, ‘The Last Word’ serves as a veiled lesson to us all: act now. After all, as the adage goes, life is not a dress rehearsal: make the show worthy of a racy obit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-obit-writer-243789
25-04-2021||Right now in India||Active viewer, time for physical activity||Sport is business, but it’s also something with an inherent value — sport is an immunobooster for its practitioners.On March 22, cricketer Devdutt Padikkal tested positive for Covid-19. On April 22, he smashed 101 off 52 balls in an IPL match. Now, Padikkal is young — only 20 — and obviously fit and strong. His testing positive, quarantining, recovering, resuming training and then making a 100 — all this within a month — may not be a miracle for a sportsperson.But if one wishes, one can draw lessons from his story — sport will make you fitter. This is a guarantee.The vaccine is here, the immunisation is on, but it’s clear that Covid-19 isn’t going away any time soon — we’d have to live with it for years. We’d have to learn to deal with it, manage it. Apart from masks and social distancing, the best way to do that is to eat healthy and be physically active.In 2008, a worldwide study by the medical journal Lancet concluded that physical inactivity caused 5.3 million premature deaths out of the 57 million deaths that occurred worldwide that year. The study noted: “Worldwide, we estimated that physical inactivity causes 6-10% of the major non-communicable diseases such as coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and breast and colon cancers. Furthermore, this unhealthy behaviour causes 9% of premature mortality.”In short, sport is good if you step out and play — merely watching it on TV is not enough; IPL on the TV at night might elevate the mood and take the mind away from the terrible news around us, but it’s no substitute to stepping out to walk, jog, play, breathe in the fresh air.Fanning the fireHow many Ferraris does an average person need? None, perhaps. But why do footballers need so many? This vital question was thrown up recently, when within three days, the grandest football league of all was announced and demolished — a multi-billion dollar sporting empire that was stillborn.Big European clubs are suffering financially due to the pandemic. Their accounts are in the red, and their top officials are hired with the mandate to take urgent steps to bolster the finances. They came up with the idea of the European Super League (ESL) — it’s not an original idea, having been floated several times before, but this time it was formally launched. The big clubs wanted themselves to be members in perpetuity of ESL, so that they could play each other every year. Contests among the big clubs garner most interest and eyeballs, and they wanted to mop up all the revenues from the sale of TV and digital rights. This would have dried up the financial stream of the smaller clubs — they would not have been part of ESL. The Champions League would have been demolished, leaving the smaller clubs little to play for at the continental level.The fans of football — of clubs big and small — reacted with anger. Perhaps the pandemic has made them more civic-minded than ever before; perhaps the thought of profiteering, chasing more money and denying it to others, is an anathema in these times — in times when everything seems uncertain, and money less precious than oxygen. Within three days, pressure from football associations, governments and fans forced the big clubs to pull out of ESL — the project is dead.Big clubs are desperate to chase money — one reason is that player salaries have spiralled out of control. Barcelona’s salary limit before the pandemic was 671.4 million euros; it was reduced to 382.7 million euros for the Covid-hit season. Football players provide us joy, but are they really worth so much? Are they really worth more than scientists and doctors?La Liga president Javier Tebas said: “These clubs need to reduce their expenses. We don’t need to keep increasing earnings so that players can have seven Ferraris instead of six.”The common man doesn’t need a Ferrari. For him, an ambulance in need is worth a million times more than a Ferrari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/active-viewer-time-for-physical-activity-243790
25-04-2021||If you were to ask any Indian||No one cares for healthcare, writes Gul Panag||This dichotomy, in my view, is the single-most important reason for the collapse of the public healthcare system in India. The electorate doesn’t think or value healthcare as being a part of the elected government’s charter of duties. What does voting for ‘development’ mean if it doesn’t include more hospitals and augmentation and upgradation of existing ones? Development or ‘vikas’ has been sold as an abstract concept, and the media has played its part in helping politicians sell it.If we look at the states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, they are catered to by a single referral hospital, the PGI in Chandigarh, that has been bursting at its seams for decades now. There are horror stories of patients succumbing to their fate in ambulances even before they could reach the gates of the PGI. And when they do, the wait in the corridors is endless.The situation is pretty much the same across India. It’s always the few referral hospitals like AIIMS and the PGI that bear a disproportionate burden, far above the capacity for which they were designed. And that’s largely because quality primary healthcare is almost non-existent. Most states don’t prioritise healthcare, and thus, the local primary healthcare centres/dispensaries leave a lot to be desired. With the exception of Delhi, perhaps.The impact that poor healthcare systems have on the economy and GDP of a country has been well documented. Most developed countries cover their citizens in one way or the other to minimise that impact. In India, though, a single family member falling victim to a serious illness is enough to deplete years of savings. Health-related expenditure, as per media reports, pushes 3.5 per cent of the population below the poverty line every year! Stories of families selling everything they own to cover the medical expenses of a dear one are not alien to us. Most often, such stories have a sad ending where, despite their best efforts, the family loses their loved one to the illness.The worst victims of poor healthcare are lower middle-class families who can just about afford ‘private healthcare’ but find that quality Tier1 hospitals are out of their reach. They fall prey to non-standardised and ill-equipped ‘private’ hospitals that not only exploit the families of the patient monetarily, but also cut corners in treatment. The pathology labs that surround these hospitals are full of pathological liars who fleece the unassuming attendants at the behest of the doctors, who prescribe unnecessary tests for a commission that hits their bank account on every transaction their victim completes at these path labs.The Covid-19 crisis has just blown the lid off this can of worms, which must be addressed for India to emerge as a true global leader. Free and world-class healthcare cannot be termed a freebie any more, for it is simply not free. It should rather be called pre-paid healthcare because all of us have paid for it through our taxes. Even a labourer who buys a matchbox pays tax for it and it is the foremost duty of the government to provide basic healthcare against the tax thus collected.While the stark difference in our priorities as individuals and as an electorate remains the root cause of this abysmal state, the disconnect creates another larger, more palpable, though surface level, problem. Most of these ‘private’ hospitals are either owned directly by the families of politicians or are sanctioned by them. The list of sanctions includes free land, which any genuine entrepreneur in India cannot get without political clout. This creates a huge disincentive for the political class if they were to improve the public healthcare system. Who will use these private hospitals and clinics if public healthcare becomes efficient and free?Workable remediesWhile referral institutes like the PGI came up in the 1950s and ’60s, the population of our country has multiplied manifold since. There must be a structured plan to create at least one PGI-level referral hospital in every district. If you do the math, it is not such a difficult ask.Second, primary healthcare needs to be modelled around best global practices. The benefits of investing in primary healthcare far outweigh the expenses incurred.Free, basic healthcare needs to become a priority for political parties and the electorate must rise above the politics of caste and creed to vote for those who have these basics on their manifesto.It is incumbent upon the media to highlight the role played by the government in healthcare. Only once the electorate is made aware that it is one of the core responsibilities of the government to provide healthcare, can the electorate demand accountability and choose retribution through the ballot if not satisfied. The electorate has seen the collapse of the public healthcare system. It must be educated about who is responsible and what needs to be done towards fixing it. The ball is now in the Fourth Estate’s court. Will it finally call a spade a spade?— The writer is an actor and entrepreneur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-one-cares-for-healthcare-writes-gul-panag-243791
