26-04-2021||---||Aligning policing with the law a distant goal||Minneapolis has become a touchstone of the movement for racial justice in a country historically plagued by the menace of racial policing, while Mumbai recently demonstrated via a Rs 100-crore extortion scandal that corruption is one major way in which the Indian police cross the limits of their authority and power, patronised by an administration with a colonial mindset with almost no public pressure to reform. There is a common lesson in the two stories: the old model of policing cannot be retrofitted and you have to work on a new model.To align policing practices with the law is a distant goal. “We loathe mass incarceration. We loathe police brutality. But most of us have absolutely no idea how to address the critical flaws in our justice system,” said American civil rights activist Shaun King. Since the killing of George Floyd, an African American, in Minneapolis last May, over 30 American states have passed more than 140 new police oversight and reform laws, according to a New York Times analysis of data from the National Conference of State Legislatures. But the calls for change continue.The Justice Department launched a broad investigation into the functioning of the Minneapolis Police Department a day after its former officer, Derek Chauvin, was convicted of Floyd’s murder. Los Angeles Times has reported, “Activists and politicians in Minneapolis spent Wednesday raising awareness about a City Council-backed measure that could go before voters this fall calling for the city to create a Department of Public Safety, which would encompass a broader health and social approach to fighting crime.”While Derek Chauvin was on trial last week, episodes in Virginia, Minnesota and Illinois — which have all enacted reforms — underscored how the new laws would not always prevent traumatic outcomes. A police officer in Virginia pointed a gun at a Black army lieutenant and pepper-sprayed him during a traffic stop. A veteran officer in Minnesota fatally shot 20-year-old Daunte Wright, a Black man, after pulling him over. And a Chicago officer fatally fired at 13-year-old Adam Toledo, a Latino, after he appeared to toss aside a gun while obeying commands to raise his hands.Clearly, typically deterrent or typically reformist attitudes are leading the discussions, even though the police unions have maintained their robust lobbying presence which is reflected in their argument that the violent crimes including murders are going up significantly across the US during last year. However, the experts have cited a number of possible factors, including pandemic, to explain that. Maryland, the first state to pass a bill of rights for the protection of the Law Enforcement Officers way back in 1970s, not only erased it from the statute book but also de-criminalised several minor prostitution and drug offences and restricted traffic violations for pulling over motorists to provide lesser contacts with law enforcement. The law-makers refused to be swayed by the police advocates who argued that it was going to cause fear in society.In the wake of Chauvin verdict, New York Times noticed that House Democrats recently passed a sweeping police bill designed to address racial discrimination and excessive use of force, but it lacks the Republican support needed in the Senate. President Biden has also fallen short on a campaign promise to establish an oversight commission during his first 100 days in office. In fact, the things moving back and forth — ranging from the calls of defunding police departments to restoration of their budgetary cuts — are summarised by the New York Governor Cuomo’s quip to reporters on Wednesday: “You don’t have the option of ending the police, and you don’t have the option of continuing with the distrust of the police, so the relationship has to be repaired.”The same report quoted Stevante Clark, whose brother Stephon was killed by the Sacramento police in 2018, as saying, “People aren’t necessarily happy with the change they’re seeing, because the same thing keeps happening.” Nearly 1,000 people have been shot and killed across the US by the police annually in recent years, according to data from The Washington Post, which also shows that officers fatally shot Black and Hispanic people at a much higher rate by population than Whites.Can one exceptional conviction transform the racial policing scenario in the US? It would be like arguing that the nailing of one Sachin Waze will significantly curb the collection culture in Mumbai police. The question that has been asked far too long is why or how the police exceed the parameters of their authority and power. That would be a valid question for any policy-maker. But, for a common man seeking security and dignity, even more valid question the policy-makers must face, would be: who is that person exercising authority and power out in the street? Is he or she a democratically sensitised, community oriented and constitutionally conditioned individual? And, why is that person’s mental make-up so vital to policing? Because of the ever- lurking prospect of a seamless extension of the legitimate police authority into brute or corrupt power!A Maryland law, named after Anton Black, killed by the police in 2018, requires disclosure of information about police misconduct investigations. His sister said, “That culture — that mentality has to do a complete 180 if we want to enact change. And it has to start in-house with the police departments, the captains, the chiefs and also the boards that are actually certifying these officers.” Any number of Minneapolis trial-traumatised Black youngsters has echoed the sentiment that the Chauvin conviction is not a justice package but only an accountability statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/aligning-policing-with-the-law-a-distant-goal-244185
26-04-2021||---||China seeks to redefine ties with the US||An important outcome of the Alaska ministerial meeting with the US (March 18-19) was China’s assertion that it now considered itself as an equal of the US and would not be guided by its values or judgements. China’s President Xi Jinping told the delegates to China’s National People’s Congress in March that China’s time has come and it can now look at the world as an equal of the US.Therefore, the Sino-US rivalry, which had gained momentum after Joe Biden’s appointment as the US President, has intensified further. Recently, the US, Canada, UK and the European Union (EU) announced simultaneous sanctions on China for its alleged human rights violations of the Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang. China was surprised as it had started believing that the EU would follow an approach independent of the US, after both had signed the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment in December 2020. These countries have also taken a common position towards China’s imposition of its security law on Hong Kong which takes away most of latter’s earlier autonomy. The tariffs on China’s exports and sanctions on the Chinese companies, Huawei and others, imposed by the then President Trump have continued.The US and Japan took a strong stand against China when they announced after a bilateral visit by Japan’s PM Yoshihide Suga to the US (April 16-17) that they would counter “China’s intimidation” and work together on its challenges in the East and South China Seas to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific (IP). They underscored the importance of “peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait”, but upon return, Suga has downplayed Japan’s involvement in any military conflict over Taiwan.France joined the US, India, Australia and Japan in conducting three-day naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal from April 5 to “develop closer links, sharpen skills and promote maritime cooperation in a free and open IP”. The UK and Germany have also announced plans to despatch their warships to the IP in the near future. Indonesia and the Philippines have spoken out against China’s aggressive activities in the South China Sea with the US promising to stand by with its ally the Philippines in its confrontation with China. The Australian government has cancelled two Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) deals signed by China with the Victoria state government.Japan is also seeking support from Germany and India against China’s aggressive behaviour (visit of Japanese PM to India towards end-April was cancelled due to the second wave of Covid) besides the US. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar recently rebuttedChina’s claim of likening the Quad to NATO saying it was in fact, doing the opposite and “others can’t have a veto about what he would discuss with whom”.China has signalled to the US’s allies and foreign companies to pay attention to its interests as well or be prepared for its retribution. It has imposed reciprocal sanctions against the US, Canadian, British and the EU countries’ entities and individuals and foreign companies who have opposed its interests.China’s Foreign and Defence Ministers have been touring the EU, Middle East and ASEAN countries in search of new allies; Russia and Iran, both estranged from the US, have conveyed their support to China; others such as Germany, France and South Korea have taken a more independent stand refusing to side fully with the US. China believes that the visits of the European countries’ warships to the South China Sea are at best symbolic and they would not join the US in a military confrontation with her. Similarly, Japan is far away from taking any offensive posture against Beijing, constrained by its Constitution. India will also maintain its distance from the US and not like to make neighbouring China its enemy.Angered by the persistent US opposition, China turned cool to promise any new targets to President Biden on April 22 to reduce its long-term emissions saying it can't be part of a “US centred climate cooperation circle”. To secure a leadership role with the developing countries, China has asked the US to shoulder more responsibility (in accordance with the differentiated responsibility principle) to tackle climate change questioning the commitment of the future US presidents to any ambitious targets if someone like Trump or even George Bush is back.China is deriving comfort from its 18.3% GDP growth in the first quarter of 2021 (over quarter 1, 2020) though it loses considerable lustre when compared with -6.8% growth in that quarter and a mere 0.6% increase over Q4, 2020. Other bright spots were rise in industrial output in March 2021 by 14.1% and retail sales by 34.2%. FDI in China in the first quarter of 2021 surged by 43.8% over Q1, 2020 mainly from the EU, ASEAN and BRI states. However, many economists believe that China’s pre-pandemic target of 6% annual growth is yet to stabilise.President Biden has had some success in uniting his European and Asian allies on human rights and technological issues like banning the Chinese Huawei from 5G networks. But China believes that the US’s allies would be loathe to support her in diverting the supply chains away from China or take other concrete actions to damage their economic interests with Beijing given their huge dependence on her for trade and other reasons as their Covid-hit economies recover from the recession.Being a formidable competitor, President Xi Jinping has taken pre-emptive steps to deepen China’s economic ties with the US allies and others such as Germany, France, East European countries, Japan, South Korea and ASEAN, BRI states, the American and other foreign companies. He remains confident that China would be able to carry on its high economic growth for many years and to transform its economic power into technological and military power with the support of US’s allies and its own innovative capabilities. There are no signs on the horizon yet to suggest that the US would be able to constrain China’s economic power (its global manufacturing competitiveness) in any significant way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-seeks-to-redefine-ties-with-the-us-244175
26-04-2021||---||Chauvin verdict a small start||The conviction of white American police officer Derek Chauvin last week in the case of a black man who died while being arrested by that officer in Minneapolis and sparked protests across the US, arguably influencing the US presidential election outcome, will not change much.Yet it is a verdict that concerns us all. The day after Chauvin’s conviction on all three counts he was charged with, a survey of Asian Americans produced the revelation that 81 per cent of them believe that violence against them is increasing. This is almost one and a half times more than the number for all Americans.There is evidence that racial discrimination concerns not just African Americans, but everyone who does not look like ‘them’, including Indian Americans.For South Asians in the US, it is a case of double whammy. They cope with instances of racial discrimination within society and they have to deal with racial prejudice from law enforcement. Among Indian Americans, it is the Sikhs who have been the most vulnerable since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001.Even Indian ambassadors have not been spared, as the case of a woman envoy who was singled out because she was wearing a sari, by security officers at Jackson-Evers International Airport in Mississippi, revealed. Indian ambassadors who are Sikhs have caught the unfavourable attention of law enforcement multiple times because of their turbans and have had to argue their way out. In recent years, India has had three Sikhs posted as ambassadors in the US, but their high profile has not changed much in attitudes to people who look different.The latest survey was conducted in the first and second weeks of this month after 110 incidents of vandalism against Asian homes and businesses, beatings and verbal assaults were logged across the US in the previous one year. The most serious trigger for the survey was the killing of six Asian women near Atlanta on March 16.Most of this violence has been directed against those with Southeast Asian features and has been the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic, which Trump, during his tenure in the White House, repeatedly described as the ‘Chinese virus’.But South Asians have not been spared in this rising tide of hate crimes. They were also covered by the survey conducted by the Pew Research Center. In one incident in San Francisco last month, Subhakar Khadka, an Uber driver of Indian origin, was spat upon and pepper-sprayed when he asked a passenger to wear a mask.The survey deals primarily with hate crimes against Asians by the public, but Asians have also been victims of police brutality influenced by race. There is enough evidence that racial discrimination in the US is an issue which concerns not just African Americans. It concerns everyone who does not look like ‘them’, including the growing Indian American population.In his very first week in office, President Joe Biden issued a commendable ‘Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States’. One of the follow-up actions to this memorandum, which acquires relevance with the Chauvin verdict, is that the state will train law enforcement personnel in dealing sensitively with Asians.On March 30, in additional actions to the memorandum, Biden directed the FBI to begin nationwide civil rights training featuring modules on recognising and reporting anti-Asian bias. ‘The Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services is field testing a new curriculum focused on law enforcement response and investigation. The course focuses on increasing capacity and competency to investigate and accurately report all actions motivated by anti-Asian bias.’When Obama was elected to the White House 12 years ago, many people fantasised that the election of America’s first black President would be a historic turning point towards overcoming racism. The Trump years, especially 2020, have proved that the reverse is true. In the same vein, it could be postulated that the election of half-Indian, half-Jamaican Kamala Harris does not portend any end to discrimination against Asian or Islander communities.The Chauvin verdict does not bring closure even for the family of George Floyd who died at the hands of the police officer who now faces up to 40 years in prison, although 12 to 13 years is expected to be the sentence in this case. It certainly does not foresee an end to a movement for racial justice in the US, the like of which has not been seen in that country since the 1960s when Martin Luther King declared powerfully that ‘I have a dream’ as an African American.The next chapter in the Floyd sequence will be the trial of three of Chauvin’s colleagues who were with him when he asphyxiated Floyd with his knee on the victim’s neck, making Floyd say repeatedly that ‘I cannot breathe’. These words have since resonated around the world as a phrase denoting police brutality.Those officers, who have been dismissed from service, stood by as life ebbed out of the black detainee. Videos of the incident show nonchalance on their part, but are they enough to convict them of any criminal charges? Prosecutors in Minneapolis are under public pressure to resurrect third-degree murder charges against them, but is lobby pressure alone enough to convict them of such serious charges?Floyd’s death was the tipping point for those Americans who had been frustrated not for decades, but for centuries over the way law enforcement gets away with what is literally murder of African Americans. They will be furious if Chauvin’s former colleagues are acquitted in their August trial. A repetition of the events of last summer and violent protests cannot be ruled out if a verdict of innocence is the outcome.That is why the US Attorney General Merrick Garland announced last week a sweeping review and investigation of the full range of policies and operations of the Minneapolis Police Department to determine if it ‘engages in a pattern or practice of unconstitutional or unlawful policing’. Garland and Biden believe in the proverb ‘a stitch in time saves nine’, but in this case it may be too little too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chauvin-verdict-a-small-start-244141
