27-04-2021||---||Plug gaps in rural healthcare before it’s too late||A couple of months ago, Indians were taking it easy as many felt that Covid-19 had chosen to wreak havoc elsewhere in the world but spared India. Sadly, the virus is back with a vengeance; the number of infected cases and deaths is surpassing previous records. India has already overtaken Brazil and become the second worst-affected country in the world (after the US), with the daily caseload in excess of 3 lakh. The situation has worsened as children and youngsters are also getting infected in the second wave and the virus is often not benign.It is well-known that the second and the third waves are greater killers than the first wave, as per the lessons learnt from the Spanish flu of 1919. As the human tragedy gets accentuated with the second wave, there is a shortage of everything in Indian cities —oxygen, drugs, beds, ventilators, vaccines, even cremation space. Doctors and other Covid warriors are dying or quitting; exhausted, worn out, insulted or thrashed by desperate mobs. India’s urban healthcare system is overwhelmed under the weight of Covid, while rural needs are out of sight. The media as well as the political class are preoccupied with the scarcity of hospital beds in the metros; none has commented on the impending catastrophe in rural India, where health infrastructure is as good as non-existent. Rural people, constituting two-thirds of the total population, have been neglected. The availability of rural hospital beds per 10,000 people is only 2-3. Also, the hospitals are devoid of trained manpower, ICU beds, specialists, tertiary care institutions or state-of-the-art ambulances. With ignorance and poverty prevailing in villages, gatherings are a common sight, be it religious events, elections or political agitations. India may witness a sharp spike in daily deaths by the first week of June, despite a fall in the case fatality rate to 0.87 per cent from 1.3 per cent, according to a Lancet report. The need to invest in rural healthcare and health education is real and urgent. The vaccination drive should now focus on rural India.As of now, about 9 per cent of India’s population has been administered one or both doses of a vaccine. The government has allowed vaccination for all adults from May 1. However, Indian manufacturers are producing 70-80 million doses of vaccines per month (Covaxin and Covishield). Even if 100 per cent of this supply was for domestic use, at a target of 5 million doses a day, the monthly supplies would fall short by half. “The government must help vaccine makers raise their manufacturing capability by compulsory licensing, providing funds and other assistance,” demanded former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The Centre has given its nod for emergency approval for other jabs that have met efficacy and safety standards as well as received regulatory green signals in other markets. These comprise Sputnik V, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson. Although vaccine acceptance is increasing, only 37 per cent of the frontline health workers could be jabbed in the first phase and 57 per cent of the respondents in the second phase stated that they were ready to get vaccinated. This situation has been worsened by the hesitancy in accepting the vaccine and stigma and misinformation attached to Covid-19.Genome sequencing needs to be boosted to assess various variants. Wherever there are Covid cases, we should immediately do testing and contact tracing and isolate all Covid-positive people. What is needed is a combined strategy of vaccination and breaking the chain of infections. In rural India, even basic preventative measures of washing hands pose a challenge because of the lack of access to clean running water. Compliance of ‘do gaz ki doori, mask hai zaroori’ is conspicuous by its absence.Governments need to give attention to rural healthcare on priority if a catastrophe is to be averted due to the raging pandemic as well as disruptions to non-Covid health services. In financial terms, India may need to expend over $7.8 billion on testing and $1.7 billion on healthcare usage because of Covid-19 by September 2021, as per the Lancet report.The WHO’s Chief Scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, has warned that rural India may become the next coronavirus hotspot and emphasised the need to use this opportunity to strengthen and improve its primary healthcare system. The country’s rural healthcare is not adequate or prepared to contain Covid-19 transmission, especially in many densely populated northern states, because of the shortage of doctors, hospital beds and equipment. Even the awareness and facilities for vaccination are scanty in the villages.The pandemic has created a major challenge due to the paucity of testing services, a weak surveillance system and above all poor medical care. The villagers often have to spend time and money travelling long distances to receive specialised treatment in the cities. Technology has come to provide some help. The e-Sanjeevani OPD has provided rural doctors with quality consultations from their counterparts in urban hospitals. Tracing and monitoring apps help individuals and governments collate data to ensure compliance and disease control. Providing and distributing this information to rural areas was a challenge that was addressed by mobile phones and apps. Video training can now be streamed simultaneously to thousands of people. It all boils down to how this technology can be put to optimum use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/plug-gaps-in-rural-healthcare-before-its-too-late-244680
27-04-2021||---||Civil service finds itself at the crossroads||THE present chaos and confusion in the management of the upsurge of Covid-19 cases in different parts of the country make us reflect on the delivery of public services. Is it, to quote The Guardian, ‘overconfidence’ or overemphasis on ‘minimum government, maximum governance’? India is known to have a systematic rule-based or dharma-controlled government. Kautilya’s Arthashastra (Book IV) noted that there are eight kinds of providential visitations: fire, floods, pestilential diseases, famine, rats, tigers, serpents and demons. “From these shall the king protect his kingdom.” It is his dharma. There is a separate chapter on how to overcome pestilence. The same remedial measures shall be taken against epidemics. We are obliged here to provide references to our past and the glory of great traditions of governance, though World Bank experts and/or Harvard-educated bureaucrats today may not consider these as important. There seems to be some contradiction or incongruity between the declared policy of ‘minimum government, maximum governance’ and the past administrative traditions of India.Governance in India is understood through the delivery of public goods and services carried out by a cadre of trained officers initiated by the East India Company. Macaulay wanted a civil service to put in practice the company rule and recommended inter alia that it was “undoubtedly desirable that the civil servants of the company should have received the best, the most liberal, the most finished education that the native country affords.” The ICS officers were recruited and trained in London and sent to India. The induction into the civil service after the Macaulay Committee report was based on merit replacing some kind of a spoils system. The modern bureaucracy imported into the country during colonial rule was introduced through the Northcote-Trevelyan report of 1854 that included the colonies. The Government of India Act, 1858, further strengthened the system. Though we cannot deny that the aim of the British rule was to exploit the resources of India to their advantage, the officers had sincerely established institutions and placed civil service values of ‘neutrality and impartiality’ as unblemished conditions of service.After Independence, the Constitution made elaborate provisions for a permanent civil service system for the country. In fact, the basic structure of the Constitution is based on the principle of separation of powers wherein the executive consisting of the civil service is made autonomous and accountable to the legislature through the political executive under whose control it functions. It has also facilitated a permanent tenure with pension. Articles 311-320 empowered the government to create the All-India services and the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to recruit civil servants on the basis of merit established through examinations with a minimum educational qualification of an undergraduate degree. The legacy of British and Mughal revenue administration was combined in the collection of land revenue and administering of law and order through the district magistrate and the collector. During the planning period, the cadre was further strengthened to deliver different kinds of services for the welfare of the people. These officers, mostly serving in a state other than their own, symbolise national integration.Indian economy and society have been built not only by the committed leaders but also by the officers of the civil service in every nook and corner of India. The role of the civil servants both in policy-making and planning has helped young recruits like SR Sankaran remain committed to the poor and the socially marginalised. Enlightened officers like IG Patel, in association with the experts, laid a strong foundation for a growing economy in heavy engineering, space, pharmaceuticals, electronics, banking etc. This trend continued till the late 1980s; the ‘selfish bug’ bit the bureaucrat thereafter through the philosophy of Margaret Thatcher’s New Public Management. A civil servant is reduced to a manager of easing business and not a public servant representing the constitutional mandate of serving the people. The dichotomy between public administration and New Public Management is explained by John A Rohr, a scholar on public service: “Managerial innovations cannot change the fact that administration is governance… the connection between ethics and governance is immediate.” Public service ethics presuppose that one has made, or at least should have made, a prior judgement on the moral legitimacy of the regime under which one serves. “Recall Aristotle’s distinction between a good man and a good citizen who may also be a bad human being; for example, a good Nazi is by definition a bad person. Consequently, the question of public service ethics cannot arise in a thoroughly unjust regime because an unfavourable answer to the fundamental question on the moral legitimacy of the regime itself precludes further inquiry.”Thus, in the given context, civil service is becoming a blessing of the party in power that cares less for constitutional morality to carry out its functions. The young civil servant is in confusion and some are becoming turncoats to follow the rules of the game. The founding fathers were very clear in protecting the civil servant through the UPSC in case of charges of misdemeanour. They are recruited, trained and put in service to carry out functions to deliver constitutionally valid public goods and there is no provision as of now to minimise their role. The whole system will crumble if a district magistrate is ordered in the present scenario to withdraw or minimise the scope of governance. Can we minimise the option of delivery of healthcare, agricultural services, rural development, social justice, education etc. and leave it to the private sector? Yes, we can if we are prepared to face the challenges we are witnessing today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/civil-service-finds-itself-at-the-crossroads-244675
27-04-2021||---||It’s complacency, not conspiracy||The statement issued by RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale cautioning that ‘destructive anti-Bharat forces’ could exploit the second Covid wave to ‘create an atmosphere of negativity and distrust’ is, to put it politely, tone-deaf. Just what he means about being ‘cautious of conspiracies of these destructive forces’ is not clear, unless he is pointing fingers at those who are criticising the handling of the pandemic by the government.The Sangh Parivar will be the net loser in trying to push critics of the government’s ineptitude into the category of anti-nationals.There is no doubt that we confront an extremely serious crisis that has bred an atmosphere, to use his own words, ‘negativity and distrust’. But what did he expect? People are right now running from pillar to post for oxygen cylinders, keeping relatives alive in makeshift gurneys outside hospitals and cremating their loved ones post-haste in makeshift crematoriums.They are in a negative mood, and yes, they have begun to distrust the State which has let them down. Hosabale’s response to all this seems to focus more on what ‘anti-Bharat forces’ may be up to rather than the travails of the ‘Bharat vasis’. All this is even more remarkable because Hosabale (67) has an ABVP background and is well educated and was expected to be a modernising force in the outfit since he is one of the few in the higher echelons of the outfit to have worked in a front organisation like the ABVP.Instead of worrying about destructive anti-Bharat forces that could take advantage of the situation, Hosabale would have done signal service if he had led the process of introspection as to where things went wrong. The RSS has a big equity in the BJP government. It is perhaps the only organisation which the government will listen to in the present circumstances. See how Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan fobbed off the advice offered by former PM Manmohan Singh.Such an exercise would reveal that complacency, bred by overweening arrogance, was the major problem. Responsibility for this rests on both the Union and the state governments, but more on the former because it guides issues under the Disaster Management Act. There must be some explanation as to why the government ‘experts’ did not anticipate this second wave, since such waves were occurring around the world.It would be evident, too, that there were spectacular acts of carelessness. Running a multi-phase election campaign which featured mass rallies was not the acme of common sense. Hosabale wants people to show ‘self-restraint and discipline’ but that advice could have been better directed to PM Modi and Home Minister Shah’s electioneering. As for the states, Uttarakhand took the prize in permitting the Kumbh mela. The erstwhile RSS pracharak and CM Tirath Singh Rawat made the extraordinary claim that ‘Ma Ganga’s blessings are there in the flow’ that would protect the devotees. Ganga Ma did not oblige either the devotees or Rawat himself.Hosabale’s remarks will only encourage a culture of evading responsibility. Some of this extreme attitude can be seen, for example, in the response of UP CM Adityanath to reports that patients and hospitals are struggling to find and maintain oxygen supplies. Reportedly, Adityanath has asked officials to take action under the National Security Act, seize property of people who spread rumours. He has asserted that the problem is not shortage of oxygen, but black marketing and hoarding. All this has an echo to the 1970s when shortages of food and consumer items were ascribed to hoarding. The quality of policing in Adityanath’s bailiwick is evident from the fact that 94 of 120 orders on the NSA were quashed by the Allahabad High Court in the period between January 2018 and December 2020.A more proactive government could have anticipated the second wave and unrolled a vaccination programme at the highest possible speed. Instead, the government dawdled and diverted the effort by boasting of their success and busying themselves exporting vaccines. The government experts could not have been unaware of the scale of the task the country would have had in vaccinating a country of 1.4 billion.Yet, no effort was made to put down extra money to speed up things, create more lines for vaccine production and construct storage and distribution networks and oxygen plants. Indeed, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla was criticised for drawing the attention of the government to the issue of planning and guiding vaccine manufacturers for procurement and distribution of the vaccine. India also did not cater for the possibility that the AstraZeneca vaccine may develop problems and that would have left India high and dry. Ignore for a moment the fiasco about unrolling the indigenous vaccine on August 15.The US government, for example, put down serious money in six different vaccine projects since early 2020. The sense of purpose has been evident from the fact that it has managed to fully vaccinate 29 per cent of its population so far, while India’s figure is just about 1.6 per cent. Given India’s well-known capacity as a vaccine producer, this should not have been the case. That it happened is an administrative failure.The Sangh Parivar will be the net loser in trying to push critics of the government’s ineptitude into the category of anti-nationals. It is this kind of attitude that probably led to this crisis in the first place. When you believe that everything that you do is right and all critics are motivated by some sinister desire to undermine you, you are unable to see the problems till they hit you in the face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/its-complacency-not-conspiracy-244671
