28-04-2021||---||Learn lessons to make system pandemic-ready||HISTORY tells us that pandemics come in the form of waves. The Spanish flu of the 20th century killed more people in the second wave than in the first one. If we had learnt lessons from the first wave of Covid-19, we would have been well prepared and responded quickly to make the second one much less devastating. We did not ramp up our health infrastructure by creating more hospitals and facilities to fight the second wave. Our population, especially the younger lot, became complacent and negligent, oblivious of the imminent danger.The resumption of economic activity and reduced number of infections by December 2020 started giving a false sense of normalcy. This feeling was reaffirmed by a series of political, religious and social activities. A wrong message reached the younger people that everything was under control and the coronavirus had left the country for good, even as discomforting news kept coming from Europe and other parts of the world that the virus had mutated and gained infectivity manifold and was also affecting the younger lot.In India, the hospitals which were designated as Covid hospitals last year returned to their normal operations as soon as the first wave subsided and the cases dropped to three-digit figures at many places. This was done despite the fact that many countries in Europe were witnessing the second and third waves in early 2021 and virus variants were being reported in some countries. Initially, some cases were also reported in India in January and February, including the UK variant (B.1.1.7). By the end of March, 736 cases of the UK variant were reported from all across India, in addition to 34 of the South African variant and at least one case of the Brazilian variant. These variants were said to be highly contagious and therefore needed quick action to isolate, trace and treat in order to contain the wider spread. At this stage, swift measures were needed to contain the spread of the infection. But the system failed to recognise the looming danger. The cases started rising by leaps and bounds and the number crossed one lakh on April 4, two lakh on April 14, and three lakh on April 21. This sudden surge within a couple of weeks led to all-round panic, as the existing hospital facilities, which were functioning at a reduced strength, could not catch up with the number of patients that suddenly reached hospitals in many cities, especially in Mumbai and Delhi.In the second wave, the patients include more people in the age group of 30-50 years. The probable reasons for this new trend, unlike the first wave, are the following: firstly, the younger people kept going to their workplace without adopting preventive measures; a majority of them avoided wearing a mask, and those who wore it slipped below the nose. Social distancing was not practised and washing or sanitising the hands was no longer a priority, unlike during the lockdown months of 2020. Secondly, the virus had got mutated, including a lately identified Indian strain (B.1.617) which had accumulated three mutations and become more contagious. Thirdly, the young population is still not vaccinated on account of priority given to the elderly and co-morbid population after the frontline workers. As a result, the mutant and highly contagious strains of the coronavirus found an unarmed and unvaccinated young population aged 25 or above, which accounts for more than 50 per cent of the nation’s population, as a favourable host to multiply.In addition to the increasing incidence, a greater number of younger patients are needing hospitalisation, oxygen support and ICU admission, and are also succumbing to the disease. The reason behind this trend appears to be the negligence at the initial stage of the infection. People kept working and socialising despite having symptoms; as a result, their body became weak fighting the virus. As the virus grows in the lungs, it compromises the lungs’ function, and if the infected person keeps working and getting exhausted, the oxygen demand on the lungs increases. This double whammy leads to decreased oxygen level in the body, causing hypoxia and further damage to vital organs. By the time the patient becomes visibly weak and decides to go for testing, it is too late. The patients who show mild to moderate symptoms get scared upon learning that they are Covid-positive. In an HRCT (high-resolution computed tomography) scan the lungs show glassy patches in many cases; the severity score is more than 15/25 and oxygen saturation falls below normal. This leads to panic and the patients rush to hospitals.The decline in cases being reported from a few places will be helpful in better management of patients and in bringing down the casualty rate, if not the severity. But it is likely that new hotspots may emerge due to the mistakes made at other places at the beginning of the second wave. Therefore, it is urgently needed that the pandemic is managed well by allocating and diverting resources wherever these are required on priority. For this, swift communication and transportation of resources without the restrictions of state boundaries are required. Further, an enhanced awareness drive is required to make people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and help reduce the incidence.More and more hospitals are needed to undertake studies simultaneously and perform analyses of the data well in time so that policies can be made quickly and altered in real time, wherever and whenever required. The clinical studies undertaken at the hospitals will help tackle the pandemic better in the current phase and also guide the preparation in future. We have a lot to learn from the pandemic’s second wave and apply those learnings in building a pandemic-ready health infrastructure and be prepared to handle the millions of cases without any hitch. This is extremely important looking at the demography of India and its projection for the coming decades as well as the likelihood of more disease outbreaks in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/learn-lessons-to-make-system-pandemic-ready-245074
28-04-2021||---||Covid shadow over Centre-state equations||BY a perverse logic, the Covid pandemic has upturned the Centre-state equations and inverted the principle of co-operative federalism, at a time when the two arms of the political executive require one another the most. Barring Odisha and Tamil Nadu, the other states that were not ruled by the BJP endured the impact of an order which should have favoured the provinces because public health is a state subject under the Constitution’s Seventh Schedule. Although the catastrophe triggered an old debate over placing public health on the concurrent list, in practice, the fiscal and institutional constraints the states were subject to made the Centre an active player in shaping policies in this crucial sector all along.The Seventh Schedule defines the mandate under public health to cover sanitation, hospitals and dispensaries, while the prevention of the spread of contagious diseases — relevant in the present context — from one state to another comes under the concurrent list. Bolstered by the archaic Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA), 2005, the Centre had the constitutional and political carte blanche to give directions to the states during the pandemic. The top-down approach resulted in tensions as some Opposition-governed states acted contrary to the Centre’s ‘advisories’ while the Centre despatched inspection squads without the concurrence of the states to identify the Covid hotspots.The Centre also seemed reluctant to accede to the states’ demands for augmented funds, personal protective equipment kits and testing kits. The ongoing clash over oxygen supplies between the Centre and the O2-starved states is a fallout of the skewed relationship that emanated from the imbalance of powers in the public health sphere. Although medical oxygen is not a controlled commodity, amid the pandemic it is allocated centrally and its distribution is monitored by an Empowered Group 2 constituted by the Prime Minister’s Office with representatives from the states and the major oxygen producers. At the core of the Centre-state discord lie vexatious issues: the limited finances of the states, the lack of technical expertise with the states that was evident in the inability of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to handle Japanese encephalitis and Karnataka to deal with monkey fever, and insufficient institutional back-up to make and implement policies. These circumstances caused states to rely excessively on the Centre for aid and advice during a pandemic as well as local public health issues.While the first phase of the pandemic was marked by pinpricks and clashes between the Centre and the states, especially during the first lockdown when the migrants returned to their home states, a near breaking point came on March 22, 2021, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi conferred with the chief ministers of the virus-ravaged states at a video conference. The backdrop was fraught with anxieties over the deaths caused by O2 scarcity in Delhi hospitals. There was a remote chance of getting the supplies replenished. Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi Chief Minister, live-streamed his speech in which he implored the PM to increase the oxygen quantum until the government cut short the stream, citing ‘tradition and protocol’. Relations between the Centre and Kejriwal were never even-keeled although in his present tenure, the CM was mindful of not nettling Modi without provocation as he did in his previous stints and letting on his national ambitions.Uddhav Thackeray, the Maharashtra CM, whose state has been hit the longest and hardest by Covid, heard Modi out without interrupting him. Thackeray, who put up with the Centre’s calculated apathy towards the Shiv Sena, the BJP’s former ally, realised there was no point in antagonising Modi all the time. The BJP has been on the job of destabilising the disparate Maharashtra coalition and lately found a weak spot in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and its leader, Sharad Pawar. Just how focused the BJP was on the Maharashtra project was apparent when last week, the CBI raided the properties of NCP leader and former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who quit after the Bombay High Court ordered a probe into corruption allegations against him. Following the raid, the CBI booked Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the IPC.The Centre’s attitude towards the Opposition-ruled states, heightened during the pandemic, raises a political question: what happens when the BJP next sets out on a quest for ‘friendly’ allies? Until 2024, it can live out its present tenure albeit as a shrunken National Democratic Alliance (NDA) that lost its key constituents, the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal. The determination that marked the BJP’s objective to dislodge Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress (TMC) from West Bengal since 2019 might replicate itself in neighbouring Odisha, where success has eluded it so far. Although Naveen Patnaik, Odisha’s low-key CM and president of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD), rarely, if ever, annoyed Modi, the BJP regards him as its prime adversary in the east because he must be vanquished by 2024 when the state votes along with the Lok Sabha polls.Therefore, the BJD can never be an ally except in the very remote possibility (at least as of now) of the BJP requiring outside support after the next parliamentary polls. Patnaik is one of the most successful regional chieftains. He has been CM five times, a record held by Pawan Chamling and Jyoti Basu, and has never ever disclosed or even feigned to have national aspirations.The BJP has a long way to go in the south. It will need hand-holding in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to take baby steps. There’s the North-east, barring Assam. Can the BJP’s cavalier, indeed hostile, conduct with the regional forces inspire confidence in its present and prospective partners? Something to ponder over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-shadow-over-centre-state-equations-245073
28-04-2021||---||When govt fails its people||Deep anguish, deeper desolation, and immeasurable sadness defeat us as we witness death after death. Death is no longer a stranger, it has become familiar: a neighbour, a visitor, even family. We have looked death in the face, and found it merciless. We do not personally know the people who died, we only know how many died. But we do know they left a part of themselves with us, and took away a part of us. ‘No man is an island’, wrote English poet John Donne, ‘…any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind. And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee.’Sadly, our civil society has been pulverised, courts abdicate their responsibility, and the rule of law is missing.This is a moment of unending grief. It is also a moment for asking hard questions. There is nothing more tragic than avoidable death. Who is responsible? We asked for statesmen, wrote Wole Soyinka, we were sent executioners. Indians asked for statesmen, we got politicians for whom democracy is reducible to elections; a route to grab power and privilege.Democracy has disappointed democrats across the world. We had hoped for democracy because this is the form of rule that recognises the political competence of ordinary people to participate in decision making. Democracy is of value not because of its outcomes, whether peace, increased GDP, or world-class infrastructure, but because of its presumption that every citizen is equal.Democrats realised early enough that no one can be equal if she is poor, non-literate, malnourished, unemployed amidst opulent affluence. Political equality has meaning only when the holders of power recognise that people should not be poor/ non-literate/malnourished/ unemployed because that compromises the fundamentals of democracy. A well-conceived educational system, a functioning health infrastructure, jobs, housing and a regular income represent the core of redistributive justice.This notion is not new to India. The Constitution draft, authored by a nine-member committee, with Motilal Nehru as the chairman, conceptualised an integrated system of rights from universal adult suffrage to the right to liberty. Prominence was given to social rights. Motilal Nehru observed that political power could be justified only when it was used to ameliorate poverty, ill health and education through the grant and implementation of social and economic rights. The report obliged a future Parliament of independent India to make suitable laws for the maintenance of health and fitness for work for all citizens, for securing a living wage for all workers, and for the protection of motherhood, welfare of children, and to counter economic consequences of old age, infirmity, and unemployment.In the Constituent Assembly, the integrated list of rights was split between the Fundamental Rights Chapter and the Directive Principles of State Policy. Many decades thereon, social rights were given attention only in 2004-2009 by the UPA government headed by PM Manmohan Singh. Aided by a Supreme Court anxious to reclaim its image after its sorry record during the Emergency, and by civil society groups, the UPA-I legislated several social rights. The RTE was made a part of the right to life, and granted the status of a fundamental right. However, the right to health was left out. Article 21, which guarantees the right to life, has been interpreted to cover the right to health. The right is thus derived rather than couched in terms of a specific good that all have a right to.In 1946, the committee on public health chaired by Sir Joseph Bhore had recommended that a web of primary health centres be established to focus on preventive and curative measures. Our public health system has functioned poorly. Since 1991, the private sector, promoting health tourism, has stepped into the field in a major way. Dominated by a few corporates, private hospitals are driven by profit. The private sector is uninterested in the concept of delivering health to all through preventive measures, and is unconcerned about equity. The present government has devolved responsibility for health to the private sector. Consider the pricing policy of vaccination for the 18-44 age group. The onus of protecting lives in the middle of death and destruction has been placed on the citizen.That the focus on curative health has resulted in inadequate health services, is made painfully evident today. Preventive healthcare is related to the establishment of supportive infrastructure: networks of free or reasonably priced services, high literacy rates, exposure to information, social movements, and, above all, political will, as is the case of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Social activists and scholars have suggested a move away from a policy-oriented approach to health, towards a human rights approach which might manage to secure universal access to health.Today, we are paying heavily for privatisation and commercialisation of a basic precondition to life. The leadership is content with demoting democracy to elections, and to mandates secured by elections. The ruling class might do something about the lives, liberties, education and health of citizens. It might not do anything. The presumption of democracy can be belied by the outcome. Important as elections are, they are not sufficient for ensuring democracy and well-being. Democracy has to be protected by citizen activism in the space of civil society, by the judiciary and by the rule of law. In India, civil society has been pulverised, courts abdicate their responsibility, and the rule of law has gone missing.So when the pandemic massacres, the only agent that can hold a mirror to overweening power is the foreign media, a few newspapers and some online news portals. Leaders continue to lust for power, as those who voted for them gasp for breath. This is not the democracy our forebears fought for and conceived of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-govt-fails-its-people-245072
