29-04-2021||---||India draws pity, flak over Covid chaos||History has never seen India being so universally pitied upon as now, as our Covid death toll has crossed 2 lakh. A national daily reported that this month alone, Covid has claimed over 35,000 lives so far, including more than 18,000 in one week (April 21-27). This figure has surpassed the previous record of 33,230 deaths, reported in September 2020.It hurts our national pride when other countries pity us for the way our healthcare system crumbled from March this year onwards due to the shortage of vaccines and oxygen. That this has happened after our government proudly declared early in 2021 to have overcome the problem has surprised other countries. Their sympathy is on seeing the way people are dying all over India when indications had come even last year that India would face a second, if not a third wave, of this pandemic.TV visuals beamed all over the world showed hapless people crying in front of hospitals which would not admit their relatives. Pictures at funeral ghats of forlorn families waiting anxiously in queues for hours because of multitude of deaths shook the world.Never before had we received such humiliating international publicity. From the far right The Australian (April 25) to the centrist The Economist (April 24), blame was squarely laid on the Central Government and personally on the PM for their “complacency and distraction” which allowed things to “spiral out of control”.Our High Commission’s protest rejoinder to The Australian on April 26 objecting to the words “arrogance, hyper-nationalism and bureaucratic incompetence” drew furious reactions from readers who reproduced photographs of crowded election campaigns addressed by the PM and other BJP leaders and the photographs of mass cremations, saying that “people are dying like animals not getting oxygen”.The Economist blamed the PM, quoting his declaration in January that “We not only solved our problems but also helped the world fight the pandemic.” It said that in early March, when Maharashtra complained of shortage of vaccine, his government far from helping, attacked the state government “in the hope of bringing it down.”Yet, some sections in our media seem to be losing direction by deflecting our ire towards the US through a despatch by their US-based correspondent for a national daily (April 27): “US jolted into action, Biden phones Modi to promise all help”. The report said that the “Joe Biden-Kamala Harris dispensation” which was “slammed across the social, political, and business spectrum for perceived indifference to India” has sprung into action promising all help to India.Justification for our expectation for quid pro quo was because India had helped the US when the then President Trump had requested our PM to rush hydroxychloroquine to them on April 5, 2020 despite our ban on its export the previous day. As a result, India shipped 50 million tablets to the US on May 1, 2020. Before this, an anonymous social media post had said that India’s National Security Adviser had conveyed to his US counterpart that “India could play the game better” if he “knew a trick of the game”. The post was based on an article in a business weekly on April 22 that a Mumbai-based pharma company was making highly purified ‘synthetic phospholipids’ for vaccine manufacturing in the US.Does this shadowboxing absolve our leadership of not implementing the Empowered Group VI’s decision taken in April 2020 that the supply of oxygen should be ramped up to face the Covid pandemic and that the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade would look into the oxygen supply? The media had also reported that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health had in its report on November 21, 2020, highlighted the need for ensuring that the oxygen inventory was in place and its price controlled to meet the outbreak of Covid-19 and its management.Although the Maharashtra Government issued an order on March 20, 2021, diverting 80 per cent of its oxygen towards medical use, the Centre chose to do that on an all-India basis only with effect from April 22, 2021. But this did not prevent the Union Health Minister from being aggressive with the Maharashtra when it requested for more vaccine supply after experiencing severe shortage as restive long queues started appearing for vaccination. Health ministry mandarins went on saying that enough vaccine was supplied to the state. As a result, the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) advocated by Modi from April 11 to 14 became a joke in Mumbai.The same aggression from the Health Minister was experienced by former PM Manmohan Singh when he wrote a non-polemic letter to the PM on April 18, giving suggestions on how to improve Covid management. This compelled a respected industry leader to call for ending “our age of hatred”. He said that Singh’s “well-meaning letter provoked an uncharacteristic rant from the Union Health Minister.” Yet, he added that “many of Singh’s suggestions, already under evaluation for weeks, were part of the new strategy” announced on April 19 by the Health Minister.The way top BJP leaders were holding mammoth rallies and road shows all over West Bengal with aggressive slogans and refusing to shorten their campaigns despite Covid, remind one of the invasions undertaken by the Huns into Europe in the fifth Century to overturn the Roman Empire.Did it need a strongly worded reprimand from the Kolkata High Court on April 22 for the Central Election Commission to realise that mammoth crowds during the elections had posed severe health hazards? The HC said: “The Commission is not doing one-tenth of what TN Seshan had done.” It warned that if the commission did not take action, the court would. A stronger admonition came from the Madras High Court on April 26 that ‘murder’ charges should be framed against the EC for the way it allowed Covid norms to be flouted. Weren’t these avoidable?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-draws-pity-flak-over-covid-chaos-245583
29-04-2021||---||Bengal politics has taken a turn for the worse||As the long-drawn eight-phase Assembly polls come to a close, one thing is sure: politics in West Bengal has changed forever, for the worse. I am not making an election forecast here. Exit polls should be out soon and we may get a sense of how this keenly fought contest has ended. In a close election like this one, I would wait for the actual count on May 2.In any case, I don’t need to anticipate the exact outcome to make my point. For my purpose, it is enough to assume some basics. I assume that this election was more or less a direct contest between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. The expectation that the Left Front may be able to stage a comeback in alliance with the Congress and Indian Secular Front did not happen. This third force is expected to end up as a distant third, with around 10 per cent of popular votes.I also assume that it was a pretty close contest in terms of votes, though that may not reflect in the number of seats. The TMC and the BJP would share around 80 per cent votes between themselves. If it is 40:40, the election is on the razor’s edge and we could see a nail-biting finish. If it is 42:38 in Mamata Banerjee’s favour, the media would be singing paeans to her leadership and Prashant Kishor’s micromanagement. And if it is the other way around, TV studios would be raving about the great saffron surge created by the Modi-Shah duo.No matter which of these scenarios unfolds on May 2, it is clear that a fundamental political realignment has taken place in West Bengal. The BJP’s extraordinary success in West Bengal in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 was clearly no flash in the pan. Despite a significant presence of Hindu political organisations immediately before and after Partition — first the Jan Sangh and then the BJP — they were never more than a marginal factor in the state. As late as 2011 the BJP drew a blank with just 4.1 per cent votes in the Assembly polls. That improved to just three seats and 10.2 per cent votes in the 2016 polls. The BJP was firmly on the margins.All that changed dramatically in 2019 when the BJP built upon Modi's popularity to emerge as the main challenger to the TMC, winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats and securing 40.6 per cent votes. The question was whether the BJP would be able to hold on to this success in this Assembly election or recede to its marginal position. We don’t have the result, but we have the answer to this question: politics of Hindutva is here to stay in West Bengal. For some time now, political competition in the state will be TMC vs BJP — an unthinkable proposition a few years ago.This has been accompanied by a social realignment. The BJP entered state politics by courting marginal regions and social groups. Its initial successes were in the backward regions of north Bengal and Jangalmahal in the west. It created a base by courting Dalits, adivasis, Hindu migrants from Bangladesh and Hindi speakers in urban pockets. Since 2019, the BJP has expanded its net much beyond these sections. This time, it has gone into the heartland of rural south Bengal and created a space for itself among the Bengali middle class, the bhadralok. Yet, by stoking caste politics in a state where it was suppressed for long, the BJP may have triggered a new kind of identity politics.The fulcrum of this politics is, of course, Hindu mobilisation. Popular vote share of anywhere close to 40 per cent would mean that the BJP has succeeded in consolidating about two-thirds of the 70 per cent Hindu voters in the state. This electoral realignment would have long-term consequences. In a state with about 30 per cent Muslim voters, the BJP would need to keep Hindus in a state of heightened anxiety, if not panic, to keep them consolidated at this peak level. The rise of the Indian Secular Front, a Muslim political party, indicates the future possibility of counter-mobilisation among the Muslims. Bengal, thus, faces the prospects of being pushed to its sordid communal past of the 1940s when it was the epicentre of Hindu-Muslim violence.Add to it the role of muscle, money and election machine this time. It was widely feared that this may be one of the least free and fair elections in Bengal. Many of those fears have turned out to be true. Muscle power is not new in Bengal politics. Its roots go back to the 1960s, in the clashes between the Congress and Communists and then the intra-Communist feuds. It is no secret that the Left Front government routinely deployed violence against its political adversaries. The TMC continued and accentuated this legacy. The large-scale violence unleashed by the TMC strongmen during the panchayat elections of 2018 is one of the reasons for popular disaffection with the ruling party. Now, the BJP has continued the tradition as many erstwhile Left workers have reportedly shifted their loyalties to the BJP. What the BJP still lacked in its ability to take on the TMC musclemen, it was made up by the central security forces, as alleged by Mamata Banerjee.As for money, this was clearly the most expensive election in the history of the state. While there are no reports of large-scale voter bribing, money was pouring in multiple ways that the state has not seen before: pre-election defection of leaders, money to local middlemen, propping up of new TV channels and massive advertisements. Once this trend begins, there is no going back. It is also fair to say that the Election Commission was more partisan in this election than it has been in any other election.Finally, the ‘professional’ management of elections marks a new turn in the history of Bengal, if not the country. Following the shocker in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mamata Banerjee outsourced political strategy and management to Prashant Kishor’s team which created a parallel structure to the party. They helped design new and popular policies, forged a new image, helped in the selection of candidates and in the micromanagement of the campaign and polling. We do not know if all that would suffice to give Mamata a third term. But we do know that it would be hard to go back to the old-style election management by political leaders and cadres.It may have also led Bengal and the rest of the country into American-style politics as management.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bengal-politics-has-taken-a-turn-for-the-worse-245582
29-04-2021||---||All eyes on Afghanistan||US President Joe Biden announced on February 14 that all American troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan by September 11. This would bring to an end the longest war in US history whose roots were laid two decades earlier. On September 11, 2001, US cities were subjected to four coordinated attacks, masterminded by the Al-Qaeda, led by Osama bin Laden, operating from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. As many as 2,977 Americans died. The attacks led to the most prolonged US military operations ever. US commandos killed Osama in Pakistan’s Abbottabad. He was living at a virtual stone’s throw away from Pakistan’s military academy. American diplomacy was so confused and inept that rather than censuring and sanctioning Pakistan, successive US Presidents acted as virtual apologists for the Pakistan army.The Afghanistan government would require financial assistance from the US and its allies, together with military supplies and air support, to survive.A recent American study has indicated that the war in Afghanistan has cost the US treasury a mind-boggling $2.26 trillion and resulted in 2.41 lakh people killed, including 2,372 US military personnel. Thanks to Pakistan’s omnipresent ISI, the Afghan conflict also saw the emergence of closer ties between the ISI, the Taliban, and Afghanistan-based Pakistani terrorist groups operating against India. These included the Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. These links will inevitably continue. The Taliban, after all, treated the hijackers of IC 814 like heroes, as India surrendered ignominiously, releasing terrorists like Maulana Masood Azhar, Omar Saeed Sheikh and Mushtaq Zargar.Contrary to popular belief, Afghanistan is not a monolithic country. The country has 14 distinct ethnic and linguistic denominations, including Pashtuns, Tajiks, Kyrgyz, Balochis, Turkmen and Uzbeks. Pashtuns, who constitute 40.9% of the population, are mainly in southern Afghanistan. The Tajiks, constituting 37-39%, live in northern Afghanistan bordering Central Asia. The Durand Line drawn arbitrarily by the British is not accepted as an international border by Afghan Pashtuns, who believe Afghanistan’s borders extend to the Indus near Attock in Pakistan. The main question posed today is, why is there so much interest, and, indeed, rivalry among China, the US, Russia, the EU, Pakistan and others to have a finger in the Afghan pie?A major reason for this extraordinary external interest of these powers in Afghanistan is that it is a goldmine of mineral and material resources. The country’s high-quality emeralds, rubies, etc., have long excited the international gemstone market. The United States Geological Survey has concluded that Afghanistan may hold 60 million metric tonnes of copper, 2.2 billion tonnes of iron ore, 1.4 million tonnes of rare earth elements, and veins of aluminum, gold, silver, etc. From the point of view of mining tycoons, these resources are there for the picking. The US withdrawal will lead to a race for access to Afghanistan’s natural resources, with China as the most active participant.Pakistan is obsessed with using Afghanistan for ‘strategic depth’ to promote terrorism in India. In the days before the 9/11 US intervention, the ‘strategic depth’ that Pakistan received in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan was the availability of training camps for its jihadi groups. In days after US intervention, the Taliban provided facilities for Pakistan-based groups to attack Indian consulates in Herat and Jalalabad. The Indian embassy in Kabul has been under constant threat of attacks. Indian engineers and professional staff working on development projects in Afghanistan face similar threats.With the passage of time, the Taliban will seek to obtain dominant control of territory. The Taliban and other ISI protégés, like the Haqqani network, could overrun significant parts of southern and eastern Afghanistan. New Delhi needs to make a careful assessment on whether it would be feasible, or desirable, to join others in providing weapons and equipment, including air power, to the Afghan armed forces.A major feature of Indian involvement in the Afghan conflict, prior to US intervention, was India’s close ties with Iran and Tajikistan, which were transit points for Indian military and relief assistance to the Afghan resistance, known as the Northern Alliance. Tajik war hero Ahmed Shah Masood then led the resistance. Iran has sectarian and ethnic aversions for the Taliban, though it presently seems to have opted to proceed cautiously. Iran can intervene when the Taliban seeks to take control of non-Pashtun, or Shia-dominated areas in Afghanistan’s provinces bordering Iran, or Central Asian Republics like Uzbekistan and Tajikistan.At the same time, the Russians who backed the Northern Alliance prior to the American invasion, now appear to be singing a different tune by backing the Taliban. One wonders how the Russians will respond to concerns in their erstwhile Soviet Republics in Central Asia about the Taliban reaching their borders. Trends on these issues need to be analysed and acted on. New Delhi should undertake detailed discussions not only with the Afghan government, but also major regional leaders in Afghanistan on how to proceed in the coming months. An odd development one faces is that the Afghan ‘peace process’ treats the Afghanistan government and the Taliban on a virtually equal footing. Little thought seems to have been given on how to politically deal with the Taliban, which has the support of only a section of Afghanistan’s Pashtun population. It is, however, unlikely that the Taliban can prevail over the Afghan national army across the entire Pashtun heartland.The Afghan government would require financial assistance from the US and its allies, together with military supplies and air support, to survive. Given past American policies, one can never be sure of assistance, particularly air support from the US, in the future. India would have to keep in touch with a wide cross-section of Afghan political leaders as the resistance to a Taliban takeover would be strong and widespread. It would, however, be prudent to retain contacts with sections of the Taliban. Pakistan will, in the long run, face territorial and other claims by any government in Afghanistan which is sensitive to Pashtun aspirations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-eyes-on-afghanistan-245552
