01-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||ROB, RUB project irks residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 31Months after starting of the construction work of an ROB and two RUBs on Pakhowal Road, the project plan and work specifications have not been displayed at construction sites. After barricades have been installed to stop the vehicular movement from near Canal Bridge till Hero Bakery Chowk on Pakhowal Road recently, residents and shopkeepers on the stretch are a harried lot.Several persons complained that the way leading to their properties remains blocked due to the ongoing project these days. They demand from Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the MC authorities to resolve the problems being faced by them at the earliest.Road to houses remains blockedSeveral persons complained that the way leading to their properties remains blocked due to the ongoing project these days. They demand from Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the MC authorities to resolve the problems being faced by them at the earliest. A resident said they were facing a lot of issues since the road had been dug up.A resident said they were facing a lot of issues since the road had been dug up.He said: “When the road was dug up, a sewerage pipe started leaking near our property. Now, the work is underway to shift the sewer line. It is difficult for us to reach our residence. I don’t know what plan has been made to resolve the problems being faced by us now. Even no information about the project and its deadline has been displayed anywhere. At present, the stretch, outside our property, has been blocked due to the ongoing sewer work.”He said: “The project should be carried out with proper planning so that residents and shopkeepers should not suffer. The project details, including map, entire plan, work schedule and its deadline, should be displayed at construction sites for the convenience of people. Space should be left on the stretch for the movement of two-wheelers.”A group of shopkeepers complained that their business has been badly affected since the road was closed for vehicular movement.A shopkeeper said: “Customers are not visiting the shop since the vehicular movement has been stopped on the stretch. Even I face difficulty in reaching my shop as a portion of the road has been dug up. A few traders have left their businesses due to the closure of the vehicular movement and high rent of shops. We want that the project should be carried out in a planned manner so that our businesses should not suffer.”Notably, projects worth crores of rupees under the Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the MC are underway but no information about project plans, deadlines, estimated cost and other important specifications are being displayed at sites.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the project plan and other required information would be displayed at construction sites.He said they would take necessary steps to resolve other issues too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rob-rub-project-irks-residents-192198
01-01-2021||Ludhiana||Training on setting up of women desks||Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal today conducted a training regarding the setting up of women desks for addressing issues of women. The training was conducted at the Police Lines here. Agrawal said the ADGP, Community Affairs Division, Punjab, Chandigarh, Gurpreet Kaur Deo, had set up 488 women help desks at the police station level to deal with crime related to women and children that would be inaugurated by the Chief Minister on January 1. These ‘mahila mitras’ will attend women in distress at the help desks. In this regard, a one-day training was conducted today at the conference hall of the Police Lines under the leadership of the top cop. The CP said women desks were being set up to provide timely justice to women facing any kind of issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-on-setting-up-of-women-desks-192199
01-01-2021||Ludhiana||Expedite Smart City projects, officials told||To review Smart City Mission projects, a meeting was convened at the MC’s Zone D office under the chairmanship of MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Thursday. He said: “Ongoing projects and upcoming projects were discussed in detail and some interdepartmental issues were resolved during the meeting.” He said: “Special focus was laid on sports infrastructure projects wherein timelines were reviewed and directions were issued to officials to expedite the projects so that these can be delivered in a time-bound manner for the welfare of citizens.” Sabharwal said: “Projects such as development of Sports Park at Jainpur, refurbishment of basketball court, badminton court, refurbishment of athletics track at Guru Nanak Stadium and development of all-weather swimming pool at the Rakh Bagh Sports Complex were taken up in the meeting.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/expedite-smart-city-projects-officials-told-192200
01-01-2021||---||21-yr-old among 2 fatalities; 36 +ve||Ludhiana, December 31Two persons, including a 21-year-old youth, lost their lives due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours. Besides, 36 fresh cases of virus were reported from Ludhiana district.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said 47 patients, including 36 from Ludhiana and 11 from other districts, tested positive for the virus. In Ludhiana district, 14 patients with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner, nine visited the OPD and five came in contact with positive patients. Eight others, including, a healthcare worker and a patient with severe acute respiratory illness, tested positive for Covid.Dr Bagga said three patients, including two from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar district, died of the virus. As per information, a 60-year-old man from Khanna and a 21-year-old youth from Basti Jodhewal here lost their lives.Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 24,773 while 3,698 patients belong to other districts and states. The total number of persons who lost their lives include 964 persons from Ludhiana and 447 from other districts.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 333 active patients in the district.He said till date, a total of 5,37,992 samples had been taken, of which reports of 5,36,442 had been received. Of these, 5,07,971 samples were found negative while reports of 1,550 were pending.He said till date, 54,928 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 1,287. Today, 49 persons were sent for home quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-yr-old-among-2-fatalities-36-ve-192201
01-01-2021||---||Traffic chaos-free city my New Year resolution: ACP||Ludhiana, December 31Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Gurdev Singh has taken a New Year resolution to further improve the traffic situation in the industrial hub. The ACP, who had taken a lot of initiatives in this regard, now, pledges to do more for the city.In a statement issued, Gurdev said due to the ongoing development projects in the city such as elevated road, Malhar road beautification, Pakhowal road RUB and widening of old bridge over Sidhwan canal, traffic movement at these spots had been slowed down but from January 1, he has made a special diversion plan at these places to avoid traffic jams.The ACP said the traffic police had identified 91 black spots in the city which would be converted to white spots in the coming days by making technical reforms.The ACP said in most of the road accidents, pedestrians and cyclists were killed. Now, to prevent such accidents, a special campaign has been started in which reflective tapes would be put on cycles and speed radars would be installed at black spots.The traffic police have also planned special seminars for auto-rickshaw drivers and schoolchildren to make them aware of the traffic rules. The ACP said they were also planning to provide a separate lane to vehicles such as ambulances and police and school vehicles.Notably, the ACP has also received the Police Medal for Meritorious Services and the Chief Minister Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty for his services in managing traffic in the city. He has also worked tirelessly during the pandemic-induced lockdown to serve food to the needy and implement the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-chaos-free-city-my-new-year-resolution-acp-192202
01-01-2021||Ludhiana||Cyber cell: 1,540 plaints  disposed of in year gone by||The cyber crime cell here has received a total of 3,280 complaints in 2020, of which 1,540 complaints were disposed of resulting in registration of 38 FIRs and recovery of around Rs 11 lakh of the public. Besides, in December, an interstate gang of cyber criminals was busted from which Rs 5.45 lakh, 11 mobile phones, eight laptops, a printer, a scanner, three credit cards, 17 SIM cards, six memory cards, 45 PAN cards and 11 ATM cards were recovered. “In the coming year, we are committed to provide timely assistance to residents of the city, for which procurement of new advanced technical tools and training of cyber cell staff will be given priority. Timely disposal of complaints will also be done. Further, a sustained effort will be made towards creating awareness among the public about the new modus operandi adopted by cyber criminals and preventive measures that can be taken by people. It will be done through social media platforms, webinars and  seminars,” said ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Bhatti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyber-cell-1-540-plaints-disposed-of-in-year-gone-by-192203
01-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Choking of trees: Plaints lodged against LIT, MC||Ludhiana, December 31 Finding fault with the method of laying interlocking tiles on sides of several roads in the city by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and the Municipal Corporation (MC), which would result in severe damage to most of the trees, the Council of Engineers (CoE) has lodged two complaints with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the state government, seeking their intervention to stop the practice immediately. CoE president Kapil Dev cited an earlier complaint in this regard (made in January 2020, after which the Department of Local Government, Punjab, issued instructions to the MC to not to cover the area around trees with concrete and paver blocks. The complaint said work for the laying of interlocking tiles on footpaths and road berms had been initiated by the LIT on Mall Road, College Road, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar Man Road and contrary to the directions issued by the state government and the orders made by both the apex court and the NGT, area around trees were being covered with concrete and paver blocks damaging the roots of the trees. Citing the orders of the Supreme Court and the NGT, the CoE recalled that in 2013, the NGT had directed the Delhi civic bodies to leave a 1-m radius around trees and those failing to comply with these directions were liable to face a penalty of Rs 10,000 per tree. Kapil Dev pointed out that officials concerned of the LIT and the MC were continuously covering the areas around the trees with concrete and fixing the interlocking tiles over it without consulting  horticulturists and experts about the devastating effect of the same. The practice had not only resulted in stopping the penetration of rainwater into earth’s surface but was also acting as slow poison for existing trees and plants. Seeking immediate intervention of the government and the NGT, the CoE said to avoid irreparable loss to trees and greenery and to ensure proper seepage of rainwater through the earth surface of the remaining area on roadsides, directions be issued to the LIT and the MC for replacing the paver blocks with grass pavers/turf pavers (porous pavers) along with leaving space for green cover as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/choking-of-trees-plaints-lodged-against-lit-mc-192204
01-01-2021||---||Residents hope for better roads, sanitation||Ludhiana, December 31New Year 2021 will usher in various new development projects in Ludhiana and its periphery towns of Sahnewal, Doraha, and Ahmedgarh. We bring an overview of what all is expected to come up in the district during this year.Municipal CorporationThe much-awaited work on the rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project at an estimated cost of Rs 650 crore is expected to start this year. Under the project, two new sewerage treatment plants (STPs) are to be constructed at Jamalpur and Balloke. The project also includes the refurbishment of existing STP’s. A proposal has been made to install waste compactors under the Smart City Mission at different locations for managing the solid waste. It is also expected that the work to set up a plant for management of construction and demolition waste would be started in 2021. Covid vaccination drive big challengeThe MC has planned to carpet different roads in the city. Residents want the road projects must be carried out in a transparent manner and ensure good quality roads.The residents of various areas, especially in outer areas, want the civic body to ensure de-silting of all sewer lines to avoid the problem of overflowing sewers. Residents also want from the civic body to address the problem of waterlogging in low-lying areas.The street vendors are expecting from the MC to set up vending zones. The Local Government Department has recently notified 64 sites for vending zones in the city. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the vending zones are expected to be set up in the next three months.Improvement TrustLudhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) will hand over work relating to water supply and sewerage in four colonies – Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Rajguru Nagar — to the MC. Leisure valleys to be developed in Haibowal (along Budha Nullah) and in Ludhiana East assembly segment.Interlocking tiles to be laid on Mall Road, College Road, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar Road and some other areas that are not under the administrative control of LIT.LED streetlights to be installed in its own colonies along with other development works related to urban infrastructure.The newly built-up commercial complex on Maharani Jhansi Road to be again put to auction at a reserve price of Rs 157.6 crore.Commissonerate of PoliceThe SHOs or in their absence, responsible officers will be available in the police stations. A special campaign will be launched against illegal travel agents.Psychiatrists and psychologists will be made available in women counselling matters.A mobile application will be launched to trace the missing children. Another app is being prepared to trace stolen vehicles.The police plan to put dedicated numbers on auto-rickshaws to identify them from a distance through a mobile application.The public grievances redressal system, particularly for women and senior citizens, will be made more responsive.Industry & CommerceIndustry expects a good working atmosphere for normalisation and growth of business. The state and Centre’s initiative for amendments in the rules and regulations to further bring in ease of doing business, further encouraging the business opportunities in the industrial town.District courtsThe district courts will take up and is expected to decide several high-profile cases, involving the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, his son Raninder Singh and former Akali Minister Bikram Singh Majithia.The main cases that are pending before the district courts include the alleged income tax evasion case against CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Two such complaints moved by the Income Tax Department against the CM’s son Raninder Singh were also pending before the same court.A defamation case filed by the former SAD Minister Bikram Singh Majithia against the AAP MP Sanjay Singh in 2016 is pending for cross examination of Majithia and his witnesses. The case is expected to be decided this year.The infamous Issewal gang rape case registered on February 10, 2019, could not be decided as the evidence in the case could not be concluded in 2020. The decision is expected in 2021.The attack on a Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhandriyanwale registered in May 2016, which was pending for prosecution evidence, is likely to be decided this year.SportsA project for the development of sports and setting up a 32-acre international standard sports park will come up at Jainpur on Hambran Road near here this year. The park will have cricket ground, Astroturf hockey surface, swimming pool, synthetic athletics track, acrylic basketball courts, archery range, squash court, football ground, cycling and pedestrian tracks, etc. for sportspersons with refreshment lounge besides several others facilities.The refurbishment of existing sports facilities at Guru Nanak Stadium such as relaying of synthetic track, completion of all-weather indoor swimming pool at Rakh Bagh, upgradation of badminton courts at Shastri Hall and cycling velodrome at the PAU will be undertaken in 2021.SahnewalMajor plan to be undertaken to get the town rid of the traffic jams, which are the order of the day. The MC will start timely lifting of garbage, which stagnates for days together.Shortage of doctors and medicines at the CHC, which caters to the needs of a number of surrounding villages apart from the town itself, is expected to be met this year.DorahaA new water treatment plant will be set up in the town. Work on RoB on Neelon-Doraha stretch will be completed this year.AhmedgarhThe sewage treatment plant, being installed at an estimated cost of Rs 8 crore, will start functioning this year. The Maherna drain, supposed to take away water from disposal tanks, is also expected to be constructed.The roads connecting the town with Payal, Raikot, Dhulkot, Lohatbaddi and Malerkotla through Kanganwal will be repaired or re-laid.The work on railway overbridge on Pohir Road will be completed to check traffic bottlenecks.The construction of the proposed Government Senior Secondary School near Bajrang Akhara is expected to be resumed during the year.The development of the old grain market yard into a shopping complex or rehri market will solve the problem of traffic congestion at Railway Road, Chaura Bazar, Mahavir Road, Bhagat Singh Chowk and Gandhi Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-hope-for-better-roads-sanitation-192205
01-01-2021||---||Will work to strengthen link between farmers, PAU: VC||Ludhiana, December 31 Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic,  Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) ensured that the agricultural community carried out all farm operations smoothly, while disseminating sustainable technologies for the same, said the PAU Vice-Chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon, here today. He was releasing the official calendar of the university for 2021 at a special meeting of the senior university officers.  Dr Dhillon appreciated the efforts of the faculty, staff and students towards ascertaining top rank for the PAU among all state agricultural universities and called for continued dedication and efforts to improve farmers’ income in the coming year. “Amid the ongoing struggles, let us keep going the extra mile to strengthen our connection with farmers through cutting-edge research and extension and emerge stronger than before,” added the VC.  Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research; Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension; Registrar Dr Rajinder Singh Sidhu; Gurinder Kaur Sangha, Dean Post Graduate Studies; Dr Ravinder Kaur Dhaliwal, Director Students Welfare; Karanjit Singh Thind, Additional Director of Research; Tejinder Singh Riar, Additional Director of Communication; Ashok Kumar, Dean, College of Agricultural Engineering; Sandeep Bains, Dean College of Home Science; Dr Shammi Kapoor, Dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities; and Heads of Departments were present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-work-to-strengthen-link-between-farmers-pau-vc-192206
01-01-2021||---||Agri experts hold live interaction with farmers||Ludhiana, December 31 Experts of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) dwelt upon agrarian issues during a live interaction with farmers, here today. Dr TS Riar, Additional Director Communication, said the PAU live programme has completed 30 episodes and gained momentum among the farming community of Punjab and adjoining states. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan also seek solutions to their problems during the live programme, he added. Seeing its popularity, efforts were being made to increase the number of episodes per week, he informed. Dr Sanjeev Chauhan, Head, Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, advised the farmers to grow poplar trees for substantial profits. Discussing the plantation as well as marketing of poplar, he urged them to contact experts of the department for nursery raising or reservation of plants.   Dr Prabhjot Kaur, Head, Department of Climate Change and Agrometeorology, said the temperature is below normal these days and there are chances of cold winds, frost and fog in the coming days. She also provided tips for the management of wheat and vegetables in winters. Dr Lavleesh Garg, Extension Scientist, Skill Development Centre, informed about the training courses to be conducted at different Krishi Vigyan Kendras in the forthcoming days. Dr Inderpreet Kaur, Entomologist, shed light on the farm operations to be carried out in the next 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/agri-experts-hold-live-interaction-with-farmers-192207
01-01-2021||Ludhiana||Exhibition to expand rly vendor base||The Railways procure various items/equipments to the extent of approximate Rs 25,000 crores through various approved vendors. To ensure proper quality and timely delivery of critical items to maintain its service, a proper supply chain mechanism plays an important role. These observations were made by Rajesh Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Ferozepur Division while inaugurating an exhibition of Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO) approved critical equipment and components at Electric Loco Shed here last evening. The objective of the exhibition was to enhance its vendor base by involving local entrepreneurs.  Addressing the various stakeholders, including officers from MSME Department, Ludhiana, the DRM said the purpose of the exhibition was to provide opportunity to the interested vendors to take a physical look at the items for better appreciation and understanding the complexity of the design and application of the items involved.   Agarwal said the exhibition and interaction between prospective vendors and railway engineers would help in development of new vendors and increasing the vendor base. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/exhibition-to-expand-rly-vendor-base-192208
01-01-2021||Ludhiana||Speakers share experience via Open mic events||CT University organised one-of-its-kind events named “Open mic”. A total of six speakers from varied fields shared their life struggle, challenges and accomplishments. Malvika Sood Sachar, Director of Hollywood English Academy, was the guest of honour at the event.   Speakers namely Sunil Raj Vinayak, a fashion designer; Satwinder Kaur, president, AbbNhi Welfare Society; Rahul Kumar Singh, project manager, Shaan Foundation, Mansa; Mohini Mahant, of Mansa Foundation; Ravi Devgan, an artist from Raikot, and Dipti Saluja, a lawyer, shared their life inspiring stories with the audience gathered.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/speakers-share-experience-via-open-mic-events-192209
01-01-2021||---||Civil Surgeon, 2 SMOs retire||Ludhiana, December 31 Three frontline warriors of Covid 19 pandemic - Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga,  senior medical officers  Dr Amita Jain and Dr Rajinder Gulati - got retired from government service today.  The staff at Civil Surgeon Office organized a farewell party on retirement of Dr Rajesh Bagga. The staff appreciated the works done by Dr Bagga. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and Police Commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal were present during the farewell function.  Dr Amita Jain, Senior Medical Officer, ESI-2 & UCHC (Vardhman),  got retired after rendering services for nearly 35 years in the Health Department. Dr Jain said, “I thank all my seniors, well-wishers and staff for supporting me to conduct my duties effectively.” Dr Rajinder Gulati, Senior Medical Officer Civil Hospital Khanna, said,  “It is my last day of job. I am retiring today after serving Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab for more than 33 years at different health institutions including Subsidary Health Center (SHC), Community Health Center (CHC), Sub-Divisional Hospital (SDH), District Hospital, ESI Zonal Hospital and ESIC Model Hospital as Medical Officer/Pediatrician. I want to share my heartfelt thanks to all for helping to create the good memories.” These doctors performed their duty as frontline warriors during Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civil-surgeon-2-smos-retire-192210
