03-01-2021||---||One fatality; 44 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 2Fortyfour persons tested positive, while one lost his life to coronavirus in the district today.At present, there are 329 active patients in the district. There are 24,844 positive cases in the district so far, while the death toll has reached 968.Today a 62-year-old male, who was admitted to SPS Hospital and was also a patient of diabetes and kidney disease, succumbed to the virus.According to the Health Department, a total of 5,41,739 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,39,786 samples had been received, of which 5,11,231 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,953 samples were pending.Till date, 55,039 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1,164. Today, 48 persons were sent for home quarantine.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said whenever the District Administration and the Health Department find out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, his/her samples were immediately sent for testing. A total of 1,947 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.The DC appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but keep everyone around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-fatality-44-ve-in-ludhiana-district-192983
03-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Kin, residents remember cadet Chattar Singh Dhadhli||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 2Remembering his sacrifice for his devotion towards the country, kin and local residents paid tributes to city hero late Cadet Chattar Singh Dhadhli on his death anniversary today.They gathered at Bhai Chattar Singh Park, one of the prominent and oldest parks that was named in memory of the late cadet.In the morning, the kin washed the statue of Bhai Chattar Singh Dhadhli and then garlanded it in the afternoon. Dhadhli was a student of Arya College Ludhiana and a cadet of the 3rd Punjab Battalion of the NCC. Bhai Chattar Singh had sacrificed his life on January 2, 1954, when he was helping his fellow cadets dig a pit when the earth caved in due to vibrations caused by a train. He had got buried under the soil.On the occasion of his death anniversary, Bhai Chattar Singh’s brothers Bhawanjit Singh, Avtar Singh, Satpal Singh and residents of his native village Mal Majra near Samrala were present. They appealed to the government to develop the park as a model park and display information about the life of Bhai Chattar Singh there. They also requested the government not to setup any garbage dump inside and outside the park.Notably, the park was in a shambles for a long time. At present, a big garbage dump is located just near the boundary wall of the park. The MC had made an attempt to shift that garbage dump on the park land a few years ago but residents had strongly criticised the MC’s “senseless” idea of shifting garbage dump to this prominent park.Bhawanjit Singh, brother of Bhai Chattar Singh said, “We and villagers visit park every year to pay tributes to our brother who had sacrificed his life while helping the fellow cadets in 1954. We appeal to the government to make it a model park and display information about the life of Bhai Chattar Singh so that people can get inspiration from his life. Our brother’s statue should also be set up in the centre of the park.”A social activist, Gurpal Singh Grewal, who was present on the occasion today, said, “We had opposed the MC’s plan to set up garbage dump on the park land. However, the civic body has not removed the dump structures from the park land till date. These structures should be removed at the earliest and saplings should be planted there. A playground should also be developed inside the park so that children can play there.”An advocate, Gurinderpreet Singh, had earlier moved the National Green Tribunal against the MC’s plan of setting up of garbage dump inside the park and near the park. “No garbage dump should be set up inside or near the park,” he said.The MC had started renovation work at this park a year ago, but the work is going on at a slow pace.Tragic end of valiant cadetBhai Chattar Singh Dhadhli was a student of Arya College Ludhiana and a cadet of the 3rd Punjab Battalion of the NCC. He sacrificed his life on January 2, 1954, when he was helping his fellow cadets dig a pit when the earth caved in due to vibrations caused by a train. He got buried under the soil there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kin-residents-remember-cadet-chattar-singh-dhadhli-192984
03-01-2021||---||20 more FIRs registered against fake travel agents||Ludhiana, January 2The Ludhiana police in their drive against illegal travel agents registered 20 more FIRs against unscrupulous agents on Friday.Cases have been registered against 44 travel agents, including women. The police have also arrested some of the agents.Notably, the Ludhiana police had launched the drive on Thursday against travel agents who had been duping people aspiring to go abroad. On Thursday, the city police had registered 83 FIRs against 184 travel agents.The Dehlon police have registered four FIRs against five travel agents, including a woman, Manpreet Kaur, alias Muskan, a resident of Phase 2, Dugri on Friday. Nine cases of immigration fraud have been registered by the Police Division 5 against 25 travel agents involving a fraud of several lakhs.In another case, the Police Division 8 registered a fraud case against a couple, Kamaldeep Singh and his wife Manmeet Kaur, of BRS Nagar. Complainant Balwinder Singh of Deep Nagar told the police that the couple had taken Rs 27 lakh from him and in lieu they had promised to arrange a permanent residency (PR) for his family in Canada. However, the couple failed to fulfil their promise. Now, they refused to return his money.One of the cases registered by the Police Division 5 was against seven travel agents who had duped a resident of over Rs 15 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Japan.Records of old travel agents too checkedThe Ludhiana police have also started scanning the records of old notorious travel agents who were already facing cases of travel and immigration fraud. The police suspect that those travel agents having criminal records have started illegal travel business without a valid licence on other names.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-more-firs-registered-against-fake-travel-agents-192985
03-01-2021||Ludhiana||5 held with opium, poppy husk||The Khanna police nabbed five persons and recovered poppy husk and opium from their possession in separate incidents.In the first case, the Khanna Sadar police nabbed four persons and recovered 30 kg of poppy husk from them.The suspects have been identified as Kuldeep Singh of Dhaler village in Sangrur, Harpreet Singh, Manpreet Khan and Dev Singh of Gopalpur, Dehlon.Investigating officer ASI Mahinder Singh said a naka was laid by the police to keep a tab on anti-social elements. On suspicion, a Maruti Zen car was stopped and during the search of the vehicle poppy husk was seized.The ASI said the police remand of the accused would be sought so that the entire supply line could be busted.In another case, the Khanna Sadar 2 police station nabbed Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Urban Estate, Dugri. The police seized 500 gm of opium from him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-held-with-opium-poppy-husk-192986
03-01-2021||Lovleen Bains||ROB expansion joints break yet again||Sahnewal, January 2The expansion joints of the Sahnewal-Kohara railway overbridge (ROB) have suffered a breakage again. In the past one year, the joints were damaged thrice. The repair work was initiated only three months ago. The gap between slabs on the flyover has increased to a disastrous extent and pose a major threat to commuters.“The breaking of the expansion joints time and again is a mockery of the system. The irony is that we are forced to survive in such a situation where nobody is answerable to the public in such issues. If chosen representatives cannot provide safety to us, what is the use of such a government and such representatives? It is really shameful,” rued Manjinder Singh Bhola, councillor, Ward No. 2 of Sahnewal.“Such a serious issue is being neglected by the authorities since the flyover was made operational in 2015. If it is not repaired in a proper way, it can result in any major tragedy,” said Navdeep Kaur, a daily commuter.“While on the one hand, express highways are being planned and constructed, on the other, such major technical faults are being committed in the name of development. There is no use of such flyovers if the safety of the public is under threat,” said Gurcharan Singh, who resides near the flyover.Superintending Engineer of Northern Railway Ferozepur Anurag Kumar said: “Construction joints are damaged due to plying of heavy vehicles. Since no barrier or checkpoint has been set up, the entry of heavy vehicles is affecting the expansion joints. As we observed the weakening of the expansion joint at another point, we took precautions in advance. Now, the vehicular traffic is closed on the ROB and it will be restored in three days. Barricades have been installed on the spot. The repair work is on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rob-expansion-joints-break-yet-again-192987
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Women activists stage protest||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 2Women activists from Assi village in Ludhiana district and office-bearers of various outfits demanding withdrawal of farm laws organised dharnas in front of Adani Multimodal Logistic Park at Kilaraipur and toll plaza at Lehra village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway near here.Activists of various outfits, including Bhartia Kissan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Zamhoori Kissan Sabha, Bhartia Kissan Union Ekta Ugrahan and Naujwan Sabha led by Akbir Kaur, Parneet Kaur, Saranjit Kaur, Dr Jaswinder Singh Kalakh and Harnek Gujjarwal alleged that the Union Government had been trying to appease corporates at the cost of farmers.“Now, when it is established that implementation of farm laws is bound to shatter the agriculture sector and economy of the country, we will not allow flourishing of establishments and installations which are installed to appease corporate houses,” said protestors.Meanwhile, activists of Delhi Morcha Muhim Committee led by Balwant Singh Ghudani and Harjinder Singh organised a protest march at Ramgarh Sardaran village in Malaudh block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-activists-stage-protest-192988
03-01-2021||Sports Correspondent||Hockey academy gives tracksuits to players||Ludhiana, January 2Mata Sahib Kaur Sports and Charitable Trust and organisers of Jarkhar Hockey Academy celebrated the New Year by giving away track suits to trainees. A function was conducted at the main stadium of Jarkhar village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road, about 15 from here.The trust handed over track suits to 50 talented and promising hockey players.Later, a meeting of the trust was organised which was headed by its chairman, Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu. It was resolved during the meeting that this year’s 34th edition of the annual sports festival would not be organised due in view of the farmers’ agitation.Festival sponsors, namely Coca Cola, Avon Cycles, Mohinder Partap Singh Grewal Trust and Mohna Jodhan of Seattle had also endorsed the decision of the trust, informed Singh.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, chief organiser of the festival, said the trust would contribute Rs1 lakh to the kissan sangrash committee. He hailed the Hockey India’s decision to accord direct entry to Jarkhar Hockey team in the upcoming Junior National Championship slated to be held in the month of April.However, the annual hockey league- Prithipal Singh Memorial Hockey Championship, scheduled to be organised in May would be held as per the schedule, he added.Advocate Harkamal Singh, president of the trust. along with other members, including inspector Balbir Singh, Prof Rajinder Singh, Buta Singh Gill, Sandeep Singh, Tejinder Singh Jarkhar, Yadwinder Singh Toor, sarpanch Balwinder Singh Mehmoodpura, Gursatinder Singh Pargat, Sumit Singh, Amandeep Singh, Jeevanjot Singh, Baba Rulda Singh, Rajinder Singh, Harbans Singh Gill, Simranjit Singh Dhillon, Sahibjit Singh Jarkhar and Dalbir Singh Jarkhar attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hockey-academy-gives-tracksuits-to-players-192989
03-01-2021||---||Cops turn public health protectors||Ludhiana, January 2The Ludhiana police have not only ensured maintenance of law and order but also successfully donned its new role as public health protectors amid the Covid-19 crisis. The Police Department rose to the occasion by promoting the public health safety campaign of the state government.The Commissionerate police worked hard to instil a sense of security in the minds of the general public in spite of Covid posing unprecedented challenges, according to Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal.2 lakh ration kits disributedHe disclosed that the police distributed two lakh ration kits through police stations and provided cooked food to 75 lakh persons besides making elaborate arrangements for temporary shelters for the migrants and helped them in their safe and smooth journey to their native states.The police enforced the curfew effectively and ensured that Covid norms were followed by everybody so that precious lives can be saved. Dealing sternly with the violators, the police challaned 1.2 lakh people and collected Rs 6.1 crore fine for violating the Covid guidelines.The Ludhiana police also made available Covid care kits to police personnel as well as the public. Cops also remained in touch with the public through social media and e-mail.The CP, who himself met the public through videoconferencing regularly for resolving their grievances, said on crime front, of the total 52 cases of murder registered in 2020, 47 had been solved.26 gangs neutralisedThe police have neutralised 26 gangs, involving 114 accused persons, of whom most of them were notorious criminals. Investigations into these cases led to the recovery of 33 pistols, two guns, 17 datars, five daggers, 19 iron rods besides other weapons. Police also recovered 596 vehicles, 87 mobile phones besides gold chains and huge cash from these criminals.The CP said all 20 cases of dacoity and 14 cases of robbery registered in 2020 have been worked out with recovery of case property worth Rs 4.7 crore. A dreaded gang of Bihar was also busted in November last when they were attempting to loot gold weighing about 30 kg from the Muthoot Finance Company situated at Model Town in Ludhiana.Agrawal said they have identified potential hotspots of snatching incidents and the police force were deployed at such places. In the past year, 283 cases of mobile and gold chain snatching were traced.He revealed that the police have adopted a policy of free registration of theft cases. Of the total 1,212 cases of thefts and burglary last year, 550 have been solved with recovery of over Rs 4.38 crore.Campaign against drugsA special campaign was launched to curb the drug menace in the society. Under this drive, 258 cases were registered against various drug smugglers under the provisions of NDPS Act and 333 drug smugglers were nabbed with 12.5 kg of opium, 1020 kg poppy husk, 2.8 kg heroine, 111.8 kg ganja, 1.2 kg charas, 708 gram narcotic powder, 100 gram sulfa, 11.45 lakh intoxicating pills, 14,435 injections etc.The police formed a special anti-smuggling unit to keep a check on the activities of liquor smugglers and bootleggers. Raids were carried out near Sutlej to crackdown on the illicit distillation of liquor in nearby villages. In this way, 795 cases were registered against 890 persons and 2,937 litres of illicit liquor, 38,873 litres of English wine, 12 litres of beer, 167 litres of rum and nine lakh litres of lahan was recovered in 2020.1.02 lakh challans issuedThe police undertook study of black spots where maximum number of traffic accidents were taking place. In traffic violation cases, 1.02 lakh challans were issued and fine of Rs 6.9 crore was realised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-turn-public-health-protectors-192990
03-01-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Cases settled at police camp||The Ludhiana (Rural) Police organised a camp to dispose of long-pending disputes at the police station Jodhan in Ludhiana district near here today.As many as 35 cases falling under the jurisdiction of the Chhapar police chowki and the Jodhan Police station were settled amicably with persuasion of police officials led by DSP Jagraon Gurbachan Singh and SHO Amrit Pal Singh.Station House Officer Chhapar Chowki Sukhwinder Singh said parties in majority of cases had agreed for compromise. “While complainants and defendants in 35 cases had arrived at compromise today, rest of the 20 pending complaints are expected to be filed after individual counselling scheduled to take place on Sunday,” said Sukhwinder Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cases-settled-at-police-camp-192991
03-01-2021|| Ludhiana||DR Jasbir Bedi takes charge as director||Poonamjit shines in MA resultsThe results of MA Sociology IV semester has been declared by Panjab University. Prinicipal of AS College for Women Khanna said the aggregate pass percentage of the college result is 100%. Poonamjit Kaur stood first in the college, Neelam Rani stood second and Sukhman Kaur stood third. The college management congratulated the staff, students and their parents.SCHOOL NOTEGuru Nanak International schoolLudhiana: The school took an initiative to show their solidarity with the protesting farmers at the Delhi border. General Secretary Gurvinder Singh Sarna, Manager Harbhajan Singh, Principal Gurmant Kaur Gill flagged off donations received from students, staff of the school, Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women and Guru Nanak Institute of Management And Technology, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town. Two teachers Charanpreet Singh, Gurinder Singh and two drivers Hari Ram & Rajbir left for Shahjahanpur Border, Rajasthan to hand over the items to protesting farmers. Donations comprised of quilts, blankets, ‘lohis’, jackets, warmers, sweaters, blazers, leggings, caps, mufflers, daris, bed sheets, flour etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-jasbir-bedi-takes-charge-as-director-192993
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Traders vow not to use plastic bags||Raikot, December 3 Office-bearers and activists of various social and educational organisations of the area have vowed to work towards making the region clean by shunning the use of polythene. An oath was taken in response to the appeal made by officials of various departments led by Akash Bansal, executive officer, Municipal Council, Mullanpur, who is heading a coordinated movement launched against the violation of plastic ban in the region. Appreciating the gesture shown by enthusiasts Akash Bansal announced that facilitators of the movement would be issued appreciation certificates, while penal action would be taken those who continue using or stocking polythene bags after January 4. “We are glad that activists of various organisations have realised the need to shun use of polythene and come forward to associate with the crusade launched by administration against the menace,” said Akash Bansal appreciating that about 600 shopkeepers of the region had assured to use biodegradable bags with immediate effect during meeting held with them. Bansal said all constituents of the sanitary department of the civic body would undertake an intensive drive to clean the area of polythene bags with the help of students of various schools and volunteers from various organisations on January 8. Corporate institutes, including banks functioning in the region have been roped in for supporting the cause under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme. Referring to a study made by him Bansal stated that non-recyclable polythene bags caused maximum degradation of the environment as rag-pickers reject these while picking other recyclable plastics. Organisers distributed jute bags and biodegradable carriers among residents and vendors to spread awareness on the issue. Executive officer Manohar Singh, secretary market committee Manmohan Singh and Mandi Supervisor Jasvir Singh led their teams during the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-vow-not-to-use-plastic-bags-192994
03-01-2021||Ludhiana||Action ordered  against clerk||308 complaints disposed ofLudhiana: The Ludhiana police on Saturday organised Know Your Case Scheme camps at all police stations of the Commissionerate during which 308 complaints were disposed of. Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal in a statement issued stated that the camps started in the morning which was attended by police station heads, senior police officials. The CP himself had also visited several police stations to supervise the ongoing camps. He also interacted with people. He said 27 persons had enquired about the status of their cases lying pending at police stations and they were told about the same immediately. The CP said if anyone could not attend the camps, he or she could always visit the police station concerned to know the status of their case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/action-ordered-against-clerk-192995
03-01-2021||---||Cong workers try to ‘disrupt’ saffron party dharna, detained||Ludhiana, January 2Several Congress workers and members of the Sikh Youth Power of Punjab were taken into police custody after they raised slogans and tried to barge into the site of a dharna being held by the BJP near Shingar Cinema here today.The Congress termed BJP’s dharna a political gimmick while on the other hand, BJP leaders blamed the state government for the “poor” law and order situation and demanded suspension of the DSP and arrest of others involved in throwing cow dung outside BJP leader Tikshan Sood’s residence in Hoshiarpur.Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP president, said the state government was to be blamed for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.“Some unscrupulous elements dumped cow dung in front of Sood’s residence and an FIR was registered in the case after much struggle but nobody has been arrested so far. We have the video clipping where the youth can been identified but still no action has been taken. We demand suspension of the DSP,” Sharma said. He said the BJP was always with farmers and would never work against their interests.Sharma condemned MP Ravneet Bittu for his “hate comment”. “It is the Congress’ divide and rule policy which is being reflected in his words. It seems 1984 was not enough that the Congress wants another bloodshed,” he said.On the other hand, Bittu said he was sitting at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar and the police could come any time to arrest him.Meanwhile, a member of the Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, who was taken into custody, said it was unfair that they were not being allowed to go to the protest site of the BJP.“BJP leaders are saying that the law and order situation is worsening in the state but they are ignoring the fact that farmers have come on roads. The situation is worsening due to the wrong policies of the Central Government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cong-workers-try-to-disrupt-saffron-party-dharna-detained-192881
