04-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two injured as man opens fire||Man ends his life, kin bookedLudhiana: A married man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his residence in Mandiani village, Dakha, due to the alleged harassment by his parents and other relatives. The deceased has been identified as Baljinder Singh. Deceased’s father Mahinder Singh, his wife Pyaro, relatives Harinder Kaur, Karamjit Kaur, and Baljit Kaur were booked in the case. Complainant Jasvir Kaur said she got married to Baljinder about eight years ago and she had been staying at Mandiani village. The woman alleged that her husband had a dispute with his family over some property. Her husband also had a plot which was forcibly took over by his parents. She said even the house where they were at present staying was also taken over by her in-laws and they were threatening her husband to vacate the house. Her husband went into depression due to the alleged harassment and on Saturday evening, he committed suicide. SI Jarnail Singh said raids were on to nab the suspects in the abetment-to-suicide case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-injured-as-man-opens-fire-193467
04-01-2021||Ludhiana||All 438 PMCs to get pending||Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today assured that pending dues of all 438 park management committees (PMCs) under the Municipal Corporation would be cleared within a week. He said strict instructions in this regard were issued to the senior MC officials. The minister was presiding over a townhouse meeting with all PMCs at Guru Nanak Bhawan here. Ashu said in the year 1995 when PMCs were formed initially, there were a total of 870 parks under the MC, of which 565 were managed by 438 PMCs. He said it is for the first time that representatives of all PMCs have been invited on a common platform.  He also urged the respective Municipal councillors to ensure that the remaining 305 parks under MC were also maintained by the PMCs.  Ashu assured that all valid suggestions given by the PMCs would be implemented in true spirit within next two months and if any PMC had some more suitable suggestions, they could submit these in writing to the MC Commissioner. He emphasised that PMCs ought to ensure rainwater recharging in the parks as was being already done by several PMCs in different parts of the city. He said the officials had been directed to process all pending bills without any delay and failure to do so would attract strict action. He also assured that he would personally ensure that all PMCs get a uniform maintenance rate of Rs 2.50 per square metre and in case of smaller parks, the MC was in the process of fixing a lump sum amount so that there was no financial burden on the PMCs. The meeting was also attended, among others, by Ludhiana (East) MLA Sanjay Talwar, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, Deputy Mayor Sarabjit Kaur Shimlapuri, District Congress Committee (Urban) president Ashwani Sharma, Ludhiana Improvement Trust Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Councillors Harbhajan Singh Dang, Mamta Ashu, Sunny Bhalla, Maharaj Singh Raji and MC Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/all-438-pmcs-to-get-pending-193461
04-01-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Self-employment loan fairs held||As many as 3,680 unemployed youths of the region were facilitated to take up self-employment during a series of Self Employment Loan Fairs held at various places falling under jurisdiction of Sangrur district. Sangrur DC Ramvir said over 5,000 youths from Ahmedgarh, Malerkotla, Dhuri, Bhawanigarh, Lehragaga, Dirba and Udham Singh Wala segments had been persuaded to establish their own businesses by availing loans under liberalised terms under various welfare schemes of the government. SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey, Dr Himanshu Gupta and Mankanwal Singh Chahal, SDMs at Ahmedgarh, Raikot and Payal had inaugurated the events held in respective segments while Amargarh legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman, Fatehgarh MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai and Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha were the chief guests. Ravinder Pal Singh Chahal, district employment generation and training officer, said unemployed youths should get registered with their respective employment offices and choose for self-employment instead of running after jobs.  —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/self-employment-loan-fairs-held-193462
04-01-2021||Ludhiana||Over 100 take part in quiz competition||Under the patronage of Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College has taken the initiative to organise various events on “Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib Ji” to commemorate his 400th birth anniversary.An online inter-school/college quiz competition was organised yesterday by the Gurmat Sabha of the college in association with Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle on the topic of “Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji: Life and Teachings.”Around 100 registrations were received for this quiz in which the shortlisted teams of various institutions from different parts of the country participated enthusiastically.Famous Sikh historian, Dr Anurag Singh, Dr Balwinderpal Singh, retired professor of GHG Khalsa College Sudhar and Prof Jaspreet Kaur, HOD, Physics and in-charge Gurmat Sabha, GGN Khalsa College, were judges of the event. Simarjot Singh of Panth Ratan Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra Institute bagged the first prize of Rs 4,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-100-take-part-in-quiz-competition-193463
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Traders vow not to use plastic bags||Raikot, December 3Office-bearers and activists of various social and educational organisations of the area have vowed to work towards making the region clean by shunning the use of polythene.An oath was taken in response to the appeal made by officials of various departments led by Akash Bansal, executive officer, Municipal Council, Mullanpur, who is heading a coordinated movement launched against the violation of plastic ban in the region.Appreciating the gesture shown by enthusiasts Akash Bansal announced that facilitators of the movement would be issued appreciation certificates, while penal action would be taken those who continue using or stocking polythene bags after January 4.“We are glad that activists of various organisations have realised the need to shun use of polythene and come forward to associate with the crusade launched by administration against the menace,” said Akash Bansal appreciating that about 600 shopkeepers of the region had assured to use biodegradable bags with immediate effect during meeting held with them.Bansal said all constituents of the sanitary department of the civic body would undertake an intensive drive to clean the area of polythene bags with the help of students of various schools and volunteers from various organisations on January 8.Corporate institutes, including banks functioning in the region have been roped in for supporting the cause under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme.Referring to a study made by him Bansal stated that non-recyclable polythene bags caused maximum degradation of the environment as rag-pickers reject these while picking other recyclable plastics.Organisers distributed jute bags and biodegradable carriers among residents and vendors to spread awareness on the issue.Executive officer Manohar Singh, secretary market committee Manmohan Singh and Mandi Supervisor Jasvir Singh led their teams during the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-vow-not-to-use-plastic-bags-193464
04-01-2021||Multipronged approach involving sterilisation||Encourage adoption, stop dumping waste on roads||Despite several measures have been taken by the authorities concerned, the menace of stray dogs haunts residents. There is a need to re-look at the measures. The civic body took steps such as catching stray dogs but after a few days the situation was back to square one. Timely checking must be taken and there must be a designated place where these dogs can be put. Stray dogs lead to many issues to pedestrians as they tend to bite people, run after cars/bikes and bark loudly. A veterinary doctor must be appointed and treatment should be provided to them. Dog is a loyal creature we should not hurt them. We should be kind and generous to them.Simarjot KaurDon’t throw waste on roadsAs the problem of stray dog menace is increasing, measures should be taken in to control this. First of all, the authorities concerned should make shelters for the stray dogs to avoid any untoward incident. Also, awareness programme or surveys should be taken, so that people can be aware about the same. One of the best ways is to control garbage disposal. Stray dogs feed on waste and spread diseases like rabies. The control on garbage disposal can be a great idea.Harleen KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONMajority of residents feel sorry about sorry state of roads in entire city. While in posh areas, roads are carpeted time and again but in other areas, roads are badly neglected. What should be done to improve the condition? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comTake help of NGOsStray dogs hamper the movement of traffic and cause accidents. The worst happens with drivers of two-wheelers. Dogs continuously bark and chase them which often leads to accident as they lose balance. Stray dogs also spread of diseases like rabies as they are not vaccinated. Anti-rabies vaccine should be available at low cost to help the victims. Shelters should be provided to them separately and the municipal cooperation and NGO's should come forward to make this possible.Khushleen KaurCheck overpopulationStray dogs can both attack and spread diseases to humans. The government must figure out the methods to control their population growth in order to protect the citizens. Many of these methods promote cruelty towards dogs or have no effect upon them. Spaying and neutering pets is the best thing that can be done to prevent overpopulation.Amarpreet KaurRaise funds for their protectionThe increasing number of stray dogs is a matter of concern. We should unite to curb the menace of these homeless dogs. To protect ourselves from any harm these dogs should be sterilized. Shelter homes should be constructed to keep them there. Government should raise funds for their protection.Kamaldeep KaurImprove solid waste management systemMany steps have been taken by the authorities to curb the problem of stray dogs. But this problem is still persisting despite several steps taken by the authorities. Many incidents have been occurred related to this problem which are fatal in nature. Authorities must ensure that anti rabies injections must be given to the stray dogs so that in case of dog bite, people can be prevented from various diseases. Adoption policies can be of great help. Like cowsheds, proper places must be identified for them also. And one main focus is to manage the waste or leftover food properly because dogs are found where garbage, waste or leftover food is accumulated because they are getting proper diet at these places and become healthier enough to attack the human. If waste management system is sound then this problem can be curbed to the great extent. So, there is a sound need of waste management which should be far away from city.Ritu PriyaAppoint zone-wise control squadsTo control the menace of stray dogs, the Municipal Corporation needs to play a major role. It must appoint zone -wise stray dog control squads, provide them with proper equipment and a vehicle for catching such dogs from all around the city and put them in designated dog sheds. The corporation must also undertake a strong programme to castrate stay dogs so that they are not able to breed further and increase their population. Every now and then, especially during the dog breeding season it is a very horrible sight to find on the road side that a pair of a dog and a bitch mating each other. These sights are very embarrassing especially for the ladies. General public must also be educated that it should not feed the dogs with leftover food or serve milk to stray dogs in the name that some astrologer has advised them that the stray dogs be fed or served milk as per individual's horoscope reading and to ward off the effect of some evil spirit. The dog specialists must also play their role that the dogs are castrated in the dog sheds and they do not breed there further so that their population is kept under control. The administration needs to consider that the Act such as Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is applied for considerations other than controlling the population of stray dogs.Gautam DevTimely vaccinationNo matter what's going in your life, a dog can definitely put a sleek smile on your face. Though the menace of stray dogs is getting worse nowadays. This surely can be cured if we put our hands together. A little love from humans can change the nature of the dogs. Being harsh to dogs will result in attacking and biting by them. Feeding them once in week help develop more love in them. Informing the NGOs to take them to their respected places. A small contribution in the way of charity to NGO will help in taking care of them properly. Timely vaccinations will keep them healthy. A little effort surely will have big impact in lives of dogs as well as in human.Deepanshi PassiSterilisation mustProblem of stray dogs is now out of control. In some areas one cannot count the number of stray dogs as the population is increasing continuously. We may take various steps to curb the menace of stray dogs. First, municipal corporations may catch these dogs and put them in some place away from the city. Second, corporations with the help of some other welfare societies must sterilise stray dogs so that there may be a control on their birth. Third, some birth controlling pills or medicine may be given to them, fourth, residents must keep some medicine in their localities which may keep these stray dogs away. We all must cooperate with local bodies to put a curb on the problem of stray dog so that children may play free of fear.Farzana KhanKeep their numbers in controlThe problem of stray dogs is a common problem of each locality of Ludhiana city as the population of these dogs is increasing at an alarming rate. There are daily reports of biting by dogs published in newspapers and these stray dogs are posing a big threat for citizens of our city. It is true that we have to live with them but the best way is to keep their population under control by sterilisation or by giving some vaccines. Some NGOs may help to keep them at a specified place. The other way is that at ward level municipal corporations must sterilise these dogs and then let them free. In the evening except for a few stray dogs, rest should be put in a vacant place or shelter house. These dogs may be trained to watch at night at street level. We may also use some medicines to keep them away from the localities. People must cooperate with the local government to keep the population of these stray dogs under control.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiMake registration compulsoryThe number of stray dogs in every big city of the country is increasing fast. Consequently, dog bite cases are also showing an upward trend, making one quite prone to rabies. Strict laws should be enforced to catch them and put in dog shelters erected for them. Here they should be immediately sterlised lest they go on reproducing. It is disheartening that the recent campaign of getting the pets registered with the local authorities got a lukewarm warm response from the natives of Ludhiana. Awakening should be created amongst pet lovers the significance of such a drive. To elicit good response the registration should be compulsory, free of cost and done at the doorsteps of the residents. People should also stop showing sympathy to stray dogs by serving milk, etc. It is also worth mentioning that this menace should be tackled on war-footing as rabies is a serious disease and Anti-rabies vaccine is always in short supply in government dispensaries and hospitals. In the open market each shot of the vaccine costs around Rs 400 and after a stray dog bite one needs five injections of this vaccine.Dr Sunil ChopraTime to take personal responsibilityCatch-and-release is a very effective means of reducing stray street dog populations. It does take money and time. Large populations of stray dogs are public health concerns. It is important to reduce the stray animal population to control the spread of dangerous diseases and stop dog bites and attacks. It is also the cause of a lot of painful deaths for animals as well as humans. If stray dogs are not killed, their population will keep on increasing causing more danger to humans, especially to children. Stray dogs are often carriers of diseases because of the lack of care. It is time for individuals to accept personal responsibility in stray dog management. Gradually, it came into our notice that people feed the street dogs which led to more bites as well as the chance of disease spread increases.Akshar Kumar SinglaStop feeding stray dogsThe city is not only infected with the problem of stray dogs, but also stray animals. Both are very grievous. The first and the foremost duty to curb this menace is of the MC. From time to time the MC should arrange for the tasks to catch these stray dogs. As responsible citizens, from time to time we should keep informing the MC about the number of stray dogs so that it can plan its tasks accordingly. The sterilisation of dogs is another way to control the population of stray dogs. Being philanthropic, we people often feed stray dogs which is a direct cause of the increasing population of stray dogs. Being charitable is not bad, but this particular habit of feeding the stray animals is itself proving to be fatal to our society. So, we must stop feeding these dogs so that they can end up in the cages of the MC. Some irresponsible citizens knowingly feed these stray dogs so as to guard their houses. This is also a wrong practice. It must be immediately stopped. All these measures will surely help in curbing the menace of stray dogs in the city.Bir Devinder Singh BediOPEN HOUSE COMMENTTake help of vets, ensure timely vaccinationShivani BhakooAll stray dogs should be vaccinated timely for prevention of rabies and other diseases. People should also be encouraged to come forward to adopt stray dogs and provide them shelter to take care of them properly.The MC is running a project for sterilisation of stray dogs to control population of stray dogs. However, stray dogs in many areas are yet to be sterilised and the menace is life threatening at times.The MC authorities should hold talks with veterinarians, dog lovers and residents welfare associations to find out a solution to control stray dog bite cases.The government should make a proper plan to control stray dog bite cases and also for welfare of stray dogs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/encourage-adoption-stop-dumping-waste-on-roads-193465
04-01-2021||---||Cops likely to get multi-purpose body cameras||Ludhiana, January 3 The Ludhiana police have brought in multi-purpose body cameras for cops to be used for naka duties, patrolling and for other purposes.  The police have bought two cameras as part of a pilot project and once the trial is found useful, the entire police force is likely to be given such cameras, said Additional DCP-1 Deepak Pareek. “These are multi-purpose cameras and can be used for law and order duties, patrolling, raiding purpose, to visit crime spots, police checking or traffic duties. These can be installed on body, car’s dashboard, police helmet, on the roof of a police vehicle and patrolling motorcycle etc,” Pareek said. The cameras were tested on the New Year’s Eve and at a recent BJP protest. These record videos in high resolution. The cameras can serve as a deterrent to public which sometimes levels allegations against cops on duty. These will also come to the aid of the cops who discharge their duty honestly and with dedication, as the daily recorded footage of the cameras can be checked by senior officials. Criminals may think twice before committing a crime as there are real chances of their getting identified now, said Pareek. These cameras can have storage up to 128 GB, with a battery backup of two hours. The cameras also have the loop recording option as the data will be automatically deleted on reaching the storage capacity. Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal appreciated the pilot project and if the trial run turns successful, such cameras will be given to the police stations for better policing. The ADCP said the camera costs Rs5,000 and mounted strap Rs400, hence it involves less cost with more value for policing. Other accessories of these cameras are also available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-likely-to-get-multi-purpose-body-cameras-193456
04-01-2021||---||Shubham Jain scores 99.82 percentile in CAT||Ludhiana, January 3 The result of the Common Admission Test (CAT) was declared today and many city students came out with flying colours in the examination. Shubham Jain, a BCom student from SCD Government College, claimed to have secured 99.82 percentile in his first attempt. “It is my dream to get admission in IIM, Ahmedabad, but let’s see from which institute I get a call. After completing my MBA, I want to be in the corporate world for a few years and after gaining experience, I will ultimately join my family business,” he said. Shubham’s father is a businessman, while his mother is a homemaker. A few weeks before the exam, he used to study for 10-12 hours, while on normal days, his study hours ranged between six and seven hours. “Mock tests helped me a lot and I took as many tests I could. Group discussions also helped not only in clearing my doubts, but also learning new things,” he said. Six months before the exam, Shubham went off the social media and only a few mediums where he used to exchange notes etc were kept by him. “I deleted the unnecessary apps from my phone, six months before the exam,” he said. Subham owed his success to his parents who always stood by him and helped him sail through. Another student, Sidham Jain, claimed to have got 99.67 percentile. It was his second attempt. Earlier, he had tried for the undergraduate programme after Class XII. His made his first attempt after plus two and failed to get admission in IIM, Indore, by one mark.  “In my last attempt, I failed to get admission by one mark and this time, I worked hard. I am keeping my fingers crossed and looking forward for admission in a good college. I want to pursue MBA in finance,” he said. Sidham is based in the city, but pursuing BCom from Delhi. Due to the lockdown, he was in the city and took coaching from a city-based coaching centre. Peshal Goel, who has done BSc from Punjab Agricultural University, claimed to have scored 99.58 percentile. He belongs to Bathinda and it was through the online medium that he took coaching classes from a city-based institute. “Since I have expertise in agriculture, I want to make use of this knowledge and pursue business in the same field. I am waiting for calls from various colleges,” he said. It was six-seven hours that Peshal used to devote everyday for his study. “I was consistent with my studies and did not feel the need of deleting my social media accounts. Studying, revising and taking mock tests was my mantra of success,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shubham-jain-scores-99-82-percentile-in-cat-193457
04-01-2021||---||Domestic helps decamp with cash, gold worth over Rs 50 lakh||Ludhiana, January 3 A major theft was reported in a house in the posh locality of BRS Nagar here. A servant, who was employed a few days ago, along with another servant and an accomplice, decamped with gold jewellery and cash worth over Rs 50 lakh. Suresh Raina, owner of the house and a hosiery businessman, said since he required a servant at home,  he asked his gardener Lalita Parshad for the same after which, a youth was sent to him by Lalita. However, the domestic help was not performing his duty properly. Later, the servant brought another person for domestic work, who, as per him, was his elder brother. Raina said on January 1, all family members were away for work and when they returned home in the evening, they found that the main gate was closed. Despite repeated knocks, nobody opened the gate. The owner said later, he scaled the wall and entered the house and found the entire house ransacked. As per the police, the accused servant, along with his brother and another accomplice, had committed the theft. They failed to open the safe in which cash and gold was kept. Hence, they took away the safe along with them. The police have recovered a CCTV camera footage through which the three persons were identified. The Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case against the accused youth, Rahul, a resident of Badewal road, and his two accomplices. An alert has also been sounded in the area to arrest the suspects. Some of the relatives of the domestic helps have also been rounded up for interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/domestic-helps-decamp-with-cash-gold-worth-over-rs-50-lakh-193458
04-01-2021||Manav Mander||Covid fallout can lead to serious mental health issues, says expert||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 3The Covid-19 outbreak has affected the mental health of people badly as many residents have been going through stress, isolation, job loss, loss of income and departure of their loved ones and apprehension of contracting illnesses.Many people are also having issues such as depression and anxiety and increased use of drugs.Dr Damanjit Kaur, senior psychiatrist at a private hospital, said Covid-19 could lead to neurological and mental complications. People with pre-existing mental illness or substance use disorder were particularly vulnerable in such a situation. People already on medication for disorders such as depression, bipolar illness or schizophrenia should continue their treatment and their attendants should be aware of new or worsening of symptoms.As per data, women are about twice as likely as men to develop major depression. The prevalence of unipolar depressive episode is 1.9 per cent and 3.2 per cent for women and one year prevalence is 5.8 per cent for men and 9.5 per cent for women.Another city-based psychiatrist Dr Santosh Kumar said children were also going through a tough time due to online schooling. Students were not having any physical interaction with people, especially their peers. Children are also falling prey to cyber bullying and cyber crimes due to Internet exposure. The screen time had also increased which has been affecting their health According to WHO, the mental health workforce in India is not up to the mark and there is a huge shortage of psychiatrists and psychologists in the country. It states that in India, per 1,00,000 population, there are (0.3) psychiatrists (0.07) psychologists and while the desirable number is above 3 per cent for psychiatrists and psychologists.Tips to take care of mental health||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-fallout-can-lead-to-serious-mental-health-issues-says-expert-193459
04-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana not on smart course!||Ludhiana, January 3Leaking water supply and sewer pipes in Gole Market here, the main commercial hub in the posh Model Town locality, for over a month are mocking the tall claims of smart city and smart roads that are being talked about day in and day out by political leaders and bureaucrats.The water accumulation at several places in the market has not only turned this stretch into an accident-prone area but leakage from water supply and sewerage pipes might as well lead to the mixing and contamination of drinking water, thereby resulting in a huge health hazard.Residents and shopkeepers of the affected area say that repeated complaints made to senior officials of the operations and maintenance (O & M) wing of the Municipal Corporation have either remained unheeded or resulted in only temporary stop-gap arrangements.On behalf of the aggrieved residents/shopkeepers, the Council of RTI Activists secretary Arvind Sharma has lodged a complaint with the Punjab Human Rights Commission (PHRC), seeking its immediate intervention in the matter to save people from the threats of road accidents or outbreak of water-borne diseases due to the accumulated water all along the road and big potholes that had been made due to the persistent leakage of water from the newly laid pipes.In his complaint, Sharma said the leakage from water supply/sewer lines was the result of poor workmanship on part of the contractor who had executed the work of laying pipes and thereafter some shopkeepers/residents taking illegal water connections without proper repair of the joints. “At some places, rubber pipes have been used to reconnect the water supply lines,” said the complainant.He added that the matter had been reported in writing to the O &M officials of the D zone right from the junior engineer up to the Superintending Engineer but no permanent solution to the problem had been found yet.The PHRC has been urged to intervene in the matter, issue directions to the officials concerned for resolving the issue and recommend suitable disciplinary action against the MC officials for negligence and dereliction of duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-not-on-smart-course-193460
04-01-2021||---||26 +ve; no death in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 3Twentysix persons tested positive, while no death was reported for Covid in the district today. Those who tested positive today also included a healthcare worker.The positive cases in the district today reached 24,870. Two patients were on ventilator support. One of them belonged to Ludhiana district, while the other was from another district.The active patients in the district are 315, while 59 persons were home quarantined today. The reports of 1,624 were awaited.Meanwhile, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University has made a significant contribution against the disease by testing more than 1 lakh samples at the Covid testing laboratory.Dr Jatinder Pal Singh Gill, director, research and nodal officer of the Covid laboratory, said the corona warriors of the university were working hard in three shifts. In this hour of crisis, more than 1,500 samples had also been tested in a day.Praising the testing of more than one lakh samples, Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, commended the entire laboratory team and said that their contribution would always be remembered.GADVASU’s 10 scientists and 20 assistants are working from early morning till late evening in this regard, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/26-ve-no-death-in-ludhiana-193455
