06-01-2021||---||1 dead; 23 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 5Twentythree persons tested positive for Covid, while one lost his life in the district today.The total number of positive persons in the district are 24,916 now and 969 have lost their lives so far.The total number of tests done so far in the district are 5,47,247, while the reports of 988 are pending.Today, a 62-year-old man from Dhandari Khurd who was admitted to the CMCH lost his life. He was also a patient of diabetes.Till date, 55,180 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 1,020. Today, 46 persons were sent for home quarantine.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said if the district administration and the Health Department, Ludhiana, find out about any positive or suspected Covid person, their samples are immediately sent for testing.Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves from coronavirus but also keep everyone around them safe. Till now, 23,674 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-dead-23-ve-in-ludhiana-194278
06-01-2021||---||Women panel notice to CP in rape case||Ludhiana, January 5The Punjab State Women Commission has served a notice to the Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and asked him to submit a report regarding the rape committed in the Mundian police post which falls under the Jamalpur police station.The Commission has asked the police to submit the action taken report in two days. Commission Chairperson Manisha Gulati said the notice was issued to inquire why a woman was called at the police post at night after she was assaulted by four persons and if she was taken to the police post at night, had the police post in charge informed the seniors about the same.The Commission Chairperson said if the seniors were informed about the presence of the woman at the police post, had any action been taken against them for failing to prevent the crime.The Commission stated that if the woman was taken to the police station, why women cops were not called there to attend to the woman complainant.A 25-year-old woman, a resident of Moga Colony in the city, had charged a head constable, Rakesh Kumar, posted at the Mundian Kalan police post, of having raped her in the police post where she was taken after being assaulted by four persons on December 6, 2020. Two days ago, a case was registered against the cop and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-panel-notice-to-cp-in-rape-case-194279
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Another offer for allotment of residential plots, sale of SCO sites by GLADA||Ludhiana, January 5 Unfazed by the poor response of the public to the initial offering of residential plots and commercial sites during the period June-October 2020, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has come out with yet another offer for the sale of 70 residential plots (including nine for economically weaker sections) through draw of lots and five shop-cum-offices (SCOs) through e-auction in the proposed colony - GLADA Estate, on the 80-feet wide Sua Road (behind Keys Hotel) here. The applications for residential plots with 10 per cent of the total cost as earnest money would be accepted from eligible applicants from January 4 to February 3, 2021, while bids for SCOs with an eligibility fee of Rs 3 lakh could be made on-line from January 25 at 9 am till February 5, 2021, at 1pm. Earlier, when the scheme was launched in July 2020 and closed on September 30, 2020, with the last date having to be extended twice due to lukewarm response, only 21 applications were received from out of the total 93 residential plots and just two SCO sites out of nine were sold. However, in the wake of the poor response from the public, the GLADA authorities had to extend the last date twice and ultimately the receipt of the applications for residential plots closed on September 30 and plots were allotted to all 21 applicants in a draw taken out on October 5. Similarly, in the e-auction which closed on October 7, only two SCOs in the proposed scheme were sold. While the GLADA had earmarked 82 freehold residential plots in the general and reserved categories and 11 for economically weaker sections (EWS) at a reserve price of Rs 29,000 and Rs 26,000 per square yard respectively, 18 plots were allotted in the general category and one each to the Scheduled Castes, senior citizens and riot-affected categories. Not even a single application was received for the allotment of the plots reserved for the EWS category. Even though GLADA officials had claimed that Covid-induced lockdown and prevailing recessionary trends in the real estate sector had dampened the spirit of buyers and investors, market sources had asserted that the reserve price of both residential plots and the commercial sites were unrealistic and on a higher side. Realtors had quoted market sources as claiming that residential plots in the area around the proposed site of GLADA estate were available at around Rs 20,000 per square yard in approved colonies. Similarly, the reserve price of commercial sites (SCOs) at Rs 87,000 per square yard was also reported to be on a higher side by sources compared to the prevailing market price in the surrounding areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-offer-for-allotment-of-residential-plots-sale-of-sco-sites-by-glada-194280
06-01-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Vacant plots in Sanyas Nagar flooded with sewer water||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, January 5 Residents of Sanyas Nagar in Ward No. 2 here are a harried lot as many vacant plots have been flooded with sewer water near their houses. They lamented that when some selected areas were being developed under the smart city mission, the issues in areas like Sanyas Nagar were being ignored by the Municipal Corporation (MC). The residents have been complaining about the faulty sewers in the area for long. They demanded from the MC to find out a permanent solution to the problems being faced by them due to the overflowing sewers. A number of vacant plots in the area are located below the road surface. These plots look like dirty ponds now due to water accumulation. Moreover, there is no check on the dumping of garbage in these plots. A resident of Sanyas Nagar, Sunita Devi, said they had raised the matter about the overflowing sewers many times, but to no avail. “The ward councillor had assured us that the problem will be solved soon, but we are still suffering as foul smell keeps emanating from the accumulated water in the plots. Insanitary conditions pose a threat of diseases here,” she said. “No efforts are being made by the civic body to address this problem. The accumulated water in plots has caused damage to the boundary wall of the adjoining houses too. The situation becomes worse during the rainy season. We appeal to the MC authorities to pay attention and take the necessary steps to solve the sewer-related problems at the earliest. The accumulated water from plots must be cleared,” said another woman. Executive Engineer of MC Ludhiana, Pardeep Saluja, said they would look into the matter and take the required measures to solve the problem at the earliest. MLA from Ludhiana (East) Sanjay Talwar said the sewer system was not laid in a systematic manner in the past due to which the sewers were overflowing. “We are going to make a final plan within next 10-15 days to address this problem. Actually, when the disposal system is run, sewer lines in Sanyas Nagar get cleared, but sewer starts overflowing in nearby areas. If disposal is not run, Sanyas Nagar sewer lines start overflowing. We are also planning to divert sewer water from Sanyas Nagar through other sewer lines. Once the final plan is made, it is expected that the problem of overflowing sewer in Sanyas Nagar will be solved in the next one or two months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vacant-plots-in-sanyas-nagar-flooded-with-sewer-water-194281
06-01-2021||---||MC slaps notice on factory owner for road damage||Ludhiana, January 5 The Municipal Corporation (MC) has slapped a notice of around Rs 80,000 to a factory owner in New Subash Nagar here for allegedly damaging a road to get sewer connection without any required permission from the civic body. Councillor from Ward No. 10 Harjinder Paul had earlier complained to the MC authorities that the owner of a hosiery unit had got interlocking tiles removed to link the factory’s sewer connection with the MC’s sewer line. The factory owner was getting the sewer connection joined with the MC’s sewer line without any permission, the councillor said. MC Executive Engineer Ranveer Singh said the road cutting was done without taking any permission from the Municipal Corporation. He further said that they took action in this regard and did not allow the factory owner to get the sewer connection joined with the MC’s sewer line. A notice has been served to the factory owner to pay Rs 80,528 to the MC for causing damage to the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-slaps-notice-on-factory-owner-for-road-damage-194282
06-01-2021||---||5 nabbed for peddling drugs, liquor||Ludhiana, January 5 The Ludhiana Police have arrested five alleged liquor and drug peddlers in separate cases. Cops also recovered illegal liquor and drugs from their possession. In the first case, the anti-narcotics cell nabbed a man for allegedly peddling drugs and recovered 5 gm of heroin from him. The accused was identified as Sandeep Kumar of the Jawahar Nagar camp. During routine patrolling near Chattar Singh Park, the bike-borne man was stopped for checking which led to the recovery of drugs. In another case, the Ladhowal police nabbed Kulwant Singh of Bholewal Jadid village and recovered 11 bottles of illegal liquor from him. He was nabbed near the Sutlej river as he was on his way to hand over liquor to his clients. The Police Division No. 8 nabbed one Santram of Lakkar Bridge and recovered 12 bottles of illegal liquor from him. The accused was living in a slum near Lakkar. The police division No. 7 nabbed Parveen Kumar of Railway Colony and recovered 13 gm of heroin from him. The accused was coming from the Tajpur road side to deliver drugs to his clients. The past record of the accused is being checked by the police to bust the entire supply line. The Meharban police nabbed one Kuldeep Singh of Bonkar Gujjran and recovered 10 bottles of illegal liquor from him. The accused was standing on road at Kandiana Khurd village where his client was to come to receive the consignment of liquor. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the accused and further probe was on.  Notorious smuggler held with opium The police division No. 2 arrested a notorious drug smuggler and recovered 2.6 kg of opium from him.   The accused was identified as Swayi Ram, a resident of Sikar, Rajasthan.   Assistant Commissioner of Police, Central, Waryam Singh and SHO Satpal conducted a press conference regarding the matter today. ACP Singh said a police party was conducting patrolling near Cheema Chowk in search of some smugglers when on suspicion, the abovesaid person was asked to stop for checking. The person concerned was carrying a polythene bag and when the same was checked, opium was recovered from him. The ACP said the accused had brought the consignment of opium from Rajasthan and was on way to deliver the same to his clients in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-nabbed-for-peddling-drugs-liquor-194283
06-01-2021||---||Modern slaughter house to be functional soon||Ludhiana, January 5 The Municipal Corporation (MC) officials conducted a meeting with members of associations of meat shop owners in the city today. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said the members of the associations were made aware about the MC’s modernised slaughter house which would be made functional soon. He said they would hold a seminar regarding the operations of the modernised slaughter house. The MC has signed an agreement with a firm to run the modernised slaughter house. The firm, which is supposed to start operations soon, would deliver the meat to over 500 meat shops, according to the civic body officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/modern-slaughter-house-to-be-functional-soon-194284
06-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Veggie market along rly tracks open invitation to accidents||Ludhiana, January 5 Despite best efforts by railway authorities and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel to curb the menace of encroachments along the railway tracks at various places in the city and to stop the people from crossing railway tracks to save human lives, it is business as usual along Dhuri Line railway tracks where a sabzi mandi on one side of the tracks has become a permanent feature. The mandi has a tacit support from certain RPF officials and employees as despite regular patrolling, business at this mandi continues to thrive with veggies and fruits being unloaded right along the tracks and buyers crossing the tracks with impunity all day long. The rail tragedy that occurred during Dasehra celebrations along the rail tracks in Amritsar in October 2018 where 61 persons were mowed down is still fresh in the memory and it seems the railway and RPF officials are waiting for a similar tragedy to happen before they realised the gravity of the situation and took remedial measures. People living on both sides along the railway track maintain that the situation looks threatening when tempos and auto rickshaws unload the vegetables and fruits which are then carried across the tracks by shopkeepers. More so, during the peak hours, vegetable and fruit buyers and keep crossing the tracks unmindful of the danger that they were putting their lives into. Tarun Kumar, Director, Ludhiana Railway Station, said railways were taking several steps to secure railway land against encroachments and deter the people from crossing railway tracks, which was a punishable offence under the Railway Act. “Action is underway to construct boundary wall on both sides of the railway track passing through the city and lot of work towards this end has already been completed,” he said adding that RPF officials were being asked to look into the matter of sabzi mandi along the Dhuri Line railway tracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/veggie-market-along-rly-tracks-open-invitation-to-accidents-194285
06-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Schools waiting for guidelines on exams||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, January 5 Private school managements are waiting for the guidelines on promoting students to the next class by either the state government or the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Though the CBSE has already sent the date sheet for offline exams to be held for board classes but as far as other classes are concerned, fresh guidelines are awaited for promoting students.  Talking to The Tribune, Harmit Kaur, Principal, Nankana Sahib Public School, said in many other states schools have been opened but in Punjab, there are no fresh instructions. “We want that the government should start opening the schools once offline exams are over for all classes. The second wave of Covid is not strong and the world seems to be healing. As far as students are concerned, they are roaming all over, enjoying parties etc. then why they should not come to school,” asked Harmit Kaur.  Many schools have started planning to take exams for classes but only instructions from the board or state government are awaited.  It may be mentioned here that board exams by the CBSE are expected to be held in May and this decision too has evoked a mixed response from students and parents. A few students have welcomed the late examinations while others feel that they will be under stress for another four or five month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-waiting-for-guidelines-on-exams-194286
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||YAD accuses BJP, Cong of disturbing peace in Punjab||Ludhiana, January 5 The Youth Akali Dal and senior leaders of SAD-B today said both the Congress and BJP were trying to disturb the peace and harmony in the state. As a result, law and order situation in the state was also being adversely affected due to the provocative statements and activities of these two parties. Addressing a party workers meeting, the district president of YAD Gurdeep Singh Gosha said there was an increasing sense of insecurity among the people, police force had lost the confidence of public and anti-social elements were trying to take full advantage of the situation.  Senior SAD-B leader Vijay Danav expressed agreement with Gosha that contrary to its moral and constitutional responsibility, the ruling party was extending tacit support to rallies and protests by the BJP. “The police are directed to regulate traffic and get shops closed to facilitate rallies of BJP at various busy and congested places in the city which is rather surprising,” said the YAD and SAD-B leaders. Gosha said on the one hand farmers were fighting a battle for their survival on Delhi borders in bone-chilling conditions and on the other hand, the Congress and BJP were out to settle their political scores with each other. “The fact remains that both Congress and BJP are playing in the hands of corporates,” he added.  During the meeting, Kawaljit Singh Kawal was appointed as vice-president of district unit of YAD while Surinder Singh and Sukhvinder Singh were admitted to the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/yad-accuses-bjp-cong-of-disturbing-peace-in-punjab-194287
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Guru Gobind Singh’s birth anniversary celebrated||Sahnewal, January 5 The birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh was celebrated with religious fervour at Gurdwara Reru Sahib, Sahnewal, today. Thousands of devotees from Sahnewal and the surrounding areas paid obeisance at the gurdwara.  Braving the chill, the devotees reached early in the morning to be a part of the celebrations. Kirtan was recited by ragis. The life and sacrifice of the tenth guru was recalled with devotion.  Baba Major Singh, in-charge, Kaar Sewa, who systematically managed the entire show with the assistance of the sangat shared that the devotees have come from far and near to bow at the place which is historically significant for them. “With every passing year the inflow of the sangat is tremendously increasing. This time we had around 25,000 visitors who came from all over the state. The sangat apart from visiting the gurdwara, has to imbibe the philosophy of Guru Gobind Singh which denotes that bowing before falsehood, deceit and corrupt powers is nothing but cowardliness. Let’s learn this way of life from the guru whose birth anniversary we are celebrating with love and devotion,” he added. Langar was served in pangats and the sangat performed the seva with true religious fervor throughout the day. The gurdwara managing committee and sangat of Sahnewal and the surrounding villages organised a Nagar Kirtan yesterday which began early in the morning from Gurdwara Reru Sahib and culminated at the same place last night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guru-gobind-singhs-birth-anniversary-celebrated-194288
06-01-2021||Raikot||Raitkot CITU holds awareness rallies||In addition to participating in dharnas and protest marches being organised by various outfits in support of farmers protesting for withdrawal of three farm laws, Raikot CITU’s (Centre For Indian Trade Unions) cadres have been organising awareness rallies at Delhi Borders, since the commencement of the protest. Santokh Singh Gill, convener of the movement, said he along with members of his family, friends and relatives, besides activists of various leftist outfits of the region had been camping on Singhu Border as a show of solidarity for the farmers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/raitkot-citu-holds-awareness-rallies-194289
06-01-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||NRI’s 22 quintal ‘khoya pinnis’ to boost farmers’ morale||A septuagenarian NRI from Nathumajra village has come all the way from the USA to boost the morale of farmers participating in the “Dehli Chalo’ movement by distributing 22 quintal of “khoya pinnis” among them.A truck carrying the energy diet and winter delicacy of the Punjabis was flagged off for the Singhu border after organising a community prayer for the success of the agitating farmers at the village gurdwara.Former chairman Sangrur Zila Parishad Harjinder Singh Kaka of Nathumajra village, convener of the event, said Dilbagh Singh Pandher and Pandher family, led by Dilbagh Singh (now settled in the USA), had been supporting the ongoing agitation of the farmers from the beginning and had been contributing for its success in various ways. The family has now come forward to boost the morale of the protesting farmers by distributing “khoya pinnis” at the Singhu border and Tikri Border. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nris-22-quintal-khoya-pinnis-to-boost-farmers-morale-194290
06-01-2021||Ludhiana||Students shine in youth fest||PUCA celebrates foundation dayThe Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA) celebrated its 6th Foundation Day. On the occasion, Mohinder Singh KP, chairman, Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training, was the chief guest. Anshu Kataria, president, PUCA, presided over the function on theme “Strengthening rechnical Education of Punjab: Challenges and Opportunities”. While addressing PUCA members, Chairman, Sh Mohinder Singh KP said, “I am very happy to know that today PUCA is entering its 6th year after completing 5 years. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate PUCA team. I understand that PUCA is a great combination of a young and old educationist also.”Prof appointed asstt NCC officerProfessor Seema Sharma of Ramgarhia Girls College, Ludhiana, has become Associate NCC Officer. Principal Inderjit Kaur said, “Professor Seema Sharma is commissioned as Associate NCC Officer with rank Lieutenant in Indian Army after completing three months Training Programme at Officers Training Academy, Gwalior.” Ranjodh Singh, president, Ramgarhia Educational Council and principal Dr Inderjit Kaur applauded the achievements of professor Seema Sharma.Event on lean waste manufacturingDesh Bhagat University’s Student Branch and Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers organised an online programme on “Implementing Lean Approaches: Administering Transfiguration Risks” in association with IEEE SPAX, USA. “The main aim of this program was to convey the message that lean waste manufacturing is a business improvement technique that focuses on the actual needs of the customer by preventing being built into the system”, said Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor of university.CT University conducts studyAn event titled ‘A Study of Family Relationships with regard to Present Day Challenges’ was conducted by faculty members of the CT University to ascertain the prevalence of peace in the family and harmonious relations among the members. “The survey concluded that out of respondents contacted, one third of the families have their near relatives residing abroad or at far off places within India. A majority of 66 per cent of the respondents showed that they missed their children or parents who are abroad or residing at far off places in India and one fourth of the respondents did so occasionally. Surprisingly, there also have been a small fraction of respondents who never missed their children or parents”, said Dr Gurvinder Bakshi, Dean Academics, CT University. The survey was carried out under the guidance of Dr Bakshi and was conducted by Dr Kawal Nain Singh and Nikita Dhawan with the help of students of the university..Model Vidhan Sabha event heldStudents of the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, enthusiastically took part in the first edition of GCG Model Punjab Vidhan Sabha organised by the Department of Public Administration. The topic for the conference was deliberation on the farm bills 2020. Conference was conducted under the guidance of the Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur, the head of the department Baljit Kaur and Asst. Professor Dinesh Sharda. Karman Kaur Miglani and Harsimar Kaur served as the Moderator and Deputy Moderator respectively. The best delegate was bagged by Samridhi Kapila, High commendation by Gurleen Kaur and Sukhdeep Kaur and special mention by Ekjyot Kaur, Palak Bagga and Vani Sharma. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur appreciated the efforts of students and motivated them to keep participating in such conferences to enhance their knowledge and confidence. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-shine-in-youth-fest-194483
