07-01-2021||Ludhiana||Protesting NGO members detained||The police on Wednesday detained members of an NGO when they were moving from Bharat Nagar Chowk towards the Mini-Secretariat to mark their protest against the farm Acts and Central Government. The members of ‘Save The Life’, the NGO, had planned to burn an effigy of PM Narendra Modi outside the Mini-Secretariat while BJP workers were already protesting there against MP Ravneet Singh Bittu.Amit Kumar (33) of the NGO said: “The police stopped us and did not allow us to move towards the Mini-Secretariat. The police told us that BJP leaders are already protesting at the Mini-Secretariat and asked us to mark their protest at any other spot. But, we wanted to protest in a peaceful manner outside the Mini-Secretariat as per our scheduled plan. The police then detained me and my companions.”He said: “The Centre has failed to meet demands of the protesting farmers. Thus, we were going to burn the effigy of the PM but the police did not allow us to reach the Mini-Secretariat.”The NGO members were taken to the Division Number 5 police station and later, they were released. The SHO at the police station said the NGO members were detained to avoid any clash as BJP workers were already protesting on the other side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-ngo-members-detained-194973
07-01-2021||---||25 more test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 6As many as 25 fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported from various parts of the district. Of them, eight persons came in contact with positive patients, five visited the OPD and nine patients with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner. Besides, three others, including a healthcare worker, tested positive for the virus.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 283 active patients in the district.He said a total of 32 patients, including 25 new patients from Ludhiana district and seven from other states/districts, had tested positive in the past 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 5,49,715 samples were taken, of which reports of 5,48,136 had been received. Of these, 5,19,461 samples were found negative while reports of 1,579 were pending.Sharma said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 24,941 while 3,734 patients belong to other districts/states. As per information, 23,684 (94.96 per cent) patients from Ludhiana district had recovered so far.He said unfortunately, one patient from Jammu lost his life today. Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives include 969 persons from Ludhiana and 453 from other districts.The DC said till date, 55,246 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 980. Today, 66 persons were sent for home quarantine.He said 2,468 samples of suspected patients were sent for the testing today and their results were expected shortly. He appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently of the state government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.Micro containment zoneAfter cases of Covid-19 reported, the Health Department has set up a micro-containment zone at the Income Tax Colony in Ludhiana. Sharing this information, District Epidemiologist Ramesh said six Covid-19 cases had been reported from the colony during the past three-four days. Now, a micro-containment zone had been set up there, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-194918
07-01-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Fly kite with Chinese string,  be ready to face the music||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 6Despite the warning and strictness of the police, the sale of banned Chinese string (Chinese dor) is going unabated in the industrial hub. Now, the police are going the other way to tackle the sale and use of the deadly string.Earlier, cases were registered against people selling the same. Now, its usage will also be a crime. Whoever is found flying kite with the deadly string will face a criminal case.Confirming to The Tribune, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said: “Whoever is caught flying kite with it will now face an FIR under Sections 51 and 39 of the Wildlife Act. Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC will also be added to the case. These are the similar sections the police are registering against sellers of the deadly string.The CP said flying kite was more dangerous as the plastic string injures and kills pedestrians and commuters. Even birds also suffer serious injuries after being hit by it.Sources said the police were also likely to tighten noose around parents of children who were allowing their wards to fly kites with the banned string.Police exploring Aircraft Act, 1934, tooA senior police official said negligence while kite flying could lead to criminal prosecution. There is a provision under the Aircraft Act, 1934, that makes the negligent kite flying a crime. If a person harms someone while flying kites, he/she can be booked under Section 11 of the Aircraft Act. He, however, felt that enforcing this law in the city seems impractical as never any case of kite flying with banned string was registered. The CP said the police were studying the Act and it’s implementation was not clear yet.30 teams formedThe Ludhiana police have formed 30 teams, one each at police stations in the Commissionerate. Once the police get any information about the sale of the banned string, the team will reach the spot immediately. It will also conduct patrolling in its respective beats to catch the seller and buyers of the string.Hike in priceChinese string roll (gattu), which was earlier available between Rs 200 and Rs 250, is now being sold at Rs 400 or more. This is due to the strictness of the police. Sources even said some wholesale traders had already brought it’s huge stock a few months ago.Role of police personnel can’t be ruled outResidents alleged that the sale of Chinese string could not be made without the connivance of police personnel at the thana level. “Most SHOs know about its sellers but register small recovery FIRs just to please the top cop, but they never raid their godown. Even when the police nab any notorious seller, a police probe always fails to find the storage of the accused.”Areas known for selling string, no big recovery yetTrunka Wala chowk, Shri Sanglawala Shivala temple road, Haibowal, Daresi road, Janakpuri, Kashmir Nagar, Fieldganj, Shivpuri, Dugri, Ghumar Mandi, etc. Some sellers are even giving home delivery option to buyers. Lohri festival is round the corner but the Ludhiana police are yet to make any big recovery of the banned thread. Storage facility of the sellers is also a mystery for the police.Send information about sellers to police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fly-kite-with-chinese-string-be-ready-to-face-the-music-194921
07-01-2021||---||Family alleges inaction by cops in suicide case||Ludhiana, January 6 Alleging police inaction in an abetment to suicide case, family of the deceased today gheraoed the Salem Tabri police station. The family alleged the police are working under political influence due to which accused booked in the case were not being arrested by them. Notably on December 24, after facing mental torture for failing to pay Rs 20,000 debt, a 38-year-old fruit seller, Ravinder Singh, had allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at his residence in Chandni Chowk, Salem Tabri. On the basis of a suicide note, the Salem Tabri police had registered an abetment to suicide case against fruit wholesellers Bikram Singh and Kushal Singh. Manjit Singh, deceased’s kin, said despite the fact that the deceased had held Birkam and Kushal responsible for his death in the suicide note, the police were still not arresting the accused. He said many a times, they had met the ACP and SHO of the police station but to  no avail. He suspected that the police were being influenced by some political persons in the case. His family also alleged that the deceased had also left behind a diary in which, besides the two accused, name of a third fruit seller was also mentioned but the police were not adding his name to the FIR. Meanwhile, Salem Tabri SHO Gopal Krishan said police raids were on and the accused would be nabbed soon. The SHO said the suicide note recovered from the dairy was sent for forensic examination. Action will be taken against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/family-alleges-inaction-by-cops-in-suicide-case-194922
07-01-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Explain delay in recording evidence, judicial officer told||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 6 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought an explanation from a judicial officer for a delay of about 11 months in recording evidence of witnesses in a drug case. For the purpose of submitting report, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the high court set a month’s deadline. Justice Sangwan asserted the charges were framed in the matter on April 12, 2019, while the lockdown was imposed following apprehensions of the Covid outbreak in March 2020, after about eleven months.  “The trial court is directed to submit a report before the Registrar-General of this court, explaining the reasons for delay in recording the evidence during the period,” Justice Sangwan added. The direction came on a petition filed by Asish Singh against Punjab for grant of regular bail in a first information report (FIR) registered on October 8, 2018, under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Samrala police station in Ludhiana district. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the police apprehended the petitioner on suspicion and recovered 5,100 tablets of Lomotil as per the allegations in the FIR. The counsel further submitted that the petitioner was not involved in any other case and was in judicial custody for over two years and the trial was likely to take a long time in its conclusion.  Elaborating, the counsel submitted that the examination-in-chief of only two witnesses had been recorded out of the total 12 prosecution witnesses as the trial had been delayed due to the Covid-19 situation. The state counsel also submitted that the charges were framed in April 2019. But the examination-in-chief of only two prosecution witnesses had been recorded.  Without commenting upon the merits of the case and considering the petitioner’s custody period, his non-involvement in any other case and halt in the trial due to the coronavirus situation, Justice Sangwan directed the petitioner’s released on interim bail till May 31, 2021.  Justice Sangwan added that the trial court, after assessing the situation may cancel or continue the interim bail granted to the petitioner till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/explain-delay-in-recording-evidence-judicial-officer-told-194923
07-01-2021||Lovleen Bains||Gaping manholes at Jugiana village pose threat to motorists||Sahnewal, January 6Uncovered manholes located in Jugiana village, falling under Ward Number 28 of the municipal limits of Ludhiana, were proving to be a death knell for pedestrians and vehicles drivers.Commuters plying from Sahnewal to Ludhiana or vice versa bear the brunt of the mess. Not even a single day passes when a two-wheeler rider does not stuck up in the manholes. Cars usually get stuck in these manholes which damage the vehicle and often lead to traffic jams.“This is a recurrent problem. The department concerned seems to have completely forgotten to cover the manholes,” said Ravinder Kaur Dhillon, a daily commuter.“The problem is getting aggravated day by day. A majority of labourers commute on the road and many times children also play on it. It may result in a major tragedy if kept unattended by the authorities concerned,” said Pawanpreet Singh Bulara, who passes through the road several times and finds problems multiplied each day due to the uncovered manhole.“It has been days together. The open manholes are located in the middle of the road. Vehicles suffer breakdown due to the sudden jerk,” rued Jaskirat Kaur, who resides in Jugiana village.When contacted, Kamal, SDO, Operational Department of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, he assured that the manholes shall be covered in the next two hours. The employees, however, covered one but left the other uncovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gaping-manholes-at-jugiana-village-pose-threat-to-motorists-194924
07-01-2021||Sports Correspondent||CM to launch ‘Youth of Punjab’ campaign today||Ludhiana, January 6Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will launch the campaign “Youth of Punjab” on Thursday. Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board, said under the campaign, free sports kits would be distributed to the youth in all districts of the state.Bindra said the CM would launch the campaign through video conferencing from the Bachat Bhawan, Ludhiana, wherein youth clubs from the urban areas of district would be handed over sports kits. Another function would be held here on January 28 during which youth clubs of rural areas of Ludhiana would be covered, he said.He said hundreds of youth clubs of the district would be covered in both these functions. Several industrial houses such as Hero Ecotech Ltd., Avon Cycles, Kangaroo industries, Highway Industries, KJ Forgings etc. were supporting the Punjab Youth Development Board in organising this campaign.He stated that each sports kit would include kits for cricket, volleyball and football and this kit could be used by 70-80 youth in each area because they include kits of team sports.Bindra stated that if any youth club, which has worked in the field of sports or for any social cause or during Covid-19, can apply along with supporting photographs/documents at email-ID chairmanyouthboardpb@gmail.com or at phone number 95772-00003. He said once they apply, their credentials would be checked and free sports kits would be provided to them.He said that the Punjab Government led by Capt Amarinder Singh is committed to the progress of Punjab’s youth in all spheres. Appealing to the youth of the state to stay away from drugs and show maximum participation in sports as Punjab is a state that has produced several players of international and national repute.Such more functions would be organised in other parts of the state in coming days, added Bindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cm-to-launch-youth-of-punjab-campaign-today-194925
07-01-2021||---||Covid may affect patients’ oral health: Expert||Ludhiana, January 6“Covid and SARS infections, although primarily affect the respiratory systems, also have an adverse impact on the oral health of a person. Bleeding gums, bad breath, gingivitis, sensitivity of teeth are some of the common problems that result from the onset and aftermath of the virus. Survivors have often complained about post-Covid dental health symptoms, including tooth loss, tooth decay, loosening of teeth and a sizable vascular damage,” said dental expert Dr Jeewan Jyoti.Addressing the local residents, including the Covid survivors, here on Wednesday, she advised them to brush twice a day and floss once daily. Further, keeping the toothbrush clean was also quoted as an effective way of combating the post-Covid side-effects.Sharing some home remedies and treatments to improve and protect your dental health, Dr Jyoti recommended switch to an electric brush, which has shown higher levels of oral hygiene, brushing thoroughly for two minutes, rinse with a non-alcohol-based mouthwash after meals for 30 seconds to tackle unwanted particles in your mouth and to reduce plaque build-up.“Oral microbiome is a key component of the immune system. Mouthwashes rich in alcohol with bactericidal components such as triclosan or other antibacterial ingredients can greatly destroy health of oral microbiome,” she further stated, while advising use of hydroxyapatite, which was less bactericidal than fluoride but rebuilds tooth enamel quality as well.Dr Jyoti recommended avoiding starchy food and drinks which leads to acid in our mouths which dissolves tooth surfaces.“The pandemic has instilled a sense of fear in the minds of the people who often wonder whether it is safe to visit a dentist. While it is strongly recommended to regularly visit your dentist, the current circumstances make it imperative for you to be reassured that proper safety measures are being taken in the dental clinics. Sterilisation and autoclaving are of paramount importance. If the patient has a history of sickness, he/ she is obligated to inform the dentist about the same,” she added.Home tipsSwitch to electric brush, says doctor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-may-affect-patients-oral-health-expert-194926
07-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Covid, online studies take toll on ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 6Though the Education Department, Punjab, is trying hard to achieve ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’, teachers feel that achieving the target would be a tough task this time due to the pandemic and online education.‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ means 100 per cent results of students studying in government schools.The Covid-19 forced the closure of schools in the fag end of the previous academic session, posing grave situation as well as challenge to the Education Department. However, the department explored new vistas of digital applications and succeeded in making new strides in its enrolment drive and launched “Ghar Baithe Sikhiya” programme to take the classroom teaching virtually in each and every home via. TV, Radio, YouTube, Google channels using latest digital applications.At the same time, many teachers feel that results of online studies may not be that good as compared to the classroom teaching. Tehel Singh, from Punjab Government School Teacher’s Union, said for classes IX-XII, regular teaching was on in schools and maximum students are coming in rural areas. But for other classes, there may be difficulties in achieving 100 per cent results.“On the social media, messages are circulating that from Class V onwards, classes will start soon. If this happens, we can bring better results as two months are enough to solve queries of the students”, said Tehel Singh.The teachers said they are committed to bring the best results as department is supplying regular material like assignments, test papers etc.Besides taking online classes, the school teachers, braving the extreme cold conditions as well as adhering to the precautions pertaining to Covid-19, have started taking extra classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-online-studies-take-toll-on-mission-shat-pratishat-194927
07-01-2021||---||MC to hold loan mela under Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge||Ludhiana, January 6 Under the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on November 19, 2020, Ludhiana Municipal Corporation is organising country’s first loan mela at Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road, here, from 10 am onwards tomorrow, i.e. on January 7. The loan mela will be inaugurated by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu in the presence of MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and other signatories and officers along with representatives of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, NSKFDC and their Channel Partners, DICCI.  Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana informed that ‘Safaimitra’ refers to informal/formal sanitation workers who are involved in cleaning of sewer and septic tanks and related tasks. The challenge is aimed at preventing safaimitra from ‘hazardous cleaning’ of sewers/septic tanks through promotion of mechanised cleaning.   The National Safai Karamchari Finance Development Corporation (NSKFDC) is providing loans to Safaimitras on the recommendation of the Municipal Corporation. With the financial assistance in terms of soft loan, ‘Safaimitras’ can buy equipment/machines for mechanised cleaning of septic tanks/sewers in place of manual cleaning - leading to a dignified and safe life.  The Municipal Corporation has mobilised informal workers and loan process initiated for workers under the scheme.  More than 20 exhibitors are participating from all across India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-to-hold-loan-mela-under-safaimitra-suraksha-challenge-194928
07-01-2021||---||MLA Dawar lays foundation stone of static waste compactor||Ludhiana, January 6 Surinder Dawar, MLA from Ludhiana Central constituency,  on Wednesday laid foundation stone to set up a static waste compactor for handling solid waste management near Cheema Chowk in Ward 20 Ludhiana.  Dawar said the static waste compactor will be set up under the Smart City Mission and residents will get big relief from existing garbage dump. He said it is expected that the compactor will be installed within next 2-3 months. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 1 crore. It is required to mention that the residents here have been complaining about a big garbage dump near Cheema Chowk for a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-dawar-lays-foundation-stone-of-static-waste-compactor-194929
07-01-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on challenges faced by media||The Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, organised a one-day national webinar on Media: Challenges and Responsibilities in Present Context.  “The main focus of this webinar was to highlight challenges and responsibilities of media during and after the pandemic,” said  Dr SP Singh, president, Gujranwala Khalsa Education Council, Ludhiana. Prof. Avinash Singh, CEO, Linkages and former pro-vice-chancellor of University of Technology and Management, Shillong, in his presidential address, talked about about career opportunities in journalism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-challenges-faced-by-media-194930
07-01-2021||Ludhiana||Railways extend cancellation, diversion of trains till tomorrow||Due to the ongoing agitation by farmers in Punjab, the Northern Railways have further extended cancellation, short-termination (partial cancellation) and diversion of some long route trains till January 8.Railway officials said 05211/12 Darbhanga-Amritsar-Darbhanga Special express and 08237/38 Korba-Amritsar-Korba Chhattisgarh Special express trains would remain cancelled till Jan 8.The 02407/08 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Karambhoomi Special express would short-terminate at and short-originate from Ambala Cantt (till Jan 8) and 04653/54 Newjalpaiguri-Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Special express special would short-terminate at and short-originate from Saharanpur till January 8.It was further stated that 02903/04 Mumbai Central-Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail, 02925/26 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Terminus, 04650 Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna express special and 04652 Amritsar- Jaynagar Humsafar express special would continue to be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas route. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-extend-cancellation-diversion-of-trains-till-tomorrow-194931
07-01-2021||Ludhiana||FICO demands rollback of PSPCL order||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) vide circular memo no. 861/66/DD/SR-62, dated 09.12.2020; regularised the power intensive unit load on electrolytes processing units, which is totally ‘unjustified’ for the small electroplating processing industry. It will put direct burden on the industry.  This was stated by Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, Federation of industrial & Commercial Organisation (FICO) and Rajeev Jain, general secretary. They requested A. Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, to immediately rollback the decision, otherwise industrialists will protest against the decision.   Members of the FICO said the Industry in Punjab is already being supplied with electricity at  expensive prices as compared to the neighbouring states. It will further increase the problem of already struggling industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fico-demands-rollback-of-pspcl-order-194932
07-01-2021||Our Correspondent||GLADA razes structures in six illegal colonies||Ludhiana, January 6Amid reports of illegal colonies coming up all across periphery areas of the city and unscrupulous developers being given a long rope by the regulatory body, a team of officials and field staff of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) carried out a demolition drive in over six illegal colonies in the South City area along the Sidhwan Canal, Humbran Road  and Haibowal localities.The GLADA team pulled down structures and dug up ongoing development works at the colonies. The developers were directed not to carry out any further development work and produce necessary documents pertaining to regularisation of the colonies, if they had applied for the same under the (now lapsed) regularisation policy introduced by the state government.Though GLADA officials claimed that the action as per rules and provisions made under PAPRA was being taken suo moto or on the basis of specific complaints, sources maintained that the action against illegal colonies or for that matter against commercial buildings being constructed without change of land use (CLU) or approved building plans outside the city was either ‘selective’ or confined to issuing notices without any further follow-up action as per rules.GLADA Estate Officer Sonam Chaudhry, however, claimed that issuing notices for violations or carving out unlicensed colonies was a continuous process. An action plan had been prepared to carry out area-specific demolition drives against illegal colonies or buildings being constructed without approved building plans or other violations, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-razes-structures-in-six-illegal-colonies-194934
07-01-2021||---||EPFO settles over 1.5 lakh claims worth Rs 432 crore||Ludhiana, January 6The Ludhiana regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has settled over 1.5 lakh claims amounting to over Rs 432 crore, this fiscal so far. Of these, over 1.23 lakh claims were settled within three days of their receipt.Stating this here on Wednesday, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-I (RPFC), Dheeraj Gupta, said a total of 1,50,414 claims amounting Rs 432.34 crore were settled between April 1 and January 4, of which 1,23,940 claims were settled within three days of their receipt, which was 82 per cent of the total claims settled.The settled claims included 29,773 Covid claims, disbursing a sum of Rs 54.73 crore, while the rest were non-Covid claims amounting to Rs 377.61 crore.To recognise the services of staff, a special felicitation event was held here this afternoon. The officials worked tirelessly during the pandemic and attended to members/workers registered under the EPF in Ludhiana for settling their online claims and other grievances within three days.“These Covid claim advances and online claim settlement helped many of our members/ migratory workers to fight difficulties during the Covid times. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had declared EPF and pension services under the essential services category during the Covid-induced lockdown with the goal of helping workers in their most difficult times,” Gupta said.He said the officials of the EPFO in Ludhiana worked all seven days to give timely services to subscribers, even on holidays during the lockdown.The Ludhiana EPFO had resumed the PRO services in the first week of May with all safety protocols in place, to help those EPF members/ workers who were in need of money but facing difficulty in getting their claims settled through the online mode.The RPFC-I applauded the work of the 20 officials of the regional office in Ludhiana for their commendable job in the current financial year, especially during the lockdown.***On corporate linesSince October last year, the practice of felicitating the best worker of the week on the lines of the corporate sector had been started by the RPFC-I in Ludhiana to motivate good workers and develop a healthy competition among all to give their best in providing service to the EPF subscribers to their satisfaction. Under the initiative, the photo of the best worker of the week was pasted on the notice board at the gate to give due recognition.A committee of four officials had been formed to decide the best worker of the week on the basis of a few parameters — total claims settled, rejected, pending beyond seven days in a week.In this category, Sodhi Singh was awarded the best worker of the week for maximum times. Gupta also felicitated Regional Provident Fund Commissioner-II Brij Mohan Singh, assistant provident fund commissioner Gurdial Singh and enforcement officers Komal Parkash and Bhupinder Kumar Singh for their remarkable services during the lockdown.Best workersThe best workers who were awarded include: Sodhi Singh worker of the week; Vijay Shankar working maximum days; Rajwinder Kaur grievance handling; Deepak Kumar Gupta accountant; Harikesh Lal and Rajiv Kumar Ranjan PROs; Riza coordination and legal work; Anil Puri and Ravindra Mandal enforcement and reports; Ashok Kumar and Anil Kumar caretaker cell workers; Rajesh Kumar Bhargav pension cell worker; Ratan Roshan Lal administration cell worker; Hardeep Singh cash section worker; Tejinder Singh PA cell and coordination worker; and Sukhwinder Singh driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/epfo-settles-over-1-5-lakh-claims-worth-rs-432-crore-194936
