08-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Makeshift lavatories on Tikri Border to end sanitation woes||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 7To provide better civic amenities to protesting farmers, some farmers of Brahampur village in Ludhiana district have started erecting lavatories at various places on Tikri Border.While volunteers, led by Bhartia Kissan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) office-bearers Balwinder Singh Billu and Mistry Avtar Singh, have been camping on Tikri Border to undertake fabrication of first lot of ten lavatories, NRIs Anand Pal Singh Lail and Harbans Singh have come forward to give fiscal support to the initiative.Gurjit Singh Victor, coordinator of the event, said the decision to erect lavatories on Tikri Border was taken after women protesters experienced problems during their stay there. “Having received inputs about problems being faced by protestors in general and womenin particular, we decided to erect ten combo setsof lavatories each consisting a toilet and a washroom,” said Victor, maintaining that raw material and equipment required for the purpose wastaken to the spot from the local area.Victor said work on erection of more lavatories would be continued for which an amount of Rs 5 lakh had been earmarked.Organisers have also deployed volunteers who would keep the lavatories clean and fresh besides ensuring availability of water, soap and other materials required for hygienic maintenance of the paraphernalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/makeshift-lavatories-on-tikri-border-to-end-sanitation-woes-195452
08-01-2021||---||Online baby talent show||Ludhiana, January 7The school organised a unique online baby talent show “Baby day out”. Over 238 kids showcased their talent in different categories such as most active baby, most stylish baby, active baby, sparkling eyes, beautiful smile. The event was judged by Rupinder Kaur, Dr Shelly Kohli, Lakshmi Bahl, Amita Kiran, Meena Chawla, Kim Gulati, Komaljit Kaur, Dr Sonam Gupta and Jasmeet Kaur. Reuben Chahal, Head, Elementary, congratulated all participants and encouraged them to hone their talent as they are essential for the overall personality of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-baby-talent-show-195451
08-01-2021||Ludhiana||Olympian Surjit Singh’s death anniv observed||Players and organisers of Jarkhar Hockey Academy observed the 37th death anniversary of hockey star, Olympian and former captain of World Cup winning Indian team, Surjit Singh Randhawa.  A function was organised at the main stadium of Jarkhar village where tributes were paid to the penalty corner specialist who died in a road accident near Jalandhar in 1984. Flowers were placed at the life-size statue of Surjit Singh, installed at the stadium. A two-minute silence was observed to pay tributes to the hockey legend. Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, director of the academy, recalled the achievements of the star player. Rohtas Kumar from the Sports Authority of India (SAI), Delhi, who was here to take stock of the arrangements being provided to the hockey trainees, along with Gurvinder Singh, MD of Divya Enterprises, Ashutosh, Maninder Singh, coach Gursatinder Singh Pargat, Jagdev Singh Jarkhar and Tejinder Singh were present on the occasion. Gurwinder Singh Jarkhar (Guri), a talented and upcoming hockey player of the academy, was honoured with the “Man of the Year” award. He was given a bicycle. Besides, some other trainees were given track suits and hockey sticks. An exhibition match between Olympian Surjit XI and Olympian Prithipal Singh XI was also held on the occasion which remained tied at 3-3. Coach Gursatinder Singh said that a hockey clinic for new entrants would be organised in February in which Olympians and international stars would visit the academy and give tips to the trainees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/olympian-surjit-singhs-death-anniv-observed-195449
08-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Link road cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 7A link road connecting Dera Bazigar Basti and some other areas of ward number 1 with Bahadurke Road is in a poor condition for a long time.Residents have demanded from the authorities concerned to get it reconstructed at the earliest.Whenever it rains, the commuters face a lot of problems due to the muddy conditions on the stretch. The road is nowhere visible these days and it is not levelled properly.Vikas Kumar, a commuter, said he had been witnessing the poor condition of the stretch for past four-five years, but it was not even repaired. “Hundreds of people pass through this road that mainly connects the Bahadurke Road with Dera Bazigar Basti and some other parts of ward number 1. The authorities concerned should take the required steps to get this road reconstructed at the earliest. The road gullies must be constructed to avoid any water accumulation on the stretch,” he said.A resident of Dera Bazigar Basti said, “The road leading to our area from Bahadurke Road has not been constructed for a long time. We appeal to the civic body authorities that this road must be constructed at the earliest. We want from the civic body to take the necessary steps for the development of our area. There is need to improve sanitary conditions too.”Even, the potholes located on this stretch are yet to be repaired. Besides, the residents complained about a major garbage dump on this road. They want that this dump to be removed.MC’s Executive Engineer Surinder Singh said he would look into the matter and check the records regarding this road. MLA from Ludhiana East Rakesh Pandey said the process was in pipeline to construct this road. He said the road would be constructed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/link-road-cries-for-attention-195450
08-01-2021||---||Cops act tough against bootleggers, gamblers||Ludhiana, January 7The Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have cracked the whip against liquor and drug smugglers and gamblers with the recovery of over 18,000 litres of liquor, 14 lakh litres of lahan, 13 kg of poppy husk, 3 kg of ganja, Rs 6 lakh illicit money, 10 mobile phones and arrest of 229 smugglers and gamblers. Also, preventive action under Section 110 of the CrPC was initiated against 28 notorious smugglers while 21 vehicles used by the culprits for illegal activities were confiscated.To keep up the sustained campaign against the smugglers, the police have resolved to break the remaining smuggling chains by targeting the kingpin involved in the illicit business and clampdown on the illegal liquor distilleries, if any, left in the Commissionerate jurisdiction.Search ops stepped up: Top copSharing the New Year resolution against liquor and drug smugglers, CP Rakesh Agrawal said the special anti-smuggling cell, dedicated for the purpose, has been further strengthened and given mandate to pull all stops against illicit business activities in the area. “Remaining kingpins will be brought to book and illegal liquor distilleries, if any, will be seized,” said the CP, adding that search and surveillance operations have been further stepped up.Sharing the New Year resolution against liquor and drug smugglers, Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal told The Tribune, here on Thursday, that the special anti-smuggling cell, dedicated for the purpose, had been further strengthened and given mandate to pull all stops against illicit business activities in the area.“Remaining kingpins will be brought to book and illegal liquor distilleries, if any, will be seized,” asserted the CP, while stating that search and surveillance operations have been further stepped up, especially around the Sutlej, which was known for its notoriousness in the operation of illegal liquor distilleries.He said the Commissionerate Police had launched a special drive against liquor and drug smugglers, besides gamblers with the formation of a dedicated anti-smuggling cell on May 18 last. ADCP-I Deepak Pareek and ACP-Headquarters Jung Bahadur Sharma were jointly tasked with direct supervision of the functioning of the cell.Acting tough against the smugglers and gamblers, the cell arrested 198 smugglers in 174 cases of liquor smuggling and recovered 15,479.5 litres of llicit liquor, 2,033.5 litres of illicit liquor and 572.25 litres of English whisky, taking the total recovery to 18,085.25 litres during the past seven months. Besides, 13,93,250 litres of lahan was also destroyed. Of the total arrests, 28 notorious smugglers with bad track record were proceeded against under Section 110 of the CrPC. Also, 21 vehicles used by them for illegal business were confiscated.Under the NDPS Act, three arrests were made in two separate cases and 13 kg of poppy husk and 3 kg of ganja were recovered from them.In four separate cases of gambling, 28 gamblers were held with Rs 5.86 lakh in cash, 312 cards, 10 mobile phones, a laptop, LED, television set-top box and a remote control.Issuing stern warning against the liquor and drug smuggling, besides gambling, the CP asserted that all those involved in the illicit business would not be spared at any cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-act-tough-against-bootleggers-gamblers-195434
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Work on burial ground begins on Tibba Road||Ludhiana, January 7 With land allotted and handed over to the Muslim community by the Punjab Waqf Board for a burial ground on Tibba Road in the city, Naib Shahi Imam Mohammed Usman Rahmani today laid the foundation stone for the boundary wall and construction of the building and offered prayers for early and successful completion of the project. In the wake of persistent complaints of the Muslim community about shortage of burial grounds in the city, the government had taken up the matter with the Punjab Waqf Board for allotment of a suitable chunk of land for the purpose. While addressing a gathering, the Naib Shahi Imam expressed gratitude on behalf of the Muslim community in the city to Junaid Raza Khan, Mohammed Ayub, chairman and executive officer of the Waqf Board, respectively, and Malkit Alam, state president of the RJD, who had been instrumental for materialisation of this long-standing demand of the community. Rahmani said death was the ultimate truth and one must always remember that only good deeds would go with mortal human beings after death. A place such as burial ground not only reminds people about their ultimate destination but also inspires to take the path of truth, honesty and goodwill for fellow human beings. Chief secretary to Shai Imam Mohammed Mustaqeem Ahrari, Anees Tyagi, Mufti Arif Qasmi, Haji Sajid, Firoze Saifi, Ankur Aggarwal, Haji Afzal, Khalid Raqqash, Maulana Sarvar, Shahzad Ansari, Parvez and Sanjoor Ansari were among others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-on-burial-ground-begins-on-tibba-road-195435
08-01-2021||---||Mechanical sweeping in markets soon: Ashu||Ludhiana, January 7Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said all prominent city markets would soon have the mechanised sweeping facility.He said the demonstration of one such machine was inspected at the Sarabha Nagar market today. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana were also present at the event.Ashu added that a pilot project for mechanised sweeping would be started in Rishi Nagar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Sant Ishar Singh Nagar, besides several other areas of the city.He said he would personally monitor the progress of the project and no lapse would be tolerated. He said the main idea behind introducing mechanised sweeping in the city was to provide best international-level civic amenities to the residents.Notably, the Municipal Corporation had signed a contract with a private firm for conducting mechanical sweeping on major city roads nearly five years ago.As the civic body was paying a “big” amount to the firm for mechanical sweeping on roads, some councillors, during a house meeting of the civic body in 2017, had raised questions over mechanical sweeping project.A Congress MLA had then also suggested that the civic body authorities should purchase their own vehicle for mechanical sweeping. Later, the sweeping was stopped on roads in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mechanical-sweeping-in-markets-soon-ashu-195436
08-01-2021||Sports Correspondent---||‘Youth of Punjab’ campaign,  other schemes  launched||Ludhiana, January 7   The ‘Youth of Punjab’ campaign was launched during a function organised at Bachat Bhawan here today. The campaign was launched along with other schemes by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through videoconferencing from Chandigarh. Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was the chief guest on the occasion. Sports kits to five youth clubs from urban areas of the district were handed over on Thursday.   Speaking on the occasion, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board, said a total of 2,500 sports kits would be distributed during the campaign.   “It would help promote health awareness and sports culture in the state besides motivating the youth to take an active part in sports thus enabling the state to regain its lost glory in the sports arena at the national and international events,” he said.   He expressed hope that this would help inculcate sportsmanship spirit amongst the youth, especially those from rural areas as they had scant resources to equip themselves to excel in the field of sports.   “It would keep the youth away from drugs and ensure constructive channelise their energy,” Bindra exuded confidence.   Another function would be held here on January 28 during which youth clubs of rural areas of Ludhiana would be covered, he said.   MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, PMIDB Chairman, Amarjit Singh Tikka, DCC Ludhiana (Urban) president Ashwani Sharma, MC Councillors Sunny Bhalla and Harkaran Singh Vaid, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana, Punjab Youth Development Board vice chairman Vikram Kamboj, Nitin Tandon and SB Pandhi, besides several others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-of-punjab-campaign-other-schemes-launched-195437
08-01-2021||---||Flour mill owner nabbed under POCSO Act||Ludhiana, January 7 The Sadar police station have arrested a man who allegedly sexually harassed an eight-year-old girl. The accused has been identified as Sukhdev Singh of Central Town.  Victim’s father told the police that on January 5, his daughter had gone with her friend to the flour mill of Sukhdev to buy flour. When she reached there, accused attempted to harass her sexually, victim’s father said that after buying flour when his daughter returned home, she was under some tension. The complainant said initially her daughter did not reveal anything as the accused had threatened her to remain quiet. Later, the victim revealed that the accused had held her hand at the flour mill and touched her inappropriately. Investigating officer ASI Harmesh Singh said that a case under section 354-A of the IPC and under the POCSO Act has been registered against the accused. He said a raid was conducted at the whereabouts of the accused and he was nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/flour-mill-owner-nabbed-under-pocso-act-195438
08-01-2021||---||Four held for selling Chinese string||Ludhiana, January 7 To keep a check on the sale of banned Chinese string, the Ludhiana police have arrested four persons in separate cases and recovered 67 rolls of the banned string. In the first case, the police division 4 arrested a person selling plastic strings and recovered 40 rolls of the plastic thread from his possession. Investigating officer ASI Balwinder Singh said the accused was indulged in the illegal trade of banned strings. He was standing near Damoria bridge as he had to deliver the consignment to his clients. Singh said the police party conducted a raid and nabbed the accused red-handed. The seller was being questioned by the police to bust the entire supply line. The Meharban police nabbed one Rajan Kumar of  Chandarlok Colony and recovered 15 rolls of banned string. Investigation officer Rakesh Kumar said a tip-off was received that accused had been selling banned string in the guise of provisional store. When the police party conducted a raid, he was held red-handed and the stock of banned string was recovered from the shop. In another case, the Meharban police arrested one Rajan and recovered four rolls of deadly string from him. Meanwhile, the Tibba police nabbed one Vishal Thakur of Tilak Nagar. ASI Baljit Singh said a raid was conducted at the shop of the accused from where eight rolls of Chinese string were recovered. In these case, apart from registering a case under various sections of the IPC, the police has also added Wild Life Protection Act and Environmental Protection Act against the sellers. 588 rolls of Chinese string seized The CIA 1 wing of the Ludhiana police made a major recovery of banned Chinese string and arrested two sellers. The CIA recovered 588 rolls of string. The arrested accused are Manish Sethi alias Sonu 45 of Bhagwan Das colony and Jaswant Singh Lovely 53 of PNB road, Salem Tabri. Investigating officer ASI Ashok Kumar said a tip-off was received that abovesaid two persons were into the illegal trade of banned Chinese string and they were on the way to deliver the huge consignment of plastic string to their clients. Accordingly the police party conducted a raid and nabbed the accused red-handed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-held-for-selling-chinese-string-195439
08-01-2021||---||Civic body holds loan mela for sanitation workers in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 7A number of private sanitation workers participated in the loan mela organised by the Municipal Corporation at Indoor Stadium here on Thursday. The loan mela for the informal sector under the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’ was aimed at providing easy loan facility to sanitation workers to buy machines for cleaning septic tanks and sewers so that inhumane practice of manual scavenging can be eliminated.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and Municipal Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal inaugurated the country’s first Loan Mela. Sandhu said ‘Safaimitra’ refers to informal/formal sanitation workers who were involved in cleaning of sewer and septic tanks and related tasks. The challenge was aimed at preventing Safaimitra from ‘hazardous cleaning’ of sewers/septic tanks through promotion of mechanised cleaning, he said.The Mayor said the National Safai Karamchari Finance Development Corporation (NSKFDC) was providing loans to Safaimitras on the recommendation of the Municipal Corporation. With the financial assistance in terms of soft loan, ‘Safaimitras’ could buy equipment/machines for mechanised cleaning of septic tanks/sewers in place of manual cleaning, leading to a dignified and safe life. The corporation had mobilised informal workers and loan process was initiated for workers under the scheme, the Mayor said.Sandhu said hundreds of sanitation workers participated in today’s event and hopefully, they would get benefitted from it.MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana and councillor Dilraj Singh were also present. The officers along with representatives of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, NSKFDC and their channel partners, DICCI, also participated in the loan fair. Over 20 exhibitors participated from all across the country. Private firms displayed equipment and machines which could be used for cleaning of sewers and septic tanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-holds-loan-mela-for-sanitation-workers-in-ludhiana-195440
08-01-2021||---||Woman among four booked for fraud||Ludhiana, January 7 Four persons have been booked by the Samrala and Ludhiana police in separate cases for committing fraud worth lakhs. In the first case, the Samrala police registered a fraud and  criminal conspiracy case against a woman and her husband  for duping a resident of Rs 9.57 lakh on the pretext of giving double returns in some investment scheme. The suspects have been identified as Sarabjit Singh and his wife Karamjit Kaur, residents of Paprodi village near Samrala. Complainant Sanjiv Kaur told the Samrala police that the duo had introduced themselves as agents of Crown Society and they had promised that the money would be doubled in a short span of time. The woman alleged that the suspects had failed to double the money and when they were asked to return the same, they refused. ASI Sikand Raj said no arrest had been made in the case so far. In another case, the Police Division 6 registered a case against two persons for failing to foot bills of  cycle parts bought from a city-based factory. The suspects have been identified as Balwinder Kumar and Manish Kumar of Kurukshetra. Complainant Krishan Gupta told the police that he owns Chirag Industry in Ludhiana and the accused had bought cycle parts worth Rs 1.51 lakh but they refused to pay the bills. The police said after registering a case of fraud, further probe had been started in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-among-four-booked-for-fraud-195441
08-01-2021||---||SIT to probe rape in police post||Ludhiana, January 7The Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, has constituted a special investigation team (SIT), headed by ADCP-Zone 4, Rupinder Kaur Sra, to investigate and report the alleged rape of a woman in the police post.The team includes ACP Simranjeet Singh, Jamalpur SHO Kulwant Singh and a woman cop Kulwant Kaur.“We have formed an SIT to further investigate the case and strict action will be taken on the basis of the inquiry report,” the CP said.On January 3, an FIR was registered on the complaint of the 24-year-old woman, who had accused head constable Rakesh Kumar, 45, of raping her at the Mundian Kalan police post here.Besides arresting the accused cop, the police also nabbed the woman accused in the case. However, three other accused in the case are on the run. The victim had alleged that she was assaulted, molested and filmed by the four accused before the accused head constable allegedly raped her at the Mundian Kalan police post late on the night of December 6.The CP also ordered the presence of women cops on night duty at all police stations and posts. Meanwhile, a separate inquiry is in progress to look into the bribe allegations levelled by the victim, who had accused the head constable of accepting bribe from the other accused in the case for raping her.further investigate the case and strict action will be taken on the basis of the inquiry report,” the CP said.On January 3, an FIR was registered on the complaint of the 24-year-old woman, who had accused head constable Rakesh Kumar, 45, of raping her at the Mundian Kalan police post here.Besides arresting the accused cop, the police also nabbed the woman accused in the case. However, three other accused in the case are on the run.The victim had alleged that she was assaulted, molested and filmed by the four accused before the accused head constable allegedly raped her at the Mundian Kalan police post late on the night of December 6.Taking cognisance of the case, the CP also ordered the presence of women cops on night duty at all police stations and posts.Meanwhile, a separate inquiry is in progress to look into the bribe allegations levelled by the victim, who had accused the head constable of accepting bribe from the other accused in the case for raping her.Earlier, the Punjab State Women Commission (PSWC) chairperson Manisha Gulati had also sought a report in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sit-to-probe-rape-in-police-post-195442
08-01-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC tells school to pay Rs 1.15 cr tax||The Municipal Corporation (MC) today issued a notice to a private school in Sarabha Nagar for allegedly filing less property tax to the civic body. The school has been told to pay Rs 1.15 crore property tax (including 100% penalty). The MC official concerned stated in the notice that the details mentioned in the property tax return filed by the school were not “correct”. As per the notice, the civic body is to recover Rs 57.59 lakh remaining property tax along with 100% penalty (Rs 57.59) lakh from the school.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-tells-school-to-pay-rs-1-15-cr-tax-195443
08-01-2021||---||No death; 30 +ve cases reported in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 7Thirty persons tested positive with no death reported for Covid in the district today. With this, the total number of positive persons has risen to 24,971, while 969 people have lost their lives so far in the district.Today three patients were on ventilator support and all of them belonged to other districts.Two health care workers tested positive on Thursday, while the tracing of six persons was in progress. Six were contacts of positive people, six were referred from the OPDs, nine were from flu corners and one was an SARI patient.Presently, there are 276 active cases in the district. Till now, 55,295 people have been home quarantined and at present, 950 are active and today 49 people were home quarantined.The results of 1,805 samples are awaited.The Health Department and the district administration have appealed to the residents to follow all directions regarding coronavirus protocol and guidelines.Civil Hospital Covid beds now 40Meanwhile, keeping in view the decrease in the number of Covid cases, the isolation facility at the Civil Hospital has been decreased to 40 beds. During the time when the district was facing a high load of Covid cases, a 150-bedded isolation ward was set up at the hospital. Even the OPD and Emergency services were shifted to the ESI Hospital which have now been shifted back to the Civil Hospital. Now, surgeries have also been started at the Civil Hospital. A total of 71 beds were there in the isolation ward which have now been reduced to 40. Now, the Civil Hospital has 16 beds for Level III as earlier and beds for Level II have been decreased to 24 from 55.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-30-ve-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-195444
08-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||GLADA’s plea to refuse power connections to illegal colonies||Ludhiana, January 7In a bid to rein in unscrupulous developers from carving out new colonies in violation of the provisions made under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has asked the Chief Engineer/Central Zone, PSPCL, in Ludhiana and officials of the distribution wings in Moga, Ferozepur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (areas under administrative jurisdiction of GLADA) not to provide any electricity connection to colonies or plots and properties in such colonies without “no objection certificate” (NOC) from GLADA.In a DO letter to heads of the distribution wings of the PSPCL in Ludhiana and other districts/sub-divisions under its jurisdiction, the GLADA Chief Administrator PS Gill has quoted Section 20, sub-section (2) of PAPRA 1995 (Amended Act 2014) which says – “No department of the Central Government or the state government or authority or municipality or board shall sanction any building plan, give water connection, sewerage connection, telephone connection or electricity connection to any building or land situated in a colony or building in respect of which licence has not been obtained from competent authority.”The GLADA CA has further cited the policy for the regularisation of unauthorised colonies and plots which has provided in Section 23 Provisions to control future development of unauthorized colonies (iv) – “Besides the abovesaid measures, no water supply, sewer or electric connections will be allowed and no sub-registrar/joint sub- registrar shall register their sale deed or any other documents regarding the sale of the unauthorised plot or building or colony.”It has been further asserted by the GLADA chief that as per the provisions of PAPRA and the policy for the regularisation of colonies, plots or properties, no electricity connection could be given to any colony, building or plot for which licence has not been granted or building plan has not been approved by the competent authority. As electricity connections were being issued to illegal colonies and buildings without demanding NOC from GLADA, the unauthorised colonies and buildings were proliferating.“This practice needs to be stopped forthwith. Directions be issued not to allow any new electricity connection in such illegal colonies or buildings and further if such connections have already been granted, these ought to be disconnected,” urged the GLADA Chief Administrator.The PSPCL officials, however, were not very keen on obliging GLADA in this regard with the plea that the issue, being a policy matter, needed to be settled at the government level. “As per the government directions, all restrictions on the grant of the domestic electricity connections have been withdrawn and the PSPCL was not in a position to refuse, reject or put condition on new electricity connections in domestic category,” said a senior PSPCL official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gladas-plea-to-refuse-power-connections-to-illegal-colonies-195445
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Gave Rs 500-cr Covid relief  to consumers: PSPCL||Ludhiana, January 7In 2020, the prime focus of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was to become a support system for its consumers who were facing a tough time due to Covid-19.Stating this here today, the PSPCL Director, Commercial and HR, Gopal Sharma, said to mitigate the negative impact of coronavirus, relief and benefits of nearly Rs 500 crore were granted to various categories of consumers.Elaborating on relief measures taken by the PSPCL during the pandemic, he said the due date for the payment of electricity bills of domestic and commercial consumers with amount up to Rs 10,000 and those of all industrial consumers was extended up to June 2020 during lockdown period. Similarly, 1 percent rebate on current energy bill was granted to DS, NRS consumers with billing amount up to Rs 10,000 and to all industrial consumers who deposited the amount in full or part by the original due date upto April 2020.Subsequently, 1 per cent rebate was also allowed on any amount deposited between April 21 and 30, 2020, against previous arrears in addition to the current energy bills to all DS, NRS and industrial consumers.Among other steps taken to provide relief to consumers was the deferment of the revision of security consumption of all categories of consumers. The facility of “meter reading on trust” to commercial and SP industrial consumers during the period of the lockdown and facility for payment of bills in installments, he added.Sharma said despite all odds, the suppliers were encouraged to continue the supply of essential materials to maintain the power distribution system and in genuine cases, revised CDPS were allowed and timely payments were ensured to all MSME suppliers during this ongoing crisis period.Focusing on the consumer-friendly schemes launched by the PSPCL during the year, he cited “Pani bachao, paise kamao” under Direct Benefit Transfer of Electricity, reduction in charges for shifting of 11 KV HT/LT lines passing over the buildings having insufficient physical clearance, free power supply to agricultural tubewell consumers, concessional electricity to the SC, BPL, BC and freedom fighters categories.The PSPCL director claimed that major steps were taken towards the conservation of energy with the procurement of 15.74 lakh energy efficient 9 watt LED bulbs for distribution among SC, BC and BPL categories of consumers of the PSPCL under the “Kifaiti LED bulb yojna”. Further, energy-efficient 9 watt LED lamps and 20 watt LED tube lights were installed to replace traditional fluorescent tube-lights in the PSPCL offices as an energy-saving measure.Bhupinder Khosla, Chief Engineer/Distribution, Central Ludhiana, said employees and officials in the zone would continue to strive to improve working, create consumer-friendly work culture and bring qualitative improvement in the maintenance of distribution system and power supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gave-rs-500-cr-covid-relief-to-consumers-pspcl-195446
08-01-2021||---||Thin attendance of students in schools||Ludhiana, January 7The state government opened government schools for students of classes V and onwards from today. However, there was a thin attendance of students in the schools as parents seemed to be reluctant to send their wards to the schools.Headmasters and in charges of various schools were seen asking parents to fill the consent forms as prescribed by the government.While the government has issued guidelines to be followed by the schools, keeping in mind the pandemic times, it was a sorry state of affairs little no social distancing was being maintained and many students were seen without masks.Parents reluctantA parent outside Government High School, Haibowal Kalan, said she was still confused whether to send her daughter to attend classes as the school was not willing to take any responsibility if any thing happened to a child. Moreover, just two months were left for the session to get over. She would prefer to wait till the new session began, she added.At the same time, the attendance of students from classes VIII was satisfactory and students were seen attending regular classes.At government primary school, Haibowal, out of the total 120 students in Class V, just about 10-12 students had come and a few had gone back with the assurance that they would start attending classes from tomorrow onwards.Teachers said sincere efforts needed to be made to bring back the normal routine as neither teachers nor students and their parents were ready to accept the change after the pandemic times.Meanwhile, for classes IX-XII, it was routine in government schools.At Government Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, students of higher classes were seen attending regular classes and a good number of students had started coming to schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thin-attendance-of-students-in-schools-195448
