09-01-2021||Ludhiana||3rd consecutive day, no death in Ludhiana; 41 +ve||No death was reported for the third consecutive day, while 41 persons tested positive for Covid in the district today.The total positive cases in the district now are 25,012, while 969 persons have lost their lives so far.55,232 quarantinedAccording to the Health Department, till date, a total of 5,54,546 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,52,338 samples have been received, of which 5,23,578 samples were found negative, while the reports of 2,208 samples were pending.Till date, 55,332 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 932. Today, 37 persons were sent for home quarantine.Third Sero survey in distThe third sero survey is being held in the district. Samples were collected for three days, starting Wednesday and the process finished on Friday. The samples of health care workers are also being collected in the survey. A team of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) collected the samples to find herd immunity.On the first day, five areas were visited by the team which included Payal, Pakhowal, Maloud from where 200 samples were collected and in addition, 50 samples each were collected from Sub-Divisional Hospital, Khanna, and Sanhewal Community Health Centre. On the second day, ward numbers 12, 21, 51, 65 and Baddowal were visited by the team and 200 samples were collected. Random sampling was being done by the team.Meanwhile, in the second sero survey, the presence of antibodies to fight Covid in the urban population was found to be more compared to the rural population.The survey was conducted from November 17-20. While 90 per cent urban population showed the presence of antibodies, in rural areas, antibodies were present in just 17-50 per cent people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3rd-consecutive-day-no-death-in-ludhiana-41-ve-195953
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||1,463 rolls of Chinese string seized by police||In the past ten days, the Ludhiana police have recovered as many as 1,463 rolls of banned Chinese string. In these recoveries, a total of 31 persons have been arrested and 24 cases were registered.However, the police failed to find the godowns of these sellers. Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said 30 teams were formed to check the sale and use of deadly string. He added a WhatsApp number has been released where any resident can complaint about the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-463-rolls-of-chinese-string-seized-by-police-195955
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||PSPCL clears ambiguity on security refund||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has clarified that as per regulation 18.1, security (consumption) for large supply (LS) consumers with total demand exceeding 100 kva is the amount calculated on the basis of the total load or demand as per the rates specified in the Schedule of General Charges.In an office memo dated January 1, 2021, the PSCLP Chief Engineer/Commercial has said that to clear the ambiguity on the calculation of security deposit for LS consumers, a meeting of the Supply Code Review Committee was convened on December 15, 2020, to discuss the matter.“The committee concluded that the amount recovered from applicants at the time of the registration of A & A (applications and agreement) form – 25 per cent of security (consumption) /additional security (consumption) is an installment and not the total amount of security (consumption),” says the memo.It is, therefore, clarified that there is no ambiguity that security (consumption) is the amount calculated on the basis of total load/demand for the purpose of deduction under regulation 18 of Supply Code 2014.The PSPCL has further made it clear that in case of the withdrawal of the application before the issuance of demand note, the refundable security (consumption) would be after the deduction of the 10 per cent of the total amount of security calculated on the basis of the load and not 10 per cent of the 25 per cent earnest money deposited by the applicants with the A & A Form.The clarification has been issued after it was noticed in many cases that the field offices were calculating refundable security (consumption) after the deduction of 10 per cent of the 25 per cent earnest money and not the 10 per cent of the total amount of security (consumption) on the withdrawal of applications. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-clears-ambiguity-on-security-refund-195956
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Civic body sets up PR branch||In view of the public and as well as the administration’s interest, the Municipal Corporation (MC), Ludhiana, has set up its public relations (PR) branch.MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has issued an order in this regard. Mayor Balkar Singh had earlier given instructions to set up the branch.Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh has been appointed the head of the branch. Mayor Sandhu said they had taken the move of setting up the PR branch so that the people could be informed about the activities done by the MC. The works related to development and issues related to the common public would be highlighted through this branch, he said.Kulpreet Singh said they would take the required steps for better coordination among the MC authorities, employees and the public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-sets-up-pr-branch-195957
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Inter-state gang of vehicles lifters busted; six vehicles recovered||The Crime Investigation Agency-2 of the Ludhiana police has busted an inter-state gang of vehicles lifters and nabbed two members of the gang.The agency also recovered six vehicles from the gang.The arrested accused were identified as Loveraj Singh (40), alias Raju, a resident of Karmawala, Ferozepur Cantt, and Ankush Kumar (31), alias Sonu Bathla, of Guru Gyan Vihar, Sector 7 Phase 1, Dugri.‘Transport Dept on radar’DCP (Crime), SPS Dhindsa, conducted an online press conference along with ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and ACP (Crime) Surinder Mohan regarding the matter.DCP Dhindsa said the police had recovered two Innova vehicles, two Brezza cars, one Scorpio and one Baleno from the gang members which they had stolen from various places in Punjab.“This gang has members operating in Punjab, West Bengal and other states. After stealing vehicles, the accused used to change the chassis number and registration number of vehicles. The gang chose the genuine chassis number and registration number of the vehicles so that while they went to sell the same, the client could verify the same from Transport department,” DCP Dhindsa added.The DCP said the role of the Transport Department officials was also under scanner as there was the possibility of the connivance of the department officials for leaking the genuine records of vehicles to the gang members.The police said the gang had its roots in various states and in further probe, more members of the gang would be nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/inter-state-gang-of-vehicles-lifters-busted-six-vehicles-recovered-195958
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers stage protest in Ludhiana||Despite the cold wave, Anganwadi workers on Thursday protested against the Central and state governments to fulfil their long-pending demands.The protest was held on a call given by the Centre of Indian Trade Union in which the workers condemned the gang-rape of an Anganwadi helper at Badaun village in Uttar Pradesh. The workers said such acts were inhuman and strict punishment should be given to the guilty. The workers protested against the Central government for its “anti-poor” policies. They said the Central government was against workers, labours and farmers.Not sparing the state government, the workers said that their pending dues of 40 per cent dearness allowance were not released by the Punjab government. Besides, pre-primary classes were given to primary schools, which was against the interest of Anganwadi workers. They sought the rollback of the “anti-people” decisions taken by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest-in-ludhiana-195959
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Poultry business hit hard as sale of products dips||When the chicken and poultry business had just started to recover after the Covid severity, it is now being hit by bird flu.Egg and poultry consumption has slowed down and people have started taking precautionary measures after bird flu/ avian influenza outbreak in some states. The prices of poultry products have also come down as a result and the sale has gone down by nearly 30-40 per cent.‘Were on recovery path’The sale of eggs and chicken has come down considerably. “Earlier it was Covid which had affected our sales and now it is bird flu. The business had started recovering slowly as hotels and restaurants were being opened. Now we have been hit by bird flu. There is no case of bird flu reported in our state, but the scare has spread and people have stopped consuming eggs and poultry products,” said Sanjeev Bassi, chairman of the Progressive Poultry Farmers Association.Need of the hourHe added that on January 1, the wholesale rate of 100 eggs was Rs 574, while today the wholesale rate was Rs 450.It has become really difficult to survive in the present circumstances.Another egg wholesaler, Inderjeet Singh, said he had seen a dip of 30-40 per cent in the sales in the last four-five days.“The broiler which we used to sell for Rs 95 is now being sold at Rs 65 as there is negligible demand in the market. There is no bird flu confirmation in the state, but due to the scare, people have stopped eating poultry products,” he said.Meanwhile, experts say that there is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs.Dr Rajnish Sharma, assistant professor at the School of Public Health and Zoonosis, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said there was no harm in consuming eggs and chicken.“There is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs after cooking these properly. It is safe to eat these products when prepared and cooked properly. Food normally reaches 70 degrees Celsius during cooking and kills the virus as it is sensitive to heat,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poultry-business-hit-hard-as-sale-of-products-dips-195960
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||3 years on, wife of late fire fighter gets job||Three years after the plastic manufacturing factory fire and collapse incident, the Municipal Corporation Ludhiana authorities handed over a job appointment letter to the wife of late fire fighter Sukhdev Singh, who had lost his life in the incident.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal today handed over the letter of appointment to the wife of late Sukhdev Singh. She has been provided a permanent job by the Municipal Corporation.Nine fire fighters of the MC had lost their life in the mishap and collapse incident near Suffian Chowk of Ludhiana in November 2017.2 firefighters’ kin yet to get reliefMeanwhile, the kin of two fighters, Vishal Kumar and Manpreet Singh, are yet to get any job. Earlier, jobs had been provided to kin of six fire fighters. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had visited the accident site in 2017 and had instructed that kin of all martyred fire fighters (regular and contractual) would be provided jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-years-on-wife-of-late-fire-fighter-gets-job-195961
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Injured, ill stray animals need authorities’ care||Though the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, with 95 wards is a biggest civic body in the state, it has not made any arrangement to help the injured or sick stray animals roaming in various parts of the city.Despite collection of crores of rupees as cow cess every year, the MC has not taken any concrete steps for the welfare of stray cows in the city so far.No help from government deptsA number of injured or ill stray cows, bulls, dogs and other animals can be seen roaming in different wards of the city. Many times, they die without getting any treatment. Stray dogs with open wounds infested with worms need urgent attention but no government department is providing help to these animals. Notably, a few NGOs and animal lovers have taken self-initiative to help such animals but due to limited resources, help is not reaching all needy animals. Some animal lovers want from the government and the MC to start a special helpline number to provide first aid and required treatment to the injured or sick animals in the city.A number of injured or ill stray cows, bulls, dogs and other animals can be seen roaming in different wards of the city. Many times, they die without getting any treatment. Stray dogs with open wounds infested with worms need urgent attention but no government department is providing help to these animals.Notably, a few NGOs and animal lovers have taken self-initiative to help such animals but due to limited resources, help is not reaching all needy animals. Some animal lovers want from the government and the MC to start a special helpline number to provide first aid and required treatment to the injured or sick animals in the city.Major Amarjit Singh Bath, who has been working for the welfare of stray animals, including dogs, said: “There is a dire need to start 24x7 dedicated helpline service to provide immediate treatment to the injured or sick stray animals and birds in the city. A health care centre and special rescue team must be set up for the welfare of these animals. The government must start dedicated ambulance service too for shifting of these animals to nearby government veterinary hospitals.”He said: “The MC should also hold talks with Guru Angad Dev Veterinary And Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, for providing treatment to stray animals.”“People pay cow cess to the civic body. It is the responsibility of the MC to construct shelters for stray cattle and ensure welfare of them,” he said.Aman Bakshi (44) of Animals and Environment Welfare Society said: “We used to receive many calls about sick and injured animals. Our NGO had set up a shelter for the stray animals, without getting any help from the government. The shelter was closed as we did not get any support from people. We are now planning to restart such shelter.”He said: “At present, the government is doing nothing for the injured or sick stray animals in the city. There is a need to do a lot for the welfare of the stray animals.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said: “We are going to shift the stray cattle from city roads to shelters soon. We will also take required steps to provide treatment to the injured or sick stray animals at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/injured-ill-stray-animals-need-authorities-care-195962
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Industry writes to minister over hike in yarn prices||The Ludhiana Textile and Hosiery Industry is worried over the ever-increasing prices of yarn in recent times. Industrialists have submitted a representation to Textile Minister Smriti Irani to intervene to save the garment and knitwear industry.Ajit Lakra, Head, Textile Division, FICO, said the industry has come on the verge of closure. The fabric and garment industries are predominantly, in the MSME segment and are labour-intensive, employing lakhs of workers. There is a constant undue increase in the prices of all the basic raw materials, such as all types of yarns such as cotton, polyester, poly cotton and spandex yarn, packing materials such as poly bags, paper, cardboard, plastic and all kinds of inputs.Cotton yarnThe cotton of the country this year was higher than last year. Moreover, garments exports to Europe and the USA are less than half compared to last year. In spite of that there was a shortage of yarns and price increase is most unreasonable (about 50%), in the last 3-4 months, going beyond the reach of the MSME units. This is because the basic cotton yarns are being exported to Bangladesh and China in large quantities by local spinners and for Indian market they have made a cartel along with the traders to increase the prices and have created an artificial shortage to increase the rates to make more profits, rendering the MSME industry unviable and uncompetitive in the domestic as well as export market. The government should ban/disincentive the export of yarn or fix a quota of export of cotton yarn, so that cotton yarn can be made available for domestic manufacturers at a reasonable price.Polyester yarnThe government should immediately remove anti-dumping duty on polyester yarn and its raw materials so that yarn becomes available to the Indian textile manufacturers at the international price through import.Spandex yarnThe government should remove the anti-dumping duty on import to stabilise the rates at reasonable levels. The MSME textile units are already under a heavy stress, the abnormal rise in yarn prices have further made the survival of the MSME units very difficult. The closure of the MSME garment units would render lakhs of workers unemployed and will cause a big setback towards the country becoming Atmanirbhar Bharat in textiles. To save the MSMEs, the government should take immediate necessary steps to promote local manufacturing of fabrics, garments and value addition in fabrics rather than exporting yarns, majorly to China who has a malicious intent to make the country unviable and uncompetitive in the domestic and international market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-writes-to-minister-over-hike-in-yarn-prices-195963
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||MC to set up sub-zone office at Dhandari||The Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, is planning to set-up a sub-zone for collection of property tax, water supply charges and other facilities for some wards at Dhandari, here.MC Superintendent Vivek Verma said residents of ward numbers 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 were facing inconvenience as they had to cover a long distance to reach the MC’s Zone C office on Gill Road, Ludhiana.He said: “We had set up a trial run for the collection of property tax last year. We had got a good response to the camp. Now, a proposal has been made to set up a sub-zone office at Dhandari on GT Road, here.”“The work to set up the sub-zone office is likely to be started there. A suvidha centre will be set up at the sub-zone office. The authorities have given consent for the opening of the sub-zone office,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-to-set-up-sub-zone-office-at-dhandari-195964
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Employees, workers protest farm laws, policies of Centre||Under the banner of the ‘Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha Punjab’, members of various unions of contractual and regular employees and labourers staged a protest outside the DC office against the farm Acts and “wrong policies” of the Central Government.Members of industrial workers’ union and the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) also participated in the protest.They demanded from the Centre to repeal the “draconian” farm laws. They also demanded amendments that were against labour laws should be revoked. They said the government should provide good salaries to labourers so that they could run their families without any problems. They also sought from government to control inflation and make arrangement of regular jobs for all.Charan Singh Noorpura from the BKU (Ugrahan), Bhupinder Singh Grewal of the Water Supply and Sanitation Employees Union, Shamsher Singh of the Punjab Roadways-PUNBUS Contractual Employees Union, Rajwinder of the Karkhana Mazdoor Union, Harwinder Singh of the Moulders and Steel Workers Union were present. They also submitted a memorandum of their demands at the DC Office, said Satish Sachdeva from the Pensioners Bhawan, here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employees-workers-protest-farm-laws-policies-of-centre-195965
09-01-2021||Our CorrespondentRaikot||Social activists hold rally against plastic||Office-bearers and activists of various social and educational organisations took part in a ‘shramdan’ and marched through localities of Mullanpur town to clear the region of single-use plastic items and polythene bags during the ongoing drive launched against the violation of the plastic ban in the region.Executive officer Akash Bansal (IAS) and Municipal Council president Telu Ram Bansal led the activists during the awareness rally that passed through various localities of Main Market, New Grain Market Area and Model Town.Convener of the event Manohar Singh said constituents of various educational institutes, social organisations and the civic body had organised a rally to spread awareness about causes and consequences of degradation of environment due to the use of single-use plastic items and polythene bags.New Public School, Guru Teg Bahadur National Public School, Col Harchand Singh Sekhon Memorial Senior Secondary School, Dakha, Government High School, Mullanpur, Government Primary School, Mullanpur, Adarsh Public School, Eastwood International School, Ajitsar Khalsa High School and Government Primary School, Ajitsar, were among the educational institutes where events were organised to spread awareness against the menace. Outstanding performers were felicitated on the occasion.The authorities seized illegal stocks of polythene bags from many vendors and shopkeepers and penalty was also imposed on the violators. Supporters of the mission, ‘Plastic Free Area’, were given appreciation letters by the Municipal Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/social-activists-hold-rally-against-plastic-195966
09-01-2021||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh||PSEB: Parents seek more time for online registration||Parents of students seeking admission to Class XI of the Punjab School Education Board are upset that the board had closed its portal for online registration much before the commencement of regular physical classes.While the registration, that too with late fee, was closed on December 31, 2020, normal physical classes are yet to pick up. The classes began at various schools on Thursday.Students intending to study at government schools and private aided schools are among the worst sufferers as they hail from poor or lower middle class families.The school authorities too are worried as they find it difficult to explain issues regarding online registration to less educated or illiterate parents.Residents, led by social activist Rajesh Sharma, regretted that the future of a large number of students passing Class X from the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) or the Central Board of Secondary Education was at stake as they had failed to get registered as regular students with the the PSEB. Lack of knowledge about the procedure and lack of communication with the authorities at schools during the Covid-19 induced lockdown were cited to be major reasons behind the situation.“When we approached the authorities at a private aided senior secondary school for regular admission, we were told that the registration with the board had closed on December 31, 2020, that too with hefty late fee,” said Sharma, maintaining that her daughter could not take admission earlier due to prolonged treatment of her eyes.Stating that they were ready to pay the required late fee, parents of students seeking admission have now urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla to impress upon the board authorities to allow the registration at least for some days.Principal, MGMN Senior Secondary School, Ahmedgarh, Viney Gupta, said some parents had approached the PSEB Chairman for seeking permission and it was expected that the portal for the online registration might be opened for a restricted period.“We are constantly in connection with the PSEB authorities and will update the parents concerned as and when the portal opens for registration,” said Viney Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pseb-parents-seek-more-time-for-online-registration-195967
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Dhanishta shines in global Olympiad||Dhanishta Chhabra, a student of Class VII of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, achieved the first rank in the International Social Studies Olympiad (iSSO) 2019-20 conducted by Silverzone Foundation. She has been awarded a gold medal, a winner’s trophy and a cash prize of Rs15,000 from the foundation.She has also attained a zonal rank of 10 in the second level of the English Olympiad conducted by SOF (Science Olympiad Foundation) and received a voucher worth Rs 1,000 for the same. In the Olympiads conducted by the Silverzone Foundation in 2019-20, she has won gold medals in Reasoning and Aptitude, Informatics and Hindi, and a silver medal in English. She was felicitated by the Principal Sister Reshmi and the vice-principal Sister Reena. Dhanishta said, “I wish to dedicate my achievement to my parents and teachers. I look ahead to participate in more such Olympiads and competitive exams for an academic edge.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dhanishta-shines-in-global-olympiad-195968
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Dairy Complex night shelter sans food facility||Gurpal Singh (34), along with around 15 persons, reached the night shelter at the Dairy Complex on Hambran Road in a bus. He had been coming to the night shelter (rain basera) daily for sleeping for the past four-five days amid the cold wave.Special bus to pick up homelessSeveral homeless persons reach the shelter daily. The MC has deployed a special city bus to pick up the homeless from areas near Durga Mata Mandir and other places every evening. Later, these persons are dropped at the night shelter.After getting his name entered in the register at the shelter around 8 pm, he picked up a broom to clean the portion of the floor where he had to keep the mattress and the quilt, provided by the MC, for sleeping. Gurpal, who said to have studied matriculation and belongs to Kapurthala, said he was forced to leave his home after he met with a tragedy. Nowadays, he is searching for a job during the daytime and he spends his night at the shelter, which falls under the Zone D of the MC.Like him, several other homeless persons reach the shelter daily. The MC has deployed a special city bus to pick up the homeless from areas near Durga Mata Mandir and other places every evening. Later, these persons are dropped at the night shelter.At present, there is no availability of food service at the place. After leaving the shelter in the morning, many of them visit religious places in the city for partaking of ‘langar’.Malkit Singh (65), who is from Barnala, said: “I had left my house. I generally spend my daytime near a religious place. At night, I come to this night shelter via the city bus. I have dinner before reaching the place. I have no problem at the shelter.”Another person said: “I along with some other persons used to gather near a religious place to take the city bus to reach the night shelter every evening. The bus service is free for us for reaching the shelter. But, it is difficult for me to arrange Rs 20 as auto-rickshaw fare to return to the religious place to have tea and food in the morning.”Notably, a chowkidar has been deployed for night duty while CCTV cameras are installed at the shelter. The MC has made water supply and toilet arrangements. Face masks, sanitiser and thermal scanner were also available at the shelter for the prevention of the Covid-19 but these were not being used.MC yet to act against various issuesDairy waste, including cattle dung, is dumped in drains that pass in front of the night shelter. Thus, stink emanates all the time. It is an old issue but the MC is yet to take any action in this regard. The signboard of the shelter is not completely visible at night. Local residents said provision of street lights must be ensured on the stretch outside it. There is no arrangement for washing or cleaning used blankets and bedclothes. Besides, there is no provision of food at the shelter.MC SDO Sanjeev Sharma said there was an arrangement for 30-35 persons at the night shelter. “Around 15 new beddings were arranged recently”, he said.MC Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh said around 25-30 persons visit the night shelter daily. He would look into the issue of street lights.He said there were no issues regarding blankets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dairy-complex-night-shelter-sans-food-facility-195969
09-01-2021||Ludhiana||Bird flu: In Ludhiana, 13 rapid response teams formed||Though no case of bird flu has been reported in the state yet, experts have cautioned poultry farmers, asking them to adopt all necessary precautions.In Ludhiana, 13 rapid response teams have been formed for 13 blocks and samples have also been collected. Farmers have been advised to pay attention to the immunity of birds and give them nutrient-rich diet. Adding immunity boosters such as turmeric, ginger and garlic to their diet can help birds fight any infection, they have been told.Dr Paramdeep Singh, Assistant Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said: “We have formed 13 rapid response teams for 13 blocks. Nearly 500 samples have been collected and all have tested negative.”He said surveillance was being carried out at domestic poultry market and farmers had been told to inform the department if they found anything unusual.Dr Parminder Singh, Associate Director, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Mohali, said no case had been reported in the state so far but those in the poultry business needed to be careful.Dr Rajnish Sharma, Assistant Professor at the School of Public Health and Zoonosis, said: “There is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs after cooking them properly. But poultry farmers need to be careful and adopt bio-security system.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bird-flu-in-ludhiana-13-rapid-response-teams-formed-195737
