10-01-2021||ludhiana||Increase immunity of birds, say veterinarians||Amidst the bird flu scare, experts have cautioned the poultry farmers and told them to adopt all necessary precautions. These farmers have been advised to pay attention towards the immunity of the birds and give them a nutrient-rich diet. Adding immunity boosters like turmeric, ginger and garlic in their diet can help in keeping the birds away from any infection. Dr Parminder Singh, associate director, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Mohali, said no case had been reported in Punjab so far, but still those in poultry business need to be careful and cautious. “Proper care of the birds should be taken as the weather these days is also harsh and they should be protected from chilly winds. Due to the bird flu scare, special attention should be paid towards the immunity of the birds. Their dose of vitamins and minerals should be increased. They should also be given haldi in their feed as it has great antibiotic and anti-infective benefits. Ginger and garlic should also be added to their diet while their diet contains essential oils,” he said. Herbal mixtures are also available which help in increasing the immunity and keeping them away from infections. An advisory is being issued to the farmers and vaccines are regularly given, so there is no need to panic but one should remain cautious. Dr Rajnish Sharma, assistant professor at the School of Public Health and Zoonosis, said poultry famers need to adopt a vigilant approach. “There is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs by cooking them properly. The need of the hour is that poultry farmers need to be careful and vigilant and they should adopt bio-security system. No stranger should be allowed to come inside the farm. Tyres of tractors and trolleys which go outside the farm should be disinfected and cleaned properly. The workers should adopt all methods of personal hygiene,” said Dr Sharma. He added that the immunity of the birds should be specially taken care of and they should be given balanced and nutritious diet. Feed should be stored in a dry place so that it may not get in contact with moisture. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/increase-immunity-of-birds-say-veterinarians-196364
10-01-2021||---||Family duped by tout outside RPO||Ludhiana, January 9A Ludhiana family was allegedly duped by a tout outside the Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Chandigarh where they had gone to get their passports updated.Assuring the family to get the work done, the tout took Rs 20,000 from members of the family. Taking a serious note of the fraud, the RPO Sibash Kabiraj got an FIR registered against the accused.The incident took place last morning when Paramjeet Singh of Jagraon village in Ludhiana, along with his mother Devinder Kaur and grandfather, visited the RPO at Sector 34 in Chandigarh for the correction of the place of birth in their passports.“Outside the RPO office, they came in contact with a tout Dimple, running a juice/ tea/coffee shop in the nearby block, who misguided them and took Rs 20,000 from them on the pretext of getting their job done,” the RPO told The Tribune, on Saturday.Later, the applicants approached the RPO where, as per the protocol, they were attended to by the officials concerned and they submitted their documents for examination by the officials.The papers reached the office of the Deputy Passport Officer (DPO) Amit Kumar Rawat, who got suspicious when the applicants were not able to answer the questions. “The mother and son were called to the office and asked to explain in detail their ordeal, following which they revealed that the tout Dimple had misguided them and took Rs 20,000 from them,” the RPO said.The DPO Rawat immediately brought the matter to the notice of the RPO, who took a serious note of the matter and personally inquired before contacting the SSP to take cognisance of the cheating case.Subsequently, the SHO of the Sector 34 police station attended to the complaint given by the applicant and forwarded by the RPO office to register an FIR against the tout who cheated the innocent applicants and to take legal action against him as per the law.The RPO has advised the public to avoid such touts and directly contact the passport office, if not personally, then even through Twitter, e-mail, or WhatsApp video call.Pertinently, the Chandigarh RPO was on top in the country in handling grievances and their redress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/family-duped-by-tout-outside-rpo-196365
10-01-2021||---||Two duped of Rs38 lakh on job promise||Ludhiana, January 9 The Khanna City police and Ludhiana rural police registered cases of fraud against five persons who duped residents of over Rs 38 lakhs on the pretext of providing them government jobs. In the first case, four persons were booked by the Khanna City police on the charges of fraud and criminal conspiracy. The accused have been identified as Bhupesh Kumar of Bathinda, Jasvir Singh, Jobanpreet and Manpreet Singh. The complainant, Sapinder Singh, a resident of Ajnala, Amritsar, told the police that the accused took Rs 30 lakh from him for providing a government job in the Mandi Board Department. However, the accused failed to provide  continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-duped-of-rs38-lakh-on-job-promise-196366
10-01-2021||---||Pets’ registration till March 31||Ludhiana, January 9The Municipal Corporation (MC) has extended the period for the registration of pets for three months.Earlier, the civic body had started the registration project in June 2020 and the pet owners were given time till December 31 for the registration of the pets.This information was given by the MC’s senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla.The pet owners can visit the civic body’s Suvidha centres in all zones or the official website www.mcludhiana.gov.in for registration. The token for the registered pets can be collected from room No. 37 at the MC’s Zone A office.Dr Dhalla said now the registration of the pets would be possible with Rs 400 till March 31.“The registration after three months of the age of the pet is possible,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pets-registration-till-march-31-196367
10-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Amid pandemic, night shelter near Clock Tower full to brim||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9As rain started on a recent night, more homeless persons began reaching the MC’s night shelter near Clock Tower, Ludhiana.This most popular night shelter of the city is located at a walking distance from the Ludhiana railway station.Even amid Covid pandemic, the shelter generally remains full these days. Meanwhile, a number of homeless persons are still forced to spend nights in the open at nearby locations. Thus, there is a need to construct more night shelters for the needy.Hemanand (28) was the 55th person who entered the shelter on a recent night when rain lashed the city. When the lockdown was imposed, Hemanand had moved to Uttrakhand, but has not got any work after coming back to the city now.Like him, a number of persons belonging to other states, including Haryana, Rajasthan, MP, UP, Bihar, Delhi and even from different parts of Punjab, come to this night shelter these days.When this correspondent visited this shelter, a few persons were found sleeping in the corridor. A man at the shelter said there was no more space in the rooms as social distancing was being maintained. Around 8.45 pm, mostly persons had gone to sleep. Meanwhile, a few persons were seen playing cards.Naresh Kumar of Haryana said, “I take langar at nearby religious places. At night, I come to this shelter. I earlier used to clean utensils at marriage palaces, but have not got any work. I hope I will get work at marriage palaces after Lohri when the wedding season will begin.”Pending issuesThere is no provision of food or tea for the needy. Two toilets are seemingly not sufficient for 50 or above visitors. Some old blankets and beddings were looking dirty. It was learnt that there was no arrangement for washing or cleaning blankets and mattress covers.Though rooms were almost full, no masks and sanitisers were available at the shelter for the prevention of Covid. There is shortage of staff too, as no MC employee was available for night duty. Currently, a man performs multiple duties on a voluntary basis at night.There is need to improve sanitary conditions near the night shelter building. Several people urinate in the open near the night shelter building due to which foul smell pervades the area.A former councillor Parminder Mehta said, “The night shelter near the Clock Tower is most popular and generally remains full. The MC needs to construct more night shelters near the Clock Tower area as still many homeless persons, especially labourers from other states, can be seen sleeping at nearby locations like Jagraon Bridge, under Elevated Road and old city areas.”When the accounts branch of the civic body was shifted from this building to the MC’s Zone, a building over a decade ago, this night shelter was set up. The MC’s Superintending Engineer, Teerath Bansal, said around 40-45 new beddings had been arranged for the shelter this season. He said he would look into the matter if there was any issue at the night shelter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-pandemic-night-shelter-near-clock-tower-full-to-brim-196368
10-01-2021||---||Residents protest over poor condition of Civil City road||Ludhiana, January 9 Residents and members of a city-based NGO, Yuva, held a  protest over the poor condition of the Civil City main road in ward no. 91 of the Ludhiana North constituency on Saturday. Kumar Gaurav of the NGO staged a play during the protest to awake the Municipal Corporation and the government to pay attention towards the poor condition of the road. Residents slammed elected representatives on the occasion. Kumar played the role of an injured patient in the play to highlight the pain of those who met with road mishaps on the broken stretch in the past. He flayed elected representatives, including the Congress MLA and the councillor concerned for not paying attention to get the road reconstructed despite the fact that a number of mishaps have occurred on the road. He said: “I was forced to protest to awake the authorities and the elected representatives concerned. There are many potholes on the stretch which are being ignored by MC officials. However, the elected representatives failed to take any step in this regard.” A resident said his son had met with a mishap on the road. “My son’s bike slipped on the broken stretch. He had received 17 stitches in the mishap. Elected representatives have failed to resolve our issues,” he said. Another resident Keemti Rawal said: “We are suffering a lot as the road is in a poor condition for over a decade. Many commuters had suffered injuries in mishaps but the authorities and elected representatives have failed to pay any attention towards the issue. The MC authorities should wake up from its deep slumber and ensure the reconstruction of the road at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-protest-over-poor-condition-of-civil-city-road-196369
10-01-2021||---||BJP,  Congress disturbing peace in state, says YAD||Ludhiana, January 9 Members of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) staged a protest outside the DC office here against the BJP and the Congress blaming the parties for disturbing peace in the state. The Youth Akali Dal workers, led by Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Barjinder Singh Lopon and Prabhjot Singh Dhaliwal, submitted a memorandum at the DC office. Gosha, Lopon and Dhaliwal said the farmers’ agitation on the borders of Punjab and Delhi was going on. Gosha said: “There have been incidents in the state in past few days which have created a tense environment in the state. The Congress and the BJP are disturbing peace in the state. The law and order situation is also worrisome due to statements and activities of leaders of the two parties.” “We demand a complete ban on the activities of the Congress and the BJP and stern action against leaders who were disturbing the peaceful atmosphere,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-congress-disturbing-peace-in-state-says-yad-196370
10-01-2021||---||College teachers demand regularisation of services||Ludhiana, January 9 Demanding regularisation of services of a number of teachers, members of units of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) of colleges run by the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Punjab, affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh, staged a protest at Arya College here. The protesting teachers blamed the management concerned for not fulfilling their repeated demands. President of the PCCTU, Ludhiana, Prof Kuldeep Batta said: “The management concerned has failed to complete the process of regularisation of these teachers appointed against 1,925 grant-in-aid posts, in spite of many requests, letters and reminders. Most of the colleges in the state have regularised these teachers after the completion of the three-year contract period, as per government directives. The colleges run under the management of the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha have not implemented the decision of the state Cabinet for the regularisation of the teachers working on these posts.” “The teachers are still forced to work on a meagre salary. Against this ongoing exploitation, we have held a protest today,” said executive member of the PCCTU Prof Rohit Mahi. Addressing the protesting teachers, Professor Batta said among 136 colleges, the majority of them had regularised the services of the teachers working on 1,925 grant-in-aid posts but the sabha after being given many notices and consequent reminders, has turned a deaf ear to the demands of the teachers. He said if the management did not pay heed to their demands, the protest would take an extreme and revolutionary form in the future. Prof Praveen Sharma, general secretary, ACTU, said these teachers were not given their due rights in spite of the Cabinet decision and DPI notifications. The delay is adding up to the harassment of the teachers whose future was at stake. Teachers from various colleges of the state visited the protest site at Arya College to support the cause of the protesting teachers, the union members said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/college-teachers-demand-regularisation-of-services-196371
10-01-2021||Manav Mander||These volunteers are feeding all with love||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9It has been over three months that a group of volunteers are feeding those siting at the protest site at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza and those leaving for or returning from the Delhi borders.As one reaches the toll barrier at Ladhowal, the scene is entirely different as compared to normal days. Instead of long lanes of cars, one now sees queue of people for langar. While those siting on protest against farm laws and those going to Delhi make a halt at the toll to fill their stomach.Nirmal Singh, a volunteer, said they were followers of Jathedar Baba Bachan Singh from Delhi and had been serving langar to every person passing through the route.“We are a group of volunteers and our duties have been fixed. Some go to the city to pick up items such as milk, paneer, curd, vegetables, fruits and flour. Every Punjabi is contributing to the cause and these things are supplied to us free of cost,” he said.There is a group of 15-20 persons who are engaged in cooking which include four-five professional cooks, who have been hired for the purpose.“Punjabis are known for their love and warmth across the globe. Community kitchen is one characteristic of the community which has made them the most loved state. Now, that farmers are protesting against the farm laws, we are leaving no stone unturned to feed those who are protesting here or leaving for the protest venues. We are not available at the protest sites but we are contributing to the cause in our own manner,” said Nirmal Singh.Bhajan Kaur, who hails from Phillaur, said she comes here every day for four-five hours and help them in making chapatis. “Everybody is helping and contributing in their own way and what else can be the best way than serving them who are fighting for our rights. I cannot go to Delhi as I have old parents to look after back home. Hence, I am contributing this way,” she said.Ajiab Singh from Hoshiarpur, who was returning from the Delhi border, said: “I and the entire farmers’ community are indebted to such volunteers who have been helping people. Langars have been organised at various places and they make sure that not even a single person leaves without having meals,” he said.Every Punjabi contributing to cause: VolunteerNirmal Singh, a volunteer, said they were followers of Jathedar Baba Bachan Singh from Delhi and had been serving langar to every person passing through the route. “We are a group of volunteers and our duties have been fixed. Some go to the city to pick up items such as milk, paneer and vegetables. Every Punjabi is contributing to the cause,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/these-volunteers-are-feeding-all-with-love-196372
10-01-2021||---||Bribe allegation against employees of car dealer, insurance company||Ludhiana, January 9 Nitin Dawar of Rajguru Nagar has levelled allegation of bribe against employees of a BMW dealer and an insurance company. He alleged that they were demanding Rs 1.5 lakh bribe from him to release his car which was repaired in the agency under insurance cover after an accident. Employees of the dealer and the insurance company have categorically denied the allegations. Nitin alleged that after his BMW car met with an accident, he took it to Krishna Automobiles, Ludhiana, for repair as the vehicle car was fully insured. The company prepared a Rs 8.50-lakh bill for its repair. “Now, employees of the dealer and the insurance company are demanding Rs 1.50 lakh bribe to release the vehicle. I made a complaint to the CP, Ludhiana, who marked the same to the ACP, Licensing Branch, Ranjit Singh,” he alleged. Rishi Bhaseen of The New India Assurance Co. Ltd. termed the allegations as false and motivated. Instead, Nitin was not coming to collect the car and he has also not been completing the formalities required to release the approved insurance claim, he said. He said the complainant, Nitin, would have to face defamation for filing a baseless complaint and he had already given his statement to ACP Ranjit Singh.  Rajdeep Kundra of Krishna Automobiles also denied the allegations of bribe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bribe-allegation-against-employees-of-car-dealer-insurance-company-196373
10-01-2021||---||Private firm owner’s son booked on  rape charge||Ludhiana, January 9The son of a courier company owner has been booked for allegedly raping a computer operator on the pretext of marriage. The accused has been identified as Vikas Chopra, a resident of Pakhowal road.The complainant told the police that in 2014 she joined Fastline Courier situated in Minerva Complex, Clock Tower, as a computer operator. She got into a relationship with the accused and he promised to marry her.She claimed that the parents of the accused had also agreed to their marriage and she had informed her parents about their relationship. On the pretext of marriage, the accused developed a physical relationship with her.Last year, when their marriage was to be solemnised, the accused and his parents told her to leave the job as a condition to solemnise the marriage.The woman alleged that after she left the job, the accused and his parents denied the marriage proposal following which she submitted a complaint.The Kotwali police registered a rape and fraud case against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/private-firm-owners-son-booked-on-rape-charge-196374
10-01-2021||---||Minister Ashu inspects working of mechanised sweeping machines||Ludhiana, January 9 Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today inspected the working of mechanised sweeping machines at the Sarabha Nagar Market and Mall Road areas of the city.   He also inspected the working of e-rickshaws that are proposed to be pressed into service for solid waste management in the city. He was also accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and others. Ashu said the civic body was all set to introduce mechanised sweeping of roads and pavements in all prominent city markets. The minister said the inspection of such machines by different companies was done in the presence of senior MC officials today, after which a comparative report would be prepared and the final decision would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-ashu-inspects-working-of-mechanised-sweeping-machines-196375
10-01-2021||---||Gang of opium smugglers busted, 3 held||Ludhiana, January 9The Dakha police have busted a gang of smugglers and arrested its three members with 4-kg opium.The accused have been identified as Abid Hussain of Akalgarh, Sudhar, Balwinder Singh Happy and Sukhwinder Singh Raju, both residents of Kothe Sherjung, Jagraon.Dakha Station House Officer Prem Singh Bhangu said acting on a tip-off, a naka was set up at Rakba Chowk. The accused were intercepted and during their checking 4 kg of opium was recovered from them.The smugglers had brought the consignment of opium from one Imran Khan of Patna. They were trying to deliver the consignment to their clients near Jagraon.SHO Bhangu said the police would also conduct raid in Patna to nab Imran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-opium-smugglers-busted-3-held-196376
10-01-2021||Ludhiana||LIP MLA Simarjit Singh Bains seeks all-party meet to support farmers||President of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and MLA from Atam Nagar Simarjit Singh Bains has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded that an all-party meeting be held at the Punjab Vidhan Sabha so that a concrete strategy be made for the victory of protesting farmers.He said an all-party meeting should be held at the earliest.Amid cold waves and rain, the farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws on the Delhi borders for over one-and-a-half month. Bains said he had demanded from the CM that leaders of all political parties should be invited to meeting and a discussion should be held to formulate a concrete strategy for the success of farmers’ protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-seeks-all-party-meet-to-support-farmers-196377
10-01-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on GST||Training on digital teaching aidsSWAYAM-NPTEL Local Chapter, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, organised TEQIP-III sponsored one-day workshop on “Hands-on-training for digital teaching aids”. The event was inaugurated by Dr AS Chawla, Vice-Chancellor, RIMT University, GNDEC; principal Dr Sehijpal Singh and professors Harwinder Singh, Narwant Singh Grewal and Lakhveer Singh Khana. “The objective of the activity was to impart hands-on training on digital teaching tools and make the faculty familiarised with various teaching tools so as to further improve teaching-learning process and cater to the needs of changing time”, said Dr Sehijpal Singh.Workshop on entrepreneurshipThe PG Department of Commerce and Business Management of Arya College organised a virtual workshop on “Be an Entrepreneur” for its UG and PG students. The resource person for the day was Bhagat Singh, senior vice president, Oswal Woollen Mills Ltd., Ludhiana. Principal Savita Uppal welcomed the resource person. “The aim of the virtual workshop was to acquaint students about various tips and strategies required to become a successful entrepreneur,” she said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-gst-196379
10-01-2021||---||Covid: 3 succumb; 57 +ve in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 9Fiftyseven persons tested positive, while three lost their lives to Covid in the district today.Now, the total positive people in the district stand at 25,069, while 972 people have lost their lives since March when the first death was reported in the district. At present, there are 312 active patients in the district, while 937 are active home quarantined. Today 48 people were home quarantinedThe three who lost their lives were all males aged between 50 and 86 and belonged to Sarabha Nagar, Jammu Colony and Aalamgir village. Two were chronic kidney patients, while one was a heart patient.Those who tested positive today included five health care workers, while the tracing of five persons who tested positive is going on.The reports of 1,587 samples are pending, while 23,782 patients have recovered till date.Covid ambulance discontinuedAs coronavirus cases are seeing a dip in the district, the Covid ambulance has been discontinued. In addition, now only two mobile teams of health workers will be doing Covid duty, while earlier there were six teams. If need arises, the ambulance can be called back and more staff can also be deployed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-3-succumb-57-ve-in-ludhiana-196396
10-01-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested for sacrilege in Ludhiana||The Daba police today arrested a man for allegedly desecrating a “gutka” at Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri, here.Satnam Singh, a granthi at Kalgidhar gurdwara, Shimlapuri, in his complainant to the police said Satnam Singh came to the gurdwara with a desecrated ‘gutka’, accusing neighbour Balwinder of committing the act. The police arrested the suspect.Balwinder’s family claimed he committed the act under the influence of drugs. The police said a probe would be conducted. A case under Section 295A of the IPC has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-sacrilege-in-ludhiana-196264
