11-01-2021||Sonepat||Ludhiana farmer critical after suicide attempt at Singhu border||A farmer from Ludhiana tried to kill himself at the Singhu border---the sixth incident of its kind during the ongoing farmers’ protests.Labh Singh, a farmer from from Ludhiana’s Sirthala, drank poison at the protest site, and was later admitted to the emergency ward of Sonepat’s Frank Institute of Medical Sciences. His condition is critical, sources say.There have been four suicides---a 65-year-old Sikh preacher from Karnal, Sant Baba Ram Singh, who shot himself near Kundli; a 63-year-old lawyer from Punjab’s Fazilka district, Amarjit Singh Rai, who drank pesticide at another protest site, Tikri; Kashmir Singh Dass, a Uttar Pradesh farmer in his 70s who hanged himself at Ghazipur; Amrinder Singh, who took poison at the protests at Singhu border---and one attempt---Niranjan Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran district who tried to himself by taking pest control tablets at the Singhu border--- since the protest began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-farmer-critical-after-suicide-attempt-at-singhu-border-197014
11-01-2021||Residents demand better infrastructure as matter of right||Use good quality material, make inspection mandatory||The issue of bad roads of our city needs to be highlighted as residents are facing daily problems due to the issue. The first thing to solve the issue is to eliminate corruption. Many corrupt contractors use inferior quality material in construction. Government officials should inspect the material been used while construction of roads. Moreover, the contracts of making of roads should be assigned to the worthy contractors.Khushleen KaurDon't neglect rural areasAs roads indirectly contribute to the economic growth of the country, it is quite essential that these should be well-maintained. Bad roads lead to accidents, waterlogging and garbage accumulation. To control the situation before it goes to the next level, the government must focus on proper reconstruction of roads. Traffic lights ought to be placed, especially on the intersections. Heavy fine should be imposed on those who throw garbage on roads. The government should not neglect the rural areas for the maintenance of roads. The traffic police should be strict in punishing the violators.Simranjeet kaurInstall CCTV camerasMany roads in the country are in miserable condition. It's the responsibility of officials concerned to properly construct roads and pavements. Most of the accidents occur because of humps, speed breakers and non-functional traffic lights on roads. Ditches should be immediately filled. This will reduce the accidents to a great extent. Moreover, CCTV cameras should be installed at random places for a safe and smoother public transport service. Road safety education should be imparted at schools and colleges.Amarpreet KaurImprove sewer systemIt's often seen that roads in posh areas are in good conditions as compared to other areas. We have seen that due to bad condition of roads people often lead to death. So, improvement of roads should be must. First of all, authority should undertake the responsibility of taking care of roads. Secondly, sewer systems should be improved so that roads are extirpate again and again. Thirdly, traffic system should also be undertaken by the civic authority like improving traffic signals, zebra crossing etc.Harleen KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONLudhiana is one of the biggest cities in Punjab, still as far as health facilities are concerned for common man (in government hospitals), patients are referred to either PGI Chandigarh or Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. What should be done to improve healthcare facilities here? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comRecarpet pot-holed roadsThe poor condition of roads questions the safety of travellers. It causes fatal consequences. In 2019, total 4,37,396 accidents were recorded in the country and the sorry state of roads was one of the causes. It is the need of hour to improve the sorry state of roads to escape from worries. While the roads of posh areas are constructed others should not be ignored. The PWD department should do the needful to carpet these roads timely for the safety of people. Roads should be constructed with fine material so that people can enjoy safe and secure ride.Kamaldeep KaurMC should be held accountableThe MC is answerable for the sorry condition of roads in the city. It pays heed to beautify the posh areas because most of the businessmen, politicians etc. reside here and overlook the state of roads in other residential areas. Also, bad and cheap material used in the construction of roads decrease their life. The MC should be truthful to their duty. The government should reward the concerned officials of the city.Gurpreet KaurAppoint more staffPoor roads cause a lot of problem to residents and lead to accidents. It becomes difficult for people to travel through these road, especially during the rainy season when water gets collected in potholes and due to bad sewerage system. Authorities concerned must keep a check in this regard that all roads are carpeted on time. They need to be firm in this regard and should appoint different people for different areas who keep record of road maintenance. Mostly we see that roads of rural areas are poor. It's the responsibility of the local authority to ensure better roads.Simarjot KaurComplete repair work before rainy seasonBarring a few roads of the city, the majority are in bad shape and their condition further deteriorates during the rainy season. They are full of potholes and become quite unsafe for the travellers. When filled with water these holes and small ditches become invisible and cause a lot of accidents as well as casualties. All roads should be periodically carpeted with the quality material. The repair and metalling is very essential before the rainy days. To make the roads further safe for the commuters they should have well-marked zebra crossings, guiding florescent lines on both the sides and road traffic signs as well as properly marked lanes. The pedestrian paths should also be well maintained and properly defined.Dr Sunil ChopraCarpet roads every 5 yrsAmong all four types of transportation system roadways is considered to be the most important and useful system as it carries maximum transaction of goods and human passengers. A well-organised network of roadways speaks to the nature and development of a particular region, city or state. But roads in the city are in a dismal state. Bad road lead to recurrent traffic jams. In some areas roads are bumpy and full of potholes. Commuters and residents find it very difficult to move frequently from one place to another and they have to waste lots of time due to these problems. If we want to get rid of the problems of roads in our city then roads should be carpeted after every five years through proper planning and with proper execution of plans. It is the duty of the local councillor to look after the condition of roads in his areas. There should not be biased behaviour of the local government on the basis of area and locality in providing the facility of good roads.Farzana KhanGood roads not a privilege of richThe Municipal Corporation (MC) is exclusively responsible that roads in some posh colonies in the city are repeatedly carpeted while others are neglected and the latter are in bad shape. Repeated accidents occur due to bad roads and this results in loss of many lives. Every citizen pays taxes and therefore the corporation must not favour some selected wards while ignoring others. The success in working of the corporation lies in good maintenance of the city as a whole. It must ensure that the roads in all wards are well maintained. One can understand that a particular elected member of the MC/officer may be able to get favour in getting a particular work done in his/her ward but that should be once a while only. All actions by the MC are being watched by the general public and if not done rightly bring bad name to the corporation.Gautam DevHire honest buildersRoads are the most neglected part of the city. Due to heavy rainfall, traffic and carelessness of the builders, residents have to suffer a lot from this problem. There are plethora of steps that can be implement to improve the condition of roads. The government should hire responsible and virtuous builders for the construction purpose. Roads of entire city should be carpeted time to time whenever needed. Proper drainage system will also enhance the condition of roads as water blockage will lead to pits. Cleaning of roads in the entire city is also a matter of concern which needs more attention than other factors effecting the scenario. Restriction of heavy vehicles can also help to meet the results. There should be a proper timing for their entry in the city according to rush hours. Every resident should also have sense of responsibility towards the law and order.UrvashiGood roads boost developmentUneven road surfaces can cause a driver to lose control of their vehicle, leading to a crash or rollover accident injuring the driver, passengers, and pedestrians. It can be noticed that about 50pc of the accidents are caused due to the bad condition of roads. This is all due to the careless mistakes done by the government, public and the contractors who take the responsibility to construct road. The contractors use low quality material to make roads, so that they can get more profit in their business. So, to ensure good quality roads government should pay attention towards it. Good roads can contribute in development of the country.Akshar Kumar SinglaAssign duty to local councillorRepairing the roads is the major and foremost duty of the government. In the city, posh localities are very good but as far as other areas are concerned, situation is very poor. Councillor of the area should be assigned the duty for the repair and maintenance of the roads. He should be held responsible for the maintenance and heavy fine should be imposed in him or her in case of any negligence. There is a need of strict vigilance to keep track and record of funds issued by the government for the maintenance of roads. In this city, even link roads and highways are not properly managed. Poor roads lead to drastic accidents which can be fatal in nature. During rainy season, situation gets worst. Poor roads are the main cause of traffic jams also. There is a great need to assign responsibility and accountability to one person. In the absence of this delegation, situation will get even worse.Ritu PriyaTime to avoid accidents, save precious livesIt seems as if road carpeting is carried on in Ludhiana according to the social status of the people living in the particular areas as there are many areas in the city where the condition of roads is pathetic. The MC should get to some serious work now and carry on with the road carpeting immediately after the abatement of the extreme winter weather conditions. There is a dire need of it to not only save the precious lives but also streamline the vehicular movement. Already the city is reeling under the stress of poor traffic problem due to a number of construction works going on in the city and these uncarpeted roads in the remaining part of the city add to the woes of the commuters.Bir Devinder Singh BediForm area-wise teamsI think that we have so much patience to tolerate each and every problem prevalent in the society. It may be in the form of violation of rights, corruption, irregular supply of water and electricity, bad road conditions and the list is unending. Among all these roadways is considered the most effective and widely used mode of movement of vehicle and other means of transportation. But due to the bad conditions of roads, not only the public and commuters face problems but it also puts a bad impact on the health of the economy. Corporations should form area-wise teams to look, access and report the conditions of roads. Corporations must provide email addresses to lodge complaints by the residents and residents have the right to ask if any delay is there to address their complaints regarding the condition of roads in their areas. Residents are paying taxes to the corporation in various forms and they have the right to get the good roads. Local governments should display email addresses or other contact numbers on prime locations and also publish them in local newspapers. If any elected councillor fails to get the problem solved in his locality or area he should be called back from the seat. This right should be given to the public.Dr Mohd.Saleem FarooquiMake road quality tests mandatoryThe quality of roads is very poor. Huge amount of public money is wasted. The budget sanctioned for roads is very high but the condition and quality of roads is not as per the budget. The contractor must be made liable for the condition of road for a fixed period of time. Also, there must be proper drainage system. Many times sewer system is installed after construction of roads, thus wasting the hard-earned money of people. Proper plan should be made while constructing roads.The elected representative must also be made responsible for the condition of roads. Also, the quality test of roads must be made compulsory for all the newly constructed roads.ARSHDEEP SINGH GILLOPEN HOUSE COMMENTTake action against erring contractorsShivani BhakooA number of samples that were collected from several roads in the city had failed quality tests in 2020. Even a number of roads got damaged within a short span of period after carpeting or construction work in the past years. Thus, authorities concerned must take the matter seriously and ensure transparency in all road projects.Road mishaps often take place on broken roads. It is the responsibility of government authorities to ensure safety of commuters on roads.Ensure patch work timely to repair potholes to avert mishaps. Also, take steps for the safety of pedestrians. Responsibility of B&R officials must be fixed to ensure that all road works be done as per norms. There should be a provision to take strict action against erring contractors for poor work.Sampling of road material must be ensured for quality check. Information regarding the start of any road project & its plan, project completion date, its cost and complaint number should be displayed on the project site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/use-good-quality-material-make-inspection-mandatory-196898
11-01-2021||---||Residents hold rally against banned Chinese string||Ludhiana, January 10 Action Against Corruption, an NGO, and other religious and social organisations today held a rally against the banned Chinese string. The rally started from the Ramlila ground, Daresi, and passed through various markets and finally culminated at Clock Tower. People raised slogans against the sale and use of the banned string. People taking part in the rally demanded from the police to take strict action against persons selling and using the banned string. Patron of Action Against Corruption Chandarkant Chadha, who is also a Shiv Sena leader, said the way Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal made a strict law to completely ban the use of plastic string by levying a fine of Rs 2 lakh along with five years of imprisonment, the Punjab Government should also think on the same lines. Many people had lost their lives and got injured due to the deadly string. Still, people could be seen flying kites with it. He said now, the string was being manufactured in the country and the authorities were not able to take action against any manufacturing unit. Chadha said their organisation would continue its campaign against the banned string in the future to save precious lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-hold-rally-against-banned-chinese-string-196895
11-01-2021||Ludhiana||Projects worth Rs15-cr dedicated to Maharishi Valmiki Nagar residents||Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today dedicated development prjects worth Rs 15 crore to residents of Maharsihi Valmiki Nagar Colony, developed by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). He was accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and LIT Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam. Speaking at a gathering of the residents in the F-block here, Ashu said in addition to construction, repair and recarpeting roads and streets in the colony, gyms had been set up at a cost of Rs 50 lakh, LED lights were installed at an expenditure of Rs 42 lakh and several parks were developed under a Rs 75 lakh project. For better management of garbage and solid waste static compactors had also been installed in the colony.   The minister said LIT officials had already taken up work for redressal of problem of waterlogging on roads and streets during rainy season or at times due to choked sewer lines. Existing sewer lines were being replaced with a higher capacity pipes for better drainage and once the ongoing work for enhancement of the capacity of sewage treat plant (STP) at Humbran was completed, the drainage system of the entire colony and surrounding areas would undergo a dramatic improvement, he claimed. Residents Welfare Committee (F-block) president Sandeep Salwan, vice president Sunil Datt, Raman Gogna, Rajiv Bajaj, Rajeev Goel, Gulshan Goel, Ravi Arora, among others, were present at the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/projects-worth-rs15-cr-dedicated-to-maharishi-valmiki-nagar-residents-196896
11-01-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on role of AI, machine learning held||Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology (GGNIMT) managed by Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council (GKEC), Civil Lines, organised a webinar on role of artificial intelligence and machine learning. Over 300 participants, including students, professionals, academicians and technocrats across the globe joined the session on AI that has transformed most of the industry sectors like retail, manufacturing, finance, healthcare, and media and continues to invade new territories. Prof Manjit Singh Chhabra, Director, GGNIMT, said artificial intelligence and machine learning has reached a critical tipping point and will increasingly augment and extend virtually every technology enabled service, thing, or application. AI and ML have the power to influence business outcomes, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-role-of-ai-machine-learning-held-196897
11-01-2021||Ludhiana||Five held with ganja, charas||The city police nabbed five persons for smuggling drugs and recovered huge quantity of drugs from them in separate incidents.In the first incident, the Sadar police nabbed three persons and recovered 8 kg of ganja from them. The arrested accused have been identified as Sheikh Sharif, Mohd Masum Alam and Amrey Alam, all residents of Bihar.ASI Surjit Singh said a tip-off was received that the three accused were notorious smugglers and they were on the way to deliver a huge consignment of drugs to their clients.Accordingly, the police party laid a naka at B7 Chowk, Phullanwal, where the bike-borne accused were stopped for checking. During the checking, 8, kg of ganja was recovered from them. The ASI said the past history of the accused was being checked.The PAU police nabbed two persons, Shukar Singh of Moga and Jai Parkash of Bihar, and seized 13.8 kg of charas from them.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-held-with-ganja-charas-196893
11-01-2021||---||10 gamblers nabbed in raids||Ludhiana, January 10 The Ludhiana police conducted surprise raids and nabbed 10 gamblers in separate incidents. The police also recovered over Rs 22,000 in cash from them. In the first case, the Salem Tabri police nabbed six persons during a special raid conducted at a park in New Kartar Nagar. They have been identified as Arvinder Singh of Netaji Nagar, Manpreet Singh, Rajwinder Singh, a resident of Netaji Nagar, Amandeep Singh of the Jalandhar bypass area, Darshan Kumar of Salem Tabri and Rajesh Kumar of Aman Nagar. Investigating officer ASI Jagdev Singh said a tip-off was received that accused were gambling in the park. Accordingly, the police conducted a raid and nabbed them red-handed. The police also recovered Rs 18,600 in cash from the spot. The Police Division 5 also nabbed three persons on the charge of gambling. They were identified as Manjit Singh of CRPF Colony, Dugri, Satnam Singh of Mustaq Ganj and Pardeep Kumar of Abdulpur Basti. ASI Sukhjinder Singh said after getting information, a raid was conducted at Yamla Jatt Park from where the accused were caught gambling. The police recovered Rs 1,970 from them. In another incident, the Daresi police nabbed Salinder Kumar of Santokh Nagar who was openly asking people for betting. The police recovered Rs 1,850 cash from him. The police have registered cases under the Gambling Act against the accused in all incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-gamblers-nabbed-in-raids-196894
11-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teachers sore over online assignments||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 10Sore over regular online meetings by the Education Department, the Government School Teachers Union has said that these meetings should be stopped now.Teachers feel that studies have already suffered due to the global pandemic conditions all over and focus being shifted on everything online is certainly not good for students.A senior teacher at a government school in a rural area said as long as online studies were required, the teachers cooperated with the department, but now everything is coming back to normal. Teachers in government schools should be given more autonomy. Although due to the untiring efforts of school principals and teachers, education has been able to make up with the shortfall, online education cannot replace classroom teaching. The online meetings conducted by the government should now be stopped. We are asked to waste energy on unimportant works, which takes a toll on teachers and students,” rued the teacher.Meanwhile, on this matter, a meeting of government school teachers was also held here. Office-bearers of the union, including state president Surinder Kumar Puari and secretary Balkar Valtoha, Ludhiana district leaders Charan Singh Sarabha, Praveen Kumar, Sudagar Singh Sarabha, Haridev, Tehal Singh Sarabha, gathered here today and demanded from the Education Department to stop asking teachers to work for “un-educational” activities so that they could devote their full time and energy to the syllabus for March 2021. They feel that the syllabus has still not been fully covered and their efforts are being wasted on other online works.Now that the government has ordered the schools to open for classes V onwards, the teachers are busy coming back on tracks. “See the conditions here. The construction work is going on. It was stopped when the lockdown was imposed. It will take a few months to complete the work. We are trying hard to accommodate students here and there and are ensuring that all their doubts are addressed and syllabus are covered, but these online filling of data is cumbersome and all our energy is exhausted,” said another teacher at a government school in Haibowal Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-sore-over-online-assignments-196890
11-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||This night shelter cries for better facilities||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 10The night shelter, which is being run from an old Fire Brigade building, near Vishwakarma Chowk, here, is crying for attention due to lack of facilities. The hygiene conditions are required to be improved at the shelter.It was even difficult to stand for a minute inside rooms at the shelter that falls under the MC’s Zone C area, as stink was emanating due to the poor sanitary conditions. It seems the rooms were not cleaned on a timely basis and there is no arrangement for washing dirty blankets and other items.Moreover, there is no proper facility of toilet and bathroom for homeless persons staying at the night shelter. Thus, people are generally being asked to visit the nearby public toilet. There is also a need to instal a water purifier for the provision of safe drinking water for the visitors. Earlier, water purifiers were installed at MC offices. But the facility was not given to the night shelters.Amid cold nights of the ongoing winter season, nearly 20 persons are staying in two rooms of the building that was converted into a night shelter years ago. A homeless person said: “I used to come here at night these days. I was spending night on roadsides when the weather conditions were normal. I have food from outside before reaching the shelter.”Notably, the MC chief had earlier given instructions to the officials concerned to contact city-based NGOs and religious shrines to make arrangement of ‘langar’ as per requirement for persons at night shelters. But, there is no provision to provide food or tea to any needy person at the shelter at present.Councillor from Ward No. 50 Swarandeep Singh Chahal said: “There is no provision of toilet and bathroom for these homeless people at the night shelter. The nearby public toilet facility is paid. The MC must pay attention to ensure all required facilities for them. It must make arrangement of bathrooms at the shelter.”The shelter opens from 7 pm and people start leaving the place around 6 am. A city bus has been deployed to bring homeless persons from various areas to the shelter while some reach the shelter on their own. CCTV cameras are available at the place for security. These were installed after a theft incident took place in the past, as per information.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, some masks and a small bottle of hand sanitiser were available at the shelter but these were not being used. Earlier, it was also announced that a team will be deployed for the medical check-up of the persons visiting the place but to no avail.On the other hand, officials claimed that everything was fine at the night shelter. SDO Kulwinder Singh said all facilities were available at the night shelter. He claimed that blankets and bed covers were washed regularly.MC Zonal Commissioner Neeraj Jain said there was a proper provision of toilet and bathroom for people at the night shelter. Sanitation workers had been deployed to ensure cleanliness of the place.Normally, there was an arrangement for 30-40 persons but nearly 25 persons could stay at the shelter these days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/this-night-shelter-cries-for-better-facilities-196891
11-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Probe poses big challenge to MC staff||Ludhiana, January 10The top brass of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has been put in an embarrassing situation by the employees and officials of the building branch as they have clearly expressed their inability to take action against illegal commercial buildings by cross-checking with a number of new commercial electricity connections released by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in different parts of the city.In this regard, the Local Government Department, Punjab, had received a complaint (duly supported by data) that compared to the number of electricity connections released by the PSPCL in the city, an estimated one lakh illegal commercial buildings had been constructed in the city either without approved building plans or payment of change of land use (CLU) charges.Political pressure at play?When the master town planners were directed to seek the report of illegal constructions from the assistant town planners in their respective zones, the officials put up the plea of political pressure on the ATPs and field staff against any action on such unlawfully constructed buildings.Sources in the MC claimed that an inquiry into the gross mismatch between electricity connections and building record of the MC (for commercial buildings) was ordered by the Punjab Local Bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and the MC Commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal had marked the probe to Additional Commissioner Rishi Pal Singh.It was further learnt that Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh, heading the building branch and the two municipal town planners (MTPs), failed to comply with the orders for conducting cross-check of the illegal buildings with the list of the commercial connections provided by the power utility, citing various reasons.When the MTPs were directed to seek the report of illegal constructions from the assistant town planners (ATPs) in their respective zones, the officials put up the plea of political pressure on the ATPs and field staff against any action on such unlawfully constructed buildings.The exasperated inquiry officer, it was reported, had now sought detailed (area-wise) report from the ATPs about the illegal buildings where challans were issued, but were not processed and penalty/composition fee was not recovered from the building owners. However, the ATPs are said to have again scuttled the move, saying the building branch was short of staff and if employees were deployed to cross-check the buildings with the list of connections released by the PSPCL, it would adversely affect the routine work in the building branch.The field staff and supervisory officials of the building branch of the MC, who very much wanted to keep the whole matter under wraps for fear of being exposed, have asked their superiors to hire some private agency to hold cross-checking of the mismatch between illegal buildings and electricity connections, which again seemed a far-fetched idea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/probe-poses-big-challenge-to-mc-staff-196892
11-01-2021||---||No death; 33 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 10Thirtythree persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today.Now, the total positive cases in the district are 25,102, while the death toll stands at 972.Those who tested positive today included a cop, an inter-state traveller and others were referred from the OPDs and flu corners, while one was the contact of a positive person.There are 319 active patients in the districtat present.A total of 40 patients (33 new patients from Ludhiana district and seven from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours.Till date, a total of 5,59,153 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,57,639 samples have been received, of which 5,28,777 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,514 samples were pending.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 25,102, while 3,760 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 55,466 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 940. Today, 86 persons were sent for home quarantine.He said whenever the district administration and Health Department, Ludhiana, find out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, his/her samples are immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 2,306 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-33-ve-in-ludhiana-196889
11-01-2021||Ludhiana||Three birds found dead in Ludhiana||Amid the ongoing avian flu outbreak, carcasses of three birds, including two crows, were found at two spots in the city today, prompting the Animal Husbandry Department to collect samples for testing.Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) also issued an advisory for poultry farmers, handlers and consumers.Dr Paramdeep Singh, Assistant Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said the dead birds had been collected for sampling. “Birds often die during this time of the year due to cold, but we can’t take chances,” he said. Neeraj Gupta, District Forest Officer (Wildlife), asked range officers to visit the sites and take stock of the situation. Paramjit Singh, councillor of ward No. 28, said two crows were found dead at the Dhandari cremation ground. Another dead bird was spotted at the Rose Garden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-birds-found-dead-in-ludhiana-196675
