13-01-2021||---||3 fall prey; 27 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 12Three patients died due to coronavirus, while 27 persons tested positive for it in the district today.The total positive cases in the district reached 25,144, while 976 persons have lost their lives so far.Those who fell prey to coronavirus today included a 70-year-old woman from Ghumar Mandi who was admitted to Deep Hospital. She was also a patient of hypertension and was asthmatic.Two males, aged 86 and 71, also lost their lives today and belonged to Jagraon and Sidhwan Bet village, respectively. Both were patients of hypertension.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today said that under the “Mission Fateh” of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid patients getting cured in Ludhiana district was increasing with each passing day. He said there were 293 active patients in the district at present.Till date, a total of 5,62,753 samples had been taken, out of which the reports of 5,61,739 samples had been received, of which 5,32,813 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,014 samples were pending. He said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,144, while 3,782 patients belonged to other districts/states.According to the Health Department, till date, 55,519 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 900. Today, 53 persons were sent for home quarantine.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but also to keep those around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-fall-prey-27-ve-in-ludhiana-district-197746
13-01-2021||---||Rs840-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project launched||Ludhiana, January 12The much-awaited Rs840-crore rejuvenation project of the highly polluted Buddha nullah, a seasonal tributary of the Sutlej was launched here on Tuesday.The Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, who was scheduled to do the honours, cancelled his Ludhiana visit at the eleventh hour due to unforeseen reasons.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal launched the project and announced the deposit of Rs 320-crore first instalment in the Municipal Corporation (MC) bank account to ensure the smooth execution of the project.He vowed to transform the highest polluted Sutlej tributary into Buddha Dariya within the next two years.The rejuvenation project will give a new lease of life to one of the most polluted nullahs, which runs almost parallel to the Sutlej through most of Ludhiana district, including 14 km in Ludhiana city, before joining the Sutlej.Under the multi-crore rejuvenation plan, the existing 625 MLD untreated domestic waste water discharged directly into the nullah and the future discharge will be checked.Of the total three common effluent treatment plants (CETPs), with total capacity of 105 MLD, being constructed to check the discharge of untreated domestic and partially treated domestic and industrial effluent directly into the nullah, a CETP with 15 MLD treatment capacity was already operational, while other two CETPs will be functional by March-end.The major work under the rejuvenation of the 47.55-km-long Buddha Nullah has been awarded for domestic waste water management.While the capital cost of the project will be Rs 519 crore, the 10-year operation and maintenance will cost Rs 321 crore.The entire project will be completed within two years. While the project will be completely in operation by November 2022, some components will be put to operation earlier.The scope of the work included setting up of two new sewage treatment plants (STPs) with tertiary filtration for treating 285 MLD waste water, two effluent treatment plants for treatment of 6 MLD waste water from two dairy clusters, refurbishment of four existing STPs with the treatment capacity of 418 MLD, infrastructure for the transfer of waste water overflowing into the nullah to the STPs, 10-year operation and maintenance of the entire infrastructure.As per the agreement, the contractor will provide Rs 55-crore credit for gas generated from the two existing STPs (UASB technology plants), and will take care of additional unforeseen works like the transfer of domestic/industrial waste water and additional treatment capacity for domestic waste water, worth Rs 22 crore.The work has been awarded to M/s KIPL Ltd & GVPR Engineers Ltd, a joint venture, after an online bidding process.While the MC has also initiated a massive effort to tackle the problem of solid waste dumping into Buddha Nullah, a special awareness campaign was launched on December 28 last with the help of the NCC and NSS volunteers of seven local colleges.Besides, the improvement of environment micro-forestation, release of 200 cusecs of clean water from the canal and landscaping and beautification along the nullah has also been planned in the next phase.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, PWD and School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and PPCC president Sunil Jakhar were present on the occasion.fact file.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs840-crore-buddha-nullah-rejuvenation-project-launched-197747
13-01-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Chinese string sold despite ban, proves sting operation||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 12Despite the Ludhiana police claimed complete strictness over the sale of banned Chinese plastic string, it is being sold by some sellers with impunity.The Tribune team conducted a sting operation to prove the fact that the string is commonly available. The new thing found in the sting operation is that now kite sellers have not kept the stock of the string at their shops as the police have been conducting surprise checking at these places, instead, they have kept the same at secret godowns and other isolates places.The sellers have now employed young boys to deliver the string at specified places.The Tribune correspondent, acting as a customer, made a WhatsApp call to one of the sellers (name withheld) to buy the banned string. Initially, the seller denied having its stock due to the ban but when he was given the reference of his friend, he agreed. The seller said his boy would call him to fix the delivery point and asked for Rs 700 for each roll (gattu), along with Rs 100, for delivery.After one hour, a boy made a WhatsApp call and asked to reach at Daresi. When the correspondent reached the place, the caller entered a street and after identification, handed over two rolls of the banned string. He took Rs 1,400 for two rolls along with delivery fee of Rs 100.The delivery boy came on a white Honda Activa scooter.When the boy was asked if he feared the police, he categorically said: “Don’t worry about the police, we have setting with some police personnel. If you require more rolls just give a call, I will deliver on your doorstep,” adding that he had to make other deliveries, hence, he had to rush as huge orders were being received due to Lohri.”It is learnt that many students or other youngsters have started the illegal trade due to its high profit margin. A box of gattu contains 48 rolls which cost around Rs 8,500 and a retailer can easily sell the same on a two or three-time margin.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said flying kites with the Chinese string now also invite an FIR under the Wildlife Act and the Environment Protection Act and the police will enforce the law strictly.No major recovery by police so farSources said in the action taken by the police against the plastic string so far, around 2,000 rolls have been recovered from over 50 persons. Accused sellers are being given bail at police stations due to the cases being registered under bailable sections. So far, the police have not found any godown or place where these sellers have kept a huge stock of the banned string.Have enough stock of gattu for Lohri: Kite loversTalking to The Tribune, young kite lovers said they had gathered enough stock of Chinese rolls to enjoy kite flying on Lohri. When asked if they are aware about the ban, they said they were aware but without the string they could not enjoy kite flying as their kite would be cut easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chinese-string-sold-despite-ban-proves-sting-operation-197748
13-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||No separate night shelter for homeless women||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 12Though there are four night shelters of the Municipal Corporation in the city, none of these are exclusively for women. Some homeless women were seen on roadsides or under flyover amid the cold waves.Notably, one room each at a few night shelters was reserved for women but men were allowed to rest there when these are vacant.There is no security arrangement for women and no women staff is available at any of the existing night shelters of the civic body. Some men under inebriated condition commonly visit these night shelters for sleeping. But, no steps have been taken by the civic body to set up a separate night shelter for the needy women.At one of the night shelters, an employee, on condition of anonymity, said, “A few women used to visit at the night shelter nearly two years ago. But, now not even a single woman visit here during this winter season. Many times men come here in inebriated condition and get into scuffle with others. It is difficult for women to stay under such conditions.” An employee at another night shelter said he had never seen any woman visiting there.Notably, a number of women, including elderly, used to stay under the flyover near the Railway Station, Ludhiana, and other areas in the city a few years ago. However, such women are seen in less numbers now. An elderly woman and a man live under the flyover just near MC’s night shelter in Zone A area. The woman was sleeping in open in such cold nights. Besides, some homeless women along with their family members live in temporary structures in absence any proper shelter.Shalini Pathak, a teacher, said, “The government should set up separate night shelters for homeless women in the city and female staff should be deployed there. Moreover, required arrangements must be ensured there for the security of women.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “We will soon take necessary steps to set up a separate night shelter for women in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-separate-night-shelter-for-homeless-women-197750
13-01-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Girl ends her life at school||A Class XII student of the Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Gill, in Ludhiana district, allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in the biology laboratory of the school, situated on its first floor, between Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning.Though parents of the deceased, Harpreet Kaur (17), of Isher Nagar, Ludhiana, started searching for her after she failed to reach home on Monday afternoon, her body, hanging with a ceiling fan, was spotted by the school authorities this morning.The Dehlon police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and handed over the body of the deceased to her parents after conducting an autopsy at the Civil Hospital, Dehlon.Investigating Officer Harnek Singh said Parminder Singh of Isher Singh Nagar, Ludhiana, had informed the police at 10.30 pm on Monday that his daughter had gone missing after attending classes at her school on Monday. Intensive search undertaken jointly by the parents of the deceased and the police proved futile till 10.30 am on Tuesday, when the school authorities informed the police about the recovery of the body from the school biology laboratory.Parminder told the investigating team that his daughter had been under depression for a long time and had ended her life due to the same.As her family did not want action against anybody, no criminal case was registered, said Harnek. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/girl-ends-her-life-at-school-197751
13-01-2021||---||Foundation stone of GADVASU’s multi-speciality vet hospital laid||Ludhiana, January 12The foundation stone of GADVASU’s Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital was laid down today. Sunil Kumar Jakhar, president, PPCC, Manpreet Singh Badal, Finance Minister, Punjab, and Vijay Inder Singla, PWD and Education Minister, today laid the foundation stone of the Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital and Regional Research-cum-Training Centre (MSVH&RRTC) at Sappanwali village in Fazilka.Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, said most of the farmers cannot ferry the costly sick animals from faraway places for specialised veterinary treatment to the GADVASU as it is expensive and time consuming. So, the uyniversity along with the support of the state government has taken an initiative to extend the specialised veterinary services through establishment of the MSVH&RRTC at different locations of the state. First of this initiative has been taken by establishing a MSVH&RRTC at Village Sappanwali, Fazilka.Dr. JPS Gill, Director Research revealed that the livestock problems of this region and adjoining states that require specialized care will be addressed at the MSVH&RRTC. Fazilka district rears about 69 thousand cattle including graded Sahiwal breed cow. The research facility and provision of breeding services is necessary to promote the growth of this very important local breed. The area is also known as ‘Equine belt’. MSVH&RRTC will provide immediate veterinary services, knowledge and technical support for these species. With a strength of 17 scientists, 16 technical supporting staff and 32 administrative supporting staff, the centre envisages the promotion of area-specific need based research and will train farmers for rearing livestock on scientific terms to enhance their income.Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director, Extension Education, said on a land area of 25 acre, covering over 50 thousand sq.ft. floor area. Estimated budget of the project is Rs 62.14 crores. The centre will have dedicated veterinary hospital with state of art facilities.The regional research-cum training centre will work for updation and training of farmers. An administrative block, hostel for farmers and trainees, diagnostic laboratory, demonstration fisheries unit with integrated livestock farm, dairy incubation unit, integrated livestock farming-cum-climate smart model for dairy, pig and goat unit will also be established.Hostel for farmersThe Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital and Regional Research-cum-Training Centre will work for updation and training of farmers. An administrative block, hostel for farmers and trainees, diagnostic laboratory, demonstration fisheries unit with integrated livestock farm, dairy incubation unit, integrated livestock farming-cum-climate smart model for dairy, pig and goat unit will also be established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/foundation-stone-of-gadvasus-multi-speciality-vet-hospital-laid-197752
13-01-2021||---||Residents hold ‘Jago’ for farmers’ cause||Ludhiana, January 12 To create awareness against the farm laws and urge residents to participate in “Tractor march” to Delhi on January 26, many people, including women, carried out ‘Jago’ at Mundian Khurd village last evening.  Charanjivan Kaur, a resident, said, “We are carrying out Jago against the farm laws. We demand from the Central Government to repeal the farm laws.”  Sukhwinder Singh, of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said, “Farm unions have announced to organise a tractor march to Delhi on January 26 if the farm laws are not repealed. A large number of people from Munidian Kalan and Mundian Khurd will leave for Delhi on January 24 and they will participate in the tractor march on January 26.” A group of women at Gujjarwal, Kila Raipur and other villages are also making appeals to the people to participate in Delhi march in large numbers. Avtar Kaur Grewal, a resident of Kila Raipur village, said, “After participating in the protest in Delhi, I have come back and making an appeal to the people to participate in the march.” Harnek Singh Gujjarwal, of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said, “Not only men, many women will go to Delhi to particpate in the upcoming tractor march. People of all age groups are coming forward to extend support to the Kisan Andolan.”  “A group of women from Tharike village have already moved to Delhi and they will stay there to participate in the tractor march on January 26,” said Bharpur Singh of BKU (Ugrahan).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-hold-jago-for-farmers-cause-197753
13-01-2021||---||Employees protest, seek regular jobs||Ludhiana, January 12 The Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS Contractual Employees’ Union members marked a protest at the bus stand against the state government for ignoring their demands. Shamsher Singh, union president, said, “We have been struggling for a long time and making repeated demands for regularisation of jobs  of contractual employees but to no avail. Now, the government is focusing on privatisation of government departments and it is planning to start buses under the KM scheme. We oppose the government’s plan to run new PUNBUS service buses under KM scheme as it will be a gross loss deal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employees-protest-seek-regular-jobs-197754
13-01-2021||Ludhiana||3rd arrest  by CGST Commissionerate||Foreign liquor, expensive cigarettes and the pull of Canadian family visa have landed one Pawan Kumar in judicial custody. This is the third arrest made by the CGST Commissionerate, Ludhiana, in the high-profile Sahil Jain case.The arrest of Sahil Jain by the anti-evasion wing of the CGST Department on November 11 last year was followed by the arrest of another mastermind, Amandeep Singh Bhui.Twenty three firms have been unearthed so far which were being operated by them together. They issued fake invoices valued at Rs393.91 crore involving ITC amounting to Rs 33.02 crore.On further probe, the name of Pawan Kumar, son of Joginder Pal, emerged. He is reportedly known to Sahil Jain through the latter’s father Pardeep Kumar Jain. Sahil Jain promised Pawan Kumar not only expensive liquor and cigarettes but also PR in Canada. Falling in this trap, Pawan Kumar opened and operated five firms with different names and PANs which dealt with 23 conglomerate firms of Sahil Jain-Amandeep Bhui. The firms of Pawan Kumar were also involved in the issuance of fake invoices and fraudulent availing of the ITC.In the statement of Pawan Kumar, which was recorded on January 11, he admitted to have connived with and abetted Sahil Jain in the issuance of fake invoices and passing on fake ITC through five bogus firms created or operated by him and Sahil Jain.Pawan Kumar confessed that all these firms had indulged only in the issuance of fake invoices without any actual receipt/supply of goods.Pawan Kumar, through the five firms in which he was a proprietor/partner, issued invoices valued at Rs105.93 crore involving GST amounting to Rs9.38 crore, thus confessing to causing a huge loss to the exchequer.Based on the documentary evidence gathered such as the GST returns, eway bills etc and the admitting of the GST fraud by Pawan Kumar, who functioned in connivance with Sahil Jain, for wrongly availing as well as passing on fake ITC without any actual supply of goods, Pawan Kumar appeared to have committed offences specified under the provisions of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, and was thus arrested.This has raised the number of total number of arrests made by Ludhiana CGST Commissionerate to nine.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3rd-arrest-by-cgst-commissionerate-197755
13-01-2021||---||Two held for attacking cops||Ludhiana, January 12 The PAU police station registered a case against Jaspreet Singh, Shamsher Singh and Prabh, all residents of Partap Singh Wala for attacking police personnel. When the police went to calm down two groups scuffling over some issue, they were attacked by some people at Balaji Nagar here. Jaspreet and Shamsher have been arrested and the police are conducting a raid to nab other suspects. ASI Manmohan Singh said on the night of January 10, two groups indulged in a scuffle in Balaji Nagar. After receiving information, he, along with a head constable, reached the spot to persuade them. “When we were trying to pacify the disputing parties, the accused, instead of listening to us, attacked us and tore my uniform. They also threw bricks at the official police vehicle,” a policeman said. He said later, a case under Sections 353, 186 and 332, IPC, was registered against the accused and two persons were nabbed. The ASI said the third accused would be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-for-attacking-cops-197756
13-01-2021||---||Women held for theft of garments||Ludhiana, January 12 Several women, along with some men, entered a garment shop in the guise of customers in Model Town Extension and decamped with garments. The accused were later identified as Paramjit Kaur, Babli, Bhoma, Soma, Roshan Lal, Bhola and some unknown women, all residents of Ganna village. Complainant Smarty of Abdulpur Basti in a complaint submitted to the police said he owns a shop of ready-made garments. On December 25, several women entered his shop and asked for woollen garments. Employees at the shop were showing garments to women while two women started talking to him, the shopkeeper said, adding that when the women left the shop, he was shocked to see that they decamped with jackets and other woollen stuff. The complainant said initially he did not complain but recently when the accused women and others were identified, the police were informed and a case of theft was registered. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said two accused, Bhoma and Roshan Lal, were arrested and a Tata Indica car, which was used in the crime, was also impounded. Two stolen jackets and some woollen stuff were also recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-held-for-theft-of-garments-197757
13-01-2021||Ludhiana||Man dies in CO2 cylinder blast||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-dies-in-co2-cylinder-blast-197758
13-01-2021||Sonepat||Farmers’ protest: Ludhiana farmer who tried to kill himself with poison dies||A farmer from Ludhiana who drank poison at the ongoing farmers protest on the borders of Delhi died on Tuesday, sources said.Labh Singh from Ludhiana’s Sirthala became the fifth person to kill himself at the ongoing protests. He was admitted to Sonepat’s Frank Institute of Medical Sciences in critical condition.Four other people have similarly committed suicide at the protests---39-year-old Amrinder Singh from Fatehgarh Saheb’s Machrai Kalan who, like Labh Singh, poisoned himself; 65-year-old Sant Baba Ram Singh (65), a religious leader from Haryana’s Karnal district who shot himself near Kundli; 63-year-old Amarjit Singh Rai from Fazilka who drank pesticide at Tikri, another site of protest; and Kashmir Singh Dass, a farmer in his 70s who hanged himself at the Ghazipur protest site. There was also one suicide attempt---Niranjan Singh from Tarn Taran district tried to kill himself with pest control tablets at Singhu border.--- With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-protest-ludhiana-farmer-who-tried-to-kill-himself-with-poison-dies-197467
13-01-2021||Nitin Jain||2 lakh Covid vaccine doses for Punjab arrive at Mohali airport||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 12The first consignment of Covid vaccine Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, arrived in Punjab on Tuesday.The first consignment contains 2.04 lakh doses.The consignment arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport in Mohali around 1 pm. Airport CEO Ajay Bhardwaj confirmed the arrival.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, told The Tribune that after receiving the vaccine at the airport, the state government would transport it under tight security in specially-fabricated vaccination vans to its state vaccine store in Sector 24, Chandigarh.Lal said the vaccine would be dispatched to various districts across the state on Wednesday.The district administrations will store the vaccine at their respective vaccine stores.The Central Government had announced that the national vaccination drive would begin on January 16, with priority to be given to healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the drive.“Both healthcare and frontline workers will be vaccinated for free,” informed the Health Secretary, adding that “the first consignment of vaccine has also been provided for free by the Centre to the state.He reiterated that all logistics, systems and processes for COVID-19 vaccination were in place after checking them repeatedly during the dry runs at all 22 districts in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-for-punjab-arrive-at-mohali-airport-197396
