14-01-2021||---||Goat farming a lucrative business, say vet experts||udhiana, January 13The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, organised a one-week training programme on goat farming for small and marginal farmers and to run goat farming as an enterprise on commercial level.Dr Rajesh Kasrija and Dr Ravdeep Singh, training coordinators, said a total of eight trainees, including one women trainee from Punjab, have participated in the training programme. The trainees were provided with knowledge about various topics such as breeds, breeding, management, shed design, weather management, vaccination protocols, diseases and their prevention, value addition of meat, milk and economics of goat farming etc.Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director, Extension Education, said value addition of goat products (milk and meat) can enhance income of farmers as goat can be projected as future food animal and it can help in economic and nutritional security of farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/goat-farming-a-lucrative-business-say-vet-experts-198014
14-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Kite flying, revelry mark Lohri celebrations||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 13Lohri was celebrated with religious fervour in the city. Revelers enjoyed the festival by flying kites while loud music was played to make the festival more special. Though flying of kites was comparatively less in posh areas of the city, in interior parts, groups of youngsters were seen having fun throughout the day.Dedicating the festival to farmers, protesting in Delhi for the withdrawal of farm laws, Hot Breads here made a special effort today. They prepared cakes with the theme ‘Farmer and Lohri’. Different cakes were made on the theme ‘Lohri’ in the shape of colourful kites.Harjinder Singh from Hot Breads said: “We have made Lohri-themed cakes with farmers’ logos. Lohri is a special festival that represents the state. Though Punjabis are celebrating the festival in a traditional way, everyone has farmers on their mind. Our effort is to represent the mood of society. By creating ‘Farmer’ theme Lohri cakes, we are enabling people to participate in the celebrations while keeping farmers in their thoughts. A large cake of 12 kg made by us has all elements of Lohri. We have made images of dancing farmers, bonfire, traditional Lohri sweets, etc, on cakes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kite-flying-revelry-mark-lohri-celebrations-198015
14-01-2021||---||Cops celebrate Lohri with poor||Ludhiana January 13The Ludhiana police celebrated Lohri with orphans and other underprivileged persons at slum areas in the industrial hub.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, Joint Commissioner of Police J Elanchezhian and all senior and junior police officials were part of the event.Agrawal said the police distributed blankets, woollen caps, biscuits, noodles and sweets among people.The CP said the programme was organised at 29 places in the city in which all police personnel participated and distributed the items among the poor.Agrawal said the programme was organised under the guidance of Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, who had also handed out a few packets of the items at a special event organised this morning at the Punjab Police headquarters.Elanchezhian said the police also interacted with people and listened to their problems during the event. ACP (Crime) Surinder Mohan, who was also present, said the police would continue such initiatives in future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-celebrate-lohri-with-poor-198017
14-01-2021||---||Students’ body blames Centre for deaths of protesting farmers||Ludhiana, January 13Members of the All India Sikh Students’ Federation burned copies of the farm laws on the occasion of Lohri on Wednesday in Ludhiana.Expressing their protest against the BJP-led Central Government, the members blamed that the Centre was responsible for deaths of those farmers who died during the farmers’ protest in Delhi.Senior members Paramjit Singh Khalsa, Major Singh Khalsa and Daler Singh, along with other members, gathered in the city and burnt the copies of the farm laws to mark their protest.They said: “The Narendra Modi-led Central Government is introducing anti-people policies. We burnt the copies of the black laws today. Actually, the Centre is acting like a puppet of some corporate houses. If anyone raises voice against the Union Government, he is defamed with false allegations.“The farm laws are not only anti-farmers but also against people, hence these should be repealed. We will intensify the agitation,” said Daler Singh.Meanwhile, members of the BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) burnt copies of the farm laws near MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road here. A leader of the union Bharpur Singh said they burnt the copies of the draconian farm laws on the occasion of Lohri and had been staging a protest on Ferozepur Road for the past 68 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-body-blames-centre-for-deaths-of-protesting-farmers-198018
14-01-2021||Legal Correspondent||Governor launches documentary, calendar on Guru Teg Bahadur’s teachings, travels||Ludhiana, January 13Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore has launched a documentary and a calendar depicting the ‘spiritual journey of Guru Teg Bahadur” prepared by city-based lawyer and nature photographer Harpreet Sandhu, dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur.While launching the documentary and the calendar, the Governor acknowledged the sincere efforts of lawyer Harpreet Sandhu for initiating a pious work which reminds us of the sacred memory of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. The calendar will be of immense importance to spread the philosophy of the Guru through an exceptional collection of vivid historical descriptions and photographs of the sacred shrines. It will also help to spread his preachings and message of peace and universal brotherhood.He also applauded the pictorial visuals promoting historical gurdwaras, related to the Ninth Sikh Guru.The calendar and documentary are replete with high-quality colourful pictures of gurudwaras — Guru ka Mahal (Amritsar), Vayah Asthan (Kartarpur, Jalandhar district), Bhora Sahib (Baba Bakala), Thara Sahib (Amritsar), Guru Ke Mahal (Bhora Sahib, Sri Anandpur Sahib), Thara Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib), Sis Ganj Sahib (Chandni Chowk, Delhi), Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib (Delhi), Bibangarh Sahib (Ropar), Sis Ganj Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib) and Gurudwara Akal Bunga Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib) depicting the pious Journey of the Guru, from his birth till the martyrdom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/governor-launches-documentary-calendar-on-guru-teg-bahadurs-teachings-travels-198019
14-01-2021||---||38 test positive for virus in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 13Thirtyeight cases of Covid-19 were reported from Ludhiana district on Wednesday. A total of 25,182 cases have been reported in the district till date.Civil Surgeon Sukhjivan Kakkar confirmed that 52 fresh cases, including 38 from Ludhiana and 14 from other districts, had been reported. In Ludhiana, eight patients came in contact with positive patients, five visited OPDs, 19 persons with influenza-like illness visited flu corner and six others, including one with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), tested positive for the virus.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there were 310 active patients in the district at present. He further said that till date, a total of 5,65,006 samples had been taken, out of which the reports of 5,63,484 samples had been received, of which 5,34,506 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,522 samples were pending. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,182, while 3,796 patients belonged to other districts/states.He said one patient from Himachal Pradesh lost his life today. Now, the total number of persons who had lost their lives included 976 from Ludhiana and 461 from other districts.He said that till date, 55,583 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 846. Today, 37 persons were sent for home quarantine.Today, 2,253 samples of the suspected patients were sent for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/38-test-positive-for-virus-in-ludhiana-district-198020
14-01-2021||Nitin Jain||City to get state-of-the-art exhibition centre||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 13A state-of-the-art exhibition centre will come up in the city. The facility will be built over 20,000 sq m area with a 50-room 3 to 4-star hotel by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), a senior official told The Tribune here on Wednesday.The development assumes significance as the new exhibition centre in Ludhiana, popularly known as the Manchester of India, which has the largest number of registered industrial units in any district of the state, aims at creating a state-of-the-art, world-class exhibition and convention facility on a par with the best in the industry countrywide, in size and quality.Offering an efficient and quality setting for international as well as national meetings, conferences, exhibitions and trade shows, the facility will have an exhibition area over 16,000 sq m and indoor halls over 10,000 sq m.Salient FeaturesTimelineGLADA will sign an agreement with the developer in March and the construction will begin in September with a three-year project completion target till 2024.As per the project report, the indoor halls will have high-floor loads, minimal columns, flexible floor configurations, plug and play at each booth.The outdoor exhibition area to be spread over 5,000 sq m will support very high floor loads and underground cabling. The meeting and breakout rooms will be built over 1,000 sq m.Comprising a pantry and coffee shop as well, the entire facility will be equipped with public address in three to four languages, internet LAN, WiFi, full power backup and UPS. It will also have provision of ample loading/unloading areas with truck waiting areas.Besides, all necessary back-of-house areas (kitchen, F&B etc) and 3-4-star hotel with 50 rooms, the facility has been designed with ample basement parking of over 500 cars.“A large commercial and retail development will support the industry, exhibitions and commercial activities in East Ludhiana,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-to-get-state-of-the-art-exhibition-centre-198021
14-01-2021||---||Kite flyers violate norms, use Chinese string with impunity||Ludhiana, January 13Despite the Ludhiana police giving strict warning to the kite lovers to avoid using Chinese string, many residents here used plastic string to fly kites.As the Lohri festivities began, children, youths and adults went to the rooftop of their houses carrying plastic string with their kites.Despite the Police Commissioner Ludhiana’s warning to register FIR against the persons found using the deadly string, people didn’t bother about the top cop’s order.The police had formed 30 teams in the industrial hub to prevent the use of plastic string. Nakas were also set up at some places to conduct surprise checking of people carrying the banned string.“We are aware about the top cop’s directions, but cannot fly kite with simple string as the plastic string is stronger, which gives more fun while flying kites,” a young kite lover said.At some places, the police were seen conducting patrolling and they warned the youngsters to avoid using plastic string.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kite-flyers-violate-norms-use-chinese-string-with-impunity-198022
14-01-2021||---||Gang of thieves busted, nine cell phones seized||Ludhiana, January 13The Kotwali police busted a gang of thieves and arrested two of its members. Cops also seized nine mobile phones and two motorcycles from members of the gang.Those arrested were identified as Damandeep Singh Kali of Dehlon and Sunny Verma of Sangrur.SHO Kotwali Harjeet Singh said on getting information that the accused were notorious thieves and were on their way to sell the stolen mobile phones to their clients near the railway station, the police swung into action.Naka were put up at some places where after intercepting the accused, they were cornered and arrested by the police. During their checking, the mobile phones were recovered. The phones were stolen by the accused in recent days.The accused confessed to having committed thefts at some houses and shops in the city. Apart from these mobile phones, the accused had already sold some stolen phones at mobile shops.The SHO said the accused Sunny was also facing a drug smuggling case and had spent five years in jail in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-thieves-busted-nine-cell-phones-seized-198023
14-01-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Old drain flooded with garbage cries for care||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, January 13 An old drain passing near Bhadaur House, Damoria Bridge and other old city areas is crying for urgent attention as it has been flooded with garbage. No concrete steps are being taken by the Municipal Corporation (MC) to stop the solid waste flowing in this drain in which untreated sewage is also being released. It is learnt that a lot of money was earlier spent on the cleaning of the drain a few years ago, but it is turning into a garbage dump near the Bhadaur House market. Warnings against garbage dumping have been displayed on the safety wall of the drain but to no avail. Solid waste, including banned plastic carry bags and other waste items, are being dumped into the drain for a long time. It has come to notice that illegal sewer connections of nearby buildings have also been joined with the nullah which is meant to drain out rainwater from old city areas. A resident of a nearby area, Prince Kumar, said, “It is difficult to pass through the road at the rear of hotels due to the poor sanitary conditions. Some portion of the nullah is open and a huge amount of solid waste is being dumped into the nullah for a long time. The authorities concerned must pay attention towards this and take the necessary steps to stop the dumping of the waste into the drain.”  Former councillor Parminder Mehta said, “Over Rs 1 crore was spent on the cleaning of the nullah around three-four years ago but the nullah is getting choked once again due to the collection of solid waste. Some points of nullah near Talab Bazar, Bhadaur House and other areas have not been covered due to which solid waste is being dumped in the absence of any check. Moreover, there is no check on illegal sewer connections of a number of buildings that have been joined with the drain in the past years.” “Due to the dumping of the waste, the drain gets choked and rainwater does not get cleared from some old markets of the city. It is the responsibility of the civic body to take the necessary steps to stop pollution in the drain”, he said. The civic body’s executive engineer Pardeep Saluja said they would check the drain and take the required steps to solve the problem. He further said that the officials concerned would be told to challans those dumping waste into the drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/old-drain-flooded-with-garbage-cries-for-care-198024
14-01-2021||Ludhiana||HVM Convent Celebrates Lohri||Green Land ConventThe school celebrated Lohri with exuberance and cultural fervour. The mood on the campus was upbeat and the students were totally absorbed in the festive spirit of Lohri. The function started with speeches in English and Punjabi highlighting the importance of the festival of Lohri, which ushers in the cheerful spring season bidding adieu to the bone-chilling winter. The students had a campus party in which they danced to the tune of popular Punjabi songs. Inter-house singing competition was held. The classes were decorated beautifully with hand-made kites, buntings, and charts.BCM Kindergarten, DugriThe school celebrated Lohri with great pomp and show. Little kids relished the lohri special groundnuts, rewri and gachak. They tapped on Punjabi music and came dressed in traditional attire. The motive of the celebration was to make students welcome the joyous spring and bid adieu to the hard winter. Teachers narrated the story of Dulla Bhatti. They were also told the importance of Punjabi culture and Makar Sankranti.BCM KindergartenThe school celebrated Lohri with exuberance and fanfare. The festival ushers in the welcoming of joyous spring and bids adieu to the harsh winter. To give a festive dip to the students, a ‘theme assembly’ was organised by teachers. It commenced with the enchanting of ‘Gayatri mantra’ followed by thought for the day. Teachers presented song immersed in rich cultural folklore of Punjab. A play on ‘Lohri’ was enacted highlighting the spirit of brotherhood, kindness and welfare of mankind.GMT International Public SchoolLohri was celebrated at the school with gaiety and fervor. A huge bonfire was lit and everyone offered peanuts and sweets to the fire. Teachers also sang songs such as ‘Sunder mundriye’. Director Guriqbal Singh Thind along with Principal Amarjit Dhaliwal conveyed their best wishes to the students and staff. They also motivated them to remain tied to their traditional culture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hvm-convent-celebrates-lohri-198025
14-01-2021||Ludhiana||Man held for bid to kidnap girl||Canal bridge to be ready by mid-FebLudhiana: Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said for the welfare of residents, the widening work of the Sidhwan canal, connecting Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar with Sarabha Nagar, would be completed by mid-February. He said more than 50 per cent of the work had been completed and the remaining work was going on in full swing. The main work of erecting the pillars had also been completed. The widening of the canal bridge near the MC Zone D office is being carried out at a cost of Rs1.40 crore. The project is funded by Ludhiana Smart City Limited and is being executed by the Punjab Irrigation Department. He said the project would be positively completed by mid-February. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-bid-to-kidnap-girl-198026
14-01-2021||---||Driver killed as car falls into Sidhwan canal||Ludhiana, January 13A Nepalese man was killed after the car he was driving fell in the Sidhwan canal near South City this evening.The deceased was identified as Vishal, aka Kishan, 33, a native of Nepal. Two other persons Dinesh and his 10-year-old daughter were injured in the accident.As per the police, Kishan was working as a driver with some industrialist living in South City. This evening, he took the Honda City car of the owner to visit market. When he was driving along the canal, he lost control over the vehicle, which fell in the canal.The canal is dry these days due to which the two other occupants were saved. A badly injured Kishan was taken to hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead.The PAU police station initiated inquest proceedings in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/driver-killed-as-car-falls-into-sidhwan-canal-198028
14-01-2021||Ludhiana||Event on communication skills||Students dish out 1K types of phirniCT University prepared 1,101 different types of phirnis by students and faculty of School of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism (SOHAT) under the patronage of university in collaboration with Amul, under the marketing brand of Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. A total of 167 ingredients were used to prepare 1,101 types of phirnis,” said Dr Varinder Singh Rana, Dean, SOHAT. The guests of honour were chefs Nellu Kaura, Vishwadeep Bali and Hitesh.Lohri celebrated with fervourLohri was celebrated at the Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, Ludhiana, with zeal. General Secretary, College Governing Body, Gurvinder Singh, and Principal Maninder Kaur emphasised on the importance of festivals.PCTE GroupGirls adorned in traditional phulkari suits and boys in Punjabi ‘juti’, the warmness of the bonfire brought in energy in youngsters, students were dancing around the campus, teachers and students sang cultural Punjab folk songs — that is how the PCTE Group of Institutes celebrated Lohri.GHG Khalsa College‘Dheean di Lohri’ was celebrated at GHG Khalsa College with fervour. Principal Jaswant Singh Goraya lit up the ‘Lohri’ bonfire and greeted staff on the occasion of Maghi and Lohri. He stressed that giving due respect to girls was important.Devki Devi Jain CollegeDevki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women, Ludhiana, celebrated Lohri with exuberance and fanfare. The ongoing pandemic could not dampen the spirits of the festival as staff and principal Dr Sarita Bahl organised a small celebration, ‘Dhiyan Di Lohri’, in which baby Sargun Kaur Boparai, daughter of college librarian Sukhvir Kaur, was the chief guest.Partap College of educationLohri and Makar Sankranti were celebrated at the Partap College of Education, Ludhiana, with zeal in the presence of managing committee members of college, Prof JP Singh Bal, Dr Ramesh Indra Kaur Bal, director, Prof Balwant Singh and principal, Dr Manpreet Kaur.SD CollegeLohri was celebrated with fervour at Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana. The college managing committee, headed by president Dharam Paul Jain, along with other members, conveyed their best wishes.SDP CollegeThe SDP College for Women celebrated Lohri on Wednesday. NSS students presented a cultural programme. Balraj Bhasin, president of the SDP Sabha, committee members and officiating principal wished the students.AS CollegeAS College, Khanna, celebrated Lohri. A function was organised by its central association. Rajeev Rai Mehta, president, AS High School, Khanna, and others wished all during the celebrations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/event-on-communication-skills-198029
