15-01-2021||Raipur||CoBRA commando from Ludhiana shoots self in Chhattisgarh||A commando of CRPFs elite unit CoBRA allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district during an anti-Naxal operation in the wee hours of Friday, police said.As per preliminary information, Head Constable Harjeet Singh (40), belonging to CoBRAs 206th battalion, shot himself with his service rifle when a squad of his unit was out on an anti-Naxal operation in Chintagufa police station area, Sukma Additional Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma told PTI.A team of the 206th battalion of Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) had launched the operation from its Temelwada camp on Thursday night based on inputs about movement of Naxals and laid an ambush on Koyalmeta hill, located over 450km from state capital Raipur, he said.During the operation, Singh allegedly shot himself and died on the spot, Sharma said, adding his body is being shifted to a local hospital.Prima facie the incident seems to be a suicide and an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact reason that prompted him to take the extreme step.“However, police will also probe whether he misfired from his service rifle”, Sharma added.Singh was a native of Ludhiana district in Punjab.The CRPF is deployed in south Bastar for anti-Naxal operations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cobra-commando-from-ludhiana-shoots-self-in-chhattisgarh-198860
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two nabbed in theft cases||Camp for street vendors held Ludhiana: A camp underthe PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) was organised for street vendors at Janakpuri, here, on Thursday. Secretary of the north unit of the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI), Tiger Singh, MC Zonal Commissioner Neeraj Jain, nodal officer Abdul Sattar and councillor Navneet Singh were present. Tiger Singh said around 200 street vendors had applied under the scheme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-nabbed-in-theft-cases-198820
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||BCM ARYA SCHOOL, LALTON||MGM Public SchoolOn the auspicious occasion of Maghi, the school organised a paath. The pandemic has brought a lot of upheavals in the lives of everyone. To invoke blessings from almighty, Sukhmani Sahib paath was organised. Teachers and students performed the rituals. The students were distributed prasad. Gajjan Singh Thind, director of the school, graced the occasion. Principal Sunita Vij enlightened students about the importance of holy books.GREEN LAND SR SEC PUBLIC SCHOOLThe school organised an exciting solo dance activity for the students of pre–nursery to KG. It was joyful watching the children explore the rich culture. Principal Baldeep Pandher lauded the efforts of students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bcm-arya-school-lalton-198819
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||Scholarship scheme announced||Webinar on NEPMalwa Central College of Education for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, organised a webinar on National Policy on Education 2020: A policy perspective. The key note speaker and chief guest was Dr Jatinder Grover, Dean Faculty of Education, Panjab University, Chandigarh. The programme was started with Shabad Gayan. Dr Naginder Kaur, Principal, welcomed the key note speaker, resource person and all the students. A brief introduction of the webinar was given by Dr Mohua Khosla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scholarship-scheme-announced-198818
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||PAU teachers’ body elections today||The elections of the PAU Teachers Association (PAUTA) will held on January 15 on the PAU campus.Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra, sitting president of PAUTA, who was contesting for the post of president, introduced his team which consists of following candidates vice president Dr Jasjit Singh Kang; secretary Dr KS Sangha; joint secretary Dr Seema Sharma; treasurer Dr DK Sharma, councillors Dr GPS Dhillon Sarabjeet Singh Sooch; Dr Harmeet Singh; Dr Naresh Chuneja; Dr Narinderjit Kaur; Dr Kanchan Sandhu, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-teachers-body-elections-today-198817
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||PAU, Arisudana Industries hold farmers’ meet||In the quest for stopping paddy straw burning and ensuring environmental sustainability, a farmers’ meet was organised by Punjab Agricultural University and Arisudana Industries under the collaborative project “Corporate Association for Residue Management (CARM)” at Jaspalon village.The farmers’ meet was organised to felicitate farmers of Jaspalon, Rupalon and Begowal villages, who adopted the straw management machinery for no straw burning in their fields.Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education, PAU, said: “It is an exemplary initiative to stop straw burning in the region.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-arisudana-industries-hold-farmers-meet-198816
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||Pact on commercialisation of sugarcane juice bottling||Training programme on women empowermentLudhiana: The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a training programme on “Women empowerment” in the Beela village of the district in which about 50 farm women participated. The programme was held in collaboration with the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU. Dr Lakhwinder Kaur, Extension Scientist, welcomed the farm women and acquainted them with the significance of women in the society. She said: “Women are doing commendable work not only in maintaining household activities but also contributing a lot to the agriculture, dairy and subsidiary occupations.”Dr Gaganpreet Kaur, Assistant Professor of Sociology, enlightened farm women about their rights. She explained the significance of celebrating lohri for the girl child in view of the declining sex ratio in the state. She also impressed upon the trainees to pledge for making their village free from female foeticide and dowry as these are curse for the society. She urged the women to treat the girl child equal to the boys. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pact-on-commercialisation-of-sugarcane-juice-bottling-198815
15-01-2021||---||4 shopkeppers held for selling banned string||Ludhiana, January 14The city police have arrested shopkeepers on the charges of selling banned Chinese string during Lohri in separate cases. The Jodhewal police nabbed a shopkeeper identified as Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Janta Colony, and recovered five rolls of plastic string from him. Investigating officer ASI Vijay Kumar said acting on the secret information, a raid was conducted near government tubewell where accused was selling the banned string.In another case, the Sarabha Nagar police nabbed two shopkeepers, namely Harpreet Singh and Dupesh Kumar of Ranchi Colony and recovered 27 bundles of banned string from them. ASI Baljit Singh said the accused had kept huge stock of plastic string at their provisional store. Accordingly, the police conducted raid at their shop and nabbed them with banned string.The police division 5 also nabbed a shopkeeper identified as Manav of New Model Town. The police said a tip-off was received that accused was heading toward Lajpat Nagar from Kochar Market to deliver banned string. During the checking, two rolls of the banned string were recovered from him.In all the cases, the police registered cases against the nabbed accused under 188 IPC and Wildlife and Environment Protection Act. The accused were released on bail at the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-shopkeppers-held-for-selling-banned-string-198814
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Railways to operate 3 more ‘festival special’ trains||Ludhiana, January 14Even though most trains in the region were either suspended or having erratic run since the ‘Rail roko’ agitation by farmers in protest against farm laws, Railways have announced to operate three more ‘festival special trains’ with limited run. Two trains would run between Howrah and Amritsar while another would operate between Kolkata and Nangal Dam.According to railway officials, 03005/06 Howrah-Amritsar-Howrah festival special would depart daily from Howrah on Jan 18 to 20 (three days) while it would depart from Amritsar for the return journey on January 20 to 22, 2021.The train would have commercial halts at Bardhman, Durgapur, Raniganj, Asansol, Chittranjan, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhaja, Kiul, Mokamah, Bakhtiyarpur, Patna Sahib, Danapur, Ara, Dumraon, Buxar, Dildarnagar, Jamania, DD Upadhyaya Nagar, Kashi, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Janghai, Badshahpur, Partapgarh, Amethi, Gauriganj, Jais, Rae Bareli, Bachrawan, Lucknow, Balamu, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Bareilly, Rampur, Moradabad, Dhampur, Nagina, Najibabad, Laksar, Roorkee, Saharanpur, Yamuna Nagar Jagadhari, Ambala Cantt, Rajpura, Ludhiana, Phillaur, Phagwara, Jalandhar Cantt, Jalandhar City and Beas in both directions.Another train on the same route – 02317/18 Howrah-Amritsar-Howrah Akal Takht festival special would depart from Howrah on January 20 (single trip) and leave from Amritsar on January 22 for the return journey.The train would have stoppages at Asansol, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhaja, Kiul, Mokamah, Patna Sahib, DD Upadhyaya Nagar, Varanasi, Sultanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly, Moradabad, Najibabad, Saharanpur, Ambala Cantt, Sirhind, Ludhiana, Jalandhar City and Beas in both directions.The 02325/26 Kolkata-Nangal Dam-Kolkata festival special train would leave from Kolkata on January 21 (single trip) and depart from Nangal Dam on January 23 in the return direction. The train would stop at Asansol, Jasidih, Jhaha, Kiul, Patna, DD Upadhyaya Nagar, Varanasi, Lucknow, Bareilly, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Ambala Cantt, Sirhind, Rupnagar and Anandpur Sahib in both directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-to-operate-3-more-festival-special-trains-198813
15-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Pensioners’ assn rues delay in pay panel report||Doraha, January 14A meeting of Government Pensioners’ Association, Doraha, was held at KK Kaushal Yadgari Bhawan, Doraha, today. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, president of the association, presided over the meeting.Members of the association paid tributes to farmers who died during the farmers’ agitation by observing two-minute silence. They decided to support the farmers in their struggle in every possible way and condemned propaganda spread by against them. The police crackdown on teachers fighting for their rights was also condemned.Key demandsThe meeting condemned the government’s policy of repeatedly extending the date of release of the report of the Sixth Pay Commission thus resulting in undue delay in its implementation. The members also condemned the government for the non-implementation of the earlier accepted demands of the employees and the pensioners. The non-release of pension benefits to retired employees, non-payment of medical bills of retired employees, non-implementation of cashless scheme for medical treatment and practically no increase in medical allowance were the major demands which the retirees have been demanding for years together but the government has refused to lend a patient ear. Restoration of old pension scheme for the employees recruited from 2004 was also demanded.The government pensioners association decided to honour and felicitate the pensioners who have completed 75 years of their age. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, Gurdial Dalal, Ranjit Singh Tiwana, Satinderpal Singh, Piara Singh, Rupinder Singh and Pavitar Singh and Gurdial Dalal addressed the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-assn-rues-delay-in-pay-panel-report-198812
15-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Support farmers, says Nasib Kaur on her 116th birthday||Mandi Ahmedgarh, january 14Praying victory for farmers protesting against farm laws, Surjit Kaur alias Nasib Kaur, a resident of Saharan Majra village in Payal subdivision, celebrated her 116th birthday. The centenarian was felicitated with a brass urn (Gaggar) on behalf of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Celebrating her birthday, she urged representatives to focus on farmer’s struggle. “Meri chhaddo jattan nun saath devo (forget me, support farmers ),” said Kaur when Krishan Kumar Bawa, chairman, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation, Gurdev Lapran,, member, Zila Parishad and Nirmal Jaura, Director Youth Welfare, Punjab University, Chandigarh, presented her the urn on her birthday.Master Malkiat Singh Saroye, 81-year-old nephew of the centenarian, said she had been working like any other woman till a few years ago. “Though she has never been to any educational institute she has ample knowledge about Sikh religion and history of Punjab,” said Saroye, maintaining that Naseebo had played a vital role in keeping their family united. Pure vegetarian diet, pious lifestyle and complete involvement in household and cattle rearing work were cited formulae for her sound health and long life.Hoping to be associated with clan headed by one of the eldest persons or at least eldest women of the world, the family has urged the district administration to do the needful to ascertain the age wise ranking of Naseeb Kaur in the state, country and the world so that her name could be entered in some book of records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/support-farmers-says-nasib-kaur-on-her-116th-birthday-198811
15-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Commuters suffer as sewer water floods under-construction stretch||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 14Residents and factory workers are forced to suffer as the main Giaspura Road construction work is going on at snail’s pace. Now, sewer water has accumulated on the stretch once again, increasing their woes.Notably, work for up-gradation of sewer system was launched in March last year by the Municipal Corporation. After the completion of the sewer-related work, road construction work was started on the stretch. However, only a small portion of the stretch could be constructed till date. The questions are also being raised as to why sewers are still overflowing if the system was earlier upgraded.As the stretch has been badly flooded due to the overflowing sewers near the PSPCL office these days, it is difficult for commuters and pedestrians to pass through the stretch. A number of persons, including bike riders and pedestrians, have to pass through the flooded stretch. The industrialists have raised questions over the role of the MC for delaying the road construction project and ignoring water accumulation.Mohammad Rasool, who works in a private unit, said, “People are facing a lot of harassment on this stretch for a long time. Earlier, a portion of road was blocked due to sewer-related work. Now, the road construction work is going on at slow pace. Meanwhile, sewers are overflowing once again. A number of persons have met with mishaps on the stretch due to the accumulated water.”Notably, the residents had earlier staged protests over poor condition around five months ago and after that road construction work was started. The residents and some industrialists are now planning to start agitation as the MC failed to pay attention towards the problems.Upkar Singh Sahni, general secretary, Giaspura Industries Welfare Association, said, “We are having a tough time due to slow pace of the project. Now, stinking water has accumulated on the road once again. It is difficult for us to reach our factories. Our businesses have been badly affected. Officials concerned are ignoring the problem. We don’t know when the road work will be completed. We demand from the higher authorities to take required steps to resolve the problems at the earliest.”MC’s SDO (B&R) Rakesh Singla said, “The road construction work has got affected after sewer water got accumulated on the road. The sewers are overflowing due to which the project is getting delayed.”The staff operations and maintenance wing of MC looks after sewer-related works. When contacted, MC’s Superintending Engineer (O&M), Ravinder Garg said, “No officer concerned has brought the matter into my notice. I will look into the matter and take necessary steps.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/commuters-suffer-as-sewer-water-floods-under-construction-stretch-198810
15-01-2021||---||Ludhiana gets 36K vaccine doses||Ludhiana, January 14Ludhiana district today received its first share of Covid vaccine Covishield. The district has received 36,000 doses of the vaccine and these have been stored at the Civil Surgeon’s office.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today thanked doctors and healthcare workers for showing full faith in the vaccine.He said it was due to their faith in the vaccine that over 30,000 doctors and healthcare workers would be administered doses of the vaccine in the first phase in the district alone.The vaccination for doctors and healthcare workers of the district would be held from January 16 to 18.Don’t believe in rumours, say health officialsCivil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar, District Immunisation Officer Kiran Gill, Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Anurag Chaudhary, both from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, took part in the Facebook live session and cleared rumours regarding the vaccine.The Deputy Commissioner urged residents to not to believe in any rumours spread through social media. Sharma said the vaccine had been launched after carrying out several trials and there was no need to panic. People should understand that if the doctors and healthcare workers have themselves volunteered for the vaccination, it shows that they have full faith in it.He said getting the vaccination done was purely voluntary. However, he appealed that everyone should get vaccinated.The Civil Surgeon said several locations had been identified in the district where vaccination would be carried out by teams of expert doctors.He said in the first phase, over 30,000 healthcare workers, both from government and private sectors of the district would be administered the vaccine, followed by anganwari workers, people aged above 50 years, people below 50 years with comorbidities and others.He clarified that the vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and only people who have got themselves registered on the government portal would be covered under it.He said on registration, the beneficiaries would receive an SMS informing the date and place where the vaccine would be administered to them.Dr Bishav Mohan said even cured Covid-19 patient should get himself vaccinated. He said the vaccination would be done twice (once every two weeks) and when one gets vaccinated for the second time, they would be fully safe from the Covid-19 virus after further two weeks of getting second shot of vaccination.“For example, if a person gets vaccinated today, he/she would be vaccinated again after 14 days (for second shot). Upon the completion of 28 days (both shots administered), he/she would have to wait for another 14 days to be fully safe from the virus. Till then, people should keep taking precautions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-gets-36k-vaccine-doses-198576
15-01-2021||---||Elderly man dies, 22 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 14As many as 22 persons tested positive for Covid while an elderly person succumbed to the virus today. At present, there are 305 active patients in the district.The person who lost his life today was a 76-year-old man from Latala village. He was admitted to Fortis Hospital and was a patient of diabetes.A total of 30 patients (22 new patients from Ludhiana district and eight from other states/districts) tested positive in the past 24 hours.According to the Health Department, a total of 5,66,880 samples have been taken, of which reports of 5,65,555 have been received. Of these, 5,36,547 samples were found negative while reports of 1,325 were pending.The total number of patients related to the district since the spread of Covid is 25,204, while 3,804 patients belong to other districts/states.The number of persons who lost their lives include 977 persons from Ludhiana and 464 from other districts.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said 5,56,21 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 826. Today, 38 persons were sent for home quarantine.Today, 1,874 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently of the Punjab Government to keep themselves and others safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-man-dies-22-positive-in-ludhiana-198577
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||11 arrested for gambling, Rs 92K seized||The Police Division 2 conducted a major raid against gambling and caught 11 persons red-handed while gambling near HDFC Bank, PUDA ground, yesterday. The accused have been identified as Harsimran Singh, Shivam Bansal of Phase 2, Dugri, Sanjiv Kumar of Mehmoodpura, Sunil Kumar,  Mani Kumar of Qila Mohalla, Krishan Lal of Harbanspura, Shyam of Daresi, Vishal of Madhopuri, Gurjot Singh of Dhoka Mohalla, Rakesh Kumar of Qila Mohalla and Mukesh Kumar of Janakpuri. ASI Inder Singh said a tip-off was received that some persons were gambling on the PUDA ground. accordingly, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed them. The police also recovered Rs 92,220 in cash from the spot. A case under Sections 13A and 3/67 of the Gambling Act has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-arrested-for-gambling-rs-92k-seized-198578
15-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC continues to ignore traders’ demand||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 14Even after one-and-a-half month after holding an e-auction of paid parking lots, no concrete steps are being taken to check violations at parking lots. Earlier, members of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association had also demanded from the civic body to formulate a committee to keep a check on violations at the parking lots but to no avail.Notably, an employee of a private firm who looks after a multilevel parking lot near Mata Rani Chowk was recently booked for “overcharging”. Visitors had been complaining about overcharging at the multi-level parking lot, Bhadaur House market, Feroze Gandhi Market and other parking lots in the city in the past too but no concrete action was taken to check such violations.At some of the parking lots in the city, manual tickets are still being issued to visitors instead of mandatory e-tickets. Besides, parking fee boards have not been displayed properly at most of the sites designated for parking of vehicles. As per the tender conditions, contractors were supposed to make sure their workers should be in proper uniform at the lots but no steps taken for the same. CCTV cameras were not seen at a number of locations. Moreover, the MC has not displayed any helpline number for visitors at the lots.Col Harjap Singh, chairman of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association, said there was no check on violations at the parking lots in the market.“We have been demanding from the MC to set up a monitoring committee, comprising the MC, police officials, representatives from the market association and the public, to keep a check on violations so that visitors don’t face any inconvenience. We don’t know why the MC is ignoring this demand for a long time,” he said.He said: “We have given a memorandum to the Mayor about issues related to the market. In the memorandum, we have requested the MC again to set up the committee.”Notably, the five parking lots of the Feroze Gandhi market were earlier auctioned at around Rs 1.16 crores while the multilevel parking lot near Mata Rani Chowk was auctioned at Rs 1.03 crore (20 per cent night charges extra). Besides, the parking lots of Bhadaur House and outside AC Market were auctioned at around Rs 30 lakh, BRS Nagar lot near Orient Cinema at around Rs 20 lakh and the lot at Sarabha Nagar I-Block at about Rs 4.30 lakh.Howewever, MC’s tehbazari chief Neeraj Jain said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-continues-to-ignore-traders-demand-198579
15-01-2021||---||17 booked in two assault cases||Ludhiana, January 14 Several persons attacked a family outside their house at Ishar Colony here. The Focal Point police registered a case against Jalaludin, Upinder, Gobinda, Ramu, Veeru, Rohit and four unknown persons. Complainant Ghaniya Lal in a complaint submitted to the police stated that on January 11, all members of his family were sitting outside their house around a bonfire. The suspects, who were carrying sharp weapons, reached the spot and attacked them. He and other family members had suffered minor injuries in the attack. “When we raised an alarm, residents of the area reached the place. Afterwards, they fled the spot in their vehicles after threatening them. Later, we informed the police,” he said. The complainant said the police registered a case on Wednesday but nobody was arrested so far. Investigating officer ASI Randhir Singh said a case under various sections of the IPC has been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab them. In another case of assault registered by the Police Division 6, a man, Prakaram Attri, of Parbhat Nagar was attacked by Sonu Sood, Himanshu Sood, Charanjit Singh and four unknown persons on January 12.  Prakaram said he, along with his uncle Surjit Singh, was at their house when the accused barged into the house and attacked him and his uncle over some old enmity. They also snatched a gold chain of his uncle. ASI Major Singh said raids were being conducted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-booked-in-two-assault-cases-198580
15-01-2021||Ludhiana||Monitoring panel formed for Buddha Nullah project||The Department of Local Government, Punjab, constituted the project monitoring committee for the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal is the Chairman of the committee. The other comittee members include representative of the Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana; Superitending Engineer (SE) of PPCB, Ludhiana; SE, MC, Ludhiana; SE, Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage Circle, Ludhiana; two prominent persons from industries and a representative from the Task Force of Buddha Nullah. Executive Engineer of the PWSSB, Ludhiana, is the convener of the committee. The monitoring committee will look after the works regarding the construction of sewerage treatment plants (STPs), pumping stations, ETPs for Dairy complexes, rehabilitation of existing STPs & main pumping stations for abatement of pollution in the Nullah.  Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal also inspected the Jamalpur STP on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/monitoring-panel-formed-for-buddha-nullah-project-198581
