16-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two killed, five injured in pile-up on Khanna flyover||Two people were killed and five others suffered injuries when at least 10 vehicles piled up on a flyover here due to dense fog on Saturday, police said.Three vehicles were badly damaged in the accident on the Khanna flyover, they said.The accident took place due to poor visibility caused by thick fog, said Inspector (Khanna police station) Akash Dutt.The victims were yet to be identified, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-killed-five-injured-in-pile-up-on-khanna-flyover-199378
16-01-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC chief reviews sports projects||5-year-old raped by stepfatherLudhiana: A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her stepfather in Haibowal. The Haibowal police arrested the accused, Monu, a native of UP, at present staying in Gopal Nagar here. The complainant, the victim’s mother, told the police that she got married to Ravi in 2014 and they had two children, a boy and a girl. Two years ago, her husband died, following which she got married with Monu. After the second marriage, her children continued to stay with them. The woman said on January 13 night, she was shocked to see that the accused was violating her daughter. The woman alleged that she raised an alarm following which people from the area reached the spot. However, the accused fled the spot. Investigating officer ASI Sukhwinder Singh said a case under Sections 376-AB, IPC, and the POCSO Act had been registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-chief-reviews-sports-projects-199300
16-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Poor roads, clogged sewers rattle Dugri colony residents||Ludhiana, January 15 Residents of Urban Estate Dugri (Phase II) are a harried lot due to the pathetic condition of roads and sewerage system in the colony. What makes the matter worse is lack of better urban infrastructure in the area. Broken roads dotted with big potholes, overflowing sewers and lack of other amenities have become a big thorn in the flesh of the area residents with both the elected representatives and MC officials choosing to ignore their plight.  The situation is worst in the 300 square yards area where water keeps stagnating in potholes. At some places the top surface of the roads has gone missing in big patches and puddles of overflowing sewer cause trouble to residents and commuters. The Sukhmani Welfare Society has lodged a complaint with the principal secretary, Local Government, Punjab, drawing his attention to the state of affairs prevailing in the locality with regard to the utter lack of urban infrastructure and apathy of MC officials which had made the life of people miserable. Swarnjit Singh and Manjit Singh Bawa, president and vice-president of the society, respectively, said the colony was developed by the PUDA and after completion it was handed over to the MC for maintenance as per the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act. They pointed out that apparently the sewer laid in the colony was under-capacity in proportion to volume of sewer discharge which led to frequent overflowing of sewage on the roads to the extent that overflowing sewage from one road gully and the other located 150 feet away merged together and waterlog the entire stretch of road. The stinking stagnant sewage not only posed a serious health hazard to the residents but had, in the long run, damaged most of the roads and streets.  The functionaries of the society said there was a general feeling that the colony, having been developed by the PUDA and thereafter handed over to the MC for maintenance, was being discriminated against where upkeep and repair of roads and maintenance of sewerage network was concerned. Officials of Operation and Maintenance Wing of the MC said they were aware of the problems being faced by residents and steps were underway to find a permanent solution to the overflowing sewers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poor-roads-clogged-sewers-rattle-dugri-colony-residents-199289
16-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma                                                                ---||Self-styled godman, others booked for fraud||Mandi Ahmedgarh, january 15 Apprehensions of social activists about alleged swindling of huge amounts by a self-styled godman at Gurdwara Kup Khurad and Ferozepur Kothala villages near here about three months ago, have proven true. The Sangrur district police have now registered an FIR against self-proclaimed Baba Gurmel Singh of Kothala and two dozen of his accomplice and initiated probe into allegations levelled by Jaspreet Singh, one of the victims of the fraud, who had lost an amount of Rs 7 lakh after being lured to get it doubled by the accused in name of God. Perusal of the FIR registered at the Sandaur police station revealed that Gurmel Singh and his accomplice had duped residents of the region, including devotees who had been visiting the gurdwaras to pay obeisance. The main accused, Granthi Gurmel Singh, had eloped from the area on January 1. A large number of victims started visiting Gurdwara Bhagat Ravidass to claim their due amounts and office-bearers of the management committee, who had been collecting huge sums by organising counters at Kothala and Kup Khurad. Jaspreet Singh alleged that a group of about two dozen armed accomplices of Baba Gurmel Singh had thrashed him for demanding his money. Earlier, when a large number of allured innocent residents used to throng collection centers established by Gurmel Singh, social activists led by Sant Sukhwinder Singh Khalsa Malleh wale had blown the whistle against him. A number of speculative depositors in slabs of Rs 3,000, Rs 3,0000 and Rs 3 lakh was reported to be in thousands, but the receipt being issued to them purported that the money was being given willingly for performing a path at the religious place. Though the receipts carried stamps of cashier and secretary of the management committee of the religious, these were rarely signed.  Granthi Gurmel Singh had also publically lured residents including farmers to get an assured sum of rs 50 lakh after six months by paying rs 3 lakh then, documents signed by depositors narrated that the money was non-refundable. Investigations revealed that Gurmel Singh had been serving as a granthi at a religious place at Kothala village. He had launched a ‘chit fund’ scheme about five months ago. His followers had been exploiting social media for more clients by uploading posts in which Baba was shown presenting keys of motorcycles, cars and other durable items to his followers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/self-styled-godman-others-booked-for-fraud-199290
16-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Parents urged to send wards to schools||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, January 15 Life to be coming back towards normalcy. In city, many schools have started sending texts to parents to start sending their wards to schools who are in primary/middle classes, starting from class V onwards.  Sahil Goel, a parent, said my daughter studies in class V. The school has sent a text, asking us to send her to school from Monday i.e January 18 onwards.  “Though it is good that schools are opening and life is coming back on tracks but it is being difficult to start again with the routine after a gap of 10 months”, said the father.  At the sane time, the teachers feel that online classes were the only option left both for teachers snd students during the pandemic times but it did not bear desirable fruits. “ “We have to promote the students to next class as there is no other option. But as far as their performance is concerned, neither the parents nor teachers are satisfied. In higher classes also, when offline tests were held recently, many students of class XI and XII could not score even passing marks. Though finals will be held in February/March for many classes other than boards but at least if schools are opened and students come many of their problems will be answered”, said a teacher of a leading school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-urged-to-send-wards-to-schools-199291
16-01-2021||---||Teachers seek regular jobs, hold stir||Ludhiana, January 15  Teachers associated with the Punjab & Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union staged a protest at Arya College on Friday. They blamed the college management committee for not regularising their posts.  Professor Kuldeep Batta, president, PCCTU, Ludhiana, said the Cabinet has regularised the services of 127 assistant professors working in various government-aided colleges in Punjab, but the 18 assistant professors working in Arya College, Ludhiana have not been regularised.  “The college management concerned has failed to complete the process of regularisation of the teachers appointed against 1,925 grant-in-aid post, inspite of many requests, letters and reminders. Most of the colleges of Punjab have regularised these teachers after the completion of three years of contract period as per government policy. They are receiving full salaries and even the arrears have been credited into their accounts. But 18 teachers of Arya College are still forced to work on a meagre salary of Rs 21,600”, he said.  Prof Batta said, “In lieu of the adamant attitude adopted by Arya College Management Committee, the teachers of the college held protest on 9th January but our demands have not been met till date. If the management kept the same attitude the protest will take more extreme and revolutionary turn in future and any type of loss to any of the Assistant Professors working on these posts will be the sole responsibility of Arya College Managing Committee.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-seek-regular-jobs-hold-stir-199292
16-01-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana-based painter to hold exhibition today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 15Having received accolades worldwide for her paintings, Ludhiana-based artist Anu Puri has decided to showcase her masterpieces locally at a one-day exhibition being held at Hotel Park Plaza on Saturday.In addition to this, Anu Puri has also been chosen and is one of the 250 artists to showcase her painting at Bindaas Artist Group, India’s prominent online artist platform. Showcasing the paintings during a virtual exhibition was all together different experience for her, she said.“I started my artistic journey in my college days where I studied fine arts as my major subject. Being constantly intrigued by Art History, I became a regular visitor to my campus library where I got enamoured with the works of great masters such as Titian, Raphael and many more. I learned a lot by representing their works and developed a strong relationship with Art,” she said.After being busy as a housewife and a mother, she surrendered to her love for art and quickly realised that she felt happiest and most fulfilled while painting. Deeply inspired by nature, she started making floral paintings that gave a meditative experience both to the artist and the viewers.“The lockdown gave me another opportunity to fulfil my love for the painting as I got ample time to draw my heart out on the canvas,” she said.She finds divine beauty in the simplest of flowers and makes a humble effort to immortalise their beauty on her canvas.Her technique includes making many layers of colour in controlled movements that help her create unconventional style of a blend of realistic and impressionistic art.She has participated in many exhibitions in Ludhiana, Delhi, Mumbai and Dubai. Currently, she is learning online from UK based Natalie Richy of Old Masters Academy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-based-painter-to-hold-exhibition-today-199293
16-01-2021||---||Celebratory firing on Lohri: Youth booked in Ludhiana, video goes viral||Ludhiana, January 15A video of a youth firing shots in the air at Mohalla Dharampura Jatta Wali Gali during the Lohri celebrations went viral on Friday. The youth seen in the video was said to be the nephew of a Congress leader of Central constituency.The police division 3 have registered a case against 15 unknown youth under section 336 of the IPC and Arms Act.Investigating officer ASI Balaour Singh of Dharampura police post said youngsters had gathered at the house of one Harsh Kapoor for celebrating Lohri where some youth made celebratory firing in the air and video has gone viral on the social media.The ASI said a youth, who was firing, was identified as Rajiv Kapoor and he was yet to be arrested. He was using .32 bore weapon for firing and the licence of the same weapon was issued in the name of some other person.The ASI revealed that once the identified accused is nabbed more accused would also be identified and they would be nominated in the case. Licence of the weapon will also be cancelled and weapon will be confiscated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/celebratory-firing-on-lohri-youth-booked-in-ludhiana-video-goes-viral-199294
16-01-2021||---||Shun use of single-use plastic, thermocol items: Ludhiana MC chief||Ludhiana, January 15 The Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, has made an appeal to the people to not use single-use plastic and disposable thermocol items. He said the Municipal Corporation has opened a utensil store at the Zone D office where steel utensils are available for ‘Bhandara’ and other events so that the people don’t use harmful disposable items. Various teams of the Municipal Corporation have urged the people to not use these disposable items during the religious and other events. Dr Puran Singh, State Project Director, Swachh Bharat Mission, said by eating and drinking in disposable items, hazardous micro-plastic particles and other chemicals enter the body, causing fatal diseases such as cancer. These items spread waste too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shun-use-of-single-use-plastic-thermocol-items-ludhiana-mc-chief-199295
16-01-2021||Ludhiana||Virtual gender sensitisation workshop held||The College of Community Science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a virtual gender sensitisation workshop on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 in which more than 350 non-teaching staff members of the PAU Campus, Ludhiana. Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Regional Research Stations from all districts of Punjab participated.  The objective of workshop was to sensitise the staff regarding the Act and to promote safe and gender neutral environment for the women staff of the institution. The Dean, College of Community Science, Dr Sandeep Bains in her introductory remarks emphasized that any kind of harassment to women is considered violation of women’s right to equality, life and liberty. It creates an insecure and hostile work environment, discouraging women’s participation in work and thereby adversely affecting their social and economic empowerment and the goal of inclusive growth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virtual-gender-sensitisation-workshop-held-199296
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||School honours ICSE toppers||Sahnewal, January 15 A felicitation ceremony was held at Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, to honour the toppers of grades X and XII ICSE examinations. Ashish Verma, branch manager, HDFC, Sahnewal, graced the occasion as the chief guest.  The function commenced with a prayer. Along with the chief guest, Director William Sahota presided over the felicitation ceremony and honoured students.  The toppers of grade X, Hardil Singh; Nazampreet Kaur and Evleen Kaur of grade XII expressed their heartfelt gratitude to the school. Principal Sr. Crispin Maria addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/school-honours-icse-toppers-199297
16-01-2021||Manav Mander||Samples of 3 dead birds found negative in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 15Samples of all three birds, which were found dead in the city on Sunday, have come negative for avian flu.Dr Paramdeep Singh, Assistant Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said samples of all three dead birds — two crows and one partridge — have tested negative.“We are regularly collecting samples of birds from the district and on an average, nearly 50 samples are collected every day,” he said.On Sunday, two crows were found dead at Dhandari and a partridge at Rose Garden here.Meanwhile, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has issued an advisory for poultry farmers, handlers and consumers.Dr Jasbir Bedi, director, School of Public Health and Zoonoses, GADVASU, said consumers must thoroughly cook poultry and poultry products, including eggs, before consumption. Proper cooking at above 70°C kills influenza viruses. Farm-to-farm transmission usually occurs through the movement of live birds, people and contaminated vehicles, equipment, etc. Entry of person or vehicles in the poultry farms should be regulated.“One should inform local veterinarians in case he/she come across something aberrant, for example death of wild or migratory birds in the vicinity of the farm,” said Dr Rajnish Sharma, assistant professor, School of Public Health and Zoonoses..What is bird fluBird flu is a disease of birds, caused by avian influenza type A virus, which could affect several kinds of birds, including wild birds, turkeys, quails, chicken and ducks. The virus is shed in faeces, nasal discharges and saliva of infected birds. Healthy birds become sick when they come in contact with the infected/reservoir birds or their secretions or contaminated feed, water or equipment. The disease rarely transmits from birds to humans. However, persons working in close contact with birds must follow proper personnel hygiene and safety measures.Handling dead birds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/samples-of-3-dead-birds-found-negative-in-ludhiana-199283
16-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Bird flu scare: Price, demand for fish, mutton shoot up||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, January 15 With the decrease in the demand for poultry products such as eggs and chicken, prices and demand for fish and mutton have increased drastically. Shopkeepers believe though there are no bird flu cases, there is apprehension among residents and the demand for poultry products has come to almost nil. Talking to The Tribune, Amandeep Singh from Friends Chicken near Dugri said buyers had stopped purchasing eggs and chicken. A tray of eggs that was selling at Rs 175 is now priced at Rs 130, despite that there are no takers. Similar is the case with chicken. Earlier, it was sold at Rs 280 per kg. Now, the prices are dropped to Rs 200. But nobody is keen to buy it due to the scare of bird flu. Though there are no bird flu cases in this part of the region, culling of chickens is going on unabated, rued Amandeep. Another shopkeeper said ever since the bird flu scare had been increased, sales of fish and mutton have picked up. “There is an increase of approximately Rs 100 each in mutton and fish prices and the demand has increased manifolds. In restaurants and hotels, hardly anyone orders chicken, instead people prefer fish and mutton due to scare of bird flu. There might be a few cases but if you eat properly cooked chicken, it will cause no harm,” said the shopkeeper. Many chicken lovers feel that it is better to avoid poultry products and be safe for a few days till the bird flu comes to an end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bird-flu-scare-price-demand-for-fish-mutton-shoot-up-199284
16-01-2021||---||Three more fall prey, 35 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 15 Thirtyfive persons tested positive for Covid while three from the district lost their lives to the virus today. Now, the total number of confirmed cases from Ludhiana district are 25,239 while the death toll has reached 980. At present, there are 310 active cases in the district while 48 were home quarantined today. Till now, 55,669 people have been home quarantined. Those who lost their lives today include a 76-year-old man from Focal Point, who was admitted to SPS Hospital. He was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease. Another person who lost his life to the virus was a 71-year-old man from Mor Karima village who was brought dead to Fortis Hospital. He was also a patient of coronary artery disease. A 34-year-old man also lost his life today. He was a resident of the Tajpur Road area and had a comorbidity of a chronic liver disease. He was admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Today, five patients were on ventilator support which include three from Ludhiana district and two from other districts. According to the Health Department, till date, 5,68,874 samples have been taken, of which reports of 5,67,012 have been received. Of these, 5,37,963 samples were found negative while reports of 1,862 were pending. Today, 1,994 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly. What has come as a good news is that over 30,000 doctors and healthcare workers will be administered Covid-19 vaccine from January 16 to 18 in Ludhiana district. The vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and only people who have got themselves registered on the government portal would be covered under it.  On registration, beneficiaries would receive an SMS informing the date and place where the vaccine would be administered to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-more-fall-prey-35-test-positive-in-ludhiana-199285
16-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||e-auction of 55 commercial sites of GLADA gets under way||Ludhiana, January 15 The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has put as many as 55 commercial sites, including one chunk of land for prime hotel-cum-multiplex for sale through an e-auction. The bidding process commenced on January 14 at 9 am and would close on January 27 at 1 pm. Put together, the total reserve price of the commercial sites on the block is nearly Rs 120 crore with the hotel site alone accounting for almost 27 per cent of the total base price of these sites. According to GLADA officials, the hotel-cum-multiplex site in Sector 32-A on main Chandigarh Road with an area of 7,205.85 sq m carries a reserve price tag of Rs 44.78 crore. Among other sites being offered for sale through the e-auction are two shop-cum-offices (SCOs) in Dugri, Phase-II, six SCOs in Dugri, Phase II and III, Bypass Road, 14 SCOs in Dhandari Kalan, Phase III and two SCOs in Dhandari Kalan, Phase IV. The SCOs have a floor area, each ranging between 101.21 sq m and 265.29 sq m with a reserve price of Rs 1,13,185 to Rs 1,53,218 per sq m. Further, five shop-cum-flats (SCFs) in Dugri, Phase II, with a floor area each of 132.64 sq m and 11 SCFs in Dugri, Phase III, with a floor area of 101.20 sq m each are up for grabs at a reserve price of Rs 1,31,829 and Rs 82,523 per sq m, respectively. For those looking for smaller but affordable commercial sites, 10 booths in Dugri Phase II (floor area 18.98 sq m each) and three booths in Dugri, Phase II and III, Bypass Road (area 27.87 sqm each) are among the lot of commercial sites put up for the auction. One single storey shop (area 101.20 sq m) in Dugri, Phase II, would also be sold at a reserve price of Rs 1,31,829 per sq m. As per standard terms and conditions for the e-auction of sites/properties by GLADA and all other urban area development authorities, the eligibility fee for participation in the e-auction has been fixed at two per cent of the reserve price of Rs 3 lakh which ever is more for hotel/multiplex sites, SCOs and SCFs while for single-storey shops and booths, the eligibility fee is Rs 1 lakh. New condition Meanwhile, the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) has laid down in a recent office order about the terms and conditions of the e-auction that henceforth, in case of all e-auctions conducted by the PUDA authorities, whenever a bid is received in the last 10 minutes, the bidding time will be extended for 10 minutes till the time no bid is received in the extended time. It has also been stipulated that a minimum step up for the bidder will be 0.5 per cent of the reserve price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/e-auction-of-55-commercial-sites-of-glada-gets-under-way-199286
16-01-2021||Manav Mander||This govt dispensary kiosk faces staff crunch||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 15Located at Transport Nagar, the government dispensary kiosk mainly caters to truck drivers working in the area. As The Tribune team reached the dispensary at around 1:30 pm on Thursday, it was found locked and a few patients were found waiting outside it but to no avail.Jot Ram, who was waiting near the dispensary, said he was waiting to consult the doctor as he was having fever along with cough and cold. “I had made two rounds of the dispensary but it was lying closed since the morning,” he said.Posts of Class IV staff, sweeper vacantThere are five staff members at the dispensary which include a medical officer, three ANMs, a pharmacist while the post of Class IV staff and sweeper are vacant. Kulwinderjit Kaur, an auxiliary nurse midwife of the dispensary, said: “The medical officer is there but he has another duty at the Civil Surgeon Office for two days a week and in his absence I attend all patients.”When enquired from a person who owns a shanty near the dispensary, he said staff came in the morning for 30 minutes, cleaned the premises and then left the place after locking the dispensary.“Usually it is opened but it is closed today,” he said.Kulwinderjit Kaur, an auxiliary nurse midwife of the dispensary, when contacted, said staff of the dispensary had gone to Mother and Child Hospital, Vardham, for a meeting on the Covid-19 vaccine.“The entire staff has been called for the meeting and we all were there. We came in the morning but had to rush back due to the meeting,” she said.There are five staff members at the dispensary which include a medical officer, three ANMs, a pharmacist while the posts of Class IV staff and sweeper are vacant.“The medical officer is there but he has another duty at the Civil Surgeon Office for two days a week and in his absence I attend all patients,” she said.There is no sweeper and the staff manage themselves for the cleaning of the dispensary.Another patient Seema Dulari, who was returning without meeting doctor, said she used to meet the ANM for taking medicines as the doctor comes here often.“I will come tomorrow again,” she said, adding that she could not afford to go to a private clinic and would visit the place tomorrow.The timings of this dispensary is 1 pm to 7 pm in summers and 12 noon to 6 pm in winters.Kiosk dispensaries were set up in slums of the district under the National Urban Health Mission to provide healthcare facilities to a large section of migrants and slum dwellers in 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/this-govt-dispensary-kiosk-faces-staff-crunch-199287
16-01-2021||Ludhiana||Garbage dumped along Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah again||Days after Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal laid the foundation stone of the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project, garbage is again being dumped along the Buddha Nullah near Haibowal Chowk, here. Earlier, the area was cleaned before the event for laying the stone. A resident, Vijay Verma, said the area was cleaned before laying the stone of the project. “I was surprised to see yesterday evening that garbage collected from various areas is being dumped again along the Buddha Nullah. It is difficult to pass through the stretch due to foul smell emanating from the garbage dump. The MC must remove the garbage dump from the site. Moreover, there should be no dump along the nullah.” Notably, when the MC had set up the dump at the point along the nullah in  2019, students of the Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Haibowal, had held a protest against the move. The dump is located near the building of a girls’ hostel. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said a waste compactor had been installed on Hambran Road. “I have asked the superintending engineer concerned to get an electricity connection for the waste compactor system at the earliest. Once the system is made functional, the dump will be eliminated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-dumped-along-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-again-199288
