17-01-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Travel agent on police radar||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 16Notorious travel agent Nitish Ghai, who had once hogged the limelight for facing over 100 FIRs of travel and immigration fraud, is again on the radar of Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal.The top cop has asked Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti to conduct a reinvestigation into the pending cases against him and ensure early justice to all the victims duped by him.At present, 14 cases are under investigation while 86 cases are under trial in which the police have submitted challan. In three cases, a compromise was achieved, reportedly, by compensating the victims of travel fraud. As per the police, one travel fraud was cancelled and in one case, Ghai had acquitted by the court. Presently, he is out on bail.The CP while talking to The Tribune said since the police have already launched a probe against the illegal travel business running in the city in which around 100 FIRs have been registered against over 200 travel agents in the past few days “Now, our focus is on the old travel fraud cases registered in the city in the past, during this exercise case of notorious travel agent Nitish Ghai was found against whom 105 travel fraud cases were registered in the past. I have asked the ADCP to scan all the cases registered against him,” added the CP.ADCP Crime Rupinder when contacted said she was entrusted the task to re-probe the cases. “We will check if he has again started the travel business on the name of other and if any such thing comes to fore, we will pursue legal action accordingly.,” ADCP added.Ghai broke all records of travel fraud in 2018Over 100 FIRs were registered against travel and immigration agent Nitish Ghai in 2018 by then ADCP Surendra Lamba. Nearly 80 per cent of his victims belong to Punjab. Others were from Haryana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, HP, and J&K. Ghai had got bail after spending considerable time in jail. Two of Ghai’s firms were mentioned in the list of illegal travel agents released by the MEA. The Tribune was the first to report the development of 100 FIRs registered against Ghai then.Cops to check property attachment statusEarlier, when the police registered over 100 FIRs against Ghai, the police had collected the details of over a dozen prime properties, the market value of which was over Rs 20 crore. Interestingly, these properties exist in Ludhiana only. The CP said status of property attachment will also be checked and intensified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/travel-agent-on-police-radar-199688
17-01-2021||ndi Ahmedgarh||CRPF commando killed in anti-Naxal operation cremated||The body of CRPF commando Harjit Singh (40), who was killed under mysterious circumstances in Chhatisgarh’s Sukma district during an anti-Naxal operation on Friday, was cremated at the crematorium at Ghungrana village on Saturday. Senior functionaries of CRPF Headquarters at Jalandhar and the Jodhan police station laid wreaths on the body of the deceased. Though the exact sequence of events leading to death of Harjit Singh were not disclosed, his parents Kulwant Singh and Gurdev Kaur informed that their son had succumbed to a single bullet injury received during the operation of the CRPF, that started on Thursday night. A team of the 206th CoBRA had reportedly launched the operation from its Temelwada Camp based on inputs about movement of the Naxals and laid an ambush on Koyalmeta hill in Chhatisgarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/crpf-commando-killed-in-anti-naxal-operation-cremated-199689
17-01-2021||Ludhiana||2 killed in vehicle pile-up in Khanna||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-killed-in-vehicle-pile-up-in-khanna-199690
17-01-2021||Manav Mander||Covid vaccination kick-starts in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 16Putting to rest the rumours surrounding the Covid vaccine and to inculcate the spirit of enthusiasm among the healthcare workers, all senior doctors got themselves vaccinated first at the five designated vaccination sites in the district as part of the Covid vaccination drive that kick-started in the district today.There were three centres in the city which included Civil Hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital and two outside the city limits, including Civil Hospital, Khanna, and Civil Hospital, Jagraon, where vaccination was carried out. The arrangements to vaccinate 100 healthcare workers were made at each centre on the first day of the drive.Hussan Lal, health secretary, visited the Civil Hospital and the DMCH and inquired about the drive and health of those who were under observation.A total of 214 persons were vaccinated in the district on Saturday against the target of 500.The delay in starting the drive at the Civil Hospital and issues in the web portal were the major reasons behind less numbers. The drive will be streamlined from Monday and we are hopeful to achieve the targets, said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.At the Civil Hospital, Dr Harpreet Bains, pulmonary medicine specialist, at the DMCH, Dr Bishav Mohan, medical superintendent, Hero DMC Heart Institute, at the CMCH, principal CMC, Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, were the first persons to receive the first covaxin vaccine jab at these centres.At Jagraon, SMO Dr Pardeep Mohindra and at Khanna, retired SMO, Dr Rajinder Gulati, received the first jab. Dr Harpreet Bains, after receiving the first jab of the vaccine at the Civil Hospital, said he was feeling proud to receive the first shot.Dr Bains, along with his wife, has been at the forefront in the fight against Covid. Dr Harpreet’s wife, Dr Aman, had tested positive for Covid in the past and will be receiving the vaccine in the coming days.“I appeal to everyone that they should get themselves vaccinated and not pay heed to the rumours doing rounds. I did not feel any pain while receiving the dose,” he said.Dr Bishav Mohan said he was feeling as normal as earlier after receiving the vaccine. It looks like a normal vaccine, he said.“After sitting in the observation room for half an hour, I have done two procedures and now I am going for the third. There is nothing to worry and one can start doing his/her work after half an hour and everyone should go for the vaccine,” he said. CMC Principal Dr Jeyaraj Pandian said he had been reading a lot about the vaccine in the past few days. “Every vaccine has its side-effects, but the one I received today was simple and I am feeling as normal as earlier. The dose is just of 0.5 ml and hence very small,” he said.Technical issues in portalTechnical issues and network connectivity problems were faced with the CoWIN portal at the DMCH for a few minutes and at the Civil Hospital for nearly half an hour. It is required to upload data on the portal, to register and generate an OTP.Dr Pardeep Mohindra said he was feeling on top of the world after receiving the vaccine. “After sitting in observation room for half an hour, I continued my duties as normal. I faced no issue and I am feeling absolutely normal,” he said.Dr Rajinder Gulati, who last month retired as Senior Medical Officer from the Civil Hospital, Khanna, and received the first jab at Khanna, said he was feeling as normal as before and there was no pain or body aches and he was feeling perfectly normal.Vaccination begins late at Civil HospitalThe vaccination drive started late at Civil Hospital. The time to start the drive was 11.30 am, but it started at 1 pm. Video conferencing by Punjab CM for the launch of the vaccination drive and Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission was being attended by chief guest, MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu due to which he arrived late at the Civil Hospital which caused delay in the start of the drive.The drive was started on time at other sites.ASHA workers seek paymentThe Accredited Social Health Activists and Facilitator Union throughout the state boycotted the Covid vaccination. “We have been working on the frontline all the time. During the time of emergency, we always stand tall, but when it comes to payment, we are not paid accordingly and we have not even received the payments for our Covid duties. We have long pending demands which the government is not accepting for long. We will not be getting vaccinated till our demands are met,” said Kirandeep Kaur, president, ASHA Workers Union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-vaccination-kick-starts-in-ludhiana-199681
17-01-2021||Nitin Jain||In 100 minutes, police shift critically ill patient to Mohali||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 16In a first, the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police today facilitated a critically ill patient to get a fresh lease of life by shifting him from Ludhiana to Mohali within 100 minutes.The cops created a 125-km green corridor criss-crossing five districts for providing an uninterrupted route to the ambulance carrying the only son of a Ropar family.Brainchild of the Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal, the humane initiative helped Manpreet Singh, 33, to catch on time the air ambulance at the Mohali airport, from where he was shifted to Mumbai for lungs’ transplant.A race against timeBoth lungs of Manpreet, an engineer, had got damaged while fighting Covid. While he recovered fully from the “Chinese virus”, his vital organs got 80 per cent damaged during the course of treatment at a hospital in Ludhiana.With damaged lungs, the patient was shifted to another hospital in Ludhiana, where he was kept on oxygen and ventilator support, which further deteriorated his body parts.As his heart and brain were working fine, the doctors at the Ludhiana hospital advised him for lungs’ transplant to save his life.Since the facility was not available here, the aggrieved family reached a private hospital in Mumbai, where the doctors assured lungs transplant while confirming the availability of the vital organs as well.But the only condition put forth by the Mumbai doctors was the minimum time in which the patient could be brought to them.The family arranged the air ambulance for shifting their lone breadwinner from Ludhiana to Mumbai, but due to bad weather and dense fog, it could not land at the Halwara air base and instead made it to the Mohali airport, the other nearest air location available.In view of the critical condition of the patient, the doctors advised the family that the patient could not survive if he was shifted by road through normal course, which could have taken almost three hours due to the dense fog that had engulfed the entire route from Ludhiana to Mohali this morning.The aggrieved family somehow reached the Ludhiana Police chief, who immediately responded and asked his men to create a green corridor from the Ludhiana hospital to the Mohali airport.Acting swiftly on the CP’s order, the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police deployed a pilot and escort vehicle with the ICU-equipped ambulance, which carried the gasping-for-life patient all through the 125-km distance in just 100 minutes.“On humanitarian grounds, we provided the necessary help and coordinated with our counterparts in Khanna, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, and Mohali districts to provide a hassle-free non-stop passage to the patient in adverse weather conditions,” said Agrawal, while lauding the role of his force in successfully carrying out the first-of-its-type operation through the busiest roads in almost zero visibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-100-minutes-police-shift-critically-ill-patient-to-mohali-199682
17-01-2021||---||No death; 26 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 16 Twentysix persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today. The total positive cases in the district are 25,265, while 980 persons have lost their lives in the district so far. At present, there are 296 active cases in the district and 65 people are home quarantined. Those who tested positive today included two persons who were contacts of affected people, nine referred from OPDs, 11from flu corner, one a pre-operative case, while the tracing of three was on. At present, there are three patients on ventilator support, out of whom two belong to Ludhiana district and one to another district. The results of 1,381 samples were awaited. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma, speaking on the vaccination drive, said the vaccine had been launched after carrying out several trials and there was no need to panic. He said people should understand that if the doctors and healthcare workers had volunteered to get themselves vaccinated, this clearly showed that they had full faith in the vaccine. He added that getting vaccination done was purely voluntary, but at the same time appealed to everyone to get vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-26-ve-in-ludhiana-199683
17-01-2021||Ludhiana||Cop held for blackmailing chemist||The Basti Jodhewal police registered a case against an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Salem Tabri police station on the charges of blackmailing a chemist shop owner. The accused was identified as Surinder Kumar. The complainant Gaurav Dutt told the police that on January 14, he was present at his medical store where the ASI came and warned him against selling banned drugs. The ASI had claimed that he had come from the Jodhewal police station. The complainant said he tried to convince the cop that he did not sell banned drugs, but the cop threatened to implicate him in a fake drugs case.  The policeman then demanded Rs 50,000 from him, “else he would himself bring banned drugs at his medical store and register a case of drugs in this regard”. “Since I had Rs 22,000 with me, the accused took the same and told me to hand over the remaining Rs 28,000 the next day. I then approached the police station and got registered a case against the cop,” the complainant added. Notably, the cop was caught red handed by the police when he was receiving the bribe from the store owner. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered and the accusede was arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cop-held-for-blackmailing-chemist-199684
17-01-2021||Manav Mander||Ayurvedic dispensary needs care||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 16Ayurveda is an ancient form of medicine in India and works wonders if practised with consistency and uniformity. However, at present, not much attention is being paid to boost and advance this system of medicine.One of the government ayurvedic dispensaries, located at Field Gunj here, is crying for care. Though things were a little better before the pandemic, now since the focus of the department has shifted towards Covid, this system of medicine is in total neglect and it was in 2019 only, that they received the supply of medicines.As one enters the dispensary, one finds a huge campus dedicated to it compared to others in the district. It has a “panchkarma” room, a medicine room, doctor’s room and store room. In addition, the district ayurveda and unani officer also has his office here.Despite having a huge campus, the sad part is that the state of all rooms is in a shambles, with broken furniture and dust gathered all around on the furniture and objects. During the rainy season, the campus turns into a pool, flooding the doctor’s room.“Covid has taken a toll on our dispensary. We are two of us here. I am a doctor (‘vaid’) and the pharmacist (‘upvaid’). We have our Covid duties on alternate weeks and there are some days when both of us are on Covid duty. Then there is nobody to attend to the patients,” said Dr Mohandeep Kaur, the doctor in charge of the dispensary.The condition of the doctor’s room is pitiable as the paint on the walls is all patchy. She said during the rainy season, her room leaks and electric current also passes through the wall.Moving a little ahead is the “panchkarma” room which is a picture of total neglect with broken chairs and spiders making their home on the furniture lying there.“Before Covid, we used to have “panchkarma” treatment here and it was fully operational. Now it was stopped due to Covid for following the norms of social distancing. Then one of our rooms was given for the office of the district ayurveda and unani officer. As a result, we shifted the machines to our ayurveda hospital at Kochar Market as there was no space left. We do have trained therapist for panchkarma, but still I used to do this in addition to holding my OPD. With machines having been shifted, we are facing a problem,” said Dr Mohandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ayurvedic-dispensary-needs-care-199685
17-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||EWS Colony residents bear brunt of civic body’s apathy||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 16Shivnath (65) and his family members are forced to pass through sewer water accumulated outside his house and in street at Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Colony for past around six months, courtesy apathetic MC Ludhiana. Now, stinking water flows into some houses too. Besides, the overflowing sewer water is getting mixed in water supply line.When some area residents raised voice over unsanitary conditions, an MC employee had allegedly threatened them of snapping their sewer connection. Meanwhile, the elected representatives also seemed to be in deep slumber as they failed to pay any attention for redressal of the issue.Shivnath, who sells vegetables, said they have been suffering a lot due to overflowing sewers in the street. “We have placed bricks to make a path through accumulated water to reach our house. When we had earlier raised voice over poor sanitary condition, an MC employee had misbehaved with us. He threatened to disconnect the sewer connections to the houses. The problem related to sewer system has not been resolved till date,” he said.Dharam Goyal, a resident, said, “We are forced to live in unhygienic conditions. Now, the stinking water flows in to some houses located in the street on backside of Jacha Bacha Hospital. There is extreme risk of spreading of diseases here. The MC staff concerned had earlier visited the area. A road portion was also dug up to correct the fault in a sewer line but the work was not completed. Our voice is being ignored. Now, some persons in our street have fallen ill due to the unsanitary conditions. It is difficult for us to breath due to the stink emanating from accumulated water. We want to make an appeal to the higher authorities to resolve the problem at the earliest.”Many labourers, daily wagers and those belonging to economically weaker section of the society live in the colony. The development has taken a backseat in the area.MC Superintending Engineer, Rajinder Singh said they will look into the matter and problem will be resolved at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ews-colony-residents-bear-brunt-of-civic-bodys-apathy-199686
17-01-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Farmers rehearse for January 26 tractor rally||Activists of various organisations protesting against farms laws are all set to make Tractor Rally at Delhi a success. To garner support from residents of the region, tractor rallies are being organised as a token of rehearsal. A cavalcade of over 200 tractors crossed the local town and surrounding villages today. Led by their leader Sher Singh Maholi, activists of Bhartiya Kissan Sabha Ekta (Ugrahan) called upon members of all sections of society to support the agitation of farmers. “Contrary to the common belief that farmers are protesting for protection of their rights, the ensuing agitation is for preventing the economy from collapsing,” said Sher Singh Maholi. The rally had started from Toll Plaza at Lehra on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway, where farmers had been organising a dharna since the onset of ensuing agitation.  Saudagar Singh Ghudani, an office-bearer of the union, said presidents of all units had been asked to prepare teams of volunteers from their respective villages, who would reach Delhi borders two days prior to the Republic Day when a massive tractor rally is scheduled to be held. Activists of various other outfits organised another tractor rally from Himayunpur village to Dry Port at Kilaraipur where protestors joined a dharna already being held under supervision of Harnek Singh Gujjarwal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-rehearse-for-january-26-tractor-rally-199687
