18-01-2021||Prevent exploitation by private hospitals | Ensure presence of doctors||Make healthcare services affordable, infuse more capital||To improve the healthcare facilities, the first and foremost requirement is well-educated doctors. Secondly, we also know that healthcare services are beyond reach of many and hospitals have become profit-oriented. They don't admit poor patients easily and the same was seen when the pandemic was at its peak. Authorities concerned need to be vigilant in this regard and take steps in the favour of the public.Khushleen KaurAppoint specialised docsUndoubtedly, from the past few years, healthcare facilities in Punjab have improved, still due to numerous reasons, critical patients are referred to big hospitals such as the PGI, Chandigarh and Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. This is due to lack of specialised treatment in city. Other than this another reason is hospitals like the PGI offer small and economical treatments which suits lower class and poor families. To improve health facilities in Ludhiana, the government should invest more in providing high-quality services to the patients. These must beaffordable and free for the poor. Moreover, more and more specialised doctors in each medical field must be appointed. The health of patients should not be sacrificed by giving degrees to underqualified and less specialised doctors. Moreover, more hospitals must be opened in local city with more specialised staff. Some charity hospitals with public support should be launched to make the city good in healthcare field.Khushleen kaurHold frequent inspectionsDue to the development of technology, Ludhiana has achieved heights in different ways. However, the healthcare facilities provided to public in government hospitals is not up to the mark. There are several of plausible reasons for that such as paucity of funds, deficient number of doctors or other staff members, miserable conditions of infrastructure or less advanced machinery. The problem can be cured by donating a little proportion of our hard earn money so that the poor can get proper aid. Authorities should keep a proper inspection on the staff that they are performing their duties efficiently or not? Together with that they must keep a check on the cleanliness of the hospital. Moreover, the government should provide few schemes and subsidies to them so that they can purchase advanced technology as it costs an arm and a leg to buy such establishments. Also, they should try to modify their older infrastructure with new ones for the ease of the patients. By following such measures the residents will not face any cumbersome situations and can get the best treatment in their hometown rather commuting from one place to other as it is very troublesome to travel for a person suffering fatal disease.Damneet KohliImprove condition of govt hospitalsThe cost of health treatment in private hospitals is unaffordable for common man and condition of government hospitals is not up to the mark. The government should focus to improve the condition of government hospitals. Every facility and every treatment should be made available at government hospitals. Special budget can be passed to improve the state of these hospitals. This is the basic duty of any government to provide best health treatment to the public at reasonable rate. Recruitment of experienced doctors should be done and they must paid good amount so that they do their duty properly. Also, strict vigil should be kept at the attendance of doctors and other staff. Stock of medicines must be kept up to mark. The government should focus on the hospitality of hospitals. It is the major issue. People are helplessness for taking treatment at private hospitals at hefty costs. The government and local administration should focus to improve condition ofgovernment hospitals.Arshdeep Singh GillGive jobs on meritThough Ludhiana is a modern and well-industrialised city but the condition of government hospitals is not up to the mark here. Some of the steps which can perform effective reforms are that the expenditure on government hospitals, dispensaries need to be increased. In my opinion, the staff should be given jobs on their merit, experience. Hygiene of health centres must be the top most priority. Most importantly, the cooperation of patients can do real good.Harleen Kaur grewalHold free medical campsDue to the increasing population, the healthcare facilities need to be improved. The hospitals in the city should ensure proper implementation of the government schemes and grants. The health ministers and officials concerned should examine the health care facilities provided by the hospitals. The poor citizens cannot afford expensive medical treatments so free medical check-up camps should be organised by hospitals on regular basis.Amarpreet KaurProvide free food to poorThe poor are the worst sufferers of insufficient healthcare services. They have very little or no capacity to spend on medical treatment to maintain their health if they are having any medical problem. It is the duty of the state or local government to open special hospitals for them as one hospital such as ESI or civil hospital may not serve all poor people. In each hospital there should be a special provision to treat poor people free of cost. This treatment may be sponsored by any NGO or any philanthropist. The government should make it mandatory for rich people to donate a very small part of their income in the form of charity and this fund should be reserved strictly for the treatment of the poor. In each hospital there should be a medicine collection centre, those who want to donate may donate or deposit cash with these centres. As per the pattern of Delhi government, the state government should make some tests and treatment free, especially for poor people. Free food and free assistance must be provided to poor patients who are under treatment in any hospital. Moreover, we all should come forward to lend our support to uplift the downtrodden and deserving section of the society for maintaining their health so they may also live healthy lives.Farzana KhanImprove infrastructureDeficiency of fundamental health facilities, insufficient doctors and surgeons, and inadequate infrastructure at the government hospitals are the root causes that patients are referred to other hospitals. Wherever there are vacancies, doctors should be recruited. According to reports, 4,300 Indians die due to poor hospital care. The government needs to take immediate steps to improve it. Good number of stretchers, sufficient beds, ambulance, hygienic atmosphere and other facilities should be provided on priority basis.Gurpreet KaurSanitise public placesFirstly of all, different strategies should be made by the local authority in purpose of the development of sanitary conditions. Secondly, public places should be properly sanitised on a regular basis so that people don't get exposed to the virus. Administration and police agencies should raise awareness and task out activities such as social distancing and santising hands and take new role as public health messengers. They should implement creative ways to teach the law- breakers so that they can never repeat the same and stay safe.Harleen KaurDevelop infra, refer patients locallyIt speaks poorly of Ludhiana that patients of government hospitals here are referred to either Rajindra Hospital, Patiala or PGI, Chandigarh. It must not be done except it's urgent or under very rare circumstances. The city has a number of top-class hospitals, including SPS Hospital, Fortis Hospital, CMC Hospital, DMC Hospital and many others having different specialisations. The Health Department must make arrangements with these hospitals for referring patients locally. This will save the patients from going far away leaving their relatives behind. Moving the patients to the new station also adds to the cost at the new place and risk of inconveniences to both the patients and their care-takers. The relatives of the patients are also saved from travelling to the new station to inquire about the health and welfare of the patient. The Health Department must upgrade the medical facilities at the local government hospital here so that there is no need to refer the patients out of the city. Another alternative worth consideration is that new hospitals of the status of Rajindra Hospital, Patiala and PGI, Chandigarh, are established in the city itself.Gautam DevSet up 4 big hospitalsThe population of Ludhiana district is above 18 lakhs and the urban poverty rate is 9 per cent, almost double of the rural poverty rate. For this huge population the city has only two multispecialty government hospitals such as Civil and ESI hospital. Due to this the poor have to run from the pillar to post to get good medical treatment at an affordable price. They can hardly afford the private hospitals of the city in which you have to pay through your nose. To ensure quality treatment to the underprivileged the government should set up at least four more state-of-the-art big hospitals in the city in four different directions.Dr Sunil ChopraImprove quality of servicesThere are ample of facilities available in the city but the authorities need to work on healthcare facilities. The government should provide easy access of medical services to every resident. Due to negligence of hospital authorities and expensive medical services residents prefer to consult the PGI, Chandigarh. Staff should take the responsibility of patient rather than playing the game of "pass the buck", as it is a matter of someone's life. Minimising the waiting time and managing it according to the need of an hour should also be helpful. It is important to continually employ newer technologies that improve the quality of care. Of course, this must be done with reference to cost-efficiencies. Lack of adequate personnel and lack of adequate training facilities for the available personnel are major problems. Access to low-cost medicines is an absolute necessity for appropriate care. Hospitals are probably one of the least relaxing places to be. The noise, harsh lighting, sterile environment and quick paced movement don't exactly encourage rest and relaxation. The government should take measures to ensure the healthcare system be efficient in the city.UrvashiMake health facilities more inclusiveThe first and the foremost point is that the poor are not aware of the different medical schemes exclusively available to them. The authorities concerned are not doing their duty properly. It is the duty of the authorities to enlighten the poor about various medical schemes. Some NGOs can also come forward for the noble cause. The big private hospitals can also play a vital role in providing health facilities to the poor and the needy in the form of camps, organising lectures etc. Employees' State Insurance Corporation is a big name, but still it is not able to render its services to the poor and the needy, the reasons best known to the officials. The working of ESIC needs to be streamlined. All these measure will surely be a great help for the poor to improve their health conditions.Bir Devinder Singh BediProvide patient-friendly environment at hospitalsThe local, state and central governments are not paying much attention to civil hospitals and moreover the environment is not patient friendly. To spend on other sectors, the government must spend on the maintenance of health of its residents by providing timely and proper treatment to patients. Some of the issues that need to be addressed to make civil hospitals patient friendly are accessibility and availability. Secondly, waiting times for all services should be minimised. Thirdly, patient information and instruction about all procedures, both medical and administrative, should be made very clear. Well trained patient counsellors form an effective link between the patient and the hospital staff and make the patient's experience better and the physicians' task much easier. Fourthly, check-in and check-out procedures should be 'patient friendly'. Last but not the least, there must be provision of necessary equipment which be properly placed and maintained. The governments should pay proper and timely attention to provide patient-friendly environment in civil hospitals..Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiDevelop hospitals on lines of AIIMSThis is a matter of serious concern. Ludhiana is still lagging far behind as far as healthcare facilities are concerned. Patients are referred to either PGI, Chandigarh or Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. In many cases it's hard for the patients to survive the long distance. The main reason behind this is the careless attitude of the government in this sector. Political parties always try to develop their hometowns and neglecting other cities. Civil hospital of Ludhiana is in a shabby condition while private players in this sector are looting the general public. Ludhiana is the highest tax paying city in Punjab, but lags in providing basic and necessary services to the people. The government should make a sound provision in its budget and must establish a hospital of AIIMS level.Ritu PriyaNeed to upgrade infrastructureIt is a bitter truth that healthcare privileges in city are not as they should be. It has been seen that people of the city have to visit other cities for their treatment. The government should pay attention towards the ordeal of patients. When a non-industrial city like Bathinda could get AIIMS, why Ludhiana is deprived of it? Millions of workers are working here, but to treat them are only a few hospitals. Even in some of them latest medical instruments are not available and the position of the city's lone civil hospital is worrisome. Health administration should have proper funds to upgrade the existing infrastructure so that doctors do not have need to refer patients to other places. Apart from that, state machinery should convince the central government for a big healthcare project in this district, with it only local people will not reap the benefits, but also neighbours such as Moga, Phagwara and Sangrur.BABAR SIDHU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/make-healthcare-services-affordable-infuse-more-capital-200056
18-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Recruit more staff, improve service delivery||Ludhiana is a large district but it has only one civil hospital which cater to the needs of the entire population. People not only from the city but also peripheral areas such as Jagraon, Sanhewal etc. come here for treatment.The major issue faced by the civil hospital is staff crunch. Posts are lying vacant and more super speciality appointments need to be done so that patients are not referred to other hospitals. In addition to this the system of community health centres and primary health centres need to be strengthened so that the minor problems of the patients are addressed here only and they need not to travel all the way to the Civil Hospital.What has come as a good news is that the Civil Hospital got ventilators during pandemic.OPEN HOUSE QUESTIONLudhiana is an industrial hub, which has its recognition in global market for bicycle/hosiery and other products. Still it has got no exhibition centre and places are hired for holding exhibitions to attract buyers. What should be done by the government to help industry? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/recruit-more-staff-improve-service-delivery-200097
18-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Tractor rally: Women farmers at the helm||Mandi Ahmedgarh, january 17Defying stereotype women farmers have started learning how to drive tractors so as to enable them to act as frontline warriors on Delhi Borders by participating in massive tractor rally scheduled to take place on the occasion of the Republic Day.Though many of them have been shuttling their tractors between homes and fields during past months, at least some of them will be steering these Kings of fields on National Highways to reach the Singhu Border and the Tikri Border for participating in the mega event being organised by kissan sabhas protesting for withdrawal of farm laws from the Centre.Baldev Singh Latala, office-bearer, All India Kissan Sabha, said jathas of women farmers would be leaving the area on tractors so as to reach the Delhi Borders on January 23 and 24, much before the scheduled date of the proposed tractor rally to be organised in Delhi on the Republic Day. “While a large number of farmers have already started reaching Delhi Borders, separate groups of women would also be reaching Singhu Border and Tikri Border in due course of time,” said Latala.Gurinder Kaur Pandher, district president, Janwadi Istri Sabha, said village-wise groups of tractor riding women farmers would be going from the district on their tractors under the banners of Bhartiya Kissan Sabha (Ekta Ugrahan). “We have already prepared lists of women from various localities who have decided to defy stereotypes and drive tractors to Singhu Border and Tikri Border according to schedule to be prepared by BKU leaders,” said Pandher. He said such as many other women she too had started learning tractor driving in view of the forthcoming Republic Day Tractor March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tractor-rally-women-farmers-at-the-helm-200054
18-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Govt depts working at cross purposes||Ludhiana, January 17Reluctance by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to refuse new electricity connections to domestic consumers in unauthorised (illegal) colonies, as asked by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), a couple of days ago must not have come to the regulatory body as a surprise because a similar attitude was adopted by the Revenue Department.The Department of Revenue and Rehabilitation, Punjab, had also refused to abide by the instructions of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Punjab, of not to register sale deeds without ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC) from the regulatory authorities. The Revenue Department had notified on December 12, 2019, withdrawal of two earlier notifications dated January 24, 2018, and March 22, 2018, with the plea that the PAPRA Amendment (of August 27, 2014) banning sale deeds in illegal colonies was not binding on the Revenue Department as the department worked under the Indian Registration Act, 1908.Interestingly, the stand taken by the Revenue Department was based on the advice of the Department of Legal and Legislative Affairs, Punjab. As such, the Revenue Department allowed the sale deeds in illegal colonies without the NOCs, thus, going back to the pre-2013 situation.A city-based realtor said unlike Punjab, the state of Haryana had inserted Section 7-a in the ‘The Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975’ and imposed a ban of registration of sale deeds in illegal colonies.He said the validity of this amendment was upheld by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of Suresh Kumar Juneja vs state of Haryana and others in case of CWP No 14404 of 2006.“Haryana did not amend the Indian Registration Act, 1908, and likewise, the Department of Law and Legislative Affairs, Haryana, also did not nullify the said amendment which goes on to show that the Haryana Government was serious on curbing illegal colonies.”The realtor was of the opinion that the Revenue Department, Punjab, while issuing a notification (dated December 12, 2019) deliberately did not take the HC ruling into consideration and allowed the sale deeds in the illegal colonies only to aid and abet in the nefarious activity of development of illegal colonies. The action of the department in allowing the sale deeds in illegal colonies was tantamount to supporting the violation of the PAPRA, Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, Master Plans and various other laws of the land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-depts-working-at-cross-purposes-200055
18-01-2021||---||One  death; 33 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 17One person lost his life, while 33 tested positive for Covid in the district today.The total positive cases from Ludhiana have now reached 25,298. The death toll of the district has gone up to 981.In Ludhiana district, there are 284 active cases, while 38 people were home quarantined today.The person who lost his life was a 60-year-old male from Basant Vihar. He was admitted to Deep Hospital and was also a patient of diabetes and TB.Those who tested positive included 14 persons referred from OPDs, 14 referred from flu corners, one person contact of a positive person and one an international traveller. The tracing of three people is in progress. The total samples collected from Ludhiana district so far are 5,73,068. The reports of 1,889 persons are awaited and will be received shortly.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said it was the duty of the people to follow the Covid safety measures .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-death-33-ve-in-ludhiana-200047
18-01-2021||---||Ludhiana police show way to Mumbai cops||Ludhiana, January 17After the city police took an initiative to take live feed of private CCTV cameras to tackle crime, now, the Mumbai police are toeing the line of the Ludhiana Commissionerate.As per Additional DCP-1 Deepak Pareek, who was the brainchild behind the initiative in Ludhiana, the Mumbai police will also integrate privately owned CCTV cameras with the police control room which can also be accessed at the CCTV control room at every police station.Notably on December 15 last year, taking a lead in making the optimum use of technology to tackle crime and to keep a hawk eye over criminals, Pareek had taken an initiative to take live feed of CCTV cameras installed by private establishments directly on mobile phones of SHOs and LED screens at police stations. It was a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state in which live feed of private cameras can be monitored by the police stations. As a pilot project, the Kotwali and the Police Division 2 had become the first two police stations in the city to keep a watch over live feed provided by shops and other private offices. The ADCP had worked for two months to make the project a success.Pareek said: “I feel elated that my idea is being implemented by the Mumbai police and this way my initiative will get motivation from every quarter. Even Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal is also happy that the city police initiative is being borrowed by their Mumbai counterpart.”Pareek said they were looking for a cost-effective and scalable model to use technology as a force multiplier.He said at present, there was a lot of awareness about the utility of CCTV cameras and many houses, shops, malls, schools, hospitals, factories and other organisations have installed good quality IP-based CCTV cameras for their own security and surveillance purposes, adding that now, the Ludhiana police integrated over 24 such cameras and their footage was available at the click of a button to the police station.Pareek said the two police stations, Kotwali and Police Division 2, had already started getting love feed of CCTV cameras of shops, big private establishments and houses and this week, the Jodhewal police station was also set to get live feed as the process for the same would complete soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-show-way-to-mumbai-cops-200048
18-01-2021||---||Two duped by cyber criminials||Ludhiana, January 17 Cyber criminals duped two residents in Ludhiana and Khanna in separate incidents. The police registered cases in both incidents and started a probe to nab the accused. In the first case, Anjali Wadhwa of Sartaj Nagar, Noorwala road, in a complaint submitted to the police said she had recently posted an advertisement on OLX to sell an old sofa. A few days later, she got a call from a person who expressed interest to buy the sofa. He then asked her to click on some link on PhonePe, a mobile phone app, and the moment she clicked, her account got debited Rs 46,405. Investigating officer ASI Surinder Pal said during the probe, the accused, who duped the woman, were identified as Vishnu Kumar of Bharatpur, Anwar Hussain of Assam, Ashoni Sangma of Assam, T Krishna of Jharkhand. He said the accused were yet to be arrested. In another incident, cyber criminals duped a Khanna resident, Shobit Verma, of Rs 26, 948 on the pretext of selling him a bicycle. The complainant said the accused had sent him a link and when he clicked it, money was deducted from his account. Investigating officer Inspector Hemant Kumar said during a probe, the accused were identified as Sourab Kumar and Sunil Dhurve but their whereabouts were yet to be probed. The police said the details of bank account of the accused were being obtained from banks and documents attached to the bank accounts would also be verified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-duped-by-cyber-criminials-200049
18-01-2021||Ludhiana||Shortage of space, staff cripples Field Gunj dispensary working||Nestled inside a gurdwara, this government dispensary is located inside busy lanes of Field Gunj.While entering the gurdwara premises, one can see ‘dispensary’, written by hand and almost faded, on a wall to guide visitors towards the dispensary.With no medical officer or pharmacist, only three ANMs are running the dispensary. A single room is dedicated to the dispensary which has been given by the gurdwara authorities.Of the three Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs), two will be transferred by the month-end. The staff is not aware about any new appointments in their place.The dispensary has a designated strength of five ANMs, one public health nurse, one lady health visitor, a Class IV employee and one sweeper. Recently, two ANMs and a public health were transferred and nobody was appointed in their place.“We do not have a Class IV employee and a sweeper at the dispensary and staff share the expenses of the job done by a private sweeper. We pool in money and get the premises cleaned,” said an ANM.The medical officer from the dispensary of Kidwai Nagar is called by the staff when any patient asks for consultation.Besides, the staff are being shifted to other places for Covid duty. As a result, the number of patients visiting the dispensary has decreased.“All staff members were given duties at flu corner due to which the OPD at the dispensary has been affected and the number of patients visiting it every day has also gone down,” said an ANM on duty.Other major problem that is being faced by the dispensary is space crunch. There is only one room dedicated to the dispensary and no store room is available. The staff are forced to store articles in the room. The bed supposed to be used for patients is being used for storing discarded stuff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shortage-of-space-staff-cripples-field-gunj-dispensary-working-200050
18-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||PUDA to sell 8.21-acre prime commercial land||Ludhiana, January 17The move by the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) to put under e-auction for sale 8.21-acre chunk of prime commercial land right in front of the Mini-Secretariat on Ferozepur Road (a national highway) for the fifth time (after four unsuccessful attempts) is being taken as a brazen step, given the slump in the real estate sector and the Covid effect on the overall economy of the state.The process of the e-auction for the sale of this chunk of land would land with a reserve price tag of Rs333.79 crore and commence on February 4 at 9 am and conclude on February 15 at 1pm.The land belonging to the Canal/Irrigation Department was got vacated some eight years ago and handed over to PUDA for commercial exploitation under optimum use of vacant government land (OUVGL). Between 2014-17, the chunk of the land was offered for sale thrice at a reserve price of Rs415.21 crore.Process to commence on feb 4The process of the e-auction for the sale of 8.21-acre chunk of prime commercial land right in front of the Mini-Secretariat on Ferozepur Road would land with a reserve price tag of Rs333.79 crore and commence on February 4 at 9 am and conclude on February 15 at 1pm.However, with no buyer coming forward even once, the floor price of the land was slashed by 20 per cent as per the prevailing government policy and was again put up for sale through e-auction at a reserve price of Rs333.79 crore in December 2018 without success.It would have been a history of sorts if the 8.21-acre chunk of land offered for sale by PUDA for commercial or group housing purpose was taken – even though at a slashed price, both in terms of area and the reserve price for a single property sold under the OUVGL at least in the business hub if not in the entire state.As per the offer document, the chunk of land (measuring 33334.69 sq m) is being offered at the rate of Rs 1,00,463 per sq m and the eligibility fee has been fixed at Rs6.68 crore. The maximum permitted ground coverage would be 45 per cent and unlimited floor area ratio (FAR), unrestricted height – subject to clearance from the Airports Authority of India and the fulfillment of norms such as setbacks around building, ground coverage, FAR, structural safety and fire safety.Further, it would be mandatory for the builder to provide two equivalent car space (ECS) as parking area per 100 sq m of the total covered area. The successful bidder would be given the possession of the land on 20 per cent payment and on lump sum payment of the balance amount at a discount of 7.5 per cent, says the offer document.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/puda-to-sell-8-21-acre-prime-commercial-land-200051
18-01-2021||---||Drive against banned plastic from next week||Ludhiana, January 17 The Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to start a drive to issue challans against the use of banned disposable plastic and thermocol items in the city. Civic body’s nodal officer Ashwani Sahota said the drive would start from next week. The challan amount would begin with Rs2000, he said. The MC has appealed to people not to use single-use plastic and thermocol disposable items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-against-banned-plastic-from-next-week-200052
18-01-2021||---||Road safety month from today||Ludhiana, January 17The Ludhiana police are set to observe the National Road Safety month in which awareness regarding road safety will be spread by through various drives.As per the police, the month-long drive will start from January 18 and conclude on February 17.Additional DCP Traffic Pragya Jain will lead the drive along with ACP (Traffic) Varunjit Singh and ACP Gurdev Singh.Under the drive, seminars will be held for the school and college students, truck drivers and for common residents.People will be told to follow traffic rules like wearing helmet while driving, no use of mobile phone while driving, driving at normal speed, complete no to underage driving, avoiding wrong parking and no jumping of red light etc.On the first day of the traffic awareness month, Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal will take part in the inaugural event at the Dholewal chowk. Later, women police personnel will hold a traffic rules awareness rally on scooters.Sources said the police will do minimal challaning this month and create awareness among residents to resort to safe driving.Seminar for studentsUnder the drive, seminars will be held for school and college students, truck drivers and for common residents. People will be told to follow traffic rules like wearing helmet while driving, no use of mobile phone while driving, driving at normal speed, complete no to underage driving, avoiding wrong parking and no jumping of red light etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-safety-month-from-today-200053
