19-01-2021||Manav Mander||333 health workers vaccinated on Day 2||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 18The Covid vaccination drive continued for the second day today.On Day 1, 214 healthcare workers were vaccinated against the target of 500, while on Day 2 today, 333 healthcare workers were vaccinated.‘Lack of communication’Number of people vaccinated todayToday, 133 healthcare workers were vaccinated at the DMCH, 67 at the CMCH, 50 at the Civil Hospital, Khanna and 44 at the Civil Hospital, Jagraon. The lowest was 39 at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. The DMCH surpassed the target of 100, while the lowest number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated was at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana.Low acceptance of the Covid vaccine has been seen among healthcare workers in the government sector on both days. At the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, 250 healthcare workers got themselves registered for vaccination, but only 67 turned up for vaccination during the two days and 183 missed the vaccination. On Day 1, only 28 healthcare workers were vaccinated, while on Day 2, 39 were vaccinated. Seeing the low turnout, there will be no session site at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, and now it will be shifted to Fortis Hospital, while rest of the sites will continue as earlier.District immunisation officer Dr Kiran Gill said going for immunisation was something voluntary and not compulsory. “We are telling people about the benefits of the vaccine and why it is important to get themselves vaccinated, but we cannot force anybody to come for vaccination,” she said.There were several cases where healthcare workers got themselves registered, but did not turn up for vaccination.Dr GS Grewal, former president, Punjab Medical Council, said there seemed to be lack of communication regarding the vaccine and, hence, low turnout and acceptance of the same.A class IV employee at the Civil Hospital said everyone in the hospital was asked to get themselves registered for vaccination.“The registration was done by all, but many are still reluctant for vaccination. Even I am making up my mind still,” he said.Another healthcare worker, whose turn was scheduled today, said she was waiting for response from other beneficiaries. “If all goes well, I will get myself vaccinated in the next session,” she said.Five vaccination sites have been set up in the district which include three in the city at Civil Hospital, DMCH and CMCH and two in the periphery at Civil Hospital, Khanna and Civil Hospital, Jagraon.Tomorrow, vaccination will be held at Fortis Hospital instead of Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. The target for vaccination at each site is 100 per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/333-health-workers-vaccinated-on-day-2-200483
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Speeding truck crushes bike rider to death||Ludhiana, January 18 Manjit Singh (55), riding a Honda Dream motor cycle (PB-10HJ-6706), was killed when he was hit from behind by a speeding truck near the Chawa petrol pump in Humbran on Sunday while going from Bhatha Dhua village to Humbran. A critically injured Manjit Singh died on the spot, while his brother-in-law Jaskaran Singh (38), riding pillion, was seriously injured and admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. In a complaint lodged with the police, Harjit Sigh, son of the deceased Manjit Singh, said his father, along with his maternal uncle, a resident of Pakka Kamal village in Sirsa district (Haryana), was going on the motor cycle to Humbran when the truck, bearing registration number MP-07-HB-4093, hit the motor cycle from behind. The truck driver fled from the scene. A case under Sections 279/304-A/338/427 of the IPC was registered against the unidentified truck driver and efforts were on to trace him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/speeding-truck-crushes-bike-rider-to-death-200484
19-01-2021||---||Two more die; 14 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 18Two persons fell prey to Covid, while 14 tested positive for the deadly virus in the district today.The total positive cases in the district have now reached 25,312, while 983 people have lost their lives so far.Now there are 247 active cases in the district, while 44 people were quarantined today.Two persons who lost their lives today were aged 81 and 67 and were residents of Rajguru Nagar and Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, respectively. Both victims were males. The co-morbidities they were suffering from included hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease and coronary kidney disease.Yesterday, senior medical officer of the Civil Hospital, Dr Amarjit Kaur, tested positive for Covid. She quarantined herself after the test. She was present on duty on Saturday when the Covid vaccination drive kicked off.A total of 5,74,669 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,72,885 samples had been received, of which 5,43,740 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,784 samples were pending. Now the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,312, while 3,833 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 55,816 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 794.Whenever the district administration and the Health Department find out any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, their samples are sent for testing. A total of 1,601 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-more-die-14-ve-in-ludhiana-200485
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Three booked on assault, loot charges||Ludhiana, January 18 The police have booked three persons Makhan, Roshan and Raju, a tea vendor, along with their unidentified accomplices, for an alleged attack, trespassing, criminal intimidation and loot under Sections 379-B(2), 452,  323, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC on the complaint of Hari Shankar Choudhry, a vegetable seller in Sabzi Mandi, Sherpur Kalan. The complainant reported to the police that on the night of January 13, he and his co-worker Gobind were doing the accounts and counting cash in their office inside the shop after closing the shop for the public when the accused barged in and attacked both of them. They snatched around Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 and Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 in cash from his pockets. “When Gobind came to rescue me, he was also beaten up by the assailants and Rs 13,000 to Rs 18,000 in cash was snatched from him. As we raised an alarm, people started gathering on the spot after which the accused fled the spot while threatening us,” the complainant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-booked-on-assault-loot-charges-200486
19-01-2021||Ludhiana||MC slammed over issues on Giaspura road||As the Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to resolve the problem of overflowing sewers on the Giaspura main road, which is also under construction, members of the Giaspura Industries Welfare Association today expressed their anger towards the civic body authorities in this regard.  At a press conference here today, the industrialists said they faced a lot of problems as the sewer system was not functioning properly in the area, while the work regarding the reconstruction of the main road was going on at a snail’s pace.  The president of the association, Jatinder Singh, said, “A lot of difficulties are being faced by industrial units. This road serves as a passage to the entire Industrial Area-C. The main sewage line of the Giaspura road was not functioning properly and was damaged for the past so many years.” “There is a blockage in the main sewer line. We are going to conduct the cleaning of the main sewer line with a super suction machine and the problem will be resolved within the next two days,” said Ravinder Garg, MC’s Superintending Engineer (O&M). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-slammed-over-issues-on-giaspura-road-200487
19-01-2021||Manav Mander||Staff crunch, lack of medicines hit this homeopathic dispensary hard||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 18The government homeopathic dispensary located inside the Civil Hospital was popular among patients before the pandemic but since its staff was put on Covid duties the footfall of the patients has decreased. Besides, space crunch is also taking a toll on the dispensary.Not received medicines since 2019: Doc“We have not received the stock of medicines since 2019. During the Covid, we got doses of immunity boosters which were distributed among people and these helped in increasing their immunity,” said doctor and in-charge of the dispensary Dr Gurdarshan Kaur.At the Civil Hospital, there are two homeopathic dispensaries located opposite each other. One is under the state government while the other is run by the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM).Like the ayurvedic dispensary, Covid has taken a toll on this dispensary also. Since 2019, it has not received stock of medicines but only immunity boosters, which were given during the pandemic.“We have not received the stock of medicines since 2019. During the Covid, we got doses of immunity boosters which were distributed among people and these helped in increasing their immunity,” said doctor and in-charge of the dispensary Dr Gurdarshan Kaur.Since the focus of the government shifted during the pandemic, we were also assigned Covid-related duties.“During the crucial Covid-19 days, many patients had to return without meeting us as we were on duties at other places. As a result, the number of patients visiting the dispensary has decreased. Before the pandemic, we used to get 50-60 patients at the OPD daily which has now reduced by half,” she said.Other major issue that is being faced by the dispensary is shortage of space designated to it.“We have a small space only and the cabin next to the place is lying shut.District Homeopathic Officer Harinderpal Singh, who also sits next to the dispensary, said Covid had affected the working of the dispensary to a great extent.“There are 28 homeopathic dispensaries in the district of which 11 are regular dispensaries while 17 are under the NRHM.These dispensaries have a strength of 55 staff members and all of them were given Covid duties due to which the dispensaries remained shut during the crucial Covid period. At present, 20 persons are on Covid duty. Everything was going fine till the pandemic and it will still take time to return to normalcy,” he said.During the visit to the homeopathic dispensary, it was lying closed. When inquired, we came to know that the dispensary opens irregularly as both medical officer and pharmacist have been doing Covid duties on a regular basis since the virus outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/staff-crunch-lack-of-medicines-hit-this-homeopathic-dispensary-hard-200488
19-01-2021||Lovleen Bains||Doraha-Neelon stretch in a shambles||Doraha, January 18Marred by eroded edges and absence of roadside curbs, commuting on the Doraha- Neelon stretch has become a risky affair. Reduced visibility has multiplied the problems of commuters on the stretch which serves as a major bypass and link to a number of villages.“The stretch is no less than a death trap as some points are seriously marred by eroded edges and lack of essential supports. The commuters are at every risk of life and property. The missing edges/curbs and muddy road can lead to a major tragedy, of which the authorities seem to be entirely oblivious. It is sometimes difficult for the road user to predict as to when he is rendered without support,” expressed Gurdeep Singh of Samrala who commutes daily from Neelon towards Doraha.Prof Nidhi Saroop, who takes this route to reach her work place at Doraha, rued, “Commuting on this stretch is very risky amid fog. The risk multiplies as the night approaches. The gap between the canal and the road almost vanishes at some particular spots. One can very well imagine the risk involved in such a sorry state of affairs.”“The already weakened edges can give way any time and from any place. The issue needs immediate attention as lives are at risk. The missing edges can be detected at a number of places between railway crossing and Doraha. Near the Rampur level crossing, which is another perpetual headache for the commuters, the edges are dangerously missing. The deteriorated edges along the canal, with earth caving in at a number of places, carry the highest risk to life at present,” said Harpreet Singh of Ghulal village.Vishal Gupta, XEN, PWD, Roop Nagar, said the problem is very well in his notice. “We are working actively towards its rectification and the work of repairs shall be initiated soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-neelon-stretch-in-a-shambles-200489
19-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Parineeti mesmerises art lovers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 18During the lockdown period, when most of the people were sitting idle at home, a few like Vikas Joshi made the best use of the spare time and rediscovered their hidden talent.His oil painting “Parineeti” is not just appreciated by many but it gave Joshi, a businessman by profession, a sense of satisfaction and happiness.Joshi’s work was recently appreciated by the India Book of Records also. “It was a difficult phase for all. We all were feeling low, scared and depressed sitting at home. I thought of starting with this oil painting. It took over five months to complete this work but hard work paid at last when it was recently recognised by India Book of World Records,” says Joshi.In the particular painting, a little girl is wearing a sweater and about 4,000 knits in the sweater, are oil painted by the artist to give it a realistic look.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parineeti-mesmerises-art-lovers-200490
19-01-2021||---||Provide one-time settlement for PSIEC plot holders, CM urged||Ludhiana, January 18 The local industry has requested the Chief Minister to announce a one-time settlement policy for plot holders who got a land in Focal Point through the PSIEC. The industry feels that the issue is already lingering on for the past many years and now, it should be settled in favour of the plot holders. Rajiv Jain, general secretary, FICO, said almost six years ago, the PSIEC had issued a notice of Rs 249 per sq yd to allottees of Focal Point, Phase VIII, which was finally settled at Rs 24 per sq yd. Now again, the PSIEC have issued a notice and demanded Rs 474 per sq yd from the allottees, whereas the PSIEC have already taken 100 per cent anticipatory enhancement. Gurmeet Kular, president, FICO, said now with inclusions of interest and other charges, the cost had reached around Rs 1,000 per sq yd, which was unjustified and unviable. “This is to also to bring to the notice of the government that due to the PSIEC enhancement pendency, the industry situated in Phase VIII is suffering a lot, as all works related to all financial institutes, including banks, are stagnant so is the growth of the industry, as the financial institutes demand the clearance certificate from the PSIEC,” said Kular and Jain. As per the ‘No Enhancement Policy’ of the Haryana State Industries Development Corporation, the same should also be applicable in the state to facilitate the state industry, demanded the industry. Industrialists in Phase VIII, Focal Point, are demanding for a one-time settlement solution with the PSIEC, like the property tax and other departments under the OTS scheme. It is also notable that the OTS for every government department has been issued, except the PSIEC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/provide-one-time-settlement-for-psiec-plot-holders-cm-urged-200491
19-01-2021||---||Vets resent reduction in pay scale||Ludhiana, January 18An emergency meeting of the district executive of Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association (PSVOA) was held today under the chairmanship of district president Dr Chatinder Singh Rai wherein veterinary officers expressed resentment against the letter of the Finance Department dated 04-01-2021 reducing the pay scale of newly recruited veterinary officers from Rs 56,100 to Rs 47,600. Withdraw letter, assn urges govtVets urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Animal Husbandry Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa to restore the basic salary of newly recruited veterinary officers to Rs 56,100 as per the government advertisement of the said posts and provisions of the 7th Central Pay Commission.Dr Darshan Kheri, state general secretary of the vets association, said the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court have already given pay parity to veterinary officers with medical officers of Punjab. Dr Kheri said the Finance Department has violated its own decision of giving seventh central pay scales to newly recruited employees of Punjab as the entry scale for a veterinary officer comes out to be Rs 56,100, according to 7th Central Pay Commission. Thus dishonouring the Cabinet decision.He further said that all the veterinary officers had been working on frontline during the pandemic to ensure the uninterrupted supply of milk, meat and chicken to the people. Dairy, Poultry and other livestock business was also not disrupted during the lockdown period and was running smoothly. This became a big achievement on the part of veterinarians of the state.Now, bird flu has spread in about ten states of the country, the Animal Husbandry Department has started surveillance by setting up Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) at the tehsil and district level to control the disease with due diligence. Instead of boosting the morale of veterinary officers in these difficult times, the government is lowering the pay scale of veterinary officers and demoralising them.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Rai said veterinary officers are indirectly contributing to the GDP by increasing the milk, meat and egg production of state. He urged the Punjab government to restore the pay parity of veterinary doctors with medical doctors.The association has demanded from the government that the letter issued by the Finance Department should be immediately withdrawn and the pay scales should be fixed according to level-10 matrix of the 7th Pay Commission. The association further told the government that if the letter was not withdrawn and the pay parity of veterinary doctors was not restored, the organisation would be forced to take the path of struggle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vets-resent-reduction-in-pay-scale-200492
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Gang of drug peddlers busted||Raikot, january 18 The Ludhiana (Rural) police have busted a gang of drug peddlers involved in distributing drugs and narcotics after smuggling these from neighbouring states. Four quintals of poppy husk and a vehicle used in crime was seized from one member of the gang who was arrested by joint teams of CIA Jagraon and Raikot Sadar police station during a naka set up on the Maholi- Rachhin kacha road on Sunday afternoon. The main accused were identified as Jagpreet Singh Goldy, Gurpreet Singh Bunty and Baljit Singh Mita, all residents of Jhuner village in Sangrur district. Jagpreet Singh Goldy was arrested from the spot while the investigation team has launched manhunt to nab the other accused.  Charanjit Singh Sohal, Senior Superintendent of Police, Ludhiana (Rural), said having received inputs about transport of huge quantity of poppy husk in Mohindra Pickup (PB-13-BA 1218), a joint team of the Raikot Sadar police station and CIA Jagraon was deployed under the supervision of DSP (D) Rajesh Sharma and the team succeeded in seizing four quintals of the contraband,” said Sohal. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had been distributing the contrabands in the region.  Baljit Singh Mita had been booked under separate cases registered under the NDPS Act at Ahmedgarh, Amargarh, Malerkotla, Sandaur and Dehlon police stations in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-drug-peddlers-busted-200493
19-01-2021||Ludhiana||Athletes bring laurels||Trainees of the Guru Nanak Stadium Coaching Centre, Ludhiana, proved their mettle by securing nine medals in the Open Punjab State Athletics Championship- 2021 for Boys U-18 and 20, held at Sangrur on January 16 and 17. Six trainees of the centre, competed in the meet and finished at the victory podium. Rajbir Singh, Ajay Kumar, Mukul Dham and Aryan Saini won in all seven medals in the U-20 category whereas Kishan Lal Sonkar and Harnoor Singh bagged positions in the U-18 group. Rajbir Singh bagged three medals, including one gold medal in the 200-m race along with a silver medal in the 400-m race and 4x400-m relay race while Ajay Kumar emerged winner in 3,000-m steeplechase to fetch gold medal and also won silver medal in the 4x400-m relay race. Mukul Dham gave good account of himself as he finished as runner up in the 3,000-m steeplechase to bag silver medal and Aryan Saini secured silver medal in 4x400-m relay race. In the boys U-18 category, Kishan Lal Sonkar won the silver medal in the 2,000-m steeplechase whereas Harnoor Singh bagged bronze medal in the 800-m race. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/athletes-bring-laurels-200494
19-01-2021||Ludhiana||Training session on reuse of household waste||The Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a five-day training programme on the “Preparation of value added products from household waste material” for the farm women. A total of 25 farm women participated in the programme, held under the guidance of Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education. Dr TS Riar, Associate Director (Skill Development), said the trainees were given practical training in the preparation of useful items from the waste material. Dr Rupinder Kaur, Course Coordinator, highlighted the importance of course. Technical coordinator Dr Narinderjit Kaur and a PAU expert Dr Sharanbir Bal demonstrated the making of items using paddy straw and newspapers, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-session-on-reuse-of-household-waste-200495
19-01-2021||Ludhiana||Orientation course on research & extension at PAU||As many as 45 newly-recruited faculty members from different departments, krishi vigyan kendras and the regional research stations of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) attended the 10-day orientation course on “Effective, teaching, research and extension” which concluded at the PAU.  The Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, College of Community Science, PAU, organised the course. The chief guest, Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education, congratulated the participants on successful completion of the course.  Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, Head, Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, appreciated the efforts of organisers. Dr Rupeet Gill, Plant Pathologist and Dr Navdeep Singh Jamwal, Plant Breeder, shared their experiences during the course. They appreciated the efforts of organizers and made suggestions to further improve the course. Certificates and e-compendium of the course were distributed to all the participants on successful completion of the course. Dr Preeti Sharma, Course Co-director,appreciated the active participation and sharing of ideas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/orientation-course-on-research-extension-at-pau-200496
19-01-2021||---||MLA Simarjit Singh Bains condemns NIA notices to farmer leaders||Ludhiana, January 18LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains has condemned the National Investigating Agency’s (NIA) notices to a number of persons participating in the farmers protests.The MLA from Atam Nagar constituency said, “The NIA has sent notices to a number of persons for participating and supporting the protest. This act is a murder of democracy. The NIA is acting on the instructions of PM Narendra Modi to create fear among the people. But, the Centre should understand that the people of Punjab are not afraid of such notices.”Notably, a large number of farmers have been protesting on Delhi borders against the new farm laws. The farmer unions have announced that if the farm laws are not repealed, they will hold a tractor march in Delhi on January 26. “The more the government tries to intimidate the farmers, Kisan Andolan will get more strengthened”, said Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-simarjit-singh-bains-condemns-nia-notices-to-farmer-leaders-200497
