21-01-2021||Ludhiana||Parkash Utsav celebrated||Workshop on e-resourcesSanmati Government College of Science Education and Research (SGCSER), Jagraon organised a workshop on “How to use e-resources”. Jatinder Singh, HOD, postgraduate department of Botany, was the resource person on the occasion. Sumedha Syal, DDO, spoke about the importance of e-resources these days. Jatinder Singh discussed in detail the e-pathshala, SWAYAM, National Digital Library, virtual labs, spoken tutorials, NMEICT, free books and journals. “These platforms can prove quite helpful for students these days as they can access them while sitting at home and study”, he said. Nidhi Mahajan presented vote of thanks to all present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parkash-utsav-celebrated-201488
21-01-2021||Ludhiana||Honour for city unit of IMA||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/honour-for-city-unit-of-ima-201489
21-01-2021||Ludhiana||Postpone local bodies poll, demands LIP||Demanding that the local bodies’ elections should be postponed due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief-cum-MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains said they would stage a symbolic protest outside the office of the Punjab Election Commission in Chandigarh on January 22.Bains said: “The party’s core committee meeting was held on Wednesday. We are demanding that the local bodies’ elections in the state must be postponed as many people from the state are participating in the protests these days. Hence, the elections should be postponed till the end of the agitation.” He said: “We had earlier written to the Chief Minister and demanded that the elections must be postponed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/postpone-local-bodies-poll-demands-lip-201475
21-01-2021||---||72-yr-old woman dies, 38 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 20Covid-19 has claimed the life of one more person in the district while 38 fresh cases of virus were reported during the past 24 hours.The Health Department on Wednesday confirmed 47 cases, including 38 from Ludhiana and nine from other districts or state.In Ludhiana district, three persons came in contact with positive patients, 11 visited the OPD, 21 with influenza like illness visited the Flu Corner and three others tested positve for the virus.213 healthcare workers vaccinated on Day 4As many as 213 healthcare workers were vaccinated at two sites in Ludhiana on Day 4 of the drive against Covid-19 on Wednesday. As per information, 108 healthcare workers were given vaccination at the Christian Medical College and Hospital and 105 at Fortis Hospital in Ludhiana.The department also confirmed two deaths, including one patient from Ludhiana and another from Himachal Pradesh. A 72-year-old woman from the Salem Tabri area lost her life to Covid. She was under treatment at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana. Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives includes 985 persons from Ludhiana and 469 from other districts.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 281 active patients in the district.Till date, a total of 5,78,949 samples had been taken, of which reports of 5,77,074 samples had been received. Of these, 5,47,829 samples were found negative while reports of 1,889 were pending.He said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,399 while 3,846 patients belong to other districts/states.He said till date, 55,925 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 844. Today, 70 persons were sent for home quarantine.As many as 2,173 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.As many as 213 healthcare workers were vaccinated at two sites in Ludhiana on Day 4 of the drive against Covid-19 on Wednesday. As per information, 108 healthcare workers were given vaccination at the Christian Medical College and Hospital and 105 at Fortis Hospital in Ludhiana.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/72-yr-old-woman-dies-38-ve-in-ludhiana-201476
21-01-2021||---||Close shave for kids in house fire||Ludhiana, January 20A major fire broke out in a house in Janakpuri here on Wednesday morning. Four children who were present in the house had a miraculous escape.They got stuck in the house. A neighbour broke the door and entered the house and took the children out of the house safely.Anu, the mother of the children, said she had gone to market while her husband went to Chandigarh today and their four children were present at home.She said when she reached home, she was shocked to see that the ground floor of the house was destroyed in the fire but her children were safe as they were saved by her neighbour.She said furniture, clothes, cash and some other valuables were burnt in the fire.As per firemen, the incident took place at around 10.30 am. When they reached the spot, they broke open the door and started dousing the flames.They said the fire spread to the ground floor and it was controlled in one hour. About the cause of the fire, the officials said a blast seemed to have occurred in the gas geyser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/close-shave-for-kids-in-house-fire-201477
21-01-2021||---||Road safety month: Cops promote pedestrian mobility in street event||Ludhiana, January 20 As a part of the 32nd Road Safety Month, the Ludhiana traffic police organised ‘Raahgiri’, an open street event, to reclaim city’s streets from vehicles and promote sustainable pedestrian mobility to make citizens more active and promote a healthy lifestyle. Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, Joint Commissioner of Police J Elanchezhian, Additional DCP Traffic Pragya Jain along with other senior officials took part in the event. ADCP Jain said the event was organised on a stretch from the Ghumar Mandi chowk to the Aarati chowk where the vehicular movement was stopped for a specific period of time. Activities that took place in the event include cycling, yoga session, cultural programme, police band performance and other fun-filled sports events. The ADCP said residents in large numbers joined the event along with the police. Tomorrow during the ongoing road safety drive, a walkathon will be organised at Punjab Agricultural University. The police have restricted challaning of vehicles to the bare minimum due to the ongoing road safety month and only awareness activities will be organised this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-safety-month-cops-promote-pedestrian-mobility-in-street-event-201478
21-01-2021||Ludhiana||14-yr-old raped by auto driver||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an auto-rickshaw driver in Jamalpur. The accused has been identified as Manpreet Singh of Ram Nagar.The complainant, the father of the victim, a resident of Bhamian Kalan, here, told the police that on January 18 when he returned home, his daughter was not present in the house.Later, when he inquired from some local residents, he got to know that the accused forcibly took her in his auto-rickshaw. He parked the vehicle at an isolated place in Giaspura where he raped her during the night.The next morning, he dropped him outside Government School, Mundian Kalan, and fled the spot. Investigating officer ASI Jatinder Kumar said raids were being conducted at suspected whereabouts of the accused. A case has been registered against the accused.Man held for sodomyA man allegedly sodomised a nine-year-old boy at a shop in Khanna. The accused has been identified as Paul John of Gurunanak Nagar. The complainant, the victim’s father, told the police that on January 18, his son went to a shop on the Amloh road to buy some eatables. When he reached the place, shop owner’s brother-in-law Paul John removed the pant of his son and started sodomising him. When his son raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot. The complainant said his son told family members about the incident after reaching home. Investigating officer SI Labh Singh of the Khanna City-2 police station said he was arrested after a case was registered against him.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/14-yr-old-raped-by-auto-driver-201479
21-01-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Giaspura, Lohara roads in poor shape, irk residents||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, January 20 A number of city areas are being continuously ignored by the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, leaving residents to suffer. The 33 Feet Road of Giaspura and nearby Lohara Road are in a bad condition for a long time. The residents have been suffering due to big potholes on these two roads passing through two wards that fall in the MC’s Zone C limit, for past few years. They want from the Municipal Corporation to ensure recarpeting of these roads at the earliest. Also, internal streets of some colonies located on these roads have not been constructed. Notably, the MC had allocated a Budget of over Rs 100 crore for new road works and maintenance of roads in the city for current financial year 2020-21. A group of residents said the MC had not even carried out any patch work in the right manner to fill potholes. Ashok Kumar, a resident of 33 Feet Road, Giaspura, said: “I have been witnessing the dilapidated condition of this road for the past nearly two years. The broken road is being ignored. When people pay taxes, the MC should also ensure provision of better roads. I demand that the authorities must take steps to ensure recarpeting of the road and nearby roads which are also in a bad condition.” A shopkeeper on Lohara Road said: “The road is in a bad shape for a long time. Even potholes were not filled..” MPS Khurana, who is associated with a political party, said: “It is the responsibility of the MC to ensure timely repair of roads. Thousands of commuters pass through these two roads that are crying for attention. The civic body should ensure recarpeting of the roads at the earliest.” MC’s Superintending Engineer Rahul Gagneja said they would look into the matter and roads would be recarpeted soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/giaspura-lohara-roads-in-poor-shape-irk-residents-201480
21-01-2021||---||Get bridge reconstruction design finalised, officials told||Ludhiana, January 20Over nine years have passed since the bridge, located over Buddha Nullah on Old GT Road, here, was declared unsafe but its reconstruction is yet to be started. The Municipal Corporation today closed the bridge for all kind of traffic movement, except for two-wheelers.Now, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given instructions to officials to get its design finalised. Sabharwal said the bridge design will be finalised by experts of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC), Ludhiana, and then, the estimate would be prepared by experts for reconstruction of the bridge.Notably, the civic body had stopped entry of heavy vehicles on the bridge in May 2018 but cars, three-wheelers and other two-wheelers were allowed. MLA, Ludhiana North, Rakesh Pandey, had raised the matter with the MC for early reconstruction of the bridge.MC Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal said only two-wheelers would be allowed to pass through the old bridge now. Meanwhile, the traffic would be diverted through a nearby bridge on Chand Cinema Road.The bridge, which had been declared unsafe, is damaged from different points while bricks are falling from it on the road, with commuters passing underneath the same. Besides, safety walls on it had also got damaged.In 2016, the MC’s Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) had approved a proposal for consultation for the redesigning of the bridge. In 2017 & 2018, the officials had claimed that the design for the reconstruction would be prepared soon. But, the project to reconstruct the bridge is yet to be started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/get-bridge-reconstruction-design-finalised-officials-told-201481
21-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||PSPCL acts tough against defaulters||Ludhiana, January 20The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has directed all its field officers not to release any new electricity connection or allow extension of load to any consumer or his as associate against whom any outstanding amount of the PSPCL was due and/or premises on which defaulting amount existed. In this regard provisions of Supply Code 2014 Regulations and Electricity Supply Instructions Manual (ESIM), 2018 instructions have been cited for meticulous follow up.Taking a serious note of the violations of Supply Code Regulations and ESIM Instructions by officers, the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial has stated in an office memo (29-33 dated January 14, 2021) that it had come to the notice that electricity connections were being released or extension of load was being allowed to defaulting consumers/premises which impeded recovery of default amount and caused financial loss to the PSPCL.Quoting clause 3.3.7(b) of the ESIM 2018 the memo says, “For the applicant/consumer or their association against whom any outstanding amount is due and no dispute is pending adjudication before any of the Dispute Settlement Committees, Forum, Ombudsman, Court or any Appellant Authority then their application shall be registered only after recovery of 100 per cent of outstanding dues.”The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has further said the matter has been taken very seriously by the management and accordingly, it is directed that electricity connection or additional load to the applicant/consumer against whom any outstanding amount is due and/or to the premises at which defaulting amount exists, shall not be released until recovery of 100 per cent of defaulting amount subject to the condition that no dispute of applicant/consumer or their associates is pending adjudication before any dispute settlement committee, forum, ombudsman, court or appellate authority as per existing regulations and instructions.The field officers have been further directed to strictly follow all the Regulations of Supply Code 2014 and ESIM, 2018 Instructions for release of electricity connections /additional load and recovery of defaulting amount to avoid any loss of revenue to the PSPCL. “Disciplinary action will be initiated against officials or employees failing to adhere to these instructions,” says the memo.No new connection till payment of duesTaking a serious note of the violations of Supply Code Regulations and ESIM Instructions by officers, the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial has stated in an office memo (29-33 dated January 14, 2021) that it had come to the notice that electricity connections were being released or extension of load was being allowed to defaulting consumers/premises which impeded recovery of default amount and caused financial loss to the PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-acts-tough-against-defaulters-201482
21-01-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Dumping yard in Mullanpur to be converted into mini forest||Raikot, January 20 Continuing his mission to develop 1,000 mini and micro forests by planting one crore saplings of diverse species of herbs, shrubs and trees by close of the 2021, Rohit Mehra, an IRS officer, has roped in constituents of Municipal Council, Mullanpur, led by Akash Bansal (IAS) to transform a 55,000 square feet garbage dump yard into a mini forest by planting 1,000 saplings.  The venture to transform the dump yard into a mini forest was launched during a campaign launched against non-biodegradable wastes and use of banned polythene bags by the Mullanpur civic body led by executive officer Akash Bansal recently. “Having found the garbage dump yard a nuisance for residents of the region we decided to develop a mini forest by planting saplings of various species of herbs, shrubs and trees by involving all constituents of the civic body and other NGOs of the area,” said Rohit Mehra.  Illustrating the strategic layout of the pattern of plantation, Mehra said plants with different needs of micro and macro nutrients were planted in proximity to each other so that the consumed nutrients are replenished automatically and spontaneously. “Instead of adopting the common practice to grow trees of one kind we chose saplings of those native species which have different requirements of specific minerals available in average soil,” said Mehra adding that the economic, medicinal and ecological value is also considered at the time of selecting varieties of plants to be grown.   Mehra has already made it to the Limca Book of Records for making the Ludhiana Income Tax Building as the first vertical garden in the region. The exterior wall was covered with green foliage, plastic bottles, plastic bins and hanging earthen pots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dumping-yard-in-mullanpur-to-be-converted-into-mini-forest-201483
21-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Industry blames govt for plight of domestic traders||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, January 20 The Central Government may have started thinking that since many countries have stopped procuring products, raw material from China and India can make the best out of this opportunity but the local manufacturers here feel otherwise. Countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh, Cambodia have reaped the benefits of the situation and our government missed the opportunity, opine industrialists. Talking to The Tribune, Rajiv Jain, General Secretary, FICO, said the price of raw material in the country has increased manifolds in recent times. He said, “The cycle frames/ pipe of a bicycle, which was for Rs 55 per kg, is selling today for Rs 100 per kg. Secondly, local manufacturers are worried over the ever-increasing price of steel and other products, same are being exported from India to other countries. We are unable to get raw material while it is sent to other countries. It is a sorry state of affairs in the country, where industry comes at last in priority of the government. We can and will never be able to compete with China in these circumstances.” Another manufacturer of garments, Boby Jindal, rued that the prices of yarn had shot up in the past about two months but there is no check by the government.  “Production has been badly hit due to rising prices of yarn and raw material. Countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh are far ahead from us and customers are moving to those countries”, said Jindal. The local industry feels that higher rates if power, land, raw material, distance from ports, all these factors are enough to make Make in India, a distant dream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-blames-govt-for-plight-of-domestic-traders-201484
21-01-2021||Sports Correspondent---||LDCA to hold selection trials from today||Ludhiana, January 20 The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), an affiliated unit of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) will organise trials to select players U-16 and 19 from here at the GRD Academy ground on Hambran Road from January 21-24. Satish Mangal and Anupam Kumaria, president and honorary general secretary, respectively, the LDCA informed that the selected boys would be enrolled for the regional coaching centre (RCC), run by the association, under the aegis of the PCA at the same venue. Trials for the aspiring, talented players (U-16) would be held on January 21-22 from 2.30 pm onwards. Likewise, the selection process for U-19 players would be conducted on January 23-24 from 2.30 pm onwards, they said. No fee will be charged from the aspirants. Players born on or after September 1, 2006 are eligible to attend the selection trials in the U-16 and those born on or after September 1, 2002 can participate in the U-19 category. The selected cricketers will undergo physical training and skills coaching up-gradation under the guidance and supervision of experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-to-hold-selection-trials-from-today-201485
21-01-2021||Ludhiana||Basketball tourney from Jan 29 to 31||The Ludhiana District Basketball Championship for Boys and Girls (U-17 and 19) will be held here at Guru Nanak Stadium from January 29 to 31. JP Singh, president, District Basketball Association, Ludhiana (DBAL) said that the cut off date for eligible players in the U-17 category was January 1, 2004 and those born on or after January 1, 2002 could participate in the U-19 age group. Entry fee for each participating team is Rs500 and the district clubs can field their teams. The schools and colleges can send a maximum two teams in each age group in the boys and girls sections. The position holders will be awarded with medals along with to participation certificates, said Sukhbir Singh Dhaliwal, secretary, DBAL. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basketball-tourney-from-jan-29-to-31-201486
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Officials take stock of preventive measures||Mandi Ahmedgarh / Raikot/ Payal, january 20The rank and file involved in the electioneering process have been advised to follow advisory and standard operational procedure for preventing the spread of Covid during polling for election to urban civic bodies of the region.Having received advisory from the State Election Commission, Vikramjit Singh Panthey, Dr Himanshu Gupta, Mankanwal Singh Chahal and T Benith, returning officers-cum-SDMs at Ahmedgarh, Raikot, Payal and Malerkotla, respectively have asked officials in various departments, including civic bodies to ensure that model code of conduct of elections is implemented in letter and spirit.Claiming that personnel deployed on various duties during polling would be supplied adequate number of facemasks, sanitisers, thermal guns and gloves, returning officers said rank and file had been advised to follow standard guidelines for prevention of spread of pathogens in general and Covid in particular.Acknowledging receipt of details instructions on conduct of elections Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said, “While intensive training and sensitization of staff to be deployed for polling will take place in due course of time we have already advised all concerned officials to ensure that model code of conduct of elections is implemented with zero tolerance,” said Vikramjit Singh Panthey.Malerkotla SDM T Benith said residents had been appealed to make use of their right to vote and contribute in governance of local bodies for providing best possible amenities in their localities. “At the same time we will also ensure that guidelines on prevention of spread of Covid are followed in letter and spirit during polling process so that people visiting polling booths neither bring nor carry the pathogen,” said Benith claiming that all facilities for prevention of spread of Covid will be provided to the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-take-stock-of-preventive-measures-201487
21-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana tops in vaccine drive||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 20Ludhiana, which had assumed the dubious distinction of being the ‘Covid capital’ of Punjab due to maximum cases and deaths, has topped the state in the ongoing first phase of the vaccination drive.Against the state’s dismal inoculation rate of 31.26 per cent recorded in the first three days after the nationwide campaign was launched on January 16, Ludhiana covered the highest 57.22 per cent targeted beneficiaries till January 19.Moga at bottomWith 9.16% vaccination, Moga stood at the lowest rank on the vaccination drive list, followed by Barnala (10.97%) and Ferozepur (11.34%)As many as 887 healthcare workers from both government and private sectors got the jab against the target of 1,550, while Punjab vaccinated 5,567 of the targeted 17,808 beneficiaries.While CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s home district Patiala stood second with 47.77 per cent inoculation, Hoshiarpur stood third with 45.89 per cent coverage. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s home district Mohali remained at 11th position with 30 per cent achievement. The worst three performing districts were Moga with 9.16 per cent vaccination, Barnala (10.97 per cent) and Ferozepur (11.34 per cent).The drive picked up on Wednesday with the coverage rate shooting up to 56.77 per cent. Since the government health centres were closed for the day due to public holiday, 34 session sites were created in private hospitals where 2,003 of the day’s targeted 3,528 registered priority members were inoculated. To give further momentum to the programme, the health department has created more than 300 session sites in the state for Thursday.“We will begin the inoculation drive at all community health centres, subdivisional, and district civil hospitals besides over 100 private hospitals from tomorrow,” said Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.After visiting a private hospital in Faridkot to oversee the ongoing vaccination, Hussan said the manifold increase in the number of session sites from Thursday would raise the coverage rate considerably.“We are committed to vaccinating and protecting all 1.8 lakh registered healthcare workers in the first phase,” he said. Attributing the lukewarm response to glitches in CoWin application besides hesitance and apprehension among healthcare workers, Hussan said senior doctors such as civil surgeons and SMOs were coming forward to get themselves vaccinated and motivated their subordinates to get the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-tops-in-vaccine-drive-201319
