22-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC plans underpass on Jassian Road||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 21As a large number of commuters face inconvenience while passing through the passage beneath the Ludhiana-Amritsar railway section at Jassian village in Ludhiana, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has made a proposal for the construction of a low-height subway (underpass for vehicular movement) there.The MC has also written to the Railways official concerned in this regard so that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience.The existing passage is not meant for vehicular movement, but a road from this passage is being used as an alternative route to connect to the National Highway 44. Thus, a number of people want a proper underpass for vehicular movement to be constructed there.A resident of Jassian Road Ludhiana, Rajinder Kumar, said, “People in large numbers use this shortcut to commute between the Haibowal areas and the NH-44, otherwise they will be forced to cover a long distance. We want the government to make a proper underpass for vehicular movement at the earliest.”Councillor from Ward No. 94, Gurpreet Singh Gopi, said, “At present, many people use this passage, which is not motorable as there is no proper passage for traffic movement at any nearby location. If the underpass for vehicular movement is constructed, more than 2 lakh people would be benefited.”MLA Ludhiana (North) Rakesh Pandey has raised the matter with the MC for the early construction of the underpass. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “We have written a letter to Divisional Railway Manager for the construction of an underpass on Jassian Road.”Municipal Corporation Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal said a high volume of traffic passes through this passage, but it is not broad enough to cater to the volume of the traffic passing through it. “Also the road portion within the railway limits is not motorable. There is a dire need of a low-height subway for the convenience of the people,” he stated in the letter written to the Railways official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-plans-underpass-on-jassian-road-201991
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Nexus of touts, rail staff comes to light||Ludhiana, January 21The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has exposed a nexus of its employees and touts behind the manipulated booking of tickets in the tatkal category with the arrest of four agents (touts) and two Railways employees.Acting on inputs provided by the intelligence and cyber cell of the Railways, the RPF has arrested Deepak Kumar and Naresh Sood, booking clerks posted at Dhandari and Phillaur railway stations, respectively, along with four others identified as Ram Kumar, Harish, Lalit Kumar and Babloo.A total of 84 railway tickets in the tatkal category, worth Rs 1.5 lakh issued in different names, were seized from the accused persons.The RPF has registered cases against the accused under the Railway Act. The six accused were produced in a local court which ordered them to be sent to judicial custody.According to the RPF officials, preliminary interrogation of the accused revealed that the gang was active in the procurement of the “out-of-turn” tatkal tickets with the active connivance of Railways employees and computer operators for the last more than two years and the touts had got issued such ‘manipulated’ tatkal tickets worth over Rs 10 lakh during this period. It was also learnt that the touts and conniving railway employees were making use of fake ID proofs to get tatkal tickets issued which were later passed on to passengers in desperate need of travel at exorbitant premium.The RPF officials further said that in a stepped-up drive against touts and agents during the last three months, at least three gangs of touts were busted and 13 persons were arrested for obtaining tatkal tickets in connivance with Railways employees. These unscrupulous agents were mostly targeting migrant workers and many of them had set up their booking offices in the areas with predominantly migrant population which did not have access to the online booking of tickets and were dependent on agents for tickets in cases of emergent need to travel long distances.“Fake identification proofs, details of railway ticket booking and 129 railway tickets worth more than Rs 3 lakh were seized from 13 persons arrested under the drive against touts and railway agents,” said an RPF official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nexus-of-touts-rail-staff-comes-to-light-201992
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Three lose life; 35 fresh cases in Ludhiana dist||Three persons lost their lives to Covid, while 35 tested positive for the virus in the district today. The total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 5,80,614, while 988 persons have lost their lives so far. There are 290 active cases in the district, while 45 persons were home quarantined today.All three patients who lost their lives were admitted to the DMCH and were aged between 53 and 78 and had co-morbidity of diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Today, one healthcare worker also tested positive, while the results of 1,725 reports were pending.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the vaccine is here and is being administered to healthcare workers and cases have also seen a dip, still everyone should wear mask, wash hands frequently and maintain social distance.“It has been observed that people have started becoming careless regarding Covid. Time and again, we are requesting people to follow the guidelines issued by the state government. Precautions and awareness are the only key we have to battle this disease. We can certainly overcome the spread of this disease if the general public follows all the necessary precautions,” said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-lose-life-35-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-dist-201993
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Over 4 quintals of plastic bags seized||The MC has started a drive against the use of banned plastic and thermocol items from Thursday.Nodal officer of the MC Ashwani Sahota said the joint teams of the MC and the police seized 4.18 quintals of banned plastic carry bags during the drive on Day 1.He said the MC had issued 81 challans against violators.Meanwhile, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal conducted a meeting with stakeholders of industrial and market associations, scrap dealers and religious heads to get their support for making the Buddha Dariya and Ludhiana garbage-free.A similar meeting was also conducted today in this regard with officials of the Punjab Mandi Board, office-bearers of vegetable and fish market associations.Main objectives of these meetings were to make the Buddha Nullah and the city garbage-free. Thosewho attended these meetings were made aware about the compliance of the National Green Tribunal order and the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. They were told that heavy environmental compensation will be imposed on the MC, Ludhiana, in case of failure to comply which will be recovered from violators. Besides, a discussion was conducted on the Swachh Survekshan-2021, and Garbage-free city certification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-4-quintals-of-plastic-bags-seized-201994
22-01-2021||---||Colleges reopen to low attendance||Ludhiana, January 21With the reopening of colleges amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a less number of students attended classes at most of the city colleges today.In some colleges, less than 100 or 50 students attended classes, as per information. Besides, a few colleges, including Arya College and Arya College for Girls, have not been reopened due to the ongoing college exams.A less number of students were witnessed in classrooms at the Government College for Girls (GCG), Ludhiana. A teacher at the College said students have appeared in less numbers on the first day after reopening of the college.The teacher said, “I have received calls from some students who said their parents have not allowed them to visit the college amid the pandemic. However, the syllabus have already been completed through online classes. We can’t force any student to come to the college.”Dr Gurpreet Kaur, principal, GCG, Ludhiana, said: “A less number of students appeared to attend the classes today. We are hopeful that more students will start attending the classes in days to come.”Dr Sehijpal Singh, principal, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, said: “The government has allowed reopening of the colleges but a less number of students visited the college today. It has been observed that most of the students like to attend online classes these days due to Covid-19. We cannot force them to visit the college.”Dr Rajesh Marwaha, principal of Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana, said: “We have started following odd and even formula (on the basis of roll numbers) for students to attend classes at the college so that social distancing be maintained. But, a few students visited the college today. As of now, most of the students are preferring online classes.”However, principal of SCD Government College, Ludhiana, Dharam Singh Sandhu, said: “A good number of students visited the college today. The students were excited for attending the classes which will be held on a regular basis now. We have advised them to maintain social distancing and follow all guidelines for the prevention of Covid-19.”Guru Teg Bahadur National College, Dakha, principal Avtar Singh said: “Around 30-40 per cent students attended the college today. However, we have given option to them either they study online from home or visit the college. The guidelines for the prevention of Covid are being followed by the students.”Those students who are visiting colleges were advised to follow the Covid-19 guidelines.Few remain closed due to examsIn some colleges, less than 100 or 50 students attended classes, as per information. Besides, a few colleges, including Arya College and Arya College for Girls, have not been reopened due to the ongoing college examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/colleges-reopen-to-low-attendance-201995
22-01-2021||Manav Mander||PAU, vet varsity yet to open for UG students||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 21Though the state government had asked colleges and universities in the state to reopen on January 21, both Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) in the city will wait for some more time before fully opening the institutions for students.The major challenge before both universities is accommodating the students in hostels. Phd and MSc students of both universities were already coming to the college and hostellers were also living in single rooms by following all necessary Covid-19 precautions. Now, the major challenge is to reopen the campuses for undergraduate classes. At present, the students are attending their classes online.Dr Rajinder Singh Sidhu, Registrar, PAU, said at present, the exams were being held online and the university would be opened only after the exams were over as the new semester was about to start.“We are planning to open the university for undergraduate classes on around February 10 when the new semester will begin. The authorities are planning the reopening in a phased manner as accommodating hostellers will be a major challenge before us. We need to follow all Covid safety precautions and are reviewing all arrangements before the final call of reopening is taken,” he said.Dr HS Banga, Registrar, GADVASU, while commenting on the reopening of the veterinary university, said they were were yet to take the decision regarding its reopening.“MSc and Phd students were already coming to the university and hostellers were also staying in hostels by following all necessary protocols laid down in view of the pandemic,” he said.He said all necessary arrangements in the hostels were need to be made in view of the pandemic. One room is to be given to one person only. Hence, once all arrangements are in place, we will open the university for undergraduate students by February 15,” Dr Banga said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-vet-varsity-yet-to-open-for-ug-students-201996
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Special checking at railway station ahead of R-Day||The Ludhiana police today carried out a special checking at the city railway station ahead of the Republic Day celebrations. Police personnel, along with a dog squad, checked each nook and corner of the railway station. Even suspected people were also questioned and their identity proofs were also checked. Recently, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal also held an online meeting with all rank officials and told them to increase patrolling in their areas to prevent any untoward incident ahead of the Republic Day function. The police told to put up random nakas in their areas and check all suspicious persons. As per the police, a day before the celebrations, all city entry and exit points will be sealed and every vehicle entering the city will be checked.  Sources said now, police personnel in civvies had already started roaming in city markets to keep a tab on anti-social elements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/special-checking-at-railway-station-ahead-of-r-day-201997
22-01-2021||---||Teetu Baniya seeks ballot paper voting||Ludhiana, January 21Demanding use of ballot papers in elections, comedy artiste Jai Parkash Jain, popularly known as Teetu Baniya, staged a protest at the Mini-Secretariat on Thursday. During the protest, Teetu Baniya made an appeal to the Election Commission of India to use ballot papers for voting during the next Assembly as well as the Lok Sabha elections.He said, “Instead of using the EVMs, the commission must use the ballot papers for transparency in the voting process. The ballot papers must be used during the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections and other poll. Even many people did not go to cast their vote due to the EVMs.”“When ballot papers can be used in developed countries, a similar process should be adopted here also. I have full faith in the Election Commission and hope that required steps will be taken to conduct the polling process by using ballot papers in the future,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teetu-baniya-seeks-ballot-paper-voting-201999
22-01-2021||---||Stray canine menace troubles Jawaddi residents||Ludhiana, January 21Members of Gurmat Gian Missionary College and residents of Punjabi Bagh, Jawaddi, have complained about the menace of stray dogs in the area. They said dog bite cases were common in the area.Now, councillor from ward no. 45 Barjinder Kaur has also written a letter to the MC Commissioner over the issue. In her letter, the councillor stated that residents had been facing a lot of problems due to a big number of stray dogs in the area.She said there were several educational institutes in the area. The canines have attacked a number of persons, including children. She has demanded from the MC Commissioner to resolve the issue in the area at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stray-canine-menace-troubles-jawaddi-residents-202000
22-01-2021||---||Traffic police, students take out helmet awareness rally||Ludhiana, January 21In the ongoing National Road Safety Month, the Ludhiana traffic police today organised a helmet awareness rally along with students of the Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, here.The rally was flagged off by Additional DCP (Traffic) Dr Pragya Jain, ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh and college principal Dr Mukti Gill.The rally started from the college gate on two-wheelers which passed through Fountain Chowk, Pavilion Mall, Dandi Swami chowk, PAU Gate No 4, Aarti chowk and concluded at the college.During the rally, the students spread the message of obeying traffic rulesby wearing helmets, by two-wheeler riders as well as pillion riders.Students also displayed placards and posters regarding road safety. The ADCP and the ACP (Traffic) told the students about ill-effects of not following the traffic rules and regulations and motivated them to keep their vehicle documents with them while commuting.They also encouraged the students to tell their family members to follow traffic rules to avoid accidents. The college management and the principal appreciated the efforts of the students, staff and the traffic police for conducting the motivational rally for safe driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-police-students-take-out-helmet-awareness-rally-202001
22-01-2021||Sports Correspondent||Cricket trials: 170 aspirants turn up at academy on Day 1||Ludhiana, January 21As many as 170 players (U-16) turned up on the first day of the trials conducted by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) to select talented and promising cricketers to register them with the regional coaching centre and prepare them for future competitions.The two-day trials for the U-16 players began at GRD Academy on Hambran Road on Thursday.The selection body, constituted by the LDCA, includes senior cricket coach Charanjit Singh and former cricketers Arun Passi, Ankur Kakkar, Karan Goel and Gaurav Marwaha. They watched the players at the nets today.Satish Mangal, president of the association, said they were satisfied with the response.“We received phone calls from certain aspirants that since they could not attend the trials today due to some unavoidable circumstances, they should be allowed to appear for the trials, tomorrow,” he said.The association has decided to entertain the left-out aspirants on Friday so that all deserving boys could get a chance to showcase their talent before finalising the list of players to enrol with the regional coaching centre, run under the aegis of the Punjab Cricket Association, Satish said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cricket-trials-170-aspirants-turn-up-at-academy-on-day-1-202002
22-01-2021||Lovleen Bains||Teachers raise issues at PCCTU online meet||Doraha, January 21Around 102 professors from Ludhiana district attended an online meeting held through Zoom, a mobile app, organised by the Ludhiana unit of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) to address problems of various college professors of the district.The meeting was chaired by PCCTU president Vinay Sofat and general secretary Prof Sukhdev Randhawa. It was conducted by PCCTU Ludhiana district president Kuldeep Batta.Teachers from colleges attended the meeting and shared their problems such as corruption, exploitation by college managements, failure to send regular claims by colleges, non-payment of leave encashment, failure to give salaries and forced removal from jobs with union members.Dr Sofat briefed about the union’s road map on all issues. “The PCCTU leadership updated the cadre about the issues and listened to their grievances. We tried to update and guided them how to proceed further. Soon, we are going to take the issue to the minister and the Secretary, Higher Education,” he said.He said all should understand that there was no need to pay for any of their legitimate work in the DPI office.“Pending cases of teachers at the DPI office have to be cleared within a stipulated period of time. It has been months together that the cases put forth by the teachers have been lying unattended due to reasons best known to the department. In our meeting with the minster, we will take assurance of the maximum time involved in clearing a particular case so that the teachers should not be harassed by making visits to the office time and again,” Sofat said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-raise-issues-at-pcctu-online-meet-202003
22-01-2021||---||Sambar hit by vehicle, injured||Ludhiana, January 21Today, a sambhar deer was hit by a vehicle near a tiger safari on GT Road here. It received injuries in the mishap.Teams from the Police and Forest departments reached the spot and took the deer for treatment.“Our team has taken the sambar for treatment at a nearby Bahadur ke village where we have a centre. At present, it cannot be released. Treatment is being provided to the deer and it is under observation," said Neeraj Gupta, DFO (Wildlife).He might have come from a nearby forest area. I have sought report from the range officer,” said Neeraj Gupta, DFO (Wildlife).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sambar-hit-by-vehicle-injured-202004
22-01-2021||---||Thieves strike near SSP office, take away electronics goods||Ludhiana, January 21Thieves struck at Suvidha Centre on the Tehsil complex and decamped with four TFT screens of computers and Aadhaar card fingerprint scan kit. Interestingly, the centre, a high-security area, is near the SSP office and the offices of judges. The value of the stolen goods was said to be in lakhs.The thieves also tried to break the DVR of the CCTV cameras. As per Manvir Singh, in charge, Suvidha Centre, the burglars entered the centre last night by breaking open the main door’s lock. This morning, when the office boy came and found the locks lying broken, he raised an alarm.The police, along with fingerprint experts, also reached the spot for investigation. Akash Dutt, SHO, Khanna city, said the CCTV cameras were being checked to identity the miscreants.A case against unknown persons has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-strike-near-ssp-office-take-away-electronics-goods-202005
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Work on Tajpur Road Chowk flyover begins||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started work for the construction of a flyover at Tajpur Chowk on the National Highway (NH-44) in Ludhiana, said MLA from Ludhiana (East) Sanjay Talwar today.Earlier, the Tajpur Chowk-cut on the NH-44 was closed due to which shopkeepers and residents of Tibba Road and Tajpur Road had staged protests. They had been demanding from the government an elevated road or flyover for the past around five years so that the commuters could cross the intersection under it.Talwar who, along with his supporters, was present when the work was started today, said, “With the construction of the flyover, a large number of people would benefit. Once the flyover is constructed, the traffic movement beneath the flyover would be allowed. The length of the flyover would be around 500 meters and it would have five spans. The service lane on both sides of the NH-44 will be widened. The flyover work will be completed by December 2021.”After the closing of the Tajpur Chowk-cut on the NH-44, commuters coming from Samrala Chowk used to take turn from Jodhewal Basti to reach Tajpur Road. The commuters from the Tajpur Road side also covered a long distance to reach the other side of the national highway.“The NHAI will also construct entry and exit ramps on the Jalandhar bypass chowk flyover. Also, two new railway over-bridges will be constructed on both sides of the Sherpur flyover,” said Talwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-on-tajpur-road-chowk-flyover-begins-202006
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||673 vaccinated at eight sites||Covid vaccination was done at eight places by 11 teams in the district on Thursday. The target for the day was to vaccinate 1,100 healthcare workers, while 673 were vaccinated by 5 pm today.The vaccination was carried out at the DMCH, CMCH, Fortis, SPS Hospital, Sidhu Hospital, Urban Community Health Centre Jawaddi, Community Health Centre Sidhar and Sub-Divisional Hospital, Samrala. Female employees of the DMCH turned up in large numbers to get themselves vaccinated. Deepak Sharma from the Public Relations Department, along with Amandeep Kaur, Navdeep Kaur Dhillon and Sonia from the radiology department, Prabhjot Kaur from the corporate cell, Swati Sharma from the quality control department, Ashwathi Nair from the eye department, Tara from the nursing department and Nishu Aggarwal from the biochemistry department got themselves vaccinated.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the department was happy to see healthcare workers showing confidence and getting themselves vaccinated. — TNSTHE NUMBERSSites         CountDMCH    165CMCH    71Fortis    120SPS Hospital   88Sidhu hospital   78Urban Community HC Jawadi  56Community Health Centre, Sidhar 40Sub Divisional Hospital, Samrala 55Total 673||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/673-vaccinated-at-eight-sites-202007
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Rs 20L relief given to kin of 4 deceased||The district administration has provided a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the next of kin of four farmers, who had died during the ongoing protest against the farm laws.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today said Rs 5 lakh was handed over to each of the bereaved families on the instructions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had allocated the amount from the CM’s Relief Fund.He said the case of the fifth farmer, who had also died during the protest, was being processed and the compensation would be handed over to his family shortly. So far, five farmers from Ludhiana district have died due to different reasons during the protest.The farmers who had lost their lives included Baljinder Singh of Jhamat village in Payal subdivision, who had died in a road accident near Kurukshetra (Haryana) when he was returning home on December 1 last; Gurmeet Singh of Machhiwara who died of a heart attack at the railway station in Samrala on November 18 last; Gajjan Singh of Khatra village near Samrala who died during farmers’ protest at Delhi border on November 29 last; and Harminder Singh Rai of Jangpur village who died in a road accident while returning from the protest on December 21 last.“The Punjab Government is committed to provide relief to the farmers who are protesting against the farm laws of the Union Government on the Delhi borders,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-20l-relief-given-to-kin-of-4-deceased-201749
22-01-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab gives Rs 5 lakh each to families of 4 Ludhiana farmers who died during protest||Families of four farmers, who had died during the ongoing protests against the contentious farm laws, were on Thursday handed over Rs 5 lakh each in compensation.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said Rs 5 lakh was given to each of the four bereaved families on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Also read: Punjab residents prepare to join tractor march from Tikri to Delhi on Jan 26He said the case of the fifth deceased farmer was under process and the compensation amount would be released shortly.Five farmers from Ludhiana district have so far lost their lives due to different reasons while participating in the protest against the controversial farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-gives-rs-5-lakh-each-to-families-of-4-ludhiana-farmers-who-died-during-protest-201611
