25-01-2021||Infrastructure can be used to hold international as well as national meetings||State-of-the-art exhibition centre need of the hour||Ludhiana is known as the industrial hub of Punjab. It's famous for its hosiery and textile industries but it is really a pity that such an industrial hub has no exhibition centres. Big industries have to hire places to exhibit their products to attract buyers. Today, much of our business depends upon advertising. If a proper platform is available, any business can flourish much more than if it would only be manufactured and sold in a shop. Plans should be made and infrastructure should be developed. Banks should provide loan facilities so that big and small manufacturers can start new businesses.Khushleen KaurGive impetus to cycle industryTo promote the bicycle industry in Ludhiana, the government should allot the land to the industry owners for the exhibitions. Rallies on cycles should also be conducted so that more and more people get attracted towards the same. Separate cycle lanes should be constructed so that people could go on cycles without any fear of traffic jams. Cycling competitions could also be organised for easy working of hosieries and industries. Sessions must be conducted by the government authorities so that people could came across the importance of driving bicycle.Simranjeet kaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONMany public parks in the city are in a dilapidated state, seeking attention of the authorities. Some have been encroached upon or attract drug-addicts. What should be done to improve their condition? ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comAllot places for exhibition centresThe government should allot places for exhibition centres to various industrialists on rent in Ludhiana. Nowadays, schools, colleges and different parks are a good option for exhibition centres. It is necessary for attracting the attention of buyers towards the finished goods of industries, as it increases their sales volume which ultimately leads to economic development.Harleen kaurGovt should extend supportExhibition centre is a perfect place for business events. It is an excellent way to raise brand value and generate cognisance. The state government should help the industry to flourish. For this, a permanent exhibition centre is a basic requirement. The government along with the industry should frame committee of innovative members to conduct exhibition annually and make it the most awaited fair like India International Trade Fair (IITF), Delhi. As getting to Delhi is easy for national as well as international buyers, so if industry wants government should help them by hiring a place at IITF so that they can get long-term national and international customers.GURPREET KAURPromote manufactured productsThe city lacks dedicated exhibition centres to attract buyers and promote various goods manufactured here. It is somewhat a facility which is greatly required in any business as if there will be no promotion of goods and their services it will directly affect the number of people purchasing that particular goods. This need can be fulfilled by organising dedicated large exhibition auditoriums for promotion of various goods manufactured here. These auditoriums should be situated near famous tourist spots such as Rakh Bagh, Rose Garden, Tiger Safari, Hardy's World etc., so that more and more people could be aware of products manufactured in Ludhiana and purchase them as per their requirement.VAKITAGive tax holidaysTo promote industrial culture in Ludhiana city local as well as state government must address industrial problems of this city in particular. The government must reserve some space for exhibitions and export promoting units. It must lend sport to the hosiery industry as concentration of hosiery industry is in Ludhiana. Government should give training and other guidance about the latest technology and other methods of production to compete with developed countries. The government should give tax holiday for three years for new industries.Farzana KhanGovt must acquire landLudhiana is known as Manchester of Punjab and being an industrial city, it produces a number of industrial products like bicycles, hosiery and sewing machines etc. But the city lacks the facility of a fixed place/ground for exhibitions of its industrial products. Holding of exhibitions is a proven and known method for attracting customers from outside for marketing of locally produced goods. In view of the urgent need for exhibiting industrial growth in the city and sale of its products, Ludhiana must reserve a separate piece of land/ground where local industry can exhibit its industrial products permanently or during special sales campaigns for showing to interested dealers and the general public. For this purpose, the government must acquire a piece of land in or around the city and reserve it permanently for exhibition of locally produced industrial goods.Gautam Dev Give sops to industriesAmong all the districts Ludhiana is ahead in terms of industrial development. To develop industry in Ludhiana, the government should give subsidy as it is given to the industrialists in the neighbouring state Himachal Pradesh in Baddi, HP. More sops should be given to the hosiery industry in particular and others in general. Local government should reduce various types of duties along with GST rates for boosting investment in this sector. Economic zones and industrial clusters must be established for giving various facilities to the industrialists of Ludhiana city. Some exhibition and export promoting zones must be established by the government in the city so that FDI may be invited in Ludhiana city as well. Training, innovation and nano-technology park must be established for the promotion of industry in Ludhiana.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiGovt should invest in local industriesDue to lack of exhibition centres in the city, industries fail to attract the buyers. The government should work to provide places for holding exhibitions to sell their products on a large scale. Such exhibitions provide exposure to global markets. The exhibitions should be free of cost or have nominal entry tickets to attract buyers. The government should invest in local industries and try to expand the market. A growing city has to gear itself to meet the challenge at hand by proper town planning and efficient execution. To sustain its participation in the country's industrial growth in the face of stiff competition, Ludhiana needs institutional support in terms of centres of excellence such as universities to set up knowledge based industries or services.UrvashiUse vacant govt buildingsIt is the duty of the state government to establish or built an exhibition centre so that huge amount paid to the private middlemen for the usage of their places can be saved. There are many government buildings which has been constructed as malls or complexes and are still lying vacant as no one is ready to purchase them. The government must use that vacant complexes as an exhibition centre without incurring much cost. It can collect revenue by charging nominal fees from the exhibitors and can cover up the cost.Ritu PriyaBuild big exhibition centresIt is high time to promote sale of bicycles, their parts, hosiery goods, etc., the Punjab government should construct few big halls or foyers/centres in the city where manufacturers can periodically hold expositions for the public in general and their customers in particular. For displaying their products the industrial and business houses should not be charged anything. This will be a shot in their arm that they so badly need.Dr Sunil ChopraMulti-purpose centre requiredLudhiana is known as the industrial capital of Punjab. But it is an irony that it does not have any exhibition centre to hold exhibitions, conferences, meetings or any other social functions for the business community. Often businessmen have to hire places for such programmes. The government should either make necessary arrangements for building the centres or should provide funds to the business organisations to pay for the rent for hiring the places. Some social organisations can also come forward for the cause of the industry which is the backbone of our economy. This will not only help businessmen to attract the buyers, but also organise their family functions at the discounted rates. During off days the same building can be rented out to others, thereby helping in generating extra funds for the business community.Bir Devinder Singh BediOPEN HOUSE COMMENTNeed govt support to woo buyers, investors Shivani BhakooLudhiana has created a niche in the global map in exporting many products to countries all over the world.These products range from bicycle/parts to garments or hosiery products. Manufactured products in bulk are exported to countries by local manufacturers. But till date, no government has been able to provide them a good exhibition centre equipped with all state-of-the art facilities. Respective governments came, proposed such centers but none saw the light of the day.Manufacturers/organisations spend lakhs of rupees in setting up exhibition centers by paying hefty amounts for an exhibition of 3-4 days. At times, product-wise exhibitions are held in hotels to invite buyers and show them the products. It has been long pending demand of traders to build an exhibition center but there has still not been any progress and these proposed centers remain on papers only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/state-of-the-art-exhibition-centre-need-of-the-hour-203395
25-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Civic body restores Pitbull  to owner||Ludhiana, January 24 A Pitbull dog which was caught wandering by the dog-catching squad of the Municipal Corporation was handed over to its owner Hira Lal on the intervention of Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu here on Saturday. Hira Lal, a resident of New Kundanpuri in Civil Lines locality, had approached the mayor on learning that an apparently lost Pitbull dog was caught by the MC staff. He explained that the dog was moving outside the house, and had probably lost its way back to home. After giving a stern warning to Hira Lal to take proper care of the pet in future and also to get the dog registered with the MC without any further delay, the mayor asked the veterinary officers to hand over the dog to its owner. The dog was handed over to Hira Lal and his two children by Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla, senior veterinary officer, yesterday. Hira Lal was aksed to give a written undertaking to get the dog registered with MC at its D-zone office on next working day. The mayor has once again asked the pet owners to get their pets registered either on-line or at the area zone office on or before March 31, 2021 on payment of stipulated fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-restores-pitbull-to-owner-203392
25-01-2021||Ludhiana||Govt will meet demands: Dist Cong chief to teachers||The Association of Unaided College Teachers (Punjab and Chandigarh) organised a seminar in the auditorium of Panjab University Regional Campus, Ludhiana, with Ashwani Sharma, district Congress president, who acted as a representative of Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu, Political Adviser to the CM, as the chief guest and expressed grief over the fact that they   are having a hard time on being deprived of the security of their service. In a written memorandum to the Chief Minister, it was conveyed that in December 2007, the then government in the state had amended the Security of Service Act, 1974, to dispossess unaided college teachers from the security of the Act and thus, paved the way for their exploitation. As a result, hundreds of college teachers have been robbed of their jobs and several have no other way left than accepting underpaid positions. The situation has deteriorated to such an extent that those who demand justice have to lose their jobs.  If in such a situation, the state government brings the unaided college teachers in the security of the Act again, each member of the Association of Unaided College Teachers (AUCT) will remain indebted to it, said Prof Praneet Kaur, president, AUCT. During the seminar, teachers showed enthusiasm on having assured by Ashwani Sharma that the government would consider their demands positively. Principal Tarsem Bahia elaborated the Act for the benefit of the gathering. Prof Tarun Ghai, spokesperson for the AUCT, expressed that the root of the problem lies in ‘anti-education policies’ of the SAD-BJP government. Advocate Keshav Gupta termed the 2007 amendment in the Act as “unconstitutional”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-will-meet-demands-dist-cong-chief-to-teachers-203393
25-01-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cops told to tighten noose on gamblers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 24Suspecting that illegal activities of gambling and betting on Cricket were going at private farm houses and rented accommodations, Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has issued strict directions to the station house officers concerned to immediately stop such activity else be ready to face the music. The CP also asked the station heads to ensure no illegal lottery operations run in their areas. “Some notorious elements are allowing gambling, betting on cricket in private farm houses and houses being given on rent to such elements. Immediately stop this activity in your areas, else SHOs concerned will be dismissed from service or suspended depending upon the extent of negligence,” ordered the CP during a meeting with the police force. Sources said even in the NDPS Act cases, the top cop told the SHOs to arrest the proclaimed offenders still at large in drug smuggling cases.He asked cops for special campaign in this regard. The CP told the cops to keep an eye on snatchers coming out on bail as most of them are repeated offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-told-to-tighten-noose-on-gamblers-203394
25-01-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cops begin attachment, write to ED for probe||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 24A few days after Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal ordered a fresh probe into more than 100 FIRs of travel fraud registered against notorious travel agent Nitish Ghai, the top cop has started the process of attachment of his properties worth several crores garnered through illegal means.The police have prepared the list of his properties which he bought after committing travel frauds.“We have identified his 11 prime properties which he reportedly bought from the money taken from the innocent people aspiring to go abroad. We have started the property attachment process and ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Bhatti has been told to revisit all cases registered against him so that justice could be ensured for the people duped by the agent,” CP Agrawal told Ludhiana Tribune.The Tribune has a copy of the list of the properties prepared by the Ludhiana police.The police said such fraudsters usually buy less property in their own name and most property in the name of their family members. “Law has the provision to attach even those properties which the accused have bought in the name of their family members to save him from the eyes of the police. Cops are also identifying more such properties of the agent if any.”The CP said the police are also writing to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to dig deep into the illegal money and properties gathered by Ghai.It would also be checked if the agent had started travel business again in the names of other persons in the city.Over 100 FIRs in 2018More than 100 FIRs were registered against Nitish Ghai, his staff and family members in 2018 by the then ADCP Surendra Lamba, a rare development in Punjab. Apart from residents of Punjab, Ghai also duped people of Haryana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, HP and J&K. He had got bail after spending considerable time in jail. Two of Ghai’s firms were mentioned in the list of illegal travel agents released by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Ludhiana Tribune was the first to report the development of 105 FIRs registered against Ghai then in its columns. At present, 14 cases are under investigation in which the police are yet to complete probe, while in 86 cases, the police have submitted challan. In three cases, compromise was struck reportedly by compensating the victims of travel fraud. One travel fraud was cancelled and in one case, Ghai was acquitted by court. Ghai is out on bail presently.Prime properties of accused and family identified by police1. Double-storeyed house in Victoria Garden in the name of Ghai, his mother Suman and brother Munish Ghai.2. 99 Visa Consultancy office in Ghumar Mandi.3. Property at mohalla Gurunanak Nagar, Sundar Nagar, for registration deed of Rs 63 lakh, bought in the name of Ghai’s brother Munish.4. SCO No. 9 and 10 MD complex Samrala Chowk bought in the name of Ghai’s brother Munish Kumar.5. SCO No. 28 MD Complex, Samrala Chowk, bought in the name of brother.6. Shop on main South City road near Baba Chicken, bought from Deepak Prabhakar.7. Prime property bought from Usha Saggar by executing four registration deeds bought in name of Ghai and his brother.8. Plot bought in 2014 in Punjabi Bagh, Maya Puri, owned by Nitish Ghai, his first wife Amandeep Kaur and father Pawan Kumar.9. House in Hill Top Colony, Bhamian Khurd, bought in the name of Ghai’s mother Suman Bala.10. House in Hill Top Colony, Bhamian Kalan, bought in the name of Ghai’s father Pawan Kumar.Ghai’s offices raided by police in past||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-begin-attachment-write-to-ed-for-probe-203396
25-01-2021||---||No death; 26 fresh cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 24Twentysix persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported due to coronavirus in the district today.Meanwhile, three more students of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan, have tested positive for the virus. Earlier, three students and 13 teachers had tested positive from the same school, while one teacher had lost her life yesterday.The school has been closed till February 4.Micro-containment zone declared in JagraonIn addition, one new micro-containment zone was declared. The zone comprises Galib Kalan, Moti Bagh, Heera Bagh and Teg Bahadur Nagar. All these areas are in Jagraon and within the radius of 100-150m.“Three more students from the Galib Kalan school have tested positive and the total number has now gone up to six, while the reports of 128 more samples that were collected from the school are pending,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.District epidemiologist, Dr Ramesh, said they had conducted a survey at Galib Kalan and adjoining areas and the areas were declared micro-containment zone after six confirmed cases of Covid from there. Teachers from the school, who had tested positive, belong to different areas. Today, 35 samples were collected from the areas.At present, there are 260 active patients in the district.A total of 5,87,112 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 5,86,080 samples had been received, of which 5,56,680 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,032 samples were pending.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 25,529, while 3,871 patients belong to other districts/states. Now, the total number of persons who have lost their lives include 992 from Ludhiana and 472 from other districts.According to the Health Department, till date, 56,055 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 783. Today, 38 persons were sent for home quarantine.Today, 2,184 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results were expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to all residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently for everyone’s safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-26-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-203388
25-01-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||One of oldest girls’ schools awaits principal||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 24Shaheed-e-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Senior Secondary Smart School (Girls), Bharat Nagar Chowk, is one of the oldest and the biggest school for girls. Today, about 1,700 girl students are studying in the school, starting from Class VI to XII. But for the past about a month, the school awaits a principal, especially now, the need is more as exams will be held during the next two months. A principal is the need of the hour to focus on studies of the students.Teachers, peons, gardeners requiredNot only the principal, but also the posts of a Hindi lecturer and a social studies (master cadre) are also lying vacant. Besides, four peons, a full-time gardener and sweepers are also required in the school.One of the teachers said: ”This is a crucial time as exams will start in March and there is no principal. The officiating principal serves the purpose but we need a full-time principal as the former will have to take the classes also. There are so many issues, which have to be resolved by the principal. The principal was retired on December 31 and its almost a month now. But the post is vacant. The government should appoint the principal before the exams.”Proper cleaning is also missing in the school as there is only one sweeper to look after the entire school, spread on acres. Classrooms are small and when two sections are combined, the students are made to sit outside in severe cold conditions.Scrap lying at school for over three decadesBesides, there are two jeeps (scrap) parked on the premises, occupying two rooms and teachers have no idea about the owner of the vehicles. One of the senior teachers, Surinder Kaur, said these were lying here for over three decades and nobody has any information about the same.A part-time peon is staying in an accommodation in the school which is meant for a regular watchman. All these issues are not being addressed due to the absence of a permanent principal. DEO Rajinder Kaur said the DPI school office was told about the staff crunch many times and staff were adjusted accordingly by the department only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-of-oldest-girls-schools-awaits-principal-203389
25-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Assessing officials must be present with enforcement team in UUE cases: PSPCL||Ludhiana, January 24In what could be termed as a move to clip the wings of ‘dreaded’ enforcement officers, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has laid down that there will be no provision for separate officers for checking, inspection and assessment of ‘unauthorised use of electricity’ (UUE), including theft cases, both in the Electricity Act and Supply Code-2014 and it should be ensured that assessing officials (from the distribution wing) must be present or accompany the enforcement officials in cases involving the UUE or theft.In a memo (dated January 15, 2021), the Chief Engineer/Commercial of PSPCL has said: “It has been observed that enforcement officers are inspecting consumer premises in cases of the UUE (including theft) and thereafter, the notice of provisional and final assessment is being issued by field (distribution) offices. Such procedure having no regulatory support, in UUE cases where consumers approach the appellate authority or civil courts, cases are being decided against the PSPCL resulting in revenue loss.”The PSPCL, therefore, has said after deliberating on the matter, it has been decided that the officers of the enforcement wing will call assessing officers designated under Section 126 of the Electricity Act, 2003, on the spot where unauthorised use of electricity has been found.“Accordingly, in cases of the UUE, it must be ensured that when officers of the enforcement wing call the assessing officer to inform about the UUE, he/she will personally visit the premises/place of the consumer to accompany enforcement team and thereafter, the assessment order will be issued by the assessing officer concerned,” the memo said.WHAT THE MEMO SAYSIn a memo, the Chief Engineer/Commercial of PSPCL has said: “It has been observed that enforcement officers are inspecting consumer premises in cases of the UUE (including theft) and thereafter, the notice of provisional and final assessment is being issued by field (distribution) offices. Such procedure having no regulatory support, in UUE cases where consumers approach the appellate authority or civil courts, cases are being decided against the PSPCL resulting in revenue loss.” “Accordingly, in cases of the UUE, it must be ensured that when officers of the enforcement wing call the assessing officer to inform about the UUE, he/she will personally visit the premises/place of the consumer to accompany enforcement team and thereafter, the assessment order will be issued by the assessing officer concerned,” it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/assessing-officials-must-be-present-with-enforcement-team-in-uue-cases-pspcl-203390
25-01-2021||---||483 healthcare workers vaccinated at four sites||Ludhiana, January 24 A total of 483 healthcare workers were vaccinated at four sites as part of the Covid vaccination drive in the district today.  The number of session sites and vaccinations given have been increased by the district health department and on Friday and Saturday, the district had topped in vaccination in the state. On Saturday, 3,106 healthcare workers were vaccinated, while on Friday, 1,886 were vaccinated. “We are getting a good response to the vaccination drive and our district has been topping the numbers. Till now, no case of side-effects has been reported. Though getting vaccinated is voluntary, I would suggest that everyone should get vaccinated and it is completely safe,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar. Meanwhile, not many private hospitals were interested in continuing with the vaccination drive on Sunday due to staff shortage. Hospitals were of the view that the staff on Sunday is less compared to normal days, so those getting vaccinated will also be low.  In addition, giving chance to those healthcare workers who missed the shot earlier can now get themselves vaccinated on the spot at the allocated sites after producing their documents.  “If any healthcare worker has missed the chance of vaccination due to any reason, he/she can get vaccinated on the spot by visiting the designated session site,” said Dr Kakkar. The vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and only people who have got themselves registered on the government portal would be covered under it.  Even a fully cured Covid-19 patient should get himself vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/483-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-at-four-sites-203391
25-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Delhi-Ludhiana trains at 130 km/hr soon||Ludhiana, January 24With the completion of the work to upgrade tracks and signal system between Sahnewal-Ludhiana section and the approval accorded by the Commissioner of Railway Safety, many trains on New Delhi-Ludhiana section would soon be running at a speed of 130 kmph, thereby curtailing the journey time.Trials for the purpose have already commenced. Presently, most trains on this section operate at a speed ranging between 65 and 110 (highest) kmph.According to Anurag Kumar, Senior Divisional Engineer, Ferozepur Division, Northern Railway, work is being executed on war-footing to upgrade tracks and signals on Ludhiana-Jalandhar section with state-of-the-art machines and equipment such as T-28 and Unimate so as to strengthen the tracks for high-speed trains.“Work is in progress to increase ballast cushion of 40 sections of rail track from 300 to 350 mm and replacement of 52-kg section rails with 60-kg rails is going on at Ludhiana-Jalandhar section. At the same time, work to replace thick web switches with high-speed points and crossings is being carried out at all stations on this section,” he said.The railway official further said tracks on Sutlej bridge and all other bridges were being upgraded and a double distance signal system was proposed to be introduced to apprise the loco-pilot with advance status of signal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-ludhiana-trains-at-130-km-hr-soon-203267
25-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Scores take part  in 35-km Ludhiana tractor rally||Ludhiana, January 24Youth, women and children took part in a tractor march taken out in support of farmers here today. The rally presented a unique sight as city residents rode in tractors, jeeps, cars, two-wheelers and even bicycles for nearly 35 km through several parts of the city.Starting from from South City at 10 am, the tractor rally passed through the newly constructed Ladhowal bypass, GT Road (NH-44), Clock Tower, Jagraon Bridge, Ferozepur Road and Sidhwan canal. It concluded at the starting point after nearly six hours. A few women driving tractors and a group of Harley Davidson riders remained the star attraction of the march.All through the route, onlookers cheered and raised slogans in support of farmers while many others marched with the cavalcade for some distance.A prominent industrialist Ranjodh Singh said the NDA government was testing the patience of agitating farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scores-take-part-in-35-km-ludhiana-tractor-rally-203260
