26-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Police take slew of measures to curb traffic jams, mishaps||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 25Ludhiana, popularly known as the Manchester of India, has a dubious distinction of losing one precious life and leaving another injured in more than one road accidents reported to the police daily due to clogged roads and traffic chaos, which at times also lead to road rage cases.Taking cognisance of the situation, which turns grim during morning and evening hours, the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have initiated a slew of measures to ease traffic congestion and improve road safety in the industrial city.Anti-encroachment drive to ease traffic congestion; practical implementable solutions, controlling stray animal menace, reaching out to the students and youth, and recognition of Good Samaritans, and dedicated WhatsApp helpline are some of the major steps initiated under a special drive launched by the police to make the roads safer for commuters in Ludhiana.Sharing the initiatives which are in consonance with the ongoing month-long road safety celebrations, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, told The Tribune, on Monday, that the enforcement of traffic rules and awareness activities will go side by side to maintain the check and balance on the violations.The Commissionerate Police had been observing the road safety month under the theme, “Sadak suraksha, jeevan raksha”, since January 18 and holding daily activities involving the local residents and motorists to spread the message of road safety.To check the violation of traffic rules and catch the violators, around 250 traffic police personnel have been deputed at 134 strategic points, which were known for witnessing traffic chaos, in different parts of the city.ADCP Traffic Pragya Jain, who is spearheading the road safety awareness drive, said a special anti-encroachment drive was underway to remove the temporary and permanent obstacles coming in way of smooth flow of vehicular traffic.Implementing the practical implementable solutions, the cops were putting reflector tapes, making planned diversions, checking the presence of stray animals on roads to prevent injury to life and limb, besides other road safety measures.Under an outreach programme, the police were reaching out to the students and youngsters through short videos, audio films, and seeking their active participation in road safety awareness drive by enacting street plays and holding various competitions.To encourage people and ensure timely help at the accident spot, the Good Samaritans who help road traffic accident victims and help save the precious lives were being awarded recognition and appreciation certificates.Launching a dedicated WhatsApp helpline for the crowdsourcing of information via social media, Jain said the commuters can now share photos, videos, text and audio messages regarding traffic congestion and suggestions to make Ludhiana traffic better at 7837018575. “A special team has been constituted to act immediately on all the information received at the traffic helpline,” she disclosed.Laying special focus on the road safety of women and children, the ADCP Traffic has appealed to the women drivers to wear helmets, avoid loose dupattas on two-wheelers, which may cause injuries, and tuck in their toddlers safely while travelling by cars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-take-slew-of-measures-to-curb-traffic-jams-mishaps-203905
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Minister lays stone of leisure valley near Buddha Nullah in Haibowal||Ludhiana, January 25 Punjab Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria today laid the foundation stone of an upcoming leisure valley on six acres of land along the Buddha Nullah in the Haibowal area here. The leisure valley is being developed on a vacant piece of land by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) at a cost of Rs 2.96 crore.  Sarkaria was accompanied by LIT Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, MC Councillors Maharaj Singh Raji, Rashi Aggarwal, besides several others.  Speaking to mediapersons on the occasion, the minister said the leisure valley would have lush green lawns, shady trees, dedicated footpath for walkers, joggers, open gym, kids playing area, canopies for sitting, benches, tubewell for water supply, modern lighting and many more amenities. He said the Haibowal area, especially the localities along Budha Nullah lacked projects such as leisure valley and green belts and that was the reason that a vacant chunk of land had been identified for developing it. He expressed confidence that this project would prove very beneficial for the area residents while adding that the leisure valley would be developed in such a manner to have play areas for children, besides grounds and recreation areas for the adults.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-lays-stone-of-leisure-valley-near-buddha-nullah-in-haibowal-203906
26-01-2021||Ludhiana||Man posing as reader of judge booked for fraud||The Sarabha Nagar police have booked one Paramjit Singh, a resident of Akkuwal village near Sidhwan Bet in Jagraon tehsil, for cheating a person by impersonating as reader of a judge and extorting money on the promise of getting government job in sports quota.  One Ikbal Singh, a resident of Raja Garden, Barewal, lodged a complaint with the police that the said accused pretended to be the reader of a judge posted at Jalandhar and took Rs 3 lakh from him on the promise that he would get his son Gurpreet Singh a government job as a sports secretary from out of sports quota.  He neither got his son any government job nor did he return the money. The accused has been booked under section 420 of the Indian Penal Codeand further investigation was in progress. In another incident, one Jagjit Bhatia, a resident of Nanadpur near Sahnewal, lost Rs 10,000 cash to a fraudster who promised to get his cash deposited in the Grain Market, Sahnewal branch of State Bank of India on January 22. Jagjit told the police that he had gone to the bank to deposit cash where a youth was standing by a Jupiter scooter parked outside the bank.  He said the accused person told him to wait outside by his scooter while he would deposit the cash without having to stand in a queue. However, he later found that scooter belonged to somebody else and the accused disappeared with his money. A case was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-posing-as-reader-of-judge-booked-for-fraud-203907
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Burglary case cracked, 1 arrested||Ludhiana, January 25 The police claimed to have cracked a case of burglary and arrested one of the three accused persons. The police have also recovered part of the stolen household articles. Efforts were on to apprehend the other accused persons. The police said one Amit Kumar, a resident of New Fiends Colony, had reported theft at his house between January 13-24, when he was at Kathua.  He said when he came back, the house had been forced opened and several items including one LCD, two LPG cylinders, a pair of earrings and Rs 66,000 in cash were missing.  In the course of investigation, the police arrested one Yuvraj Singh, a resident of Prem Nagar and Mohit, a resident of Bindra Colony, and an unknown person as co-accused in the crime. One LCD and two gas cylinders were recovered from the accused while all three of them have been booked under sections 457/380/34 of the IPC and further investigation was on. Seven booked formobile snatching The police have booked five persons in three different cases of mobile snatching in the city. One Bahadur Lal, a resident of Kailash Nagar, had lodged a complaint that two bike-borne youth had snatched his Oppo mobile phone on the evening of January 17 in Hargobind Nagar where he had gone to meet his brother. The police later identified the snatchers as Mohit Kumar, a resident of Durgapuri Haibowal and Sahil Kumar, a resident of Islam Ganj. The duo has been booked under sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC.  In a similar incident, one Ankaj, a resident of Anand Vihar in Phullanpwal, complained that three persons snatched his mobile phone, when he was playing outside his house with his daughter on January 23. During the investigation, the police identified the snatchers as Sunny, Sahil and Raju, all residents of Phullanwal. The accused have been booked under sections 379-B/34 of the IPC. An unidentified motorcycle rider snatched a mobile handset from one Arti Kumari, a resident of Deep Nagar, Civil Lines, on January 21 when the complainant was going from Dandi Swami Chowk towards Prince Hostel side. The police have registered a case under section 379-B of the IPC and were investigating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/burglary-case-cracked-1-arrested-203908
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Four arrested for gambling||Ludhiana, January 25  The police have arrested four persons for gambling and have recovered cash along with slips and coloured strikers being used to cheat gullible persons.    The police said one Ashok Kumar, a resident of Gagandeeep Colony, was nabbed while playing darra-satta near Milan Palace on Kakowal Road and Rs 850 in cash were seized from him. A case under sections 13A/3/67 of the Gambling Act has been registered against the accused.   Another person, identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Hira Nagar, was arrested by police for indulging in gambling on Kakowal Road. Gambling slips and Rs 650 cash were recovered from the accused person who has been booked under sections 13A/3/67 of the Gambling Act. Cops have nabbed two persons namely Karamjit Singh, resident of village Daad and his accomplice Deepak Chhabra, resident of Harkrishan Nagar in Giaspura for inviting bets through coloured strikers near Mata Rani Chowk. The police have recovered Rs 1,490 in cash and incriminating strikers from the duo who has been booked under sections 13-A/3/67 of the Gambling Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-arrested-for-gambling-203909
26-01-2021||Ludhiana||Panel inspects Bhai Chattar Singh Park site||Following the directions of the National Green Tribunal, a committee, which has been formed by  the DC, Ludhiana, inspected the Bhai Chattar Singh Park site on Monday. Earlier, an advocate Gurinderpreet Singh had moved the NGT against the MC’s plan about setting up of a garbage dump inside Bhai Chatar Singh Park and in its vicinity. In September 2020, the NGT had ordered the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Ludhiana District Magistrate to verify the facts and furnish a factual and action-taken report to it within two months. Notably, at present, garbage is dumped under the flyover alongside the Scooter Market opposite Bhai Chatar Singh Park but the market shopkeepers are suffering a lot due to the dump. A few years ago, the MC had set up a structure on the park land for shifting of the scooter market dump. But the residents had strongly opposed move of shifting dump to the park land. The civic body later constructed a base along flyover wall near other side of the park. Gurinderpreet Singh, a lawyer, who lives near the park, said, “There should be no garbage dump at Bhai Chatar Singh Park and in its immediate vicinity. The dump structure from the park land should be removed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-inspects-bhai-chattar-singh-park-site-203910
26-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Padma Shri for Ludhiana bizwoman Rajni Bector||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 25From an unknown name to a name that counts today. Thus reads the success story of an octogenarian Ludhiana businesswoman, Rajni Bector, who rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to successfully raising a whooping Rs 541 crore from the market, and become an undisputed business tycoon.The initial public offering (IPO) of her company — Mrs Bectors Food Specialities — having made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listing at 74 per cent premium on the offer price, is fast becoming the buzz word in the business world.Recognising her contribution to the trade and industry, the Centre on Monday conferred the prestigious Padma Shri to Rajni. She was among the five recipients from the state, who have been honoured with the fourth highest civilian award.“I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” said the proud recipient of the Padma Shri. Making a modest beginning, Rajni began her in-house baking and ice-cream shop after doing a baking course at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in early 80s but till the time her businessman husband bought her a professional ice-cream churner by putting in an investment of Rs 20,000 in mid-80s, this tall, fair, and rather impressive woman was yet to earn any profit.The Rs 20,000 investment made her business grow by leaps and bounds and in another five years, her brand Cremica, which she derived from her lavish use of cream as a key ingredient in her delicacies, grew to a remarkable Rs 5-crore turnover. Mrs Bector soon became a household name and her firm clocked a turnover of Rs 20 crore in 1995.Her meteoric rise crossed all boundaries when all leading international and national brands — McDonald’s, Café Coffee Day, Barista, Air India, Indian Railways, Taj Group, Hindustan Unilever, ITC, Spencer’s, Big Bazaar, Mondelez, Domino’s, Papa John’s, Pizza Hut – became her direct customers buying from her buns, burgers, breads, biscuits, ketchups, dips, spreads etc, widening manifold the horizons of her sales network.Ludhiana became a permanent abode for Rajni after she was married to Dharam Vir at an early age of 17. At that time, she was studying at Miranda House in Delhi, where her family had settled after moving from Pakistan post-Partition. She was born in Karachi in 1940 and was brought up in Lahore. Having left her studies midway in Delhi, Rajni completed her graduation after marriage.It was in mid-70s when all three sons of the Bectors — Ajay, Akshay and Anoop — left them for boarding classes in Mussoorie that Rajni moved out of her house and took up baking classes at the PAU. Soon, she started putting up stalls of her newly acquired baking delicacies at fetes of schools and colleges, besides local fairs.Specialising in pizza making, Mrs Bector, as she is popularly known, started giving demos of baking and making pizzas at the all-woman kitty parties and other social gatherings in the ‘Manchester of India’ in the late 70s when pizza was still a novelty, and only Nirula’s in Delhi and Hot Millions in Chandigarh, used to sell the Italian dish at premium prices.Joining the elite club of Ludhiana tycoons after Mittals of Bharti, Munjals of Hero, Oswals of Monte Carlo, and Guptas of Trident, Mrs Bectors Food Specialities today claims 12 per cent share in India’s total biscuit exports. Besides exporting products to 64 countries across six continents in the world, the 25-year-old company, established on September 15, 1995, also supplies bakes and cakes to retail consumers in 26 states across the country. Up to March 31, the company had a far-reaching supply chain for biscuits and breads through its 196 super stockists and 748 distributors, further supplying to customers through 4.58 lakh retailers and 4,422 preferred exclusive outlets.Relatively unknown and the inconspicuous Ludhiana woman’s towering personality, hard work, grit, and focus has finally paid dividends and she emerged as a business tycoon with her entity posting the best listing gain this year after Burger King and Happiest Minds, which gained 130 per cent and 123 per cent, respectively.Basking in the glory of its spectacular success in the stock market, the company plans to capitalise on growth in the packaged food industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/padma-shri-for-ludhiana-bizwoman-rajni-bector-203911
26-01-2021||---||Ludhiana police chief, Vigilance SSP to get police medals||Ludhiana, January 25Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Vigilance Bureau, Ludhiana Range, Rupinder Singh, have made Ludhiana proud.IPS officer Agrawal and PPS officer Singh were among 16 personnel from the Punjab Police who were conferred the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service by the Union Government on the occasion of Republic Day.The IGP-rank 1999-batch IPS officer, Agrawal, had joined as the Ludhiana police chief on September 10, 2019. The 45-year-old topper in BTech Electronics and Communication Engineering was credited with controlling crime in the most populated city of the state. He also did a remarkable work in the fight against Covid and ensured safety of residents.While maintaining the law and order situation during the pandemic-induced curfew and lockdown, the Ludhiana police, under the command of Agrawal, ensured peaceful movement of a record 3.5 lakh migrants from the industrial city to their native places through special trains.“Keeping in view his exemplary and unblemished service record and outstanding performance, dedication and commitment to duty, he has been decorated with the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Services on the occasion of Republic Day,” the spokesperson said.The SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Ludhiana Range, Rupinder Singh, who is the grandson of late President Giani Zail Singh, has been awarded the prestigious medal for his efficient control over crime relating to corruption and catching red-handed several corrupt public servants, besides rendering his services towards public welfare works during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-chief-vigilance-ssp-to-get-police-medals-203912
26-01-2021||---||27 test positive, no death in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 25Twentyseven persons tested positive for Covid today while no death was reported for the second consecutive day. Now, there are 25,556 confirmed cases in the district while 992 have lost their lives so far.Highest number of health workers vaccinatedToday, 2,405 healthcare workers were given the jab in the district. There were 32 session sites for the vaccination.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said till date 9,653 healthcare workers had been administered the Covid-19 vaccination in the district, which was the highest number in any district of the state.He said in the first phase, only healthcare workers of both government and private hospitals were being administered the vaccine. The vaccination was being done under the supervision of expert doctors and the person was observed for 30 minutes after its administration.District Immunisation Officer Kiran Gill said the vaccination was getting a huge response in the district and till date, no side effects of the vaccine had been reported.The Civil Surgeon assured that the vaccine was safe and Health Department officials were getting themselves vaccinated in a large number.Dr Kiran said for any information related to the vaccination, one could contact at helpline number 104. They urged residents to not believe in any rumours spread on social media.Six more students +ve in Galib KalanMeanwhile, the testing of students of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan, continued today as well. Today, the Covid test of 125 students was conducted at the dispensary. Six more students from the school have tested positive. The Health Department continued its survey in the area and barricading has also been done in the mini-containment zone. Till now, samples of 402 students have been taken and their reports are pending. Now, total students from the school who have tested positive are 12 and in addition to this, one more person from the village has tested positive. Now, total number of cases from Galib Kalan have reached 13. Earlier, 13 teachers, of which one has lost her life, have tested positive from the school. These teachers belong to different areas. If more cases continue to pour, the area will be declared a containment zone. Earlier, six students were tested positive from the school. The school has been shut till February 4, 2021.There are 25,556 confirmed cases in the district and 992 have lost their lives so far. Now, there are 287 active patients in the district. Today, 18 persons were sent for home quarantine.A total of 5,88,732 samples have been taken, of which reports of 5,86,887 have been received. Of these, 5,57,452 samples were found negative while reports of 1,845 were pending.He said now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,556 while 3,879 patients belong to other districts/states.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said as many as 1,620 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/27-test-positive-no-death-in-ludhiana-203913
26-01-2021||Ludhiana||Bal Puraskar for Ludhiana girl||Namya Joshi, a Class 8 student of Sat Paul Mittal School, has done the region proud as she has been conferred with the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021, the highest civilian award for an individual below 18 years.“I have got the recognition in the field of innovation for my work on ‘Minecraft’,” she says. ‘Minecraft’ is a skill-based learning programme, which gives teachers and students a platform for better understanding and makes learning interesting. A keynote speaker at ‘KEOS 2019 – a global education conference’ in Jyvaskyla, Finland, she has got many national and international achievements to her credit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bal-puraskar-for-ludhiana-girl-203571
26-01-2021||---||Padma Shri for Patiala orthopaedist, Ludhiana businesswoman||Patiala/Ludhiana, January 25A Patiala orthopaedist and a Ludhiana businesswoman are among five from Punjab to receive this year’s Padma Shri — the fourth-highest civilian award — announced by the Union Government on the eve of Republic Day today.Dr Ratan Lal Mittal, a former Professor and Head of Orthopaedic Department at Government Medical College, Patiala, is known for performing rare clubfoot surgeries free of cost. Dr Mittal has done cutting-edge research on severe, rigid and neglected clubfoot deformities — highly prevalent in lower and middle income countries, including India.Dr Mittal, while talking to The Tribune, said: “This is the result of my 60 years of hard work. I feel satisfied now.”Octogenarian businesswoman Rajni Bector rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to become an undisputed business tycoon. The IPO of her company — Mrs Bectors Food Specialities — made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listed at 74 per cent premium on the offer price. “I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” she said.The other recipients of the award are Prakash Kaur (social work), Lajwanti (art) and Kartar Singh (art).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/padma-shri-for-patiala-orthopaedist-ludhiana-businesswoman-203577
26-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana businesswoman Rajni Bector bags Padma Shri||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 25From an unknown name to a name that counts today. Thus reads the success story of an octogenarian Ludhiana businesswoman, Rajni Bector, who rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to successfully raising a whooping Rs 541 crore from the market, and become an undisputed business tycoon.The IPO of her company—Mrs Bector's Food Specialities—having made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listing at 74 per cent premium on the offer price, is fast becoming the buzz word in the business world. Unfortunately on this day three years ago she lost her husband, Dharam Vir Bector.Recognising her contribution to the trade and industry, the Union Government on Monday conferred the prestigious Padma Shri to Rajni. She was among five recipients from Punjab, who have been honoured with the fourth highest civilian award.“I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” said the proud recipient of the Padma Shri.Making a modest beginning, Rajni began her in-house baking and ice-cream shop after doing a baking course at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in early 80s, but till the time her businessman husband bought her a professional ice-cream churner by putting in an investment of Rs 20,000 in mid-80s, this tall, fair, and rather impressive woman was yet to earn any profit.The Rs 20,000 investment made her business grow by leaps and bounds and in another 5 years, her brand Cremica, which she derived from her lavish use of cream as a key ingredient in her delicacies, grew to a remarkable Rs 5-crore turnover. Mrs Bector soon became a household name and her firm clocked a turnover of Rs 20 crore in 1995.Her meteoric rise crossed all boundaries when all leading international and national brands – McDonald’s, Café Coffee Day, Barista, Air India, Indian Railways, Taj Group, Hindustan Unilever, ITC, Spencer’s, Big Bazaar, Mondelez, Domino’s, Papa John’s, Pizza Hut – became her direct customers buying from her — buns, burgers, breads, biscuits, ketchups, dips, spreads et al, widening manifold the horizons of her sales network.Ludhiana became a permanent abode for Rajni after she was married to Dharam Vir at an early age of 17. At that time, she was studying at Miranda House in Delhi, where her family had settled after moving from Pakistan post-Partition. She was born in Karachi in 1940 and was brought up in Lahore. Having left her studies midway in Delhi, Rajni completed her graduation after marriage.It was in mid-70s when all three sons of the Bectors – Ajay, Akshay and Anoop – left them for boarding classes in Mussoorie that Rajni moved out of her house and took up baking classes at PAU. Soon, she started putting up stalls of her newly acquired baking delicacies at fetes of schools and colleges besides local fairs.Specialising in pizza making, Mrs Bector, as she is popularly known, started giving demos of baking and making pizzas at the all-woman kitty parties and other social gatherings in the ‘Manchester of India’ in late 70s when pizza was still a novelty, and only Nirula’s in Delhi and Hot Millions in Chandigarh, used to sell this Italian dish at premium prices.Joining the elite club of Ludhiana tycoons after Mittals of Bharti, Munjals of Hero, Oswals of Monte Carlo and Guptas of Trident, Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities today claims 12 per cent share in India’s total biscuit exports.Besides exporting products to 64 countries across 6 continents in the world, the 25-year-old company, established on September 15, 1995, also supplies bakes and cakes to retail consumers in 26 states across India. Up to March 31, the company had a far reaching supply chain for biscuits and breads through its 196 super-stockists and 748 distributors, further supplying to customers through 4.58 lakh retailers and 4,422 preferred exclusive outlets.Relatively unknown and the inconspicuous Ludhiana woman’s towering personality, hard work, grit, and focus has finally paid dividends and she emerged as a business tycoon with her entity posting the best listing gain this year after Burger King and Happiest Minds, which gained 130 per cent and 123 per cent, respectively.Basking in the glory of its spectacular success in the stock market, the company plans to capitalise on growth in the packaged food industry.Given its brand positioning in north India and wide distribution network across the globe, the company plans to utilise net proceeds of the issue for part-financing the expansion of its Rajpura manufacturing facility with the introduction of a new production line for biscuits, and for general corporate purpose. Achieving the benefit of listing on the stock exchanges was also on the priority list of Ludhiana lady’s home-to-brand company, which markets a wide range of biscuits and breads under the brands—“Mrs Bector’s Cremica” and “English Oven”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-businesswoman-rajni-bector-bags-padma-shri-203547
