28-01-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana girl bags national award||DGSG Public schoolA cultural programme was organised on the auspicious occasion of Republic Day in DGSG Public school. To represent the history of India, Republic Day was celebrated with great pomp and show. A programme was started with the slogans of ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Mera Bharat Mahan’. A cultural and patriotic programme was organised to mark the occasion. Students represented different activities highlighting the great history of India. Students also sung group songs ‘Ae Mere Watan Ke Logo’ and ‘Mera Mulk Mera Desh’ and also showcased the glorious heritage, culture and history of the country through poems and speeches. All these patriotic items filled the spirit of patriotism in the students. Gurbachan Singh Grewal, school president and manager Harjeet Kaur wished Republic Day to all students and teachers.DAV PUBLIC SCHOOLThe school initiated its first ever ‘Virtual English Fest-2021’- a fortnight-long online venture to enhance the English skills of students. The event was inaugurated by Principal Satwant Kaur Bhullar along with academic supervisors and HODs of various departments with the recitation of Gayatri mantra. Students of classes IX and X displayed their talent in debate and extemporary competition and enthralled the platform with their convincing thoughts and mighty speech. Jaideep Kaur, Academic Supervisor and HOD English, acknowledged the efforts of teachers and students for accomplishing the objectives of the fest successfully. Bhullar extended her heartiest appreciation to all the participants and congratulations to all the winners. .BCM KINDERGARTEN, BASANT AVENUEThe school organised a drive through event on Republic Day. Children visited the school along with the parents in their own vehicles which were beautifully decorated with tri-colour flags and balloons. They all were very excited to see the main attractions like fairy land, animal kingdom, sand castle and army tank. The whole school was embellished in vibrant colours of patriotism. Principal Dr Vandna Shahi welcomed all parents and children and wished them a Happy Republic Day.DAV Public School, Pakhowal RoadThe budding orators of the school displayed their language skills in the online English Fest-2021. The creative pool of activities rendered a golden platform for all the students to hone their English language skills. Under the guidance of school language genius and creative minds, the students left no stone unturned to prepare and produce mesmerising presentations. ‘Footprints-The Moral Story Telling Show’ by the cherubs of Classes I and II and ‘Roleopedia-The Art of Enactment’ by the angels of Class III stole the limelight of the English fest.BCM School Chandigarh RoadThe school celebrated Republic Day with grandeur. Principal DP Guleria and Dr Prem Kumar, Manager, BCM Schools, hoisted the National Flag on the school premises. Monika Dua, Principal, BCM B.Ed College, a few invited parents and alumni of the school graced the occasion. Teachers expressed their patriotic emotions through songs. The art and craft department decorated the school ground aesthetically in colours of Tricolour. The teachers too adorn themselves in Tricolour outfits exhibiting love for nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-girl-bags-national-award-204395
28-01-2021||---||Smuggled liquor seized||Ludhiana, January 27The Tibba police arrested Gurpret Singh, a resident of Star City Colony, on a tipoff that he was involved in the sale of smuggled liquor. A police party conducted a raid at his residence in street No. 6 of the colony and seized 12 bottles of XXX Dollar Rum from him. A case under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smuggled-liquor-seized-204397
28-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Vaccination site established in town||Mandi Ahmedgarh, January 27Following state government’s orders to expedite the Covid-19 vaccine drive, the administration has established a vaccination site at a private hospital in the local town.Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey inaugurated the Covashield vaccination by monitoring inoculation of first shot to Director of the Hind Hospital Dr Puneet Hind. Senior Medical Officer Fatehgarh Panj Garayian Dr Geeta supervised the inaugural session of the vaccination drive that would continue in future at the hospital.Referring to information received from authorities in the health department Vikramjit Singh Panthey informed that the administration had allowed establishment of the vaccination center at the Hind Hospital after receiving their (management of hospital) willingness to host the event.Investigations revealed that Hind Hospital is the only private healthcare center of the subdivision to be allowed to undertake vaccination drive on behalf of the State Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-site-established-in-town-204398
28-01-2021||Ludhiana||Woman beaten up by in-laws, 4 booked||The police have booked four members of family for beating up a married woman over some family dispute. One Shilpa Jain, a resident of New Madhopuri, said in a complaint to the police that she had gone to her parents’ house on January 22 after persistent pestering and torture by family members of her in-laws. She said when she came back on January 24, her husband Nitin Jain, along with father Mohan Lal Jain, brother Deepak Jain, his wife Pooja Jain and mother-in-law Neelam Jain beat her up with rods and threatened to kill her. The police have booked four members of the Jain family under sections 323, 341, 506 and 149 of the IPC and a probe was on.In another case of assault, the Dehlon police have registered a case under sections 341, 326, 148, 149, 506, 427 of the IPC against five persons, Dicky Gill, Deepak Gill, Veeru, Gopi and Gaggi, all residents of Gill village and their 2-3 unidenitified accomplices on the complaint of one Manpreet Singh. The complainant alleged that the accused persons attacked on him with swords near Ring Road City colony in the village on the afternoon of January 24 over some old dispute. Manpreet said during the scuffle, his mobile phone was broken and he had sustained injuries for which he was treated at a hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-beaten-up-by-in-laws-4-booked-204396
28-01-2021||Ludhiana||Residents of EWS Colony threaten stir||Infuriated over the MC’s failure in resolving the problem of contaminated water supply and overflowing sewers, residents of EWS Colony on Tajpur Road, Ludhiana, have threatened to stage dharna at MC’s Zone B office, if the issues are not resolved in next two days. They submitted a memorandum at MC’s Zone B office on Wednesday about the problems being faced by them.The residents blamed the MC for ignoring the problem of overflowing sewers and contaminated water supply in the area for a long time.Rajwinder Singh, of Textile Hosiery Kamgaar Union, said, “Residents have been suffering a lot due to poor water supply and choked sewers. The sewage waste flows into some houses in the area too due to overflowing sewers. The sewage is also getting mixed in water supply pipes. Due to contaminated water supply, the people generally complain about stomach-related health problems.”A group of residents said that they are forced to live under poor sanitary conditions as no attention is being paid by the civic body.They threatened the civic body authorities that if the problem is not resolved within next two days, they will be forced to stage a big dharna at MC’s Zone B office and MC authorities will be held responsible for the same.MC’s Executive Engineer, Ranbir Singh said that the staff has been deployed in the area and problem will be resolved by tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-of-ews-colony-threaten-stir-204399
28-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana Municipal Corporation sans dedicated team to check quality of roads||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 27The MC has planned to reconstruct/recarpet a number of roads this year, however, its B&R branch faces staff shortage. To keep check the quality of roads, there is no special quality control team of the MC at present.Notably, the civic body had earlier, especially set up a quality control team for improving the quality of roads in the city. The quality control team comprises of engineers, including two outsourced SDOs Ramneek Singh and Lipsa Sharma had then inspected different roads in the city and found “discrepancies” in several road projects.When samples of road material and interlocking tiles were collected by the team, a number of such samples had failed the quality test last year.The MC had then ordered to stall the payment of the contractors.The MC later ended the service contract of all outsourced engineers of the B&R branch, including the two SDOs of the quality control team who used to collect samples. According to the sources, these SDOs had also submitted a report, raising questions over Jagraon Bridge retaining wall work.An audit report, prepared by WAPCOS Limited, recently also pointed out that the MC had made extra payment of Rs44.70 lakh to the contractor concerned for the project regarding construction of Jagraon Bridge retaining wall and approaches work.The road samples are not being collected timely to check the quality of roads at present as per sources. It is required to mention that some Opposition leaders had also raised questions over the role of some MC’s B&R branch officials concerned and contractors due to failed samples last year.Leader of Opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “The MC should take steps for collection and testing of road material of all newly constructed or carpeted roads in the city. Transparency should be ensured.”An official of the B&R branch said, “There is a shortage of staff in the B&R branch of the MC. There is a need of more staff to look after upcoming road works.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he will look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-municipal-corporation-sans-dedicated-team-to-check-quality-of-roads-204400
28-01-2021||---||Minister unfurls Tricolour, salutes soldiers in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 27The district-level Republic Day function was celebrated with fervour at Guru Nanak Stadium on Tuesday. Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria was the chief guest on the occasion. He unfurled the National Flag and inspected the guard of honour and also took salute from the parade.Distributes sewing machines, tricyclesDeputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal were also present. The march past was led by ACP Randhir Singh.Speaking on the occasion, Sarkaria remembered the contribution of Dr BR Ambedkar in drafting the Constitution of India. He said the Constitution is a charter of rights and duties of fellow countrymen and called upon the people to follow the constitution while fulfilling their duties towards the country, which would be the real tribute to the freedom fighters. He also appreciated the efforts of the armed forces for their service towards the nation.He also urged Punjabis to contribute for overall development of the state.The minister remembered the sacrifices made by freedom fighters, who laid down their lives for the independence of the country.He called upon the people, especially the youth, to contribute towards the progress of the nation and the state. He reiterated that the state government would leave no stone unturned to restore the glory of the state and the government was committed to bringing Punjab back on the path of development.The chief guest honoured the achievers from different fields. He also distributed tricycles and sewing machines among the needy persons.In view of Covid pandemic and the government directions, no cultural function and PT show were organised on the occasion.Sarkaria also flagged off 14 tableaus of different departments, who had displayed their achievements.MLAs Surinder Dawar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid and Sanjay Talwar, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, District and Sessions Judge Gurbir Singh, Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, PSIDC chairman KK Bawa, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, GLADA Chief Administrator Parminder Singh Gill, ADC (Development) Sandeep Kumar, and ADC (General) Amarjit Bains were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-unfurls-tricolour-salutes-soldiers-in-ludhiana-204385
28-01-2021||Lovleen Bains---||Residents of Ward No. 3 rue civic body’s apathy||Doraha, January 27 Facing neglect from area coucillors, residents of Ward Number 3 of Doraha have complained of negligible development of their ward. The huge garbage dump and broken roads trouble the residents at all times. “We have simply no faith left in any candidate whatsoever. We vote for a candidate so that he or she may come to our rescue in the hour of need. Our problem still persists and no councillor has been able to pull us out of the hell we are residing in. In such deplorable conditions how can we bestow our faith in these candidates? Voting is simply useless and none is going to serve any purpose once in the chair,” rued a distraught voter of the ward number. Several acres of land, specifically allocated for setting up of an Advanced Training Institute, has been transformed into a dumping ground in this ward. “The indifference of the Pollution Control Board and the Municipal Council of Doraha has cost us dear. This particular spot is posing serious health hazards, exposing us to a vulnerable number of diseases. We had demanded the setting up of a water treatment plant which we think is the only befitting solution to the problem of drainage but no councillor or official has helped us. The gases emitted out of the dump are a major health hazard for the residents,” rued Rakesh Bector, a resident of Ward Number 3. Broken and potholed road of Ward Number 3 is still another evergreen problem which has plagued the residents ever since. But for once in ten years, as the residents tell, the road has never been recarpeted or laid again. Due to absence of any recarpeting, coupled with poor maintenance, the condition of the road has worsened to the extent that it is no less than a death trap, especially for the two wheelers that ply in huge numbers on this particular stretch. “Although this road serves as a major link between Doraha and the surrounding villages, little attention has been paid to improve its condition. This road is taken up by the surrounding villagers as a matter of routine. The rains play further havoc and the stones raised by the vehicles break the glasses of the shops situated on the road side. The problem is further aggravated at the time of night with reduced visibility and poor judgment,” complained Pankaj Gautam, another resident. “No street lights, dug up potholed streets, uncovered and broken manholes- is what defines this ward,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-of-ward-no-3-rue-civic-bodys-apathy-204402
28-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two held with stolen vehicles||Shop burgledLudhiana: Sohan Lal, a resident of Bhaini Sahib, reported that thieves broke into his building materials shop late on the night of January 24 by breaking a rear-side wall of the shop and took away two LED monitors and cash lying in the shop. Cops registered a case under Sections 457/380 of the IPC in the matter. TNSMan held with 5 gm heroinLudhiana: The police arrested one Sahil, a resident of Nali Mohalla on Deepak Cinema Road, while coming on foot along the railway tracks from the Nali Mihalla side. On suspicion, the person was detained and on his search, 5 gm of heroin was seized from him. The accused was booked under Sections 21A/61/85 of the NDPS Act. Similarly, an undertrial, Salim, a resident of Hari Krishan Colony here, was found to be carrying 15 gm of an intoxicating powder during a random search in the Central jail on January 21. TNSFactory worker held for sodomyLudhiana: The focal point police have arrested one Krishan Nandan Kumar, an employee in a card board manufacturing unit named Udera Gatta Factory in Focal Point, here for allegedly sodomising a seven-year-old boy. Savita, victim’s mother, lodged a complaint with the police saying she had taken her son along with her to the factory on January 24. “While the boy was playing around, the accused allegedly took him to a room in the factory premises with promise of offering him biscuits. After some time, when I went around searching for my son, I saw the accused making an attempt to sodomise him in a small room along the boundary wall of the factory,” she said adding that the accused fled from the spot when she raised an alarm. The police have booked the accused person under Sections 377/511 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act and in the course of investigation the accused was arrested. Further investigation was in progress. TNS300 take part in makeup eventLudhiana: Over 300 makeup enthusiasts from across nation (Punjab, Chandigarh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan etc.) attended the ‘Makeup Masterclass’ organised by Mani Ram Balwant Rai at Hyatt Regency on Tuesday. A famous makeup artist UV Ghai from UV Ghai Bridal Makeup and Academy, Ludhiana was the speaker of the day. During the class, the educator Ghai gave a demo to the audience regarding the use of different shades during bridal makeup. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-with-stolen-vehicles-204401
28-01-2021||---||Covid-19: 2 deaths; 38 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 27Covid claimed the life of two persons during the past 24 hours, while 38 fresh cases of the virus were reported from Ludhiana district.The Health Department confirmed that three persons, including two from Ludhiana and one from Hoshiarpur district, have died of virus. In Ludhiana, a 46-year-old man from Shimlapuri and a 65-year-old woman from Kaunke village lost their lives.11,845 receive jabOut of the 38 fresh cases, five patients came in contact of positive patients, 12 visited OPDs and 16 with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner. Besides, five others, including a healthcare worker, have tested positive for virus.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there were 324 active patients in the district at present. He said till date, a total of 5,92,670 samples had been taken, out of which the reports of 5,91,089 samples had been received, of which 5,61,568 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,581 samples were pending.He said now the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 25,628, while 3,893 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who had lost their lives included 996 from Ludhiana and 474 from other districts.Till date, 56,124 persons had been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons was 689. Today, 36 persons were sent for home quarantine.A total of 2,094 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently for everyone’s safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-2-deaths-38-ve-in-ludhiana-district-204388
28-01-2021||---||Questions raised on allotment of shares in CETP||Ludhiana, January 27The owners of some dyeing and washing units have raised questions over the proposed allotment of shares in the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) on the Tajpur road in Ludhiana.The units will be allowed to discharge water to the CETP as per the allotment of shares.PDA secretary refutes claimMandeep Singh of Saral Dyers said, “There is no transparency in allotment criteria for shares in the CETP. No statements of account of the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) are being released.”“Even a report on the discharge of water is not being made available to the members of the PDA and have never been released in public domain. The only aim of the secretary and his group of directors is to manipulate the allotment of shares for their benefit. We demand from the PPCB to investigate the matter and take the required action,” he added.Meanwhile, senior environmental engineer of the PPCB, Sandeep Bahl, said the PPCB had earlier issued directions to streamline the working of the special purpose vehicle for the allotment of shares in the CETP. The matter would be discussed with the chairmanship of the PPCB chairman at a meeting on January 29, he said.The secretary of the PDA Bobby Jindal has refuted the allegations. Jindal said there was complete transparency in the allotment of shares. “There is nothing wrong. Actually, these persons had earlier applied for less shares, but now they are demanding more shares. They are levelling false allegations against us,” he said.Jindal further said that they were going to move the NGT against the Punjab Pollution Control Board’s fresh conditions regarding the allotment of shares in the CETP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/questions-raised-on-allotment-of-shares-in-cetp-204393
28-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two injured in road mishaps||Gurdeep Singh (22), a resident of Kheri village, was injured and had to be admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital for treatment after a speeding Swift car hit his motor cycle (PB-08BA-1279) from behind near the Dugri lights traffic signal here today.The mother of the victim, Bhupinder Kaur, reported to the police that she and her son were going towards Model Town when the rashly driven car hit the two-wheeler. “Both of us fell and Gurdeep sustained serious injuries and had to be rushed to hospital, while the car driver managed to flee from the spot,” she said.The police booked the unidentified car driver under Sections 279/337/338/427 of the IPC. In another case of reckless driving, Darshan Singh (46), a resident of Himmat Singh Nagar, sustained injuries as a truck reportedly came from the wrong side and hit him while he was standing along his parked a bike (PB-10BZ-1891) near the Verka booth on Tibba Chowk.Darshan Singh said in a report lodged with the police that the driver of the truck (NZ-01C-5274) sped from the spot after the accident. Cops traced the truck driver from the registration number of the vehicle and the accused, identified as Alam Khan, Guru Nanak Rod, Dewas Naka, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, had been booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-injured-in-road-mishaps-204403
28-01-2021||---||Status report sought on illegal colonies by master town planner of Ludhiana||Ludhiana, January 27Following a complaint, the master town planner (MTP) of Ludhiana has given directions to all assistant town planners (ATPs) of the Municipal Corporation’s building branch to submit a status report on the illegal colonies in their respective zones.SS Bindra, MTP, has told the ATPs to submit a certificate whether there is any new illegal colony which has not applied for regularisation in its respective zone.A resident Kuldeep Singh Khaira had complained to the MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal that no survey had been conducted under the MC’s jurisdiction regarding the unauthorised colonies. Following the complaint, the commissioner directed the building branch officials to look into the matter.Khaira said, “I had got a reply from the civic body’s building branch that no survey had been conducted by the MC regarding the unauthorised colonies. I had made a request to the MC Commissioner to direct the officials to conduct the survey of the unauthorised colonies in all areas under the MC’s limit.”“The civic body should take action against the established or being established new unauthorised colonies whose developers have not applied for regularisation till date under the different regularisation policies notified by the government,” Khaira said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/status-report-sought-on-illegal-colonies-by-master-town-planner-of-ludhiana-204404
