30-01-2021||---||76-yr-old man dies; 46 test +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 29Fortysix persons have tested positive for Covid while an elderly person lost his life to the virus today. Total confirmed cases from Ludhiana have now reached 25,721 while 997 persons have lost their life due to the virus in the district.Today, three patients, belonging to other districts, were on ventilator support.The person who lost his life today was a 76-year-old man from Dhandra village, who was also suffering from a coronary artery disease and admitted to GTB Hospital.One more student tests positiveOne more student from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Galib Kalan, tested positive for Covid today and now, a total of 27 students and 14 teachers have tested positive at the school. One teacher has lost her life.Of the total confirmed cases of 25,721, the highest number belong to Ludhiana city. Till now, 22,852 persons have tested positive from the city, 848 from Jagraon, 743 from Khanna, 518 from Raikot, 420 from Samrala and 340 from Payal.Of the total 997 persons who lost their lives, 867 belonged to the city, 37 were from Khanna, 35 from Jagraon, 25 from Samrala, 18 from Payal and 15 from Raikot.As many as 1,610 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Sukhjeevan Kakkar, said it was the duty of people to follow the Covid safety measures.Meanwhile 1,238 healthcare workers were vaccinated at 22 session sites today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/76-yr-old-man-dies-46-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-205336
30-01-2021||---||Credit war on for Tajpur Chowk flyover project||Ludhiana, January 29A credit war is on between Congress leaders over the flyover project at Tajpur Chowk on the NH-44 here.The project work was recently got started by Congress MLA from Ludhiana East Sanjay Talwar in the presence of his supporters.On Friday, another Congress leader and former councillor Daljeet Singh, alias Bhola Grewal, while addressing a press conference said he had worked hard for 10 years for the project.Grewal said commuters were a harried lot since the Tajpur Chowk cut was closed on the highway. He had also staged a number of protests, demanding the flyover.Notably, since the Tajpur Chowk cut on the NH-44 was closed, people had been suffering a lot. Residents had been demanding from the government to get the flyover constructed so that commuters can cross the intersection under it.Grewal said: “In 2011, I had raised the demand of a fly over before the then National Highways Authority of India officials and the MC Commissioner. I had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised the matter before Ludhiana MPs in the past 10 years. I had also requested Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu who held talks with the Chairman of the NHAI for the construction of the flyover. With blessings of people, the project was approved,” he said.On being asked, Grewal, however, claimed that he had no information when MLA Sanjay Talwar had held a function to get the project started recently. Notably, the former had contested the Vidhan Sabha Assembly poll from the Ludhiana East constituency in 2017 as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate but he had lost the elections. Before the last Lok Sabha poll, Grewal had left the AAP and later joined the Congress.However, Talwar could not be contacted for comments today. Notably, he was garlanded by his supporters and sweets were distributed when he had got the work started on January 21. Talwar had stated that he had worked hard for four years to get the project started and it was a big achievement for the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/credit-war-on-for-tajpur-chowk-flyover-project-205337
30-01-2021||Manav Mander||TB patients at receiving end||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 29It has been six months since tuberculosis (TB) patients received an amount for their nutritional support. It was in June 2020 that the amount was credited into their respective accounts.Docs not have details about moneyThe Covid-19 pandemic has cast its dark shadow on TB patients. During lockdown patients faced problem in getting their medicines and also did not get amount for their nutritional support.Last year, there were 12,000 TB patients in the district out of which around 7,000 were still active.The Central Government is giving Rs500 as social support fund keeping in view the role of nutrition in curing any disease. The money is given under Nikshay Poshan Yojana. The amount is directly transferred into the beneficiary’s account.A TB patient on the condition of anonymity said in the first stance the amount they got was merger. Still they tried to manage with whatever extra nutrition they could, he added. It had been six months since they received the amount, he said.Another patient said she used to buy milk and fruits from the amount given to her. “I have been asking doctors every time I visit hospital, but even they are not sure when the money will be credited into my account,” she added.The District TB Officer, Dr Ashish Chawla, said, “TB patients have not received the amount for nutritional support since July. We have been taking up the matter with the higher authorities. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic there have been some issues related to budget, which has delayed allocation of funds to the states.”“We received some amount last week and the process to transfer it to patients accounts has been initiated,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tb-patients-at-receiving-end-205338
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||18 booked in three cases of assault in Ludhiana||The police have booked 18 persons in three separate cases of assault. Three persons and their eight unidentified companions were booked for an alleged assault on the owner of an ‘ahata’ (drinking place), adjoining a liquor vend, on Bahadarke Road.  Devinder Kumar, a resident of New Kartar Nagar, who runs the ahata, lodged a complaint with the police, stating that two groups of drunk customers had a scuffle in the ahata on January 25. He said he sent both groups home after pacifying them. “However, the three accused, Tarun Kumar, Munna and Sammi, and around eight unidentified persons returned after sometime and asked about the other group. When I told them that they had left the place, the accused thrashed me and fled the spot,” he said. In another incident, Bundan Asif, a wall painter, was allegedly beaten up by five persons — Dr Bawa, Dr BK, Sonu and two others — when he was painting an advertisement of a clinic on the wall of a vacant plot. He said the accused escaped after threatening him. Meanwhile, the police have booked Kulwinder and Nihala of Anandpura for assaulting Kuljit Kaur of Simranjitpura. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-booked-in-three-cases-of-assault-in-ludhiana-205339
30-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Rs7.2-cr fine collected from 1.48L violators||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 29The impunity with which traffic rules were violated in the maximum city of Punjab can be gauged from the fact that a whopping Rs 7.2 crore fine was collected from over 1.48 lakh violators last year.This was despite the fact that the Covid-induced curfew and lockdown had kept vehicles off road for several months in 2020.In 2019, the number of violators was over 1.96 lakh from whom a fine of over Rs 7.22 crore was collected.The official figures compiled by the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police, which are available with The Tribune, revealed that as many as 1,48,356 vehicle drivers were challaned for various traffic offences and a fine of Rs 7,20,47,780 was recovered from them in 2020 compared to 1,96,467 traffic violators fined Rs 7,22,81,149 in 2019.The maximum number of 36,026 traffic violations pertained to riding two-wheelers without helmets last year, which was 40,849 in 2019, while the second highest 21,660 traffic violations in 2020 were of wrong parking, which came down to more than half from 50,560 in 2019.The traffic violations in 2020 that surpassed the number of 2019 were that of overloaded vehicles and covered auto-rickshaws. Last year, 322 overloaded vehicles and 142 covered auto-rickshaws were challaned compared to 249 and 122, respectively, in 2019.Among other violations, 46 vehicles were challaned for using high beam in 2020 compared to 242 in 2019; 631 for drunken driving last year against 1,936 in 2019; 5,440 for jumping red light in 2020 compared to 8,924 in 2019; 873 were challaned for using pressure horns in 2020 against 1,663 in 2019; and 4,873 vehicle drivers were caught for using mobile phone while driving last year compared to 5,482 in 2019.In 2020, a total of 16,169 vehicles, including 10,010 four-wheelers and 6,159 two-wheelers, were towed away for wrong parking and a fine of Rs 85,73,642 was recovered from their owners compared to more than double 34,210 vehicles, including 23,329 four-wheelers and 10,881 two-wheelers, that were towed away and Rs 1,89,11,791 fine recovered from their owners in 2019.Appealing to the vehicle drivers to obey traffic rules, the Commissioner of Police, Rakesh Agrawal, said it not only ensures the safety of self and others driving on the roads but also averts unnecessary litigation and financial burden that occurs after being caught while violating the norms.“We are committed for the road safety of the commuters and several initiatives have been taken to make the roads safer for the users,” added the Ludhiana police chief, while asserting that no traffic violator would be spared and penal action as per rules would be initiated against those caught violating the norms. The Commissionerate Police had organised 648 traffic education camps in different parts of Ludhiana last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs7-2-cr-fine-collected-from-1-48l-violators-205340
30-01-2021||Harshraj Singh||Talks on to resolve issues between Ludhiana MC, waste management company||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 29Over a month after A2Z Waste Management issued a termination notice to the Municipal Corporation (MC), the issues between the firm and the MC are yet to be resolved. However, talks are on to resolve the issues. MC officials said if the firm quits the service, it would be challenging for the MC to handle the solid waste management in absence of required infrastructure for the task.Legal battleThe firm had earlier issued a public notice that it will stop lifting garbage from city after February 4. Mayor and the MC commissioner had earlier this week conducted a meeting with the officials of A2Z waste management firm to resolve the issues as per information.Around a month ago, the firm had issued a public notice that the concession agreement pursuant to which A2Z Waste Management was providing services, shall stand terminated as of February 4. A senior official of the Ludhiana unit of the firm had then blamed the civic body for not releasing pending fees and resolving other issues.There are 95 wards in the city and around 1,100 MT garbage is generated daily here. Sources in the civic body said that it would be difficult for the MC to ensure timely lifting of garbage from secondary collection points and then shifting the waste to main garbage dump in absence of required infrastructure at present. The MC has shortage of required vehicles, machines and manpower for the task. Notably, the National Green Tribunal has already given strict instructions to the MC to ensure compliance of rules for solid waste management.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the talks are on with the firm officials. “We have conducted a meeting with officials recently. We hope that the matter would get resolved,” he added.The MC had issued termination notice to A2Z group in 2015 as MC officials had expressed dissatisfaction over working of the firm. But after receiving the notice, the firm had then moved court against the notice. In December 2020, the firm had issued termination notice to the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/talks-on-to-resolve-issues-between-ludhiana-mc-waste-management-company-205341
30-01-2021||---||Teachers’ protest enters 9th day||Ludhiana, January 29 Demanding regularisation of their jobs, the protest of teachers associated with the Punjab & Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) entered the ninth day at Arya College campus on Friday. The deadlock between the protesting teachers and the management still continues. The protesting teachers told that till date, no representative from the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Punjab, approached the protesting teachers’ and responded to the continuous reminders of the PCCTU.  Addressing the teachers, the district president (Ludhiana) briefed that on July 24, the Punjab Cabinet under Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had regularised the services of 127 assistant professors working in different government-aided colleges of Punjab. “It appears that the Arya College Management Committee, Ludhiana, is in no mood to regularise the services of 18 assistant professors working in their institution. Further, it is also advocated that they filled up the posts as per the notification of the Punjab Government”, they said.  “Despite of continuous requests, letters and reminders to the management to implement the decision of Punjab Government, no positive response has been received from them so far. It may be important to mention here again that the same decision is being implemented by rest of the college managements in Punjab. Thus, this ambiguity has on the part of management has created anxiety and restlessness among the teachers and their families and that has forced them to take the path of agitation for which the whole responsibility lies on the shoulders of the college management”, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-protest-enters-9th-day-205342
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two minor girls missing in Ludhiana||Two minor girls have been reported missing from different parts of the city and police have booked one person each in both the cases being suspects behind disappearance of the girls. One Uday Kant Thakur, a resident of Vijay Nagar, has lodged report with police that his 14-year-old daughter had gone to a boutique in the colony – where she was employed, on January 22 but did not come back after that. A case has been registered.   Another, girl (16) was reported missing since the morning of January 21 from her home by her father Nannu Kumar, a resident of Daba village. Case under sections 363/366, IPC, were lodged. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-minor-girls-missing-in-ludhiana-205343
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||District basketball c’ship held||The Guru Nanak Club in the girls section and Gymkhana Club in the boys section recorded authentic victories on the opening day of the Ludhiana District Basketball Championship for Boys and Girls U-17 and 19 being held at Guru Nanak Stadium here today.In the boys’ U-17 category, Gymkhana Club overpowered Joy Brothers Academy 52-40 whereas in the girls’ section, Guru Nanak Club outperformed BIS Club 35-20.In other matches in the boys U-17 group, DGSG Public School outplayed Police Lines Club 15-6 and Doraha Public School outnumbered DAV Hawks 56-31 while in the girl’s U-17 section, DAV International Public School faced a stiff challenge from DAV Hawks before coming out triumphant by a narrow margin of two points (38-36).Sukhpal Singh Brar, former DCP, Ludhiana. inaugurated the tournament.A poster with the message ‘Say no to Drugs–Yes to Sports’ was also released on this occasion.Punjab Volleyball Association AGM heldLudhiana: The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Punjab Volleyball Association was held at a local hotel on Friday which was chaired by the Faridkot MLA and president of the body, Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon. Representatives of 15 district associations attended the meeting during which it was resolved to promote the game of volleyball across the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-basketball-cship-held-205344
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||Training session on mushroom farming||The Department of Extension Education conducted a one-day training programme on “Mushroom growing” at Kalakh village under entrepreneurship programme for schedule caste, ICAR, New Delhi. The training was organised under the guidance of Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/training-session-on-mushroom-farming-205345
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||Phones stolen from vehicle||Two booked for cheatingLudhiana: The police have booked Karan Kangran, a resident of Doraha, and Manmohan Kumar of Jawahar Nagar under Section 406, IPC, on the complaint of Sonu of Jawahar Nagar. The complainant said the accused had taken 75 blank and signed cheques of Bank of India from him on the promise of getting him a loan of Rs 5.30 lakh. He said he had also given his Aadhaar card, an ATM card and a PAN card to the accused in good faith. “However, the duo filled an amount of Rs 1 lakh on one of the cheques and presented it in the bank which was dishonoured,” he said. He alleged that they had cheated him by presenting the cheque in the bank with the intention of fraudulently withdrawing money from his account. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/phones-stolen-from-vehicle-205346
30-01-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on character building||DD Jain College students shineStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in the examination of B.Voc. Course Beauty Aesthetics & Wellness Semester IV. Diksha Chaudhary secured 92.50 per cent marks, Tulsi got 86.83 per cent marks and Kajal secured 86.33 per cent marks. Principal Dr Sarita Bahl and members of the college management congratulated the students on their brilliant performance in exams.Webinar on Gandhian ideologyThe Gandhian Study Centre, Arya College, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the IQAC organised a webinar on “Understanding Gandhian Ideology and Assessing its Contemporary Relevance” on the eve of Martyrs Day. Dr Manish Sharma, Chairperson Gandhian and Peace Studies, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the resource person on the occasion. Dr Mamta Ratra, Director, Gandhian Study Centre, apprised that it was being conducted to disseminate the knowledge of Gandhian philosophy among the young minds and urge them to emulate his life principles. Principal Dr Savita Uppal inaugurated the webinar.Road safety: Commuters honoredUnder the Road Safety Month, with a theme ‘Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha’, and celebrating ‘Genuine January’ CT University in association with Ludhiana Traffic Police honoured commuters following traffic rules during an activity organised at Bharat Nagar Chowk. The commuters found observing rules properly, were gifted a ‘thank you card’ by the traffic cops and CTU Managing Director Manbir Singh, Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh and Deputy Director Culture Jaswinder Singh Sekhon.Fun-&-food activity heldGulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, Ludhiana, organised fun and food activity at its campus. Students and teachers cooked food which represented different culture of cuisine of the world. Each group of prepared dishes according to a theme picked by them. Executive Director of Gulzar Group Gurkirat Singh said eating well and being physically active every day go hand-in-hand to improve physical and mental health and vitality.National Voters day celebratedThe Electoral Literacy Club and NSS unit of celebrated National Voters Day at Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, Khanna, recently. College Principal, Dr Neena Seth Pajni was the chief guest during this function and she told the students about the importance of right to vote and asked the students to exercise their right to vote without any sort of considerations pertaining to religion, caste, creed etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-character-building-205348
30-01-2021||---||Businessmen demand industry-friendly budget||Ludhiana, January 30 The Union Budget for the year 2021-22 will be presented in February. After the tough phase of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown and ongoing farmers’ agitation, the industry hopes that much relief will be provided by the government for ease of doing business.  Businessmen have pinned hopes for the revival of industry and its smooth functioning. The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) general secretary, Rajiv Jain, said, “FICO chairman KK Seth, president Gurmeet Singh Kular, members Rajeev Jain and Satnam Singh Makkar have submitted suggestions for the Union Budget 2021-22 to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.”  “Due to increase in steel prices it is not possible to run industry smoothly. Prices for export orders are not increasing whereas in the domestic market prices are increasing drastically. MSMEs are on the verge of closure. Unless the availability of steel is sufficient, its export should be banned,” added Jain.  KK Seth, another industrialist, feels that the government should intervene by giving subsidy or impose price control to reign in prices. The sudden spike in raw material prices has made it impossible for MSMEs to meet confirmed orders. Exports are in serious danger due to loss of markets to competitors with long term negative consequences.  Kular, however, said, “The government has suspended the Credit Link Capital Subsidy Scheme. We demand that the scheme should be made permanent as it is the only way for the upgradation of the MSME industry. Also, post lockdown the government should enhance the CLCSS subsidy limit from 15 to 50 per cent and investment limit from Rs1 crore to Rs25 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/businessmen-demand-industry-friendly-budget-205349
30-01-2021||---||As mercury rises, sunny days are back here again||Ludhiana, January 29Bringing much relief from cold the city is experiencing warm weather these days. Residents are enjoying sun after foggy and chilly days.According to the Punjab Agricultural University’s Agricultural Meteorology Department Thursday’s maximum temperature recorded was 20.6°C while minimum temperature was 3°C. Evening relative humidity recorded was 40 per cent while morning relative humidity was 97 per cent.“Finally, warm days are back again. People from the plains are not used to extreme cold weather. It becomes difficult to survive under such conditions. I am happy to see bright and sunny days,” said Harkanwal Kaur, a city resident.Giving advisory to farmers, Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa, PAU, said weather would likely be dry and shallow and moderate fog could be witnessed during morning/evening in the state.Giving warning the department said dense to very dense fog and cold to severe cold conditions could persist at isolated places till January 30th in the state.The advisory further stated that as dry weather was expected during coming days, farmers were advised to apply need based irrigation to the crop or spraying could be done.For vegetables, experts said farmers need to protect nursery as well as vegetable crops like tomato, brinjal and chillies from cold wind and weather.Advisory for fruits and vegetable crop||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/as-mercury-rises-sunny-days-are-back-here-again-205350
