31-01-2021||---||3 deaths; 32 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, January 30Three persons lost their lives, while 32 tested positive for Covid in the district today. With this, the death toll in the district reached 1,000. The total positive cases in the district now are 25,753, while 349 are active cases. Today, 46 people were sent for home quarantine.A total of 748 healthcare workers were vaccinated at 12 session sites today.It was on March 30 that the first death in the district was reported due to Covid. The deceased was a 42-year-old woman from Amarpura who had tested positive on March 30 and passed away the same day after she was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, as the Civil Hospital here did not have ventilator at that time.The district saw the highest number of deaths on September 15 when 19 persons lost their lives. Out of the total 1,000 deaths, 869 belonged to Ludhiana city, 38 to Khanna, 35 to Jagraon, 25 to Samrala, 18 to Payal and 15 to Raikot.Those who lost their life today were three males, aged 41, 55 and 69. The co-morbidities of the patients included diabetes and hypertension. Today, one patient from other district was on ventilator support.Meanwhile, to raise awareness among the public to wear masks, wash hands properly and keep the recommended social distancing, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma awarded “appreciation certificate” to the DMCH team, including Dr Bishav Mohan, Dr Anurag Chaudhary, Dr Hitant Vohra, Dr Sarit Sharma, Dr Sonia Singh, Dr Kirandeep Kaur, Dr Seema Gupta, Dr Pranjal Sharma and Dr Arvind Goyal.In his message, the DC affirmed that the medical fraternity of the city had played a great role in making people aware about various precautions to limit the spread of the pandemic.The Department of Community Medicine, under the headship of Dr Anurag Chaudhary, was specially acknowledged for conducting a widescale rapid antigen test under the flagship project “Mission Fateh”.Civil Surgeon Ludhiana hounoured also frontline corona warriors.Those hounoured included retired senior medical officer, Dr Amita Jain, who worked efficiently to tackle the situation during the pandemic as the hospital was converted from a 30-bedded MCH Centre into a 100-bedded isolation facility within a short time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-deaths-32-ve-in-ludhiana-district-205653
31-01-2021||---||Minister threatens to blacklist contractor, act against officials||Ludhiana, January 30The slow pace of work on the elevated road project has attracted the ire of Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who has threatened to act against the contractor and blacklist him besides fixing the responsibility of the officials concerned.Ashu has asked the contractor to speed up the ongoing work and complete it forthwith else he will fix his responsibility and bar him from doing any other project in future.The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister was chairing a meeting with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials here on Saturday.Taking up several issues related to the ongoing development projects in the district, Ashu took stock of the status of ongoing works on NH-44, elevated road project (Samrala Chowk to Ferozepur Road), Ladhowal bypass and others.He directed the NHAI officials to speed up the work so that people can be benefitted from these projects. He directed them to ensure that the service lane along the elevated road should be completed at the earliest as due to the slow pace of the ongoing construction of the project, the residents were suffering.Minister said that the service lanes were part of every project and if these roads remain in bad shape, the responsibility of officials concerned would be fixed in writing and strict action would be taken against them.He also directed the NHAI officials to take strict action against the contractor of Ferozepur elevated road project over slow pace of work. He warned that if the speed of the ongoing work on the project was not expedited forthwith, the contractor would be blacklisted.The NHAI officials assured that all such issues would be dealt with on priority basis.Ashu also instructed the NHAI officials to complete the plan for construction of Bharat Nagar Chowk flyover going towards the bus stand. The PSPCL officials have been directed to ensure that all pending issues on their part should be cleared within a week.He also informed that for the benefit of residents of South City and other adjoining areas near Ayali, a bridge connecting both sides of the roads along the Sidhwan canal would be constructed by GLADA. He said that the design of this project has been prepared and would be started soon. He assured them that they plan to complete the construction of this bridge in a record time of 45 days.Ashu said with an aim to improving cycling infrastructure in the city for the safety of cyclists, a 13-km-long dedicated cycling track along the Ladhowal bypass, also known as southern bypass, would be constructed on both sides of the project. He also asked to construct a cycle track on NH-44, starting from Sherpur Chowk till Dhandari.He discussed at length the plan to connect the Ladhowal bypass and main GT Road (NH-44) with the 32-acre upcoming Jainpur Sports Park.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, ADCP Deepak Pareek, ADC Neeru Katyal Gupta, SDM Amrinder Singh Malhi, and ACP Gurdev Singh were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-threatens-to-blacklist-contractor-act-against-officials-205654
31-01-2021||---||Medical student ends his life||Ludhiana, January 30A medical student of Satguru Partap Singh Hospital, Sherpur Chowk, here, has committed suicide by hanging himself at a hostel last night. It is not yet clear as to why he took the extreme step. The deceased, who was married, has been identified as Shivraj (32), a native of Maharashtra.As per information, the matter came to light when an employee at the hostel went to serve dinner to him. After getting information, the police reached the spot and started investigation.The ASI of Sherpur police chowki, Kapil Kumar, said the investigation was on in the case. The family of the deceased had been informed and they were coming from Mumbai.Kumar said no suicide note was found from the room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/medical-student-ends-his-life-205656
31-01-2021||---||Man booked for flashing weapon on social media||Ludhiana, January 30The police have booked a man for sharing his pictures flashing a weapon on social media.The accused has been identified as Ankit Aadiya of Maskeen Nagar on Bahadur Ke Road, Ludhiana.Investigating officer ASI Prabhjit Singh said they got information that the accused shared his pictures flashing a pistol on the Instagram. His aides were also seen in the pictures that went viral, he said.“His act of sharing such pictures can create fear among common people. We are investigating the matter. In the pictures, the man was posing as if he was firing in the air. Efforts are on to arrest the accused. We have come to know that no licence had been issued to the accused.”A case under Sections 336 of the IPC and 25 and 27 under the Arms Act had been registered at the Salem Tabri police station against the accused.Meanwhile, a message has been posted on the Facebook page of the CP, saying “if anybody is found posing with weapons on social media, we will cancel their arms licences. And if anybody is found firing with those weapons on social media, we will also register an FIR. Weapon licences are issued for security and not for flaunting”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-flashing-weapon-on-social-media-205657
31-01-2021||---||Building inspector gets show-cause notices||Ludhiana, January 30 The MC Commissioner has issued a show-cause notice to a building inspector for not providing records regarding the nine colonies in areas under the Zone A of the Municipal Corporation.  The building inspector, Daleep Kumar Soni, has been asked to file a reply, otherwise disciplinary action will be taken against him. In the notice, the Commissioner has stated that according to the report prepared by the building branch clerk and head draftsman concerned, the records of these colonies were not available.  The notice further stated that the building inspector had not submitted records to these officials. Meanwhile, the MC Commissioner has also issued another show-cause notice to the building inspector for allegedly not taking action against an illegal construction at Bal Singh Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/building-inspector-gets-show-cause-notices-205658
31-01-2021||---||Youth held on rape charge||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 30A man has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl in an area that falls under the Focal Point police station. The accused has been identified as Radhe (20), a local resident.In her complaint to the police, the mother of the 16-year-old victim alleged that the accused raped her daughter after threatening to kill her. The woman stated that when she returned home on the night of January 27, her daughter was not in her room.“I was searching my daughter. When I reached the bathroom and opened the door, the accused fled the spot. My daughterwas crying. She told me that he raped her in the bathroom.”The police have registered a case under Sections 376, IPC, and 3, 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused. SI Kuljeet Kaur is investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-held-on-rape-charge-205659
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||New parking lot to come up near driving test track||A new parking lot will come up near the automated driving test track near SCD Government College here. This will end the ordeal of the visitors to the track, who used to suffer a lot due to the lack of proper parking space, leading to traffic congestion on the road outside. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, stated this during a visit to the site here on Saturday. He directed the MC officials to start work on the construction of the new parking area at this track so that residents did not suffer. He said the parking lot would be completed soon with ample space. He told the officials concerned to ensure that the driving licence applicants were facilitated directly without any interference of middlemen. The government had started several initiatives in the Transport Department. He said to bring transparency in the working of the department, resident-centric services had been made online. He also urged residents to avail benefit of the online services. The minister was accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and RTA secretary Sundeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-parking-lot-to-come-up-near-driving-test-track-205660
31-01-2021||---||Officials inspect work at Jamalpur STP||Ludhiana, January 30 Head of the Special Task Force (STF) for cleaning of the Buddha Nullah Satguru Uday Singh, along with MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, inspected the ongoing work at the sewerage treatment plant (STP) in Jamalpur, here. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh, who was present during the inspection, said the work under the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project had been started at the sewerage treatment plant site in Jamalpur. He said: “We discussed project details with the STF head. The information regarding the ongoing work was shared with him.” He said Satguru Uday Singh had given instructions to MC officials to take measures to stop dairy waste in the nullah. Waste from a number of dairies is being dumped into the nullah for a long time but the MC has failed to take any concrete steps to stop the dairy owners concerned from dumping waste into the water body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-inspect-work-at-jamalpur-stp-205661
31-01-2021||---||BJP cancels Tiranga yatra||Ludhiana, January 30Tension prevailed in the city when workers of the local unit of Bharatiya Janata Party and Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha and shopkeeper associations came face to face when the former were about to start their ‘Tiranga yatra’.In order to avoid any untoward situation, the tiranga yatra was cancelled. Heavy police force was deployed at Chaura Bazar today ahead of the yatra. The yatra was to commence from Chaura Bazar where BJP party office is located.On the opposite road stood members of shopkeeper associations with Nishan Sahib and Kissan Union members in their hands and took out a ‘Khanda yatra’.While BJP members shouted the slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’, the slogans of ‘Kissan Ekta Zindabad’ came from other side.Face-off avertedThe yatra was to commence from Chaura Bazar where BJP party office is located. On the opposite road stood members of shopkeeper associations with Nishan Sahib and Kissan Union members in their hands and took out a ‘Khanda yatra’.The police was talking to both the groups to maintain law and order in the city.Pushpinder Singhal, district president, BJP, said they have cancelled the ‘Tiranga yatra’ as they do not want to disturb the peace. Members of the shopkeeper association on the other hand said they won’t allow the BJP party to hold the tiranga yatra and are standing in front of their route. “We are supporting the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. BJP is against the brotherhood and want to disturb the peace and harmony among different religions. We are here to boycott the tiranga yatra of the BJP. Once they go back, we will also return back to our respective places,” said one of the shopkeepers.Another nearby shopkeeper said the National Flag holds utmost respect in their hearts but they do not want BJP workers to take out the yatra as it is the party which is behind the farm laws.“Today, trader community have come in support of the farmers and we will stand with them till the end, till these black laws are taken back,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-cancels-tiranga-yatra-205662
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||Khalsa Club registers win||The Khalsa Club and Gymkhana Club wrapped up their respective matches in the boys and girls U-19 section on the second day in the ongoing Ludhiana District Basketball Championship for Boys and Girls U-17 and 19 being held at Guru Nanak Stadium here today.In the boys’ category, Gymkhana thrashed International Public School 24-3 and in the girls’ section, Khalsa Club defeated BIS Club 43-23.In the boys’ U-17 section, MGM Fly High Club along with DGSG School, Ludhiana Cagers Club and BIS Club scripted wins.MGM Fly High Club beat Doraha Public School 45-36; DGSG School got the better of Gymkhana Club 51-37; Ludhiana Cagers Club outperformed Police Lines Club 28-14 and DGSG School outpaced Joy Brothers Academy 30-20.In the U-19 group, BIS Club outclassed Joy Brothers Academy 49-39 whereas in the girls’ U-17 category, BIS Club outplayed Khalsa Club 23-15; Guru Nanak Club outnumbered Khalsa Club 47-35.In the boys’ U-17 category, Gymkhana Club overpowered Joy Brothers Academy and whereas in the girls’ U-17 section, Guru Nanak Club outperformed BIS Club. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khalsa-club-registers-win-205663
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||9-yr-old boy pens book||At an age when kids are usually glued to their gadgets, Achintya Gupta loves the smell of his new book. The 9-year-old is fond of reading books during his free time. His love affair with the books went a step ahead when he came up with his own book.  Achintya Gupta, a Class IV student of Sat Paul Mittal School, has penned down a novel named ‘The Tomitaro-A Devil’s Labyrinth’. The novel tells the story of a boy who is stuck in a game. Story carries tale of strange and deadly adventures faced by him. “I love to read and thought why I couldn’t have my very own book. The idea of writing a book came into my mind during the pandemic when I was at home and was not allowed to go out for attending school and other activities. I thought of utilising the time by writing a novel,” quips Achintya.  “We were surprised when Achintya came out with this novel during the pandemic. He told us that he was writing a story but we didn’t took him seriously. But when after a couple of months of hard work he came out with the complete book and took us by surprise. He had developed reading habit through Satyan Reading Challenge at his school,” said Achintya’s father Arun Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-yr-old-boy-pens-book-205664
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||Fast observed at PAU||The PAU Teachers Association, PAU Employees Union (recognised) and PAU Students Union have come in support of Kisan Sangharsh. On the call of Sayunkt Kisan Morcha to celebrate Sadhbhawna Diwas today, faculty, staff and students of the PAU observed fast at the gate no. 1 of the PAU.Harmeet Singh Kingra, president, PAU Teachers Association; General Secretary KS Sangha, Baldev Singh Walia, president, PAU Employees Union; secretary Manmohan Singh and PAU Students’ president Karanvir Sandhu jointly said the incident happened on Republic Day at the Red Fort and attack on dharna at Singhu border are not acceptable and should be condemned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fast-observed-at-pau-205665
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two booked for duping woman||The police have booked two unidentified persons, including a woman, for committing a fraud with a 70-year-old woman. Usha Jindal of Durgapuri in Haibowal stated that she was going to meet her daughter at Kitchlu Nagar here when the accused met her near BVM School.In her complaint filed with the police, she said: “The accused woman told me that the man, who was with her, was an astrologer. She told me to ask questions from him for better prospects. They asked me to keep her jewellery and Rs 1,000 on a handkerchief. In the meantime, the accused stole my jewellery.” — TNSTravel agent bookedLudhiana: A travel agent wanted in seven cases of fraud has been arrested by the Ludhiana police. The accused has been identified as Rajesh Kumar Verma of Kailash Nagar, Threeke. It was stated by Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal. Earlier, cases under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and 24 of the Immigration Act were registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-booked-for-duping-woman-205666
31-01-2021||Ludhiana||Two held with heroin||Two booked for online fraudLudhiana: The police have registered a case against two persons for committing a fraud of Rs 75,000. In his complaint, Mohammad Azeem of Gandhi Colony said he had paid the money via online portal of OLX to the accused for purchasing a glass door. He alleged that they had taken the money from him but they did not deliver the door. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Division No. 5 police station against the accused, Zeenat Afraz of West Bengal and Shajid Khan of Haryana. TNSJewellery, other items stolenLudhiana: Thieves decamped with jewellery and valuable items from a house at Udham Singh Nagar. Apanshula Sharma complained to the police that she and her family members had gone for work after locking the house. She said thieves entered the house and stole valuable items, including jewellery, from an almirah in one of the rooms. A case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Division No. 8 police station. TNSMan nabbed for smuggling liquorLudhiana: The police have arrested Raj Kumar Sehgal of Khud Mohalla on a tip-off that the accused, a known liquor smuggler, was waiting for his customers near Khwaja Kothi Chowk. When the police intercepted the accused, he was found to be carrying a plastic bag containing 45 nips (quarter bottles) of Punjab Dollar XXX Rum. A case under the Excise Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-with-heroin-205667
31-01-2021||---||Businessmen demand industry-friendly budget||Ludhiana, January 30The Union Budget for the year 2021-22 will be presented in February. After the tough phase of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown and ongoing farmers’ agitation, the industry hopes that much relief will be provided by the government for ease of doing business.Businessmen have pinned hopes for the revival of industry and its smooth functioning. The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) general secretary, Rajiv Jain, said, “FICO chairman KK Seth, president Gurmeet Singh Kular, members Rajeev Jain and Satnam Singh Makkar have submitted suggestions for the Union Budget 2021-22 to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.”“Due to increase in steel prices it is not possible to run industry smoothly. Prices for export orders are not increasing whereas in the domestic market prices are increasing drastically. MSMEs are on the verge of closure. Unless the availability of steel is sufficient, its export should be banned,” added Jain.KK Seth, another industrialist, feels that the government should intervene by giving subsidy or impose price control to reign in prices. The sudden spike in raw material prices has made it impossible for MSMEs to meet confirmed orders. Exports are in serious danger due to loss of markets to competitors with long term negative consequences.Kular, however, said, “The government has suspended the Credit Link Capital Subsidy Scheme. We demand that the scheme should be made permanent as it is the only way for the upgradation of the MSME industry. Also, post lockdown the government should enhance the CLCSS subsidy limit from 15 to 50 per cent and investment limit from Rs1 crore to Rs25 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/businessmen-demand-industry-friendly-budget-205669
