06-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Short on staff, Punjab Health Department gives 29 ventilators to private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 5In the absence of required medical infrastructure and technical staff, the Health Department has given 29 ventilators to private hospitals in Bathinda. As a result, critical Covid-19 patients (level-3) requiring ventilator support are either being referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, or private hospitals in the city, where they are coerced to spend lakhs of rupees for treatment.Department officials said both government-run hospitals and private hospitals were working to treat Covid-19 patients. The private hospitals have required medical infrastructure to treat level-3 patients so the decision was taken with the aim to save maximum lives. But the ground reality is that in the absence of required medical infrastructure and expertise, the private hospitals are charging exorbitantly. Adesh Hospital, Delhi Heart Hospital, among others, have been given the 29 ventilators.Meanwhile, the mini ICU facility has been lying locked at the Civil Hospital since it was established four years ago. During the first wave of the pandemic, six ventilators were installed at the district hospital but in the absence of experienced staff, these could not be put to use and the mini ICU had to be locked later.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “These ventilators were given to the private hospitals on their request which they submitted to the district administration. We do not have the required medical infrastructure and experienced staff to operate ventilators as of now. We are working together with private hospitals to treat the patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/short-on-staff-punjab-health-department-gives-29-ventilators-to-private-hospitals-248620
06-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Under ‘stress’, 2 doctors at Bathinda Civil Hospital resign||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 5Two doctors (MD medicine) have tendered their resignation within the past four days from the Bathinda Civil Hospital at a time when the health department is grappling with staff shortage, especially amid the raging second wave of Covid-19.Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil SurgeonQuitting during pandemic unfortunateIt is unfortunate that doctors are quitting at a time when their services are required the most. They are trained at government hospitals but when it is time to serve, they move on to greener pastures. These two doctors (out of total four at medicine OPD) were discharging their duties at the forefront to contain the virus, detect and diagnose Covid-19 patients in the district with one of them entrusted with the role of district nodal officer for Covid-19. The development has not only put additional burden on the existing staff, but also likely to affect the treatment being given to patients.Dr Jayant Aggarwal and Dr Ramandeep Goyal have tendered their resignations. A senior functionary hinted that many other doctors and staff were planning to quit.Citing personal reasons for resigning, Dr Goyal said: “It has nothing to do with Covid-19. I had applied for resignation even six months ago.”Sources said though doctors were quitting apparently due to high stress levels amid massive workload, some were calling it quits to earn more money in private hospitals as compared to fixed salaries paid by the government.Taking a strong view of the matter, Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “It is quite unfortunate that doctors are quitting at a time when their services are required the most. They are trained at government hospitals and when there is time to serve, they move on to greener pastures as per their convenience. For now, we have shifted a doctor from Talwandi Sabo hospital to serve in place of those who have resigned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/under-stress-2-doctors-at-bathinda-civil-hospital-resign-248621
