08-05-2021||Bathinda/Mansa||Farmers' protest call against lockdown gets tepid response in Bathinda, Mansa||The farm unions call for protest against the lockdown has barely managed to leave the desired impact on the ground level of Bathinda and Mansa districts, as they had to adhere to strict restrictions of weekend lockdown.  Markets in these districts remained shut throughout the day. After a call by Sanyukat Kisan Morcha, farm unions were to carry out the protest march, and rallies against the lockdown, and support traders to open their shops and outlets, but the latter did not comply with them.   State president of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Amit Kapoor, said: "We support farmers, but considering the ranging pandemic which has claimed several lives, we decided not to open shops when there were lockdown restrictions imposed by the government. We do not want to risk people's lives".Although, farm unions—including BKU Ekta Ugrahan, BKU Sidhupur, BKU Lakhowal, BKU Dakonda and Punjab Kisan Union among dozens of others— unions carried out rallies, and marched in the city, in different blocks of these two districts against lockdown. Shopkeepers and traders' fraternity largely kept their shops closed. In a few instances, farmers have managed to help shopkeepers to open their shops, but the police intervened and closed down the shops. Farm union leaders said, that the lockdown restrictions affected the business of the traders' fraternity last year as well, and that they support traders to open their shops. Union leaders have also claimed that they managed to help shopkeepers to open their shops. A leader of BKU Sidhupur, Resham Singh Yatri, said: "We have managed to help shopkeepers to open their shops in Maur, Goniana, Rampura, and other areas before police forced them to close shops". He added: "If the government was aware that the second wave of coronavirus can come, then why did they not take requisite steps in time to counter it? The government wasted crucial times rather than augmenting medical infrastructure, and now it wants to impose lockdown again to harass people."Deputy Superintendent of Police, Gurjit Singh Romana, said: "We had carried out a march in the city to keep round-the-clock vigil to make sure that lockdown restrictions imposed in wake of the rising number of COVID-19 cases are being duly adhered to. There was no shop opened in the Bathinda city."Farm union leaders said that they would continue to exhort traders to open shops, and if the administration or police stop them, they will launch agitation against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-protest-call-against-lockdown-gets-tepid-response-in-bathinda-mansa-249998
08-05-2021||Bathinda||Farm unions back traders, to hold protest||On a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers owing allegiance to various unions will hold a protest against the weekend lockdown in Mansa and Bathinda and support shopkeepers and traders to keep their shops open. Union leaders have alleged restrictions imposed by the government were an attempt to sabotage the farmers’ agitation against the central farm laws.Shops in Muktsar to open from 9 am to 3 pmDistrict Magistrate MK Aravind Kumar on Friday allowed opening of all shops in the district from 9 am to 3 pm from Monday to Friday.Punjab Kisan Union leader Balkaran Singh Balli said: “We will ask shopkeepers to open shops but won’t force them to do so. If the police and district administration try to stop them, we will oppose it and protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farm-unions-back-traders-to-hold-protest-249612
08-05-2021||Bathinda||2 more doctors resign at Bathinda Civil Hospital||After two doctors resigned at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, within a span of four days, two more doctors — an eye specialist and an MD (medicine) — have also quit, putting additional burden on the existing staff amid a raging second wave of Covid.With doctors quitting their jobs in quick succession amid crisis, the district Health Department, which was already grappling with staff shortage, is on tenterhooks now.A retired department official said while doctors resigning from their jobs had been citing “personal reasons” amid talks of being overworked and stressed, there were stern possibilities that they wanted to earn extra bucks in private sectors.Dr Maninder Pal Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Bathinda, said, “Four doctors have tendered their resignation of which one will be serving her three-month notice period. We have shifted a doctor from Talwandi Sabo in place of doctors who have resigned. It is unfortunate that doctors are quitting their jobs when their services are required the most.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/2-more-doctors-resign-at-bathinda-civil-hospital-249613
08-05-2021||Bathinda||Without work, daily-wagers say scared of hunger, not infection||Gurmail Singh, a daily wage earner in his early twenties, travels more than 20 km from his village near Bucho to Bathinda every day in search of work, but to no avail. The Covid-induced lockdown has made it difficult for him to sustain his family of seven.“I am returning empty handed for a fourth day in a row. I don’t even have money for bus fare. Covid doesn’t scare us. We are worried about arranging two square meals a day,” said a dejected Gurmail, while sitting at a bus stop near the cantonment area.Another labourer Bhola Singh of Mansa said, “I have never seen such a situation. We move out in search of work in the morning, but return home empty handed. The government must provide us relief, least we will die of hunger.”The second Covid wave has dealt a harsh blow on labourers. Sonu Maheshwari, head of NGO Naujawan Welfare Society, said, “There are hundreds of daily wage earners across the state. Most of them are surviving on whatever little savings they have, while many others are forced to sleep on empty stomach.” He said the government must come to the rescue of these labourers who had been out of work for many days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/without-work-daily-wagers-say-scared-of-hunger-not-infection-249645
08-05-2021||Bathinda||Many turn veggie sellers for survival||The Covid-19 pandemic is not only affecting people’s health but also forcing them to change profession. Facing losses, a widow, who was running a salon, has turned into a vegetable seller to earn livelihood for her family.Surinder Kaur, 34, of Model Town Phase-1 here, is selling vegetables on the footpath near her house after she lost business. She wakes up at 4 am and buys vegetables from the wholesale market to later sell those in the Model town area.“It is a matter of survival. My husband died earlier, so now I alone take care of our daughter and my ailing mother. I need to pay my daughter’s school fee and buy medicines for my mother. It was getting difficult to pay the house rent also. But now I will be able to manage things,” says Surinder.Vishal Kumar, a construction labourer, says: “Due to the lockdown, I am sitting at home for the past 10-15 days. I don’t see the situation improving anytime soon. So, now I sell vegetables and fruits to survive.” Similarly, Gurdeep Singh, who lost his job as a salesman at a cloth shop in the city along with his wife, has taken to selling vegetables from his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/many-turn-veggie-sellers-for-survival-249646
