10-05-2021||Bathinda||NGO members risking lives to provide plasma, oxygen cylinders to COVID patients in Bathinda||At a time when families of COVID-19 patients are running from pillar to post looking for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and other services, a city based local NGO, Samarpan, started by a group of friends have taken it upon themselves to help out such hassled families regarding the availability of plasma and oxygen.NGO member Mukesh Kumar Goyal alias Monty coordinates with people in need of plasma.“We help people with arranging and donation of plasma and oxygen,” Monty said.In COVID-19 times, they have arranged more than 300 plasma donors, which helped around 900 patients to get treatment.Even till now they have arranged and provided 9,000 blood donations when accident and cancer patients are in need of blood.They have started distributing oxygen cylinders and are refilling the old ones and are also helping people to get admitted in hospitals at a time when the city is facing shortage of level-3 beds.They are also trying to create awareness about COVID-19 on grass-root level to prevent the spread of the virus.Apart from this, Samarpan members are also providing free meals daily to the attendants of the COVID patients admitted at the private hospitals in Bathinda.It also plays a role in motivating people to get their COVID-19 vaccination done and has organised around nine camps and provided vaccinations to around 3,000 people in the city.A couple, Arpan Jindal and Prerna Jindal, along with their friend Mukesh Kumar Goyal started this NGO in 2016. While talking to The Tribune, Prerna Jindal said, “We started this NGO with an aim to arrange and provide blood through blood donations to accident and cancer patients but with time many people have joined us and today we have more than 5,000 team members.”She said they have also adopted 100 girls under Sukanya Garib Kalyan Yojana and since the pandemic started last year, their NGO and members are working tirelessly to provide all assistance and help to the people.During the last lockdown, we distributed meals and ration packets to the tune of Rs 70 lakh to the poor people in the city, she said.One of its members, Dravjeet Thakur alias Merry, has set an example by donating blood 66 times and plasma seven times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ngo-members-risking-lives-to-provide-plasma-oxygen-cylinders%C2%A0to-covid-patients-in-bathinda-250796
10-05-2021||---||Pam Gosal 1st Indian woman to make it to Scotland House||Bathinda, May 9Pam Gosal has created history by becoming the first Indian woman to be elected to Scottish parliament. Gosal was elected on a Conservative Party ticket from West Scotland.In a tweet, Gosal said: “It’s a privilege to be the first female Member of Scotland Parliament from an Indian background. Thank you everyone who’s supported me. Can’t wait to get to work for the people of West Scotland”.Gosal helped her family business before working in the local government prior to being elected to Scottish parliament.She was born in Glasgow and spent most of her life in Scotland. She holds a BA degree, an MBA in Consumer Law and is currently pursuing a PhD. She has always been supportive of women and has received the 2015 Women Leader Business Award and the 2018 Public Service Award. She is the Deputy Chairperson of the Conservative Women’s Organisation of Scotland.She is also the director of the Conservative Friends of India Scotland. The organisation seeks to build strong ties between the Conservative Party and the British Indian community in Scotland. Gosal expressed confidence of making new strides in her political career as a Scottish Conservative and Unionist advocate for British, Scottish and BAM women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/pam-gosal-1st-indian-woman-to-make-it-to-scotland-house-250468
10-05-2021||Bathinda||Vigilance arrests clerk for bribe||Contraband seized, nine arrestedabohar: The police in Abohar and Sriganganagar area have seized 300 kg of poppy husk and 50 gm heroin and arrested nine drug peddlers. Almost 270 kg of poppy husk was seized by intercepting a car in Rajasthan and two persons were arrested. Jaspal Singh was nabbed with 8 kg, Narsi Ram with 10 kg, Lovejit Singh, Manbir Singh and Kulwinder Singh were held with 15 kg of poppy husk and 50 gm heroin was seized from Shabeg Singh and Jalandhar Singh near Fazilka. — OC800 kg smuggled wheat seizedabohar: The police have seized 800 kg wheat smuggled from Sriganganagar for sale in Fazilka. Two tractor-trailers ferrying the consignment were also impounded. The vehicles were intercepted near Bakayanwala village, the police said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/vigilance-arrests-clerk-for-bribe-250469
10-05-2021||Bathinda||AAP fumes as cancer hospital made Covid centre||The AAP district unit has condemned the health department’s decision to convert Advanced Cancer Institute-cum-Hospital here into a Covid care centre, stating that it would make scores of cancer patients vulnerable to the virus.AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur said: “The government has failed to provide medical services to people amid pandemic. Cancer patients not only from south Malwa districts, but from adjoining districts of Haryana and even Rajasthan visit the government-run cancer hospital in Bathinda. There is around 250-300 daily patient inflow in OPD and many patients remain admitted in the hospital’s indoor patient unit. Besides, doctors perform surgeries and therapies are administered to cancer patients on daily basis. But the government’s decision to convert the cancer hospital into a Covid care centre has not only affected the treatment being given to patients, but also made them vulnerable to the virus.”She added: “It is unfortunate that despite knowing that critical cancer patients are already battling with the deadly disease, the government has taken a decision that would further risk their lives.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-fumes-as-cancer-hospital-made-covid-centre-250456
10-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||All L3 beds occupied in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 9All level-3 beds are occupied in the district, which has set alarm bells ringing among residents. Bathinda is hit hard by the Covid pandemic with the number of positive cases increasing each day. On Sunday, Bathinda reported 17 Covid deaths and 812 new cases, taking the active cases to over 6,450 in the district.As per official bed occupancy list of hospitals, of the 211 level-3 beds, 214 patients are admitted at 17 private hospitals in the district. Adesh Hospital is having 75 patients against the capacity of 60. Out of 978 level-2 beds, 754 were occupied in 39 hospitals of the district till Friday.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal held a review meeting with the Deputy Commissioner and other officials over the Covid situation at the DC office. He took information about sampling, vaccination and status of level-2 and level-3 beds in private hospitals in the district. A decision was taken to increase the beds in the district.Later, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan issued directions to the hospitals in which he stated that level-2 beds had been increased from 859 to 946, while level-3 beds remained the same at 211.Patients with minor symptoms are shying away from consulting doctors. Later, when the health deteriorates, they come to hospitals and require level-3 beds straightway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/all-l3-beds-occupied-in-bathinda-250447
