11-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda reports highest 27 Covid deaths in a day||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 11Bathinda district has witnessed 179 Covid deaths in the first 11 days of May so far. It witnessed the highest one day spike of Covid deaths as 27 deaths and 700 new cases were reported on Tuesday. Now the active Covid cases stand at 6,714 in the district.This means that on an average 15 to 16 persons are dying in the district due to coronavirus. Even the number of positive cases has gone up significantly this month. In April, 8,942 Covid cases were reported, whereas in just 11 days of this month the district has reported 8,079 cases.Condition at ground level is quite worrisome as 96 per cent of level-3 beds in the district are occupied. As per official data, out of 231 beds of level-3, 222 have been occupied and only nine are available.Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni said at this time the number of Covid patients has increased a lot and in Bathinda district daily positivity rate stands at 23.48 per cent. Therefore, the situation demands to further increase the level 2 and level 3 beds for the treatment of Covid patients.“Despite our efforts we have been able to arrange 70-75 level-2 beds in newly constructed AIIMS at Bathinda, which will be available soon, due to which we have divided cancer institute into two parts. One part is to be used for COVID care centre and other for cancer patients, said Soni.Bathinda DC B Srinivasan held a review meeting with officials and took stock of sampling and vaccination drive in the district. In the meeting, the Deputy Commissioner directed the in-charge of the Corona Cell concerned to make a daily schedule for sampling and vaccination and to keep a constant watch on Covid positive persons isolated in the houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-reports-highest-27-covid-deaths-in-a-day-251349
11-05-2021||Bathinda||In Bathinda, needy get plasma, O2 cylinders||At a time when families of Covid-19 patients are running from pillar to post looking for hospitals beds, oxygen cylinders and other services, a city-based NGO, Samarpan Welfare Society — started by a group of friends — have taken it upon themselves to help such hassled families with plasma and oxygen.NGO president Dravjit Thakur Merry and member Mukesh Kumar Goyal alias Monty coordinate with people in need of plasma. “We help people in arranging and donating plasma and oxygen,” said Merry, who has set an example by donating blood 66 times and plasma seven times.So far, they have arranged more than 300 plasma donors, helping around 900 patients and by donating blood have helped nearly 9,000 patients.They have also started distributing oxygen cylinders and are refilling the old ones. They are also helping people to get admitted in hospitals at a time when the city is facing shortage of Level-3 beds.Samarpan members are also providing free meals daily to the attendants of the Covid patients admitted at private hospitals in Bathinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-bathinda-needy-get-plasma-o2-cylinders-251049
11-05-2021||Bathinda||Prevent fleecing of patients: NGOs||Members of various NGOs and social organisations gathered here at Ambedkar Park in Bathinda against alleged fleecing of patients by private hospitals and lack of adequate medical infrastructure at government-run hospitals. They later submitted a memorandum of demands to the Deputy Commissioner, demanding the administration’s intervention to ensure quality treatment to Covid patients at affordable prices.Members of Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), Association for Democratic Rights (AFDR), BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Theka Mulazam Sanghrash Morcha, Noujwan Bharat Sabha and Paramedical Employees’ Union among others submitted the memorandum to the Chief Minister, Governor, Health Minister through the DC.DTF president Resham Singh said: “We as representatives of all unions demand the government must regularly provide details of availability of L-1, L-2 and L-3 beds, oxygen, vaccine stock, medicines and staff members. Fateh Kits be provided to patients undergoing treatment in isolation. Oxygen and doctors’ help be made available at patients’ houses.”Gagandeep Singh, a leader of paramedical employees’ union, said, “Black marketing of required medical services amid pandemic must be stopped and strict punitive action be taken against those found guilty.” These organisations have threatened to launch stir if above mentioned demands were not met by the government in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/prevent-fleecing-of-patients-ngos-251050
