13-05-2021||Fazilka||Two bank officials fired upon, robbed of Rs 45 lakh in Fazilka||Two unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly opened fire on two private bank officials in a car on the Jalalabad-Muktsar road and robbed them of Rs 45 lakh today.Sources said Gurpratap Singh, deputy manager and Lovepreet Singh, assistant manager, Kotak Mahindra Bank, were shifting the amount from the Muktsar branch to Jalalabad.When they reached near Jalalabad town, the miscreants opened fire on them. One of the bullets hit the front window screen of the car but the officials had a narrow escape.According to eyewitnesses, the motorcycle did not carry any registration number. The sources said the police were investigating why the cash was being transferred in a private car instead of the security van. The officials carrying the cash were without firearms.Senior Superintendent of Police, Fazilka, Deepak Hilori said they would crack the case soon. Police teams have been dispatched to different locations and nakas have been set up to nab the culprits. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/two-bank-officials-fired-upon-robbed-of-rs-45-lakh-in-fazilka-252014
13-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Shortage of Covid drugs hits treatment in Bathinda, Mansa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 12The acute shortage of enoxaparin injection has been reported at chemist shops in Bathinda and Mansa districts following increased demand in the market recently.Majority of the drugstores have already run out of it and wholesale dealers said they have not been getting regular supply of the drug for the past 10-12 days. Notably, the drug is administered to moderate-to-critical Covid-19 patients to prevent blood clotting. Besides, dexamethasone, a steroid given to Covid patients, is in short supply. This steroid is quite effective in the treatment of Covid patients and has in the past helped reduce mortality rate.Families of the patients rued that medicine was the basic thing to treat any disease and arranging only beds and oxygen alone would not save lives.A senior IMA executive committee member and doctor at a private hospital in Bathinda said: “There is acute shortage of enoxaparin in the market for the past two weeks. As a result, treatment of Covid patients is getting compromised. After exhausting their stock of the medicine, many hospitals are finding it difficult to treat patients. Doctors in some hospitals have started prescribing alternative tablets, which are not as effective. Since there is sudden surge in demand for enoxaparin, there is a possibility that people must be hoarding and black marketing it.”Many wholesale medicine dealers in the city said they had not been getting the regular supply of the drug and they had no option but to tell chemists to stop placing orders for it. They added that the supply of dexamethasone was also hit hard and with no stock left, many of them had to cancel several orders.Dr Atin Gupta of another private hospital said: “There is shortage of the medicines, but we have to manage with available resources and make optimum use of them to save as many patients as we can.”Drug inspector Ramandeep Gupta said: “Following sudden increase in demand, these drugs are in short supply and it is well within the knowledge of the government. There is not much medicine manufacturing in Punjab. States where these drugs are manufactured will give priority for their own people for obvious reasons.” Health Minister Balbir Sidhu did not respond to calls and messages.Many ‘hoarding’ medicines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/shortage-of-covid-drugs-hits-treatment-in-bathinda-mansa-252004
