17-05-2021||Abohar||Philanthropists turn Covid warriors||CM pats cop for timely helpAbohar: Impressed by Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj, who was seen visiting Covid-affected families to deliver free food at their doorsteps, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday called the cop and appreciated the work done by him. The CM also encouraged Bhardwaj to continue the same spirit and carry on this humanitarian work. The call was unexpected but morale-boosting, Bhardwaj said. “In addition to positive patients, if their family members need food, the same should be provided at their home. For this 24-hour service, families were requested to call the helpline number 112 and 181 to inform them about the need for food. Arrangements have been made to deliver food packets at their homes with utmost vigilance, he said.NGO gets foreign funds for initiativeFatehgarh Sahib: The Federal Government of Canada has selected Mehar Baba Charitable Trust, an NGO from the district, for Canada Fund for Local Initiatives (CFLI). It received $36,268 (Rs 20.16 lakh) for its project “Digital Empowerment of Rural Women of Punjab”. The trust is running the project in collaboration with High Commission of Canada in India and the INUS Global Charity, US. “The aim of the project is to increase the social status, economic empowerment, skills and decision-making power of more than 500 rural women artisans belonging to 51 villages of the district during the Covid crisis,” said Robin Gupta, manager of the Trust.MLA’s goodwill gestureFazilka: Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Singh Awla has donated an ambulance costing Rs 40 lakh from his own pocket for Covid patients of the border areas of Jalalabad segment. The ambulance named as mini mobile hospital is equipped with all facilities, including oxygen. It will visit villages, particularly containment zones, to offer medicines, pulse oximeter, thermometer, etc, to patients. A doctor and other staff will also accompany the ambulance. The MLA had also donated four ventilators, PPE kits, 30,000 senitisers, 3,000 ration kits and two-year salary being offered to him as member of the legislative Assembly last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/philanthropists-turn-covid-warriors-254018
17-05-2021||Bathinda||Kangar hits back at Akalis||A day after SAD chief Sukhbir Badal challenged Congress leaders to bring the proof in the public domain on the involvement of Akali leaders in sacrilege and firing incident, Cabinet minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar said to regain lost ground, Sukhbir was making such statements to divert public attention, whereas people were fully aware of who was behind the sacrilege. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/kangar-hits-back-at-akalis-254017
17-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda deaths up fivefold in 3 weeks||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 16While the district Health Department and administration claim to have taken requisite measures to reduce mortality and positivity rates by scaling up testing and expediting vaccination, the reality on ground paints a completely different picture.As per records of the department, the district has seen a five-fold increase in the mortality rate, while fresh cases have almost doubled in the past three weeks, i.e. since April 25. The data suggests as many as 329 patients have succumbed to the virus in the past three weeks alone in the district and more than 14,750 fresh cases have been reported during the period.With only 59 deaths being reported till April 25, there has been a fivefold jump in the mortality rate. There were 17,926 positive cases in the district as on April 25, following which a spike was witnessed, taking the tally to 32,676.A senior health official said: “Although the recovery rate in the district is quite high, a sudden spike in the mortality rate has put the department and senior administration officials under a lot of stress. As many as 329 deaths in three weeks for a small city is certainly a cause for concern.”“At a time when the medical infrastructure at government-run hospitals remains dismal and patients are being forced to spend lakhs of rupees on treatment at private hospitals, the worries of the Health Department are only going to mount.“Amid reports of private hospitals charging exorbitant sums from patients despite a price cap on treatment, both the administration and department have been mute spectators to gross neglect. It is time they set their house in order before things go haywire,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-deaths-up-fivefold-in-3-weeks-253835
