20-05-2021||Karam Prakash||After protest, AIIMS-Bathinda nurses sent back from Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19After the allegations of poor accommodation and food by the nursing staff of Bathinda-AIIMS, the nurses were sent back to their parent institution today.Around 50 male nurses – who had been deployed at the isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital — were relieved by the Medical Superintendent of the hospital. Owing to the lodging and boarding issues, they could help at Covid ward of Rajindra Hospital only for two days.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said they had received a request from the authorities of Bathinda-AIIMS to send their staff back. However, Dr DK Singh, Director AIIMS, said, “The Rajindra authorities are sending the nurses back. We didn’t call them.”No water supply, room dingyThe nursing staff of AIIMS had been protesting since last night against the government for not providing liveable housing in Patiala. The nursing staff were putting up at the boys hostel of Government Physical Education College here. The staff had gone on a hunger strike against the alleged ill-treatment by the government. The protesting male nurses said the authorities had asked four persons to stay in a room.The Tribune visited the accommodation site and found that conditions at the hostel were not good. There was no water supply in some washrooms and rooms were dingy. Clogged toilets and broken bath fittings were seen in most of the bathrooms.Mukesh Saini, a nurse, said, “Despite being on the forefront of the pandemic, the government, by giving such accommodation, degraded our profession and insulted us.”The nurses said they had e-mailed a complaint to the district administration, however, the situation didn’t improve.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “I, along with the Medical Superintendent, visited the accommodation and had food in the canteen. The accommodation is good.”Dr Vitul K Gupta, health and human rights activist, demanded strong action against the officials responsible.Stir uncalled for, says SoniChandigarh: “Running away from public service in the hour of crisis is a crime against humanity and the nursing staff of AIIMS-Bathinda have deceived their profession by abandoning the public amid the pandemic.” Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni said on Wednesday, terming the agitation unwarranted and undesirable. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/after-protest-aiims-bathinda-nurses-sent-back-from-patiala-255454
20-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No Oxygen, two Covid centres await nod||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 19Two free Covid care centres in the district are yet to get approval from the district administration due to a “shortage” of oxygen.Dr Vitul K Gupta, a city-based doctor, said he had handed over his hospital to NGO Naujawan Welfare Society for the free treatment of Covid patients. However, it was yet to be made functional in the absence of approval from the district administration, which had been pending since May 9.Similarly, various NGOs in association with the district administration have set up a Covid care centre at Meritorious School on the Badal road, but it is also yet to be made functional. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal also visited the centre today to take stock of arrangements. Residents said if there was a shortage of oxygen, then the quota of private hospitals should be reduced because they were fleecing patients. Oxygen should immediately be made available at these free Covid care centres, so that poor patients could get some relief, they demanded.Dr Gupta said, “It is unfortunate that the district administration has failed to arrange oxygen for the free Covid centres, whereas it has added around 500 beds in private hospitals since May 1.”SAD chief Sukhbir Badal said the shortage of oxygen continued to be a cause for concern, besides unavailability of medicines and ventilators.DC B Srinivasan said, “Permission has not been given to Kishore Ram Hospital, Meritorious School and others to start Covid centres due to shortage of oxygen. We will have to check the availability of cylinders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-oxygen-two-covid-centres-await-nod-255464
