27-05-2021||---||Bathinda rape case: Punjab and Haryana High Court raps cops, says protectors of law turned into predators||Chandigarh, May 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Punjab Police for turning into “predators” in a case where a widow’s Covid-infected son was allegedly implicated in a drugs case after she refused sexual favour to police officials.Also admonishing the police for insensitivity in constituting an all-male special investigation team to probe a rape case registered on her complaint, Justice Arun Monga further directed the state through its Director-General of Police to constitute a new SIT.Justice Monga made it clear that the new team would be headed by Additional Director-General of Police Gurpreet Deo. She would be assisted by Muktsar Senior Superintendent of Police D Sudarvizhi and Budhlada Deputy Superintendent of Police Prabhjot Kaur.The matter was placed before Justice Monga after the woman filed a petition apprehending “bodily harm” and tampering with the evidence. Justice Monga observed the allegations and factual averments in the petition were so grisly and frightful that one could only hope those were fictitious. Justice Monga also took note of the state counsel’s submissions that it was a case of honey trap laid by the petitioner that later boomeranged, before adding if that was not the case it reflected the sordid state of affairs in the Punjab Police, particularly in the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) at Bathinda. Justice Monga further added: “The very protectors/enforcers of law and order have turned into predators, making a 38-year-old widow-mother victim of their lust… An FIR, allegedly a false one, was registered against her son under the NDPS Act by planting contraband on him so as to arm-twist the petitioner. Eventually, under duress to get her son released, she yielded to the sexual demands of the CIA staff.”Referring to the constitution of the all-male SIT to look into the rape case registered under Section 376 of the IPC on May 12 at the Cantonment police station in Bathinda on her complaint, Justice Monga added it was rather intriguing, given the nature of sensitive investigation, that woman police official was not involved, which otherwise also was the requirement of law. “To say the least, it is highly deplorable to see the insensitivity with which the district police officials have acted, in constituting the SIT having all male members,” Justice Monga asserted, before making it clear that the new team would probe both the rape and the drugs case.Justice Monga also asked the state counsel to seek instructions on steps so far taken under the ‘Witness Protection Scheme, 2018’ following the petitioner’s apprehensions of bodily harm. The state counsel was also asked to seek instructions on departmental action, if any, and steps taken for proceeding against the accused in criminal proceedings arising out of both the FIRs.Advocate seeks protection from husbandThe Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association has forwarded a representation to the Punjab DGP by a woman advocate, seeking protection of life from her husband, an IPS officer. It was alleged that the IPS officer had openly threatened to harm the advocate/applicant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-rape-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-cops-says-protectors-of-law-turned-into-predators-259129
27-05-2021||Tribune Reporters||Farmers hold protests across Punjab||Bathinda/Patiala, May 26Farmers and people from various sections of society hoisted black flags atop their houses, burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government and held rallies and protest marches across the state on Wednesday, joining the ‘black day’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the three agricultural laws.Amarjot Singh Jandiala, BKU (Rajewal) Leader Stir will prove to be bjp’s nemesisThis protest will serve as an indication to the Centre that the BJP will be completely wiped out in Punjab and other states. Even six months after the protest, the Centre remains unmoved. We, too, won’t budge.In Bathinda and Mansa districts, farmers under the banner of Ugrahan, Sidhupur, Dakonda and Mansa factions of the BKU, Punjab Kisan Union and several other organisations carried out marches and burnt effigies of the Centre to express their resentment.In a meeting held in Mansa district, Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa warned that “if the obdurate stance of the Modi government continues, the BJP will have to face its consequences in the future elections.” He said farmers would start the mass mobilisation against the BJP.In Patiala, protesters burnt effigies of the central government at many places, including Samana, Rajpura and the National Highway near Shambhu. The Congress, SAD and AAP extended their support to the farmers’ call. Farmers and women carrying black flags held protests and raised slogans in many villages.In Amritsar, farmer unions organised protests on main roads of the city. They burnt effigies of corporate houses and Modi and reiterated their commitment to continue the protest until the farm laws were repealed. The effigies were burnt in rural areas also. People in the city hoisted black flags atop their homes and vehicles.In Jalandhar, farmers under the banner of Doaba, Kadiyan and Rajewal factions of the BKU, Kirti Kisan Union, Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, Mazdoor Ekta Sangh and other organisations held protests at various places. Nearly 200 farmers under the banner of BKU (Rajewal) assembled outside the District Administration Office to burn the effigies of PM and Home Minister Amit Shah. SAD and Congress leaders also participated in the protest. Advocates hit the roads and raised slogans against the Centre near the court complex.A similar show of solidarity was witnessed in Ludhiana. BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said braving vagaries of weather, farmers had been protesting at Delhi borders since November 26 to get the three farm Acts revoked.“Protesting farmers were left with no other choice but to observe the black day across the nation to wake up the Centre from its deep slumber,” he said.Lakhowal urged the Centre to dispense justice to protesting farmers so that they could return to their fields. In Moga, farmers, social activists, political leaders and people of all age groups and from various walks of life raised black flags, carried out marches and rallies and burnt effigies of the PM Modi at 30 locations in Moga.Farm unions burnt the PM’s effigies at the bus stand in Kishanpura Kalan, Madheke, Dagru, Rama, Khukhrana and Brahmke villages and Dharmkot town.Farmers also burnt PM Modi’s and Shah’s effigies at Charik, Machike Talwandi Mallian, Bhagike, Kot-ise-Khan town, Bhaloor, Himmatpura, Fathegarh Panjtoor, Badhni Kalan and Alamwala villages. Protesters carried out at a tractor march at Khukhrana, Singhanwala, Rode, Badhni Kalan villages and Baghapurana town.Members of social and teachers’ organisations in Moga city also carried black flags. BKU youth activists held motorcycle rallies in villages.(With inputs from Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Moga)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-hold-protests-across-punjab-258950
