29-05-2021||---||Three days on, case filed over Moga sacrilege, suspect held||Moga, May 28Three days after alleged sacrilege of ‘gutka’ (a religious book) at Sukhanand village in the district, the local police have finally registered a case and arrested a suspect.The suspect, Ram Singh, a resident of Janduke village, Mansa, was spotted in a drunk state on the intervening night of May 25 and 26 outside Gurdwara Dera Baba Bhag Singh of the village holding three religious books.SGPC objects to use of Guru’s photoAmritsar: The SGPC has lodged a protest against a ‘beedi’ unit in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, for printing a picture of Guru Gobind Singh on its product. The SGPC has written to the factory concerned asking it to remove the picture with immediate effect. TNSOn spotting him, local youths called the panchayat. Soon after, hundreds of people gathered at the spot.The suspect was detained by the local police for investigations the same day, but an FIR under Section 295A of the IPC was registered against him at the Samalsar police station last night. The police announced his arrest today.Jaswinder Singh, a Sahoke resident, said a video of the local police detaining him was circulated on the social media.Initially, the suspect tried to flee by throwing away the religious books but he was overpowered by locals. The police later detained him. The suspect was also seen carrying a bag. Investigations were in progress to find out the source of the books.Former MP Dhian Singh Mand and SAD (Mann) leader Jaskaran Singh of Kahan Singh Wala, who visited the village on May 26, demanded a thorough probe into the incident. There was an attempt to disturb peace and harmony of the state, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/three-days-on-case-filed-over-moga-sacrilege-suspect-held-260033
29-05-2021||Bathinda||Will start mass mobilisation against BJP, says kisan sabha||Balkaran Brar, state president, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha (Punjab), while addressing a state-level meeting in Bathinda on Friday said farm unions would unite and start mass mobilisation against the BJP at the national level.He also condemned the “arbitrary” hike in petrol and diesel prices recently and demanded that heavy taxes on fuel be curtailed so as not to burden the common man.Brar added, “Centre’s stubbornness will only lead to political consequences for the BJP in the upcoming elections in different states. We will unite against the BJP via mass mobilisation in the country. We will lay bare its anti-farmer and anti-common man policies before the people. Apart from skyrocketing petrol prices, number of other daily need essential items is quite expensive now.” The meeting was jointly conducted by the farm union and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha.Baldeep Singh Kot Shamir, a leader of khet mazdoor sabha said, “People across all sections of society have now seen corporate-favouring face of the Centre. Notwithstanding tenets enshrined in the Constitution, the government has brought in laws against the will of the people. We demand repeal of such laws.”Union leaders also exhorted that more people must visit protest venues at Delhi borders to strengthen the ongoing farm movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/will-start-mass-mobilisation-against-bjp-says-kisan-sabha-260017
29-05-2021||---||Bathinda admn aims at 100% testing in all villages by June 10||Bathinda, May 28Amid the fear of Covid spreading in rural areas, the district administration is targeting 100% testing in all villages of Bathinda. In a review meeting with the senior officials on Covid, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan today directed the District Development Panchayat Officer (DDPO) to ensure 100% testing in all villages of the district by June 10.He also directed the authorities concerned that although at present there was no problem of oxygen in the district, the use of gas in the hospitals should be monitored.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to follow the instructions issued by the government for the prevention of the epidemic. If they have any symptoms like cough, fever, cold etc., they should get their tests done immediately. If a person tests positive for Covid, he/she should not panic. Early detection will contain the disease spread and save their loved ones.He also reviewed the situation of domestic isolation, Covid testing, oxygen and Level-2 and Level-3 beds in the district. In Bathinda today, seven deaths and 257 new cases of Covid were reported, taking the death tally to 883 and cases to 39,863 in the district.Notably, the testing in the rural belt was met with huge resistance by residents during the first wave and even during the initial phases of the second wave, owing to ongoing farmers’ agitation. Many believed “Covid is not a disease but merely a ploy by the Centre to sabotage the farm stir”, but now people are aware in rural areas and have started taking vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-admn-aims-at-100-testing-in-all-villages-by-june-10-260022
