30-05-2021||---||Cases, fatalities on the decline across Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda/Muktsar, May 29After registering a spike in cases and mortality rate for the past few weeks, Bathinda district has shown signs of recovery. Both positivity and mortality rate have come down significantly in the district.While around two weeks ago, 20 to 25 patients were dying of Covid daily, the number has come down to seven to 10 now as per records of the Health Department.The recovery rate has improved and active cases have also come down. As per data, while 137 patients died of Covid between May 15 and May 21, the number halved this week with 80 deaths from May 22 to May 28. Similarly, active cases have also come down from 7,264 on May 15 to 3,746 on May 28.Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “The combined efforts of people and administration resulted in reduction of cases and mortality. People are more aware now. We have conducted testing on a mass scale in rural areas where the impact of the second wave was more intense. Every disease has its own pattern. There is overall decline in the number of cases everywhere now.”Meanwhile, the graph of fresh Covid cases and deaths has also comedown in Muktsar district.For instance, 1,626 people tested positive and 55 died between May 23 and 29 in the district. In comparison, 2,929 people had tested positive and 86 died between May 16 and 22 in the district. The maximum 19 deaths were reported in the district on May 16 and 18. Similarly, the maximum number of fresh cases — 619 — were reported on May 17. The minimum number of patients — 120 — were reported on May 29. Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “Due to speedy Covid testing, vaccination, efforts of the staff and awareness among people, the number of Covid cases has come down in the district.”She said people should not trust rumours about the Covid testing or vaccination. “The tests and vaccines are safe, thus there is no need to worry. People should cooperate with the state government at this juncture,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cases-fatalities-on-the-decline-across-punjab-260559
30-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda sees four black fungus deaths in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 29Seven fresh cases and four deaths due to black fungus in the past three days in the district have set the alarm ringing for the authorities.As per official figures, 45 cases of the Covid-triggered infection have been reported in the district so far of which 25 are from Bathinda, while the rest are from outside the district.Though the Civil Hospital is not equipped to treat the disease, the local unit of AIIMS has started the treatment after constituting a task force.Bathinda AIIMS Director Dr DK Singh said: “We have started treating black fungus. Injections to treat the infection are being supplied by the central government and now the state government has also assured us of the supply.”Covid has also started affecting eyes as cases of retinal haemorrhage and conjunctivitis are being reported in the district.Dr Parul Gupta, an ophthalmologist, said: “We have seen patients with retinal haemorrhage. Conjunctivitis is also common among Covid-recovered patients.”She said: “Repeated reuse of masks without washing is one of the main reasons of black fungus. So, everyone should wash and air dry cotton masks daily and discard medical, surgical and N95 masks after using once.”Health expert Dr Vitull K Gupta said: “Probable reasons for the surge in black fungus cases are being studied. The probable causes may be unhygienic way of delivering oxygen, that too industrial, indiscriminate use of steroids, unsanitary use of masks, contaminated humidifiers, low oxygen, diabetes, high iron levels, immunosuppression, prolongedhospitalisation with mechanical ventilators and excessive use of zinc.”Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “As many as 45 cases of black fungus have been reported here so far but most of them have recovered. There is no shortage of injections, but black fungus is a priority-based treatment. An injection will only be given to those who need it.”He said: “We are fully supporting AIIMS and have asked them to increase the beds for the black fungus patients. We have also provided them with injections and other support for the benefit of patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-sees-four-black-fungus-deaths-in-3-days-260565
