02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu not to contest upcoming Punjab assembly polls||Rebel AAP legislator Kanwar Sandhu on Thursday said he will not contest the upcoming Punjab assembly polls.Sandhu, an MLA from Kharar assembly constituency in Mohali, was suspended by the Aam Aadmi Party for “anti-party” activities in 2018.Sandhu, who went live on his Facebook page, said though he had options to join any traditional political party, he will not do so.“Should I join any of the traditional parties like some of my colleagues have done? This option is with me and I have more than one option. I thought about it in detail and there have also been speculations on social media,” he said.“But my conscience does not allow me to change the party… I make it clear that I am not joining any traditional party. Had there been a viable third or fourth front, I could have considered it but that is unlikely. I will be active in public life,” he said.“But I have no intention to fight the polls. I am not contesting,” said Sandhu, who is a first-time MLA. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rebel-aap-mla-kanwar-sandhu-not-to-contest-upcoming-punjab-assembly-polls-345523
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal telling lies, trying to mislead people: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his poll promises, accusing him of telling lies and trying to mislead people of the state. He targeted Kejriwal on a day when the AAP convener was on a one-day visit to Pathankot in Punjab, which will go to polls early next year. Referring to the AAP’s promise of giving Rs 1,000 per month to women above 18 if it comes to power in Punjab, Sidhu asked whether he considered “daughters, sisters and mothers as beggars” and questioned whether he gave the amount to women in Delhi.He again asked the Delhi CM if there is any woman in his Cabinet.Addressing a rally at Qadian in Gurdaspur district, the adjoining district of Pathankot where Kejriwal held a “Tiranga Yatra”, he said giving Rs 1,000 to women and free power of up to 2 KW load requires Rs 12,000 crore and Rs 3,600 crore, respectively.It works out at over Rs 1 lakh crore, he said while pointing towards Punjab’s total budget of Rs 72,000 crore and of which, Rs 70,000 crore goes into paying salaries and repaying debt.“From where will you get funds? You tell a lie and try to mislead people,” he said.Targeting the AAP government over poor air quality in Delhi, he said in the national capital, the number of CNG buses dropped to 3,000 now from 6,000 at the time of Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit.The bus passengers also dropped to 25 lakh from 45 lakh, he claimed.The green cover which stood at 22 per cent at the time of the Dikshit government could not be further enhanced by even one per cent by Kejriwal, he said. Sidhu asked the AAP leader whether he came to Punjab in the past four-and-a-half years.Sidhu said Kejriwal had promised 26 lakh jobs. “If 26 lakh jobs were to be given, it would require Rs 93,000 crore,” he said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-telling-lies-trying-to-mislead-people-sidhu-345520
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Philanthropist SPS Oberoi appointed honorary adviser by Punjab govt||The Punjab government on Thursday appointed philanthropist Dr S P S Oberoi as honorary adviser.Renowned philanthropist Dr S P S Oberoi has been appointed as honorary adviser on health and skill development, according to a government release.The orders will be issued later in this regard, it said.Oberoi is a managing trustee of the Sarbat Da Bhala Trust as well as president of Asian Gatka Foundation, and founder and chairman of Apex Group of Companies. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/philanthropist-sps-oberoi-appointed-honorary-adviser-by-punjab-govt-345508
02-12-2021||New Delhi||Protesting farmers taken to gurdwara in Delhi to pay respects in buses arranged by police||Around 70 protesting farmers, including Nihangs, who were going to Bangla Sahib Gurdwara on Thursday to pay their respects were stopped midway by police personnel, but were later taken to the shrine in buses arranged by police.The group included women and children who had been camping at the Singhu border since November last year.The protesters decided to visit Bangla Sahib Gurdwara in Delhi to pay their respects before returning to their homes, according to the police.As they moved towards Delhi in their vehicles, they were stopped at Mukarba Chowk but were ultimately granted permission and taken to Bangla Sahib Gurdwara here in buses arranged by the police.The police said after getting permission from higher authorities at the Police Headquarters, it was decided to facilitate the transportation of protesters and Nihangs as it was a goodwill gesture to pay their respects and had no political agenda.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Bijendra Kumar Yadav said the protesters decided at the last minute to go to Bangla Sahib Gurdwara to pay their respects and pray for the successful conclusion of the protest in the form of the government conceding to their three main demands.“Since we cannot allow them to go further from Mukarba Chowk, it was decided that they had to take permission and as permission was granted, we decided to move them in government buses in a systematic way,” Yadav said.“They were sent in the two buses arranged by us and taken to Bangla Sahib Gurudwara where they paid their respects,” the officer said.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws and their other demands, including a legal guarantee for MSP.Last month, a bill to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed within minutes of its introduction by the Lok Sabha without discussion. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/protesting-farmers-taken-to-gurdwara-in-delhi-to-pay-respects-in-buses-arranged-by-police-345499
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||This dark-complexioned man doesn?t make false promises: Kejriwal attacks Channi||Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday kept up the attack on Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the “kale angrez” jibe, saying he may be dark complexioned but his intent is clear and he doesn’t make false promises.The Delhi CM also promised free and quality education to those born in Punjab and announced to give an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to families of the soldiers or police jawans who die in line of duty if his party comes to power in next year’s state Assembly polls.The Punjab chief minister had on Wednesday dubbed AAP a party of “kale angrej” trying to win the Assembly elections, prompting Kejriwal to say that his intentions were fair even if his skin tone was dark.Referring to AAP, Channi had said these “kale angrez” are trying to take over Punjab after “chitte angrez” (British) were ousted from the country.“I want to tell them (Congress) once our government comes to power, the man wearing ordinary clothes and whose complexion is dark will fulfil all promises. I don’t make false announcements or false promises,” AAP’s national convener told reporters en route to Pathankot from Amritsar.Kejriwal also accused the Punjab chief minister of abusing him for promising Rs 1,000 a month to women in the state if AAP is voted to power.“I respect Channi sahab a lot. But, ever since I have announced that each woman in the state will be given Rs 1,000 per month, he has been abusing me. A few days ago, he taunted me for wearing ordinary clothes, but I want to tell him I have no problem with this,” he said.“When I will give Rs 1,000 to each woman, I will be happy to see our mothers and sisters purchasing new suits for themselves to wear,” the AAP leader told reporters.“Yesterday, he (Channi) told me that I am ‘kala’ (dark complexioned). I agree my colour is dark. I tour every village and while out in the bright sun, my skin has got tanned. Like him, I don’t tour in helicopters,” he said.“My mothers and sisters like this ‘kala bhai’ (dark-complexioned brother). Everyone knows my intent is clear and everyone knows whose intent is bad,” Kejriwal added.Later in Pathankot during his party’s “Tiranga Yatra”, Kejriwal promised free and quality education and announced to give an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to families of the soldiers or police jawans who die in line of duty if his party comes to power.Giving free and quality education to all those born in Punjab will be the responsibility of our government, said Kejriwal while announcing his fourth “guarantee” for the people of Punjab during the visit.“Everyone, whether poor or rich, will get quality education. We will build new schools. Delhi’s 25 per cent budget is used on school infrastructure,” said Kejriwal.He said services of temporary teachers will be regularised and their pending issues will be resolved.“Like Delhi, I guarantee we will better education system in Punjab,” the Delhi chief minister said.“We will make Punjab an education hub,” he said.Hailing contribution of Punjabis, especially from the Gurdaspur and Pathankot, to the country’s defence forces, Kejriwal while announcing the “fifth guarantee”, said if any soldier from Punjab or police jawan lays down life in any operation, his party’s government will give an ex-gratia of Rs one crore to next of kin on Delhi’s pattern.Kejriwal has already promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household, 24-hour power supply, free treatment and medicines at government hospitals besides Rs 1,000 per month to women above 18 if his party comes to power in the state. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-dark-complexioned-man-doesnt-make-false-promises-kejriwal-keeps-up-attack-on-channi-345481
02-12-2021||Islamabad||Pakistan says model’s ‘bareheaded’ photoshoot at Kartarpur ‘isolated incident’||Pakistan on Thursday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to convey its view that a model’s “bareheaded” photoshoot at the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib was an “isolated incident”.On Tuesday, India had summoned the Charge d’Affaires at the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi and conveyed its deep concern over Pakistani model Sauleha’s photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a “desecration” of the sanctity of the holy place.Sauleha’s “bareheaded” photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz on Monday as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community.The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, located in Pakistan’s Narowal district, is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.In a statement, the Foreign Office said that a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission was summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and told that it was “an isolated incident involving an individual at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib”.“It was conveyed to the Indian diplomat that the incident was swiftly addressed and clarified,” it said.It said that Pakistan accords highest primacy to the rights of the minorities and sanctity of religious places and revered sites of every community is ensured in Pakistan.Indian authorities must focus on ensuring effective protection of their own minorities and places of worship from instances of desecration, hate crimes and mob lynching, the FO said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-says-models-bareheaded-photoshoot-at-kartarpur-isolated-incident-345480
02-12-2021||---||To counter Kejriwal, Punjab CM counts populist measures implemented by his government||Chandigarh, December 2Countering AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, Punjab CM Charanjit Channi has said his government had implemented various populist decisions announced since he took charge.Presenting his report card for the last one-and-a-half month, CM Channi showed copies of the decisions that were implemented.“I am not 'Allanjeet' (announcement maker) but 'Vishwasjeet (trusted person) who implements decisions on the ground,” Channi said.He said he was implementing decisions on the ground and not merely making announcements. "I am winning the trust of the people by acting on the ground. Be it reducing power tariff by Rs 3 from November 1, terminating PPAs, giving ownership rights to people living in lal dora of villages, waiving pending water bills of Rs 1,168 crore of rural water supply and reducing the water tariff to Rss 50, all had been done, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-counter-kejriwal-punjab-cm-counts-populist-measures-implemented-by-his-government-345469
02-12-2021||---||BJP wants to control Delhi gurdwara committee and it is an attack on Panth: Sukhbir Badal||Jalandhar, December 2SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Thursday alleged that the BJP wanted to control the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and it is an attack on the Panth.Badal said that Manjinder Sirsa, who resigned as the DSGMC chief on Wednesday, was recently given the option to either resign or face jail.“It is unfortunate that Sirsa bowed down before the BJP's pressure,” he said.Badal alleged that all those who had organised ‘langar’ and supported the recent farm protests were being targeted.He said it pained him that Sirsa had given in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-wants-to-control-delhi-gurdwara-committee-and-it-is-an-attack-on-panth-sukhbir-badal-345467
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab people want Kejriwal model of governance; AAP will form next govt in state: Raghav Chadha||People of Punjab trust Arvind Kejriwal and want the Delhi model of governance to be emulated in the state, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Thursday, claiming that his party would form the next government in the state with “outright majority”.The 32-year-old leader, who is considered a confidant of the Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor, said the party's chief ministerial face for Punjab would be announced at the right time.Chadha claimed that the people of Punjab were fed up with traditional political parties like the Congress and Akali Dal and wanted to give a chance to the Aam Aadmi Party.Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year.“Wherever we go in Punjab, we find that there is a disenchantment of people with all traditional political parties. People hate the Akali Dal and they feel betrayed by the Congress. Everywhere there is a sentiment that one chance be given to the AAP and Arvind Kejriwal. It is all pervasive,” Chadha told PTI in an interview here.“This time, the AAP will form the government in Punjab with an outright majority. There is a ground sentiment (in favour of AAP). People are fed up with the traditional parties. Above all, people know about our work done in Delhi,” he said.Chadha said the people of Punjab “love and trust” Kejriwal and want the “tried and tested” Delhi model of governance to be replicated in the state.“People of Punjab want the Kejriwal model of governance which he has shown in Delhi to be emulated and replicated in Punjab,” added Chadha.Chadha claimed that the nearly seven years of the AAP government's track record in Delhi would “play heavily on the minds of the Punjabis” and exuded confidence that they would vote for the AAP.Asked about the delay in the announcement of AAP's chief ministerial face for Punjab, Chadha termed it as “matter of our political strategy”.       However, he called Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann as the “backbone” of the party in the state.“Bhagwant Mann is our tallest leader in Punjab. He is my elder brother and the glue that binds the AAP in Punjab,” he said.Several AAP supporters have demanded that Mann be declared the AAP's chief ministerial candidate for Punjab.The AAP's Punjab affairs co-in-charge further said that Kejriwal had prepared a blueprint for plugging the existing revenue leakages and the state would turn into revenue surplus from revenue deficit with the raising of additional revenue sources without increasing the tax burden.Replying to a question on Punjab's political parties targeting Kejriwal over his poll promises, Chadha said, “We are making promises which we can fulfil and all these are doable promises.”During his visits to Punjab, Kejriwal has already promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household, 24-hour power supply, free treatment and medicines at government hospitals and Rs 1,000 per month for women if his party comes to power in 2022.“Kejriwal is the principal vote getter for the party and he is the biggest brand for us,” Chadha said while hitting out at rival political opponents for making “hollow promises” to the people.Targeting Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Chadha said he promised sand at Rs 5.50 per cubic foot but it is still being sold at Rs 25 per cubic foot.Channi promised reduction in power tariff, the AAP legislator from Delhi said while daring the state government to “show a single electricity bill” where power rate has been slashed.“There is strong anti-incumbency against the Congress. By undertaking cosmetic changes and giving a ride to a few children in a chopper, the Congress cannot be revived,” said Chadha as he attacked the ruling party for “doing nothing” for the people of the state in the last five years.Attacking the Shiromani Akali Dal, Chadha claimed that people do not “trust” the Badals.“There is outright hatred against them over issues like corruption, sacrilege and drug menace,” he alleged.Chadha said that his party would improve the education system in Punjab in case it came to power. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-people-want-kejriwal-model-of-governance-aap-will-form-next-govt-in-state-raghav-chadha-345458
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Boman Irani visits Golden Temple, seeks blessings prior to his birthday||Ahead of his birthday, actor Boman Irani visited the Golden Temple in Amritsar to seek blessings with his family. The actor's family visited him in Chandigarh where he has been shooting for his upcoming project.The actor commented on the happy occasion, saying, "The minute they landed. I said 'we have to go to the Golden Temple'. I was supposed to go a few days ago. But I said I will go only with my family. Not knowing they would surprise me. Next thing, we went and it was simply beautiful".Here are the pictures shared by the actor on his Instagram:A post shared by Boman Irani (@boman_irani)  Boman will be next seen in the Kabir Khan directorial '83', where he essays the role of former Indian cricketer Farokh Engineer along with Ranveer Singh, Deepika Padukone, Pankaj Tripathi, Tahir Raj Bhasin, Harrdy Sandhu, Neena Gupta and Ammy Virk.In addition, he also has the Amitabh Bachchan-starrer 'Runway 34' up his alley.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/boman-irani-visits-golden-temple-seeks-blessings-prior-to-his-birthday-345454
02-12-2021||---||Relief for traders: Punjab exempts 1.5L cases from VAT assessment||Chandigarh, December 1To woo the business community, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday decided to exempt about 1.50 lakh cases from tax assessment for 2014-15 till 2017-18, a move that will cost the state exchequer Rs 200 crore.With this decision, about 8,500 cases would now be assessed every year, according to an official statement.The value-added tax (VAT) assessment was related to cases of category C forms, which are used for interstate business transactions.Though it has been over four years since the end of the VAT regime, there was still a heavy burden of VAT assessment on the traders coupled with difficulties in providing C forms etc. to them.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting chaired by CM Charanjit Singh Channi. The Cabinet also approved exemption for traders from making payment of 70 per cent of the excess demand raised by the taxation department.They will be required to deposit 30 per cent of the surplus demand. The move will cost the exchequer Rs 940 crore. The traders can pay 20 per cent by March 31, 2022, and the remaining by March 31, 2023. The Cabinet gave its nod to upgrade Gharuan (SAS Nagar), Rajasansi (Amritsar) and Dorangla (Gurdaspur) as sub-tehsils.It also approved OTS policy for Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (PSIDC), Punjab Financial Corporation (PFC) and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC) for settlement of their dues.Ex-post facto approval was given for financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh each already paid to the families of four farmers and one journalist, who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. It also accorded approval for implementation of the CM Scholarship Scheme in Higher Education for government colleges in the state.The scheme would involve annual financial implication of Rs 36.05 crore. The scholarship scheme would be linked to marks obtained by students.Gharuan, Rajasansi to be sub-tehsilsNod to upgrade Gharuan (Mohali), Rajasansi (Amritsar) and Dorangla (Gurdaspur) as sub-tehsilsScholarship for govt college studentsThe CM Scholarship Scheme in Higher Education to be given to bright students from poor background studying in govt colleges||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relief-for-traders-punjab-exempts-1-5l-cases-from-vat-assessment-345273
02-12-2021||---||Manjinder Singh Sirsa quits DSGMC post, joins BJP ahead of Punjab poll||New Delhi, December 1Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday resigned as president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and joined the BJP ahead of the crucial Punjab elections in what is being seen as a bid by the saffron party to woo Sikh voters.A former MLA from Rajouri Garden in West Delhi, Sirsa was a senior leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Minutes later, he told The Tribune: “I hold no grudge against Sukhbir Singh Badal or the SAD.” Sirsa has been a prominent face of the SAD in the national Capital and a strong supporter of the farmers’ stir against the three farm laws. He said he would continue to work for Sikh causes. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters later, he said the DSGMC had earned much praise for its work during the Covid surge. He thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah and said: “Hope we can work together and avoid a collision course.”Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Sirsa had met the Home Minister and BJP chief JP Nadda before being inducted into the party and “has been working with us for a long time.” Union Minister GS Shekhawat said Sirsa’s induction would help the BJP in the Punjab elections. Meanwhile, a crisis is brewing in the DSGMC over Sirsa’s resignation, which has to be approved by the General House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirsa-quits-dsgmc-post-joins-bjp-ahead-of-pb-poll-345279
02-12-2021||Legal Correspondent||Arrest warrants against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, aides in rape case||Ludhiana, December 1The Court of Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Kaur today again ordered the issuance of non-bailable warrants of arrest against Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar constituency, and six others in a rape case registered on the complaint of a 44-year-old for December 10.During the last hearing too, the court had issued arrest warrants, which came back with the report that the accused could not be arrested as he was not found at home. Harish Rai Dhanda, counsel for the complainant, appeared before the court and raised questions about the functioning of the local police. He alleged that MLA Bains was publicly holding political rallies and the police were making false reports about his non-availabilty.The FIR was registered on the orders of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh in July 2021. But none of the accused has been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-warrants-against-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-aides-in-rape-case-345197
02-12-2021||Vijay C Roy||CII suggests 10-point agenda for growth||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1From governance issues to revitalising manufacturing sector to creating an enabling environment, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) submitted a 10-point agenda for growth of Punjab to the Congress government, ahead of the Assembly elections. The industry body feels, the agenda should be part of the election manifesto and should be taken up by the incumbent party at the earliest.According to the recommendations, the state is facing diverse challenges such as youth migration & unemployment, drug abuse, stagnation in agriculture, depleting water table and fiscal challenges. It suggests that the government needs concerted efforts to address these issues to fulfil Punjab’s vision of sustained growth of over eight to nine per cent.The recommendations were submitted to Gurkirat Singh, Minister for Industries, Commerce, IT & Science and Technology, during an interactive session at the CII here today.The 10-point plan focuses on the development of a coherent industrial strategy and a commitment to restoring that will help build the domestic capability and supply chain. It also calls on more dedicated manufacturing areas & focal points, dedicated industrial infrastructure to MSMEs, time-bound approval for building plan and factory maps and standard dispute resolution mechanism etc.Responding to industrialists, Gurkirat Singh said, “We have achieved a lot in the last four and half years, however there is much more that needs to be done. I have taken note of the issues and suggestions made by you. I assure you that we will make them part of our manifesto.”“As a business-centric government, we have identified the needs of the industry especially in terms of infrastructure,” he added. The state has recently reached the milestone of having investments worth Rs1.02 lakh crore under various stages of implementation, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cii-suggests-10-point-agenda-for-growth-345198
02-12-2021||Ropar||OP Soni cancels Ropar visit to avoid National Health Mission protesters||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni had to cancel his visit to the local Civil Hospital after a large number of National Health Mission (NHM) workers announced a protest against him today.Soni, who is also holding the portfolio of health, was scheduled to inaugurate ‘Universal Newborn Hearing Screening’ (UNHS) with SOHUM Automated Auditory Brainstem Response Device at the district hospital.In his absence, Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri along with Health and Family Welfare Department Director Dr OP Gojra launched the programme.More than 100 NHM workers, including community health officers, doctors, nurses, clerical and other contractual staff, who are on strike since October 16, said they would not allow the Deputy Chief Minister to enter the hospital.Union leader Sukhjit Singh said more than 10,000 employees under the NHM had been working in Punjab at low salaries for the past 15 years. “We want our jobs to be regularised and an increase in salaries. Yesterday, we had staged a dharna on the Kharar-Chandigarh road for six hours following which a meeting was held with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, but no solution was provided to our issues,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-soni-cancels-ropar-visit-to-avoid-national-health-mission-protesters-345199
02-12-2021||Faridkot/Jalandhar||30-year-old nun dies by suicide in Faridkot||A 30-year-old nun allegedly committed suicide at her convent chapel in Sadiq of Faridkot district on Tuesday. She was identified as Sister Mary Mercy of Alappuzha, Kerala.The body of the nun, who belonged to Franciscan Immaculatine Sisters, an Italian congregation founded in 1881, was found hanging from the window of the convent chapel on Tuesday morning, the police said.They said they had recovered a suicide note, written in Malayalam, at the apartment where she was staying. She had written that she wanted to end her life due to loneliness and depression. She apologised to her parents, companion sisters and chaplin for taking the extreme step and not continuing to fulfill her commitment to serve the church till the end of her life, the police said.An autopsy was performed at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital and asphyxiation due to hanging was found to be the prima facie cause of her death.The body has been handed over to a father in the church to be further taken to her home town at Arthunkal in Alappuzha district in Kerala for cremation, said the police.The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC, said Chamkaur Singh, SHO Sadiq. SSP, Faridkot, Varun Sharma, however, said investigations were underway to ascertain the circumstances that led her to take the step. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-year-old-nun-dies-by-suicide-in-faridkot-345200
02-12-2021||Amritsar||BSF seizes 3.6-kg heroin dropped by Pak drone||Border Security Force (BSF) personnel claimed to have seized 3.66-kg heroin that was dropped by a drone which came from Pakistan today.Troops of 183 Battalion, BSF, deployed on the border heard the hum of a suspected drone coming from the Pak side and entering the Indian territory in the Amritsar sector.Suspecting smuggling, the BSF troops fired in the direction of the drone.Immediately, the area was cordoned off and the police were also informed.During an extensive search of the area, one bag with a ring attached to a sling was found in a field on the Indian side of the fence. Four packets of contraband, suspected to be heroin (3.660 kg), were recovered from the bag. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-seizes-3-6-kg-heroin-dropped-by-pak-drone-345201
02-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||1-kg RDX seized in Dinanagar||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar (Gurdaspur), Dec 1The police today seized 1 kg of RDX from an undisclosed place falling under the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur district. Officers claimed the person who planted it there had links with Pakistan.The RDX, a white-coloured solid, has no taste or smell. It is said that it has more energy and is more explosive than the TNT. Police sources said 1 kg of the RDX was enough to bring destruction in a radius of 50 m.Two days ago, the Gurdaspur police had nabbed Sukhwinder Singh from a check-post set up in Dinanagar. SSP Nanak Singh said his officers had put the accused under sustained interrogation, following which he disclosed that he had planted the RDX. The police did not disclose the exact place from where the seizure was made. “We are not in a position to disclose anything right now. However, one thing is certain that Sukhwinder has links with agencies based in Pakistan,” said an officer.In yet another incident which may be linked with the RDX seizure, the Gurdaspur police had on Sunday arrested two persons with a revolver from a place falling under the Bhaini Mian Khan police station. The police are investigating whether these persons have any links with Sukhwinder.On November 22, the twin districts of Gurdaspur and Pathankot were put on a high alert after two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons lobbed a low-intensity hand grenade at the Army camp in Pathankot.Nanak Singh ruled out any link between Sukhwinder and the persons involved in the Pathankot attack.This is the second time in the last six years that the RDX has been seized from Dinanagar. On July 27, 2015 three Pakistan-based heavily armed Lashkar-e-Taiba militants had walked their way into the local police station from across the border. An eight-hour gun battle between the police and terrorists ensued, in which all three were killed. Before entering the police complex, the militants had planted 5.7 kg of RDX near Jakholarhi on the Pathankot-Gurdaspur rail track. The detonator needed to blast the RDX somehow got delinked, following which the explosive had failed to go off.The then Pathankot SSP Rakesh Kaushal led a team of officers that had seized the explosives.'Links with Pak agencies'||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-kg-rdx-seized-in-dinanagar-345202
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis slam Charanjit Singh Channi for PSPCL job to Jalalpur's son||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today condemned CM Charanjit Singh Channi for appointing Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur’s son as Director, Administration, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the Chief Minister had totally surrendered to the whims and fancies of his ministers as well as Congress legislators and was making one appointment after another at their beck and call without any regard to the future of the youth of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-slam-charanjit-singh-channi-for-pspcl-job-to-jalalpurs-son-345203
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal to visit Pathankot today||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal will on Thursday visit Pathankot. AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said Kejriwalwould lead the party’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk in the city.After addressing the ‘Tiranga Yatra’, Mann said, Kejriwal would give the “fourth guarantee” to the people of Punjab. Before this, Kejriwal had given the first guarantee of free and 24-hour electricity, second guarantee of free health services and setting up 16,000 mohalla clinics and the third guarantee of giving Rs 1,000 per month to women and girls above 18 years of age. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-pathankot-today-345204
02-12-2021||Chandigrah/Ropar||Stop theatrics, Pargat Singh tells Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia today visited two government schools unannounced in Chamkaur Sahib, prompting Education Minister Pargat Singh to ask him to stop political antics.Sisodia said he would visit government schools in other parts of the state as well. In Chaklan village school, Sisodia found cobwebs in a classroom and wash rooms not cleaned properly; broken furniture and no proper arrangement for drinking water welcomed the VIP visitor in Makrona Kalan village school.At Makrona Kalan, the lone nursery teacher present on the spot informed him that he was paid a mere Rs 6,000. A mid-day meal worker claimed she hadn't been paid for last couple of months.Pargat said he never expected such antics from him. “I believe in healthy discussion and fruitful debate,” said the minister while lashing out at AAP leaders and workers for going to a school amid the possible third Covid wave.He said their act could endanger the health of students. Lashing out at AAP, Pargat said if Delhi had such a “wonderful” system then why over 1200 posts of principals and vice-principals were lying vacant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-theatrics-pargat-singh-tells-manish-sisodia-345205
02-12-2021||Patiala||Sanjeev Sharma Bittu back as Patiala Mayor after High Court hearing||Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu has reiterated his claims to contest the upcoming Assembly elections from the Patiala rural seat. The mayor made the declaration when he reached the MC office on Wednesday after a hearing of his plea over his stated ‘suspension’ from mayorship (as per MC General House proceedings) in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The state government in the court today stated he had not been suspended. The next date of hearing is December 6.Bittu was joined by Capt Amarinder Singh’s daughter Jai Inder Kaur and other local leaders. Training his guns at the Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, who is an MLA from the constituency, Bittu said the Municipal Corporation office was turned into a jail on November 25. “The officials, joined by the police and MC staff, created a ruckus. We will ensure action is initiated against those responsible,” he said.Brahm Mohindra responded, “I don’t want to comment on the court proceedings as the matter is sub judice. I have also heard the court has not granted any stay.”Bittu said he would continue to function as the city mayor till the matter is in the court. Advocates representing the state government in the High Court said a final decision on the Mayor’s suspension had not been taken.They said Bittu, under the present circumstances, could continue on the post till the next hearing. Advocate-General DS Patwalia submitted the government had received the resolution by the counsellors. But the state was yet to apply its mind. The case will now come up for hearing on December 6. So far, the Bench has not granted a stay. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanjeev-sharma-bittu-back-as-mayor-after-high-court-hearing-345206
02-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Rajpura: Waste management problem persists||The authorities at Rajpura constituency of Patiala — also called the gateway of Punjab — seem to have failed to improve basic amenities in the area. People are irked over blocked sewage, poor waste management, inadequate water supply, traffic snarls and encroachments. Due to the lack of proper sewage lines, various parts of the city reel from overflowing drains.Amrik Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Mohalla, said, “Ambedkar Park in the area is inundated with sewage water. Despite the laying of pipes, water overflows and people divert it into the park. Despite repeated requests to officials, the problem persists.”Though Rajpura town has been declared the cleanest in the zonal ranking of ‘Swachh Survekshan’ 2021 from among towns with ULBs having a population from 50,000 to 1 lakh, residents complained that the city lacks a proper waste disposal mechanism. Residents said sanitation workers, in some parts, did not clean their areas regularly. Besides, the city witnesses regular traffic jams due to poor traffic management and lack of parking spaces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajpura-waste-management-problem-persists-345207
02-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala: Marred by drain of problems||A choked wetland, inefficient waste disposal system and polluted Kala Sanghian drain among others are some key issues of the Kapurthala constituency.Zila Parishad former president Harjinder Singh Khalsa, who lives in one of the villages near the drain, says: “Some 20 years ago, the drain used to be a pristine water body. It is now filled with filth and emanates foul stench. A dozen villages along the drain have been suffering for the past many years, but authorities have turned a blind eye.”The sprawling Shalimar Bagh was once considered Kapurthala’s pride. Today, it is city’s bane. “We have been witness to Shalimar Bagh’s degeneration over the years. Mounds of garbage in the area have become eyesores. The MC seems little concerned,” says Pardeep Sharma, a resident of Parkash Avenue. Even though Rs 4.5 crore has been spent on a pathway on the Kanjli Wetland, it is in an unkempt condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-marred-by-drain-of-problems-345208
02-12-2021||Badhni Kalan (Moga)||Capt Amarinder Singh, Badals 2 sides of same coin, says Punjab CM||Lashing out at former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said they were both two sides of the same coin. He was addressing a public gathering at Badhni Kalan village in Moga district on Wednesday.Both helping PMEarlier, the Badals helped PM Modi to bring in ordinances on the three farm laws, and now Amarinder is helping him form the BJP govt in the state. Charanjit Singh Channi, CM“Both the Badals and Amarinder have no sense of right and wrong. Earlier, the Badals helped PM Narendra Modi to bring in ordinances on the three controversial farm laws and now Amarinder is helping the PM in bringing the BJP government in the state,” he alleged, adding that they both were the biggest enemies of Punjabis.Taking on Amarinder, he said that he (Amarinder) was backstabbing Punjab and Punjabis by aligning with the Modi government and justifying the notification of the central government enhancing the jurisdiction of BSF in Punjab by 50 km. “This is a direct attack on the rights of states as well as the federal structure which will not be tolerated by us,” he said.Channi said it was due to Amarinder and the Badal family that the transport and cable mafia had looted the people of Punjab.The Chief Minister also formally initiated the process of giving 5-marla plots to the beneficiaries. Today, 1,294 beneficiaries were awarded the ownership of plots in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-badals-2-sides-of-same-coin-says-punjab-cm-345209
02-12-2021||---||Work as team, Rahul Gandhi tells Punjab congress top brass||Chandigarh, December 1Amid palpable differences between state Congress leaders, Punjab top brass today met party leader Rahul Gandhi to work out consensus in the PCC reorganisation, expected to be announced soon.CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu met Rahul in the presence of Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary. Sidhu and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar also separately met Rahul. Sidhu is learnt to have discussed his ‘Punjab Model’ with him.Rahul is learnt to have stressed upon CM Channi, Sidhu and Jakhar to work as a team. The meeting is being seen in light of the PCC chief and CM Channi not being seen on the same page, with the former questioning his own government on different issues. Sidhu reportedly protested meeting of block presidents called by Chaudhary and Channi, without him being kept in the loop.The party high command is learnt to have agreed to Sidhu’s move to appoint two acting presidents with each district president, while tweaking the list of the PCC’s office-bearers in consultation with ministers and MLAs. The party leadership is also analysing reports of the BJP trying to woo certain party MLAs and MPs ahead of the polls.Jakhar offered poll panel responsibility||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-as-team-rahul-gandhi-tells-pcc-top-brass-345210
02-12-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab cops caught selling confiscated ENA for liquor||Tribune news serviceRajpura, December 1The police-smuggler nexus has again come to the fore after cops in Rajpura Sadar police station were allegedly found selling extra neutral alcohol (ENA) recently.While an ASI posted as munshi in the police station Sarabjit Singh has been dismissed, SHO Gurpreet Handa faces a departmental probe after being suspended. Senior officials said Sarabjit also faced an FIR for repeatedly selling ENA from the police station.Zero tolerance to liquor smugglingENA was being sold clandestinely to bootleggers from Rajpura Sadar police station. Four persons have been held and 500 litres of ENA recovered from them. There is zero tolerance to liquor smuggling. A Venu Prasad, Additional Chief SecretarySurprisingly, the munshi had been serving in the police station for past many years, despite a recent reshuffle in Ghanaur and Rajpura police stations over the illicit liquor trade.“The role of other cops is also under the scanner,” said top officers. Since Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa himself ordered a probe, senior officers are not ready to divulge any information.The matter came to light when four bootleggers were arrested for allegedly supplying ENA to manufacture fake liquor in Amritsar. They revealed they were being supplied ENA regularly from inside the Rajpura Sadar police station. As per information gathered by The Tribune, following the hooch tragedy in the border belt in which over 120 persosn were killed, the Excise Department was constantly trailing the illegal sale of ENA, primarily from and in Rajpura and Ghanaur. “These two were the epicentres of ENA supply to illegal distilleraies,” said a top excise official.“On November 27, excise officials recovered 510 litre of ENA, from two Amritsar-bound vehicles near Banur. An FIR under Section 420 of the IPC and the Excise Act was registered against Shamsher Singh, Gursharan Singh, Iqbal Singh and Priptal Singh. Sources said they too revealed during their interrogation that they had procured ENA from the Rajpura police station. “Fearing the matter will be hushed up, a senior official informed Randhawa, ordered a senior IPS officer to personally visit the police station and carry out a detailed investigation and report the matter directly to him,” the sources said.“The checking of the malkhana revealed ENA was missing from case properties in a large quantity. It was established that the munshi was allegedly selling it,” said a top officer. Confirming the developments, SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar said: “Such conduct of officials won’t be tolerated.” He refused to comment further on the issue.Breaking the nexus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajpura-cops-caught-selling-confiscated-ena-for-liquor-345211
02-12-2021||Amritsar||'Abolish passport norm'||IG (Border) gets STF chargeChandigarh: The police on Wednesday issued new posting orders for 35 officials, mainly between the rank of Inspector General and Superintendent of Police. Among the main postings, IG (Border Range) Mohnish Chawal has been given additional charge of IG-Special Task Force (STF) on drugs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abolish-passport-norm-345212
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Medical council president resigns||Controversial president of the Punjab Medical Council, Dr AS Sekhon, has resigned from his post six months before the completion of his tenure.According to council officials, Dr Sekhon sent his resignation to the government today. Dr Sekhon was a loyalist of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and was appointed the president during the first few weeks of his assuming the office. In a report, The Tribune had highlighted that the Medical Council of India had cancelled the registration of Dr Sekhon as he had allegedly furnished false information. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-council-president-resigns-345213
02-12-2021||Sangrur||AAP alleges fraud in construction of Sangrur bhawan||Raising questions about the passing of two resolutions to sanction Rs 85 lakh to local Arora Sewa Sadan Sabha, Sangrur, for the construction of Arora Bhawan, AAP leaders have demanded registration of a fraud case against the authorities of the Sangrur Improvement Trust.“To sanction Rs 49 lakh to the sabha, a resolution was passed by the authorities on November 3 while the land by was purchased on November 16. Then another resolution was passed on November 18 to sanction Rs 36 lakh more. It is clearly a fraud,” alleged Narinder Kaur Bharaj, spokesman of Punjab AAP. Sabha patron Nathu Lal Dhingra, however, said they were constructing Arora Bhawan for the use of all and leaders should not raise questions just for political mileage. “We will oppose parties which try to hinder the construction,” said Dhingra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-alleges-fraud-in-construction-of-sangrur-bhawan-345214
02-12-2021||Amritsar||Afghan bizmen to take part in Punjab trade expo||Traders from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan are going to participate in the annual edition of the Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), scheduled to be held in Amritsar from December 2 to 6.However, the visitors will miss the famous non-vegetarian dishes, articles and fashion line of Pakistan this time too. It seems the cross-border tension has taken over the bonhomie of the Kartarpur Corridor facilitation. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has not been granting visa to Pakistani traders since 2017.Discouraged by the constant visa rejection, the Pakistani traders themselves refrained from applying for the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry-sponsored trade and cultural bonanza. RS Sachdeva, Chair, Punjab State Chapter, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Five stalls have been booked by Afghanistan-based traders who will join us soon. They may bring dry fruit, herbal and Unani medicines.” PITEX will be inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghan-bizmen-to-take-part-in-trade-expo-345215
02-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Impersonation, forgery of papers on rise in bail matters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that impersonation while presenting sureties and submission of forged/fake documentation by the sureties in bail matters was “unfortunately” on a rise. Making it clear that it interfered with the administration of justice, Justice Deepak Sibal asserted that the menace was required to be curbed.Justice Sibal also put Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain on notice in the matter, while appointing advocate Sukesh K Jindal as an amicus curiae to assist the Bench in the matter. Before parting with the order, Justice Sibal fixed the case for further hearing in January third week.Justice Sibal had earlier rapped a trial court for acting mechanically while accepting false sureties and bail bonds in a case allegedly involving fake invoices of Rs 393 crore. The Ludhiana District and Sessions Judge was also directed to hold an inquiry and submit a conclusive inquiry report.Justice Sibal had at that time also asserted that furnishing false sureties at the time of release of an accused on bail clearly amounted to interference in the administration of justice. It was a menace, which continued to be rampant despite issuance of directions by the High Court in December 2011 in the case of “Rajinder Kumar versus State of Haryana”. The same was required to be put to an end.Justice Sibal had added the trial court’s “satisfaction” at the time of accepting false sureties and bail bonds was, prima facie, recorded rather mechanically and ex-facie in violation of the directions issued and circulated by the High Court in Rajinder Kumar’s case.Cheating case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-impersonation-forgery-of-papers-on-rise-in-bail-matters-345216
02-12-2021||Sameer Singh||Cotton prices drop in Punjab's Malwa, farmers blame private buyers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 1Cotton farmers staged a protest at the grain market in Bathinda today, alleging private players had decreased the prices of the produce in mandis, coercing them to sell the crop on low rates.Threaten indefinite agitationCotton growers have already suffered losses due to the pest attack and untimely rain. If they are not provided remunerative prices, we will start an indefinite agitation soon. Gora Singh, BKU Dakaunda leaderCotton farmers in Mansa district have not even been getting MSP in some mandis. The growers alleged citing poor quality, private players were quoting a low price (below MSP) for the produce. This at a time when cotton in the Malwa region fetched an all-time high price at Rs 9,400 per quintal this season. The untimely spell of rain coupled with the pink bollworm attack has caused substantial damage to the crop in the region this season, affecting the production.Sandeep Singh, a farmer from Shergarh village from Bathinda district, said, “The top quality of cotton which I sold for Rs 8,500 on a per-quintal basis just over a week ago is not being sold for more than Rs 7,500 now. We will not accept low rates for the premium quality of cotton.”Jagdev Singh, another farmer from Jai Singhwala village, said, “Cotton was bought for Rs 9,400 on a per quintal basis just a while ago but now, the prices have been brought down by private players deliberately. They quoted just Rs 7,490 as the highest price for the top-quality cotton brought by me. I refused to sell my produce. If they do not raise the price, I will take the produce to some other mandi and try to sell it there.”In Mansa district, private players have even bought cotton for as low as Rs 5,200 per quintal which is way below than MSP of Rs 5,925 fixed for this year. Alleging arbitrary approach of private players, cotton growers staged protests in some villages and raised slogans.A senior official of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) said there was certainly a decline in the prices of cotton being procured by private players. He said private players had unanimously formed a ‘pool’ and decided they would not be quoting a higher price than a fixed limit of even the top-quality cotton. Gora Singh Bhaini Bagha, a leader of the BKU Dakaunda in Mansa district, said, “How is it possible that good-quality cotton was fetching Rs 8,500 to even Rs 9,400 per quintal just a few days ago and now suddenly the prices have dropped? Cotton growers have already suffered losses due to the pest attack and untimely rain. If they are not provided remunerative prices for their produce, we will start an indefinite agitation soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-prices-drop-in-malwa-farmers-blame-private-buyers-345217
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Political lingo turns colourful in Punjab as Channi calls AAP 'kale angrej'; Intention fair, says Kejriwal||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday dubbed the AAP a party of “kale angrej” trying to win the 2022 state assembly elections, prompting his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal to retort that he may be black but his intention is fair.Amid the ongoing spat between the AAP and Punjab Congress, Channi resorted to the colourful expression while addressing a gathering at Badhni Kalan in Punjab’s Moga district.“…and now (Arvind) Kejriwal, they say this time Kejriwal (AAP saying they will form next govt). Do no people live in Punjab? Are there no youths in Punjab? Are there no Punjabis in Punjab? Will ‘kale angrej’ come here (the state) and rule?” asked Channi.He further said these “kale angrej” are trying to take over Punjab after ‘(gore) chitte angrej’ (Britishers) were ousted from the country earlier.Talking to reporters, Channi elaborated, “We are saying Punjab belongs to Punjabis, you do not create disruptions here. These outsiders ‘kale angrej’ want to rule (the state).”   Reacting to Channi’s remarks, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Punjab CM of abusing him for promising Rs 1,000 a month to women in the state if his party comes to power.He further said he may be “black” but his “intentions are fair”.   “Channi Sahab has been abusing me ever since I said each woman in Punjab will be given Rs 1,000 per month. (He) Says that Kejriwal’s clothes are bad. Today (he) said Kejriwal is ‘kala’ (black),” Kejriwal said.  “Channi sahib, my complexion is black but my mothers and sisters in Punjab like this ‘kala’ son/brother. They know that my intention is fair,” said Kejriwal in a tweet in Hindi.Addressing the public gathering earlier in Moga, Chief Minister Channi asserted that Punjab would be ruled only by its people and as the “likes of Kejriwal” have absolutely no knowledge of the problems and the needs of its people.“Kejriwal just wants to capture power in Punjab by resorting to drama and false guarantees as he has no concern for Punjab beyond that,” alleged Channi.Reacting to Channi’s “kale angrej” remark, AAP leader Raghav Chadha too accused him of calling Kejriwal as ‘kale angrej’ and said the Punjab CM has crossed “all the boundaries of slander” while sitting in a responsible chair.“It is a shame,” he said.“The people of Punjab love Arvind Kejriwal immensely. Channi today called popular leader Arvind Kejriwal a ‘black Englishman’. Even before this, they (Channi and Congressmen) used to insult Arvind Kejriwal every day,” he said.“By using such derogatory language for a hero of the people, Channi and his associates are insulting all those people including Punjabis who like Arvind Kejriwal as a pro-people leader,” said Chadha in a statement.While addressing the Moga gathering, Channi also came down heavily on former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and SAD leaders, the Badals, accusing their families of being in “hand-in-glove with the BJP government at the Centre to achieve their motives and ruining Punjab”.“The Badals implemented the farm laws in the state and then played a leading role in getting the same enforced upon the entire country by giving ill advice to the Narendra Modi government in the Centre,” he said.“In order to save the ministerial berth of Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Badal family went to the extent of even campaigning in support of these black laws. Harsimrat didn’t resign on her own from the Union Cabinet but the massive angst of the people forced her to do so,” alleged Channi.Taking on Amarinder Singh, Channi said that “Captain is also backstabbing Punjab and Punjabis by aligning with the Modi government and justifying the central government notification enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab to 50 km” from the border.“This notification is a direct attack on the state’s right and the country’s federal structure which will not be tolerated by Punjabis,” he asserted.Channi earlier announced a slew of development initiatives for holistic growth and people’s prosperity of the Nihalsingh Wala assembly constituency and sought to assure people that funds will not be a hindrance in executing the developmental projects. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/political-lingo-turns-colourful-in-punjab-as-channi-calls-aap-kale-angrej-intention-fair-says-kejriwal-345175
02-12-2021||New Delhi||Farm laws scrapped, President gives assent||The three controversial farm laws that provoked a yearlong agitation in Delhi’s borders stood annulled on Wednesday with President Ram Nath Kovind giving his assent to the repeal bill.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021 was passed by both the Houses of Parliament on November 29, the first day of the Winter Session days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking on Gurupurab (November 19)  assured the protesting farmers of rollback of the laws.With the Presidential assent today, the bills have become history paving the way for the withdrawal of farmers’ protests.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again appealed to the agitating farmers to return home, assuring to address the issues related to MSP, crop doversification and zero-budget farming through a committee the PM earlier announced.The government has initiated the process of constitution of the panel which, Tomar said, will have the representatives of farm unions.The ball is now in the court of Samyukta Kisan Morcha which will announce its next move on December 4.The Presidential assent repeals The Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Promotion and Facilitation Act 2020 and The Essential Commodities Amendment Act 2020.The Essential Commodities Amendment Act empowered the government to regulate under extraordinary circumstances (war, famine, extraordinary price rise, and natural calamity of grave nature) the supply of cereals, pulses, potato, onions, edible oilseeds, and oils.The government while repealing the laws defended the laws and said it was unable to convince some farmers of the benefit of the move.The statement of reasons for The Farm Law Repeal Bill 2021 passed by Parliament on Monday read, “Even though only a small group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government tried hard to sensitize the farmers on the importance of the laws through several meetings. Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to the farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce. Besides, farmers were free to select avenues of their choice where they could get more prices for their produce without any compulsion”..The Repeal Bill said extensive consultations were held with various stakeholders before bringing the laws.“The operation of the laws has been stayed by the Supreme Court. During Covid period, the farmers have worked hard to increase production and fulfill the needs of the nation. As we celebrate the 75th year of Independence—Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav—the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development. In view of the above the farm laws are proposed to be repealed,” Agriculture Minister Tomar said about the Bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farm-laws-scrapped-president-gives-assent-345157
02-12-2021|| Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves scholarship scheme for government college students||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved the implementation of the Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme for higher education.The scheme will help bright students from financially poor backgrounds, particularly those belonging to the general category, besides boosting the gross enrolment ratio in higher education, according to a government statement.The scheme means an annual financial implication of Rs 36.05 crore, it said.The scholarships will be applicable only to government college students and the scholarship amount shall correspond to the concession in terms of percentage of fee charged by universities.Students scoring above 60 per cent but below 70 per cent marks will be given a concession equivalent to 70 per cent of the university fee, the government said.Likewise, students scoring between 70 to 80 per cent and between 80 to 90 per cent marks will be given a concession of 80 and 90 per cent in fee respectively.Students with above 90 per cent marks will avail free education, the government said.The scheme cannot be availed fully in tandem with any other scholarship. However, in cases where students receive a scholarship from any other scheme of the state or central government but the concession under the new scheme is higher, only the difference amount between the two scholarships will be paid, it said.In another decision, the cabinet approved the proposal to upgrade Gharuan (SAS Nagar), Rajasansi (Amritsar) and Dorangla (Gurdaspur) as sub-tehsils. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-approves-scholarship-scheme-for-government-college-students-345143
02-12-2021||New Delhi||Manjinder Singh Sirsa quits as DSGMC president, joins BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa joined the BJP here on Wednesday ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, in what is being seen as the ruling party’s efforts to woo Sikh voters.He joined the BJP in the presence of senior party leaders and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and later met Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda, signifying the importance the party attached to his induction.He betrayed Khalsa Panth: SAD after Manjinder Sirsa joins BJPSirsa has been a prominent face of the Akali Dal in the national capital and was a strong supporter of the farmers’ protests against the three contentious farm laws. He said he will continue to work for Sikh causes.Extending him a warm welcome, Shah said Sirsa has expressed trust in the BJP’s commitment to the Sikh community’s welfare under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. “I am sure his joining the party will further strengthen this resolve,” he said.Nadda said, “I am sure his experience and hard work will further strengthen the BJP.”Shekhawat, who is the BJP’s in-charge for Punjab assembly polls, said Sirsa’s induction will definitely be helpful for it in the state elections, due early next year.Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws in what has been seen as the BJP’s effort to placate the protesting farmers, a large number of whom are Sikhs from Punjab.After joining the party, Sirsa told the media, “I have always raised my voice for the issues related to Sikhs. I had a chat with Home Minister Amit Shah ji with regard to issues concerning Sikhs across the country. I am happy that not only did he talk to me but said that he wants to solve these issues and will raise them with the Prime Minister as well.”Pradhan said the BJP will be strengthened with Sirsa’s induction and added that he had quit his position in the DSGMC before joining the party.Before joining the BJP, Sirsa in a tweet announced his resignation from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).“With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff and people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serve my community, humanity & nation remains same,” Sirsa tweeted.“I am joining the BJP for my community and for resolving its longstanding issues of last 70 years. I am confident all those issues will be very soon resolved. I will fight for causes of my community,” Sirsa said.Sirsa was considered a close aide of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and was one of the party’s most visible faces when it came to Sikh religion related issues.He was at the forefront of arranging logistics for the protesting farmers at the borders of the national capital. Under his leadership, the DSGMC was running Langar Sewa at the protesting sites.His joining the BJP and the party’s expected alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh could brighten the saffron party’s prospects in Punjab where it was being seen to be on backfoot following the year-long protests by farmers. PTIWith gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff & people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest upcoming DSGMC internal elections.My commitment to serve my community, humanity & nation remains same! pic.twitter.com/1ja3DlnvVM  LIVE: Former SAD leader Shri @mssirsa join BJP. https://t.co/wNTfwwpi3E||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/manjinder-singh-sirsa-quits-as-dsgmc-president-345118
02-12-2021||---||4 teachers climb atop phone tower close to Punjab CM Channi's house in Kharar||Mohali, December 1Four ETT-TET qualified teachers climbed atop a mobile phone tower near Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's house in Kharar on Wednesday.Two women and two men have been raising slogans against the CM and education minister since morning.Police have reached the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-teachers-climb-atop-phone-tower-close-to-punjab-cm-channis-house-in-kharar-345076
