03-12-2021||Muktsar||Dera follower accused in sacrilege case fatally shot in Punjab's Muktsar||A suspect in a sacrilege case in Muktsar was fatally shot dead by some unidentified gunmen in Muktsar’s Bhundar village, The victim in the case was 40-year-old Charan Dass, a follower of Dera Sacha Sauda who stands accused in a sacrilege case in the district. He was at his grocery shot when an attacker posing as a customer who wanted tea and sugar pulled out a gun and fired.He was out on bail when he was killed, police said.“When the victim was packing the items in a carry bag, one of the attackers shot him close to his eye. The victim’s mother was also sitting at the shop, but she could not see the attackers’ faces. The other assailant was waiting outside,” said Muktsar's Senior Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Singh said. The victim was taken to the civil hospital in Gidderbaha and from there to a hospital in Bathinda but died before he could get there.Police have dispatched additional security around the village.SSP Singh said investigators were now trying to get hold of any images from security cameras that could help identify the attackers.Dass and his sister-in-law, Sapna Rani, are accused of trying to take the ‘sarup’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a village gurdwara. They were allegedly caught after a CCTV camera in the village allegedly caught them in the act and a local granthi raised an alarm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-follower-accused-in-sacrilege-case-shot-at-in-muktsar-345935
03-12-2021||New Delhi||Farm laws: Punjab government has compensated kin of 403 deceased farmers, so why cannot the PM: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday called the government “inhuman, insensitive and arrogant” for stating in Parliament that it had no record of farmers who died during the yearlong farm agitation and sought immediate compensation for the families of the 700 deceased.Noting that the details of deceased farmers were in the public domain and could be accessed by the PM, Rahul said the Congress-ruled Punjab government had provided Rs five lakh each to the kin of 403 deceased farmers and assured jobs to the family members of 152 with plans to expand the job coverage. “Frankly it is not our mistake that caused the death of 700 farmers. It is the PM’s mistake. The prime minister apologised. He said he made a mistake and because of that mistake, 700 farmers died. Why doesn’t the PM have the decency and the dignity to help their families?” Gandhi asked in a press conference adding that he would place the details of 700 deceased farmers on the table of Lok Sabha on Monday.Gandhi questioned the government for treating the deceased farmers and earlier people who died of Covid as nonexistent and said, “This is not the way a prime minister should behave. This is an unpleasant, immoral, and cowardly way to behave.”Gandhi expressed surprise that the government doesn’t want to accept people have died.“You did the same during Covid. You didn’t report deaths as Covid deaths. In Gujarat, you said some 10,000 people died of Covid. We sent our workers to every home and found there were lakhs who died,” said the former Congress chief.He said the arrogance of power was keeping the government from heeding to the suffering families of farmers.“You are so arrogant, you think you are in power and don’t need to listen to anyone. PM is thinking only about his image…The Punjab government is not responsible for the deaths of farmers but we have given support to their families but that’s not enough. The government should also compensate,” Gandhi added.He was speaking with reference to an answer by the agriculture ministry in Parliament.When asked whether the government planned to compensate the families of deceased farmers, the ministry said, “No record is available on the matter so the question does not arise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/lakhimpur-kheri-compensate-families-of-the-farmers-who-died-says-rahul-gandhi-345885
03-12-2021||New Delhi||Ahead of Punjab polls, former DGP SS Virk, others join BJP||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly polls, several prominent people from the state, including former director general of police (DGP) Sarbdeep Singh Virk, joined the BJP here on Friday.Union minister and the BJP's in-charge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat welcomed them into the party and said their induction would further strengthen the organisation in the state.Virk, former chairman of Punjab Cooperative Bank Avtar Singh Zira, industrialist Harcharan Singh Ranauta and former SAD leader Sarabjit Singh Makkar were among those who joined the BJP.Several noted personalities from Punjab have joined the BJP in the past few days and some more are expected to join it ahead of the Assembly polls early next year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-punjab-polls-former-dgp-ss-virk-others-join-bjp-345877
03-12-2021||---||BJP leader Tarun Chugh slams Congress for inducting Moosewala into party||Chandigarh, December 3BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday slammed the Punjab Congress for “promoting gun culture and separatist forces” in the border state.Taking a strong exception to the induction of Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala into the Congress, Chugh said it had exposed the Congress's nefarious designs to destabilise Punjab.While underlining that Moosewala had been booked in multiple cases by Punjab Police for promoting gun culture and also under the Arms Act, Chugh said the Congress's support to such criminal elements in society is a warning bell for the state.Chugh recalled that in December 2020 Moosewala had sung songs glorifying Bhindranwale and other separatist leaders.He said it is a black day in Punjab's political history when the Congress had come out openly in support of those promoting gun culture and glorifying gangsters in provocative songs.He said the Congress is sending wrong signals to the youth in Punjab which would lead to destabilisation of the state. As it is, Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu's proximity to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa is already a matter of serious concern for the state and now the Punjab Congress had started glorifying gangsters and gun culture, Chugh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-tarun-chugh-slams-congress-for-inducting-moosewala-into-party-345875
03-12-2021||New Delhi||Only Punjab had reported 4 deaths due to oxygen shortage during second Covid wave: Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that Punjab had reported four deaths due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid pandemic.Replying to a question during Question Hour in the Lower House, he said that the Centre had written to 19 states thrice seeking the data of the deaths caused due to the shortage of oxygen but only Punjab had reported.The minister said there had been a lot of politics on 'shortage of oxygen'.He said there was an average requirement of oxygen use of 1,400 MT in the country but during the second wave of coronavirus, the demand surged to 9,000 MT, which was an extraordinary situation.But when the situation arose, the government took all possible measures to supply oxygen to every nook and corner of the country, Mandaviya said, adding that big empty containers were brought from abroad by the Indian Air Force and filled oxygen containers by the Indian Navy ships were pressed into the service to bring oxygen to the country and we made adequate supply to all hospitals.The minister said the states should not refrain from providing proper data on Covid deaths. "We have repeatedly appealed to the states to provide data, and 19 states responded that there was no death reported due to shortage of oxygen."We have also asked the states to be prepared for further Covid waves and assured that there is no oxygen shortage this time as all oxygen plants are operating at full capacity," Mandaviya said.The health minister informed the House that the Centre had allocated additional funds to each district hospital to prepare them for the next wave of the pandemic. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-punjab-had-reported-4-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-during-second-covid-wave-mandaviya-345865
03-12-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court allows petition by Navjot Sidhu, sets aside income tax order||Chandigarh, December 3Allowing a petition filed by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday set aside an order passed by the principal commissioner, Income Tax.The case has been sent back to the principal commissioner, Income Tax, to decide the matter afresh on merit.Sidhu was represented by counsel Chetan Bansal.Sidhu claimed that his revision petition under the provisions of the IT Act was dismissed by an income tax joint commissioner on flimsy and untenable grounds.Sidhu had claimed that the order dated March 27 was patiently illegal, arbitrary and passed in complete disregard of the principles of natural justice. The matter was heard at length by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain.Going into the background, Sidhu submitted that he filed an income tax return of the assessment year 2016-17 on October 19, 2016, declaring a total income of Rs 9,66,28,470. The assessment under Section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act was completed by the Assessment Officer on December 21, 2018, at the assessed income of Rs 13,19,66,530 after making addition of Rs 3,53,38,067.Against the erroneous assessment, the petitioner expressly waived his right to file appeal before Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal). He filed a revision petition under Section 264 of the Act after taking various grounds before Income Tax joint commissioner, Range 1, Amritsar. Instead of going into the merits of the revision, his entire focus was to seek an explanation on the reasons and circumstances behind Sidhu’s preference for revision under Section 264 of the Act instead of appeal before the Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal).The petitioner specifically stated that it was an alternative available to him and reliance was laid on pronouncements by the Punjab and Haryana High Court; but the respondent in complete disregard to the statutory provisions and legal pronouncements, and in a complete arbitrary manner, dismissed the revision petition vide order dated March 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-allows-petition-by-navjot-sidhu-sets-aside-i-t-order-345855
03-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tiffin bomb, 4 hand grenades seized in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, December 3Barely 48 hours after the Gurdaspur police seized 1 kg of RDX from an unspecified location in Dinanagar, four live hand grenades and a tiffin bomb were seized from Salempur, 5 km from the city, on the Gurdaspur-Kartarpur corridor road, on Thursday night.The fact that the ammunition was found from a road that led to the Corridor has sent the cops in a tizzy. There are confusing reports as to whether the grenades were smuggled from across the border or were procured by the accused from within the country.On Monday, the police had arrested one Sukhwinder Singh from a check-post in Dinanagar. The cops took him into custody after he failed to give satisfactory answers to their questions. Later, when put under sustained interrogation he disclosed that he had planted the RDX and a detonator.SSP Nanak Singh later said that Sukhwinder had links with Pakistani agencies.On November 2, two motorcycle-borne men had hurled a low-intensity hand grenade at an army camp. The Pathankot police have yet to crack the case.The official line being given by the cops for the latest recovery is that Sadar police SHO Jatinder Pal Singh and his team were carrying out patrol on the Gurdaspur-Kartarpur Corridor road when they stumbled across a yellow bag. The bag was taken to an isolated spot and opened and four grenades and a tiffin bomb were found.The yellow bag was then taken away by the cops to an undisclosed place where the grenades and the tiffin bomb were defused.Sources say this could also be a ploy to disturb the peace in Punjab which is going to the polls early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-hand-grenades-and-2-tiffin-bombs-seized-in-punjabs-gurdaspur-345854
03-12-2021||---||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala joins Congress||Chandigarh, December 3Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala on Friday joined the Congress.He did so in the prsence of PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu and CM Charanjit Channi.Moosewala has been booked in multiple cases by Punjab Police for promoting gun culture and also under the Arms Act.The Punjab Congress chief described Moosewala as a youth icon and an "international figure". “Sidhu Moosewala is joining our family. I welcome him in the Congress fold,” he told reporters here.While welcoming the singer in the party fold, Channi said Moosewala became a “big artiste with his sheer hard work and won hearts of millions of people with his songs”.Moosewala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, hails from Moosa village in Mansa district and his mother is a village head.The singer had earlier faced criticism for promoting violence and gun culture in his songs. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-sidhu-moosewala-joins-congress-345848
03-12-2021||---||NDPS case:  Nawanshahr youth gets 10-yr RI, to pay Rs1L fine||Chandigarh, December 2A local court has sentenced a 23-year-old resident of Nawanshahr, Lovepreet Singh, to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and has imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh after convicting him under Section 22 of the NDPS Act.Lovepreet was arrested by the police on July 7, 2018, in Sector 43, Chandigarh, in the case. As per the prosecution, the accused was apprehended with 70 injections of buprenorphine (2 ml each) and 70 injections of pheniramine maleate (10 ml each). The police had claimed that the accused failed to produce a licence for the injections. Counsel for the accused claimed that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. After hearing arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, said the prosecution had successfully proved the case against the accused.The court said the period of detention already undergone by the convict during the course of the investigation or trial shall be set off against the sentence of imprisonment imposed upon him as per provisions of Section 428 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ndps-case-youth-gets-10-yr-ri-to-pay-1l-fine-345758
03-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi lists government's 60 decisions in 72 days||Chandigarh, December 2Seeking to checkmate AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today challenged him to check for himself the “pro-people” announcements being implemented on the ground by the Congress government.Bringing out a detailed report card listing 60 decisions implemented after taking over as the CM 72 days ago, i.e. on September 20, Channi at a press conference said: “They say I am ‘ailaanjeet’ (announcement maker), but I am ‘vishwasjeet’ (trusted person) who implements decisions on the ground,” Channi said to counter AAP’s allegation of making tall promises.Key initiatives highlighted by CMAwaiting audienceShowing copies of the decisions taken, the CM said: “Be it reducing power tariff by Rs 3 from November 1, terminating PPAs, giving ownership rights to people living in ‘lal dora’ of villages, waiving pending water bills of Rs 1,168 crore for rural areas and reducing the monthly water tariff to Rs 50, 5 marla plots to the poor in villages, one-time settlement for regularisation of non-compoundable violations, Rs 3,100 to construction workers, school uniforms for all govt school students, I am implementing decisions on the ground and not merely making announcements. I am winning the trust of the people by taking action.”Have won trust of peopleThey say I am ‘ailaanjeet’ (announcement maker), but I am ‘vishwasjeet’ (trusted person) who implements decisions on the ground. —Charanjit Singh Channi, CMAccusing Kejriwal of indulging in mudslinging, CM Channi said though he liked criticism, doing it just for the sake of it is not only unethical but undesirable.”He said: “The Punjab Government is not ‘Channi sarkar’ but a ‘Changi sarkar’ (good government) as we have effectively delivered the goods to win over the trust of common man.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-lists-govts-60-decisions-in-72-days-345675
03-12-2021||Pathankot/Amritsar||Free education in Punjab government institutes: Arvind Kejriwal||AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took out a ‘Tiranga march’ on the main roads of the city even as he came up with his ‘fourth guarantee’ in the form of providing free education to students in government institutions till they wanted to study.After announcing his party’s three guarantees, the Delhi CM today came out with his much-awaited assurance aimed at providing reforms in the education sector.I Don’t fly in choppers like CMI walk with the masses under the sun. I do not fly in helicopters like you do. That is why my skin is dark. —Arvind Kejriwal, AAP national convenerHe said the budgetary allocation for education would be increased to 25 per cent from the present 3 per cent. He added the Education Department would undergo massive reforms.Opposition leaders were quick to point out the promise was “nothing but a ploy to woo 1 lakh-strong teaching community of Punjab”. “How will Kejriwal run the state if he increases the education budget to 25 per cent?” said Pathankot Congress MLA Amit Vij.A leader accompanying Kejriwal said the guarantee was a part of a series of assurances aimed at the teaching community. These included cashless medical facilities for teachers, a transparent transfer policy, regularising the services of contract staff, filling of all vacant posts and giving time-bound promotions.The Delhi CM also took a jibe at his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi for addressing him as a ‘kala angrez’. Much to the delight of the 15,000 crowd, he retorted: “My skin may be dark but my intentions are fair.”Kejriwal said “all mothers of Punjab adore their black son (Kejriwal), and sisters their black brother. This time our (AAP) government will be formed in Punjab and this black son and brother will fulfil all promises. I do not make false declarations, because my intentions are clear not fake.He said AAP, if voted to power, would give Rs 1 crore to the kin of Army men, BSF and Punjab Police personnel killed while fighting infiltrators near the International Border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-edu-in-govt-institutes-kejri-345676
03-12-2021||---||AAP insulting women with Rs1K offer: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Kahnuwan (Gurdaspur), Dec 2Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu today lashed out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Kejriwal saying he had actually “insulted the women of Punjab by offering them Rs 1,000 each if his party formed the government.”Sidhu was addressing a rally organised by Qadian legislator Fateh Jung Bajwa. Kahnuwan falls in the Qadian Assembly segment.Why none in Cabinet?If Kejriwal cares so much for women, he should have inducted at least one in the Delhi Cabinet. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefHe said: “Kejriwal has ridiculed our women by promising them financial incentives. It is just an election gimmick. If he cares so much for women, he should have inducted at least one in the Delhi Cabinet. We don’t need his assurances as these are hurtful and humiliating. It will be better if he just cared for women in Delhi and let us do our job.”Praising the MLA, he said: “Fateh has been among the masses and understands their problems. He did commendable work during Covid. He and his team reached out to villagers and urged them to get vaccinated. How many MLAs went to people during Covid. Everyone feared contracting the virus.”Sensing that Kahnuwan and adjoining areas were rich in sugarcane farming, Sidhu told the gathering: “I will ensure you get proper prices for your produce in the future. Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had assured you that his government would ensure you won’t face any hassle. Now that he has gone, I will take up the cudgels on your behalf,” he said.He also praised MLA’s brother and Rajya Sabha Member Partap Singh Bajwa. “Partap could not come here today because he had to go elsewhere,” he said while dispelling notion that Partap had deliberately stayed away from today’s event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-insulting-women-with-1k-offer-sidhu-345677
03-12-2021||Hoshiarpur/Garhshankar||Will field candidates for Punjab polls with mass base in all segments, says BJP||Reiterating the BJP decision to contest all 117 Assembly seats in the upcoming Assembly elections, state president Ashwani Sharma today said instead of fielding big faces, the party will give ticket to candidates with mass base while respecting workers’ sentiment.Here to hold discussions with office-bearers to strengthen the organisation, Sharma said instead of releasing a manifesto, the party would bring out ‘Sankalp Patra’ or ‘Pratigya Patra’. Asked about alliance with other parties, he said: “We will contest all 117 seats on our own. We are bringing people from other parties to strengthen the BJP.”Asked about Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal raising the issue of development of schools, he said the AAP leader should first answer how many posts of principal and vice-principal in Delhi schools had been filled. “If he doesn’t have an answer, we will release the list,” said Sharma.Asked about former SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa joining the BJP, he said he had been doing good work and had appreciated the party for getting those behind the Delhi riots punished, abolishing the ‘black list’ and opening the Kartarpur corridor.The AAP was offering lucrative guarantees on the lines of the Congress, but the BJP won’t make false promises, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-field-candidates-with-mass-base-in-all-segments-says-bjp-345678
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manjinder Singh Sirsa's loss won't hit party: Akalis||Shaken by the exit of party general secretary and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) ex-chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who joined the BJP on Wednesday, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is hoping it will become a rallying point for the ‘Panthic’ votes for the party in the Assembly polls.Sirsa, meanwhile, today clarified national and regional issues of Sikhs weighed on his mind, and not politics, while deciding to join the BJP. He said he would not contest the Delhi gurdwara elections again.He cautioned that history of various movements, whether it was Emergency or others, has taught us the folly in making the struggles as a ‘Sikh versus others’ narrative. “I supported Akalis’ decision to part ways with the BJP over the farm laws. The struggle on farm laws was farmers versus the Centre, not the Sikhs against the BJP,” Sirsa insisted while speaking with The Tribune.Meanwhile, the SAD leadership has termed Sirsa’s joining the BJP as a betrayal with the Sikh Panth. It has accused the BJP of treading the same path of the Indira Gandhi regime by meddling with Sikh affairs. SAD spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema said: “It hurts when a senior leader takes such an action. He was surely coerced into joining the BJP as the Delhi Police have registered criminal cases against eleven members of the DSGMC headed by him. He should have opted for jail rather than leave the Panth.” — TNSBJP has attacked Panth, alleges SukhbirJalandhar: Accusing the BJP of using coercion to secure Sirsa’s entry into the party, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said it was a direct attack on Khalsa Panth. He claimed Sirsa told him that he was being asked to either face jail or quit SAD. “He even sent me a copy of the police’s notice and wrote ‘they want to arrest me’,” the SAD chief claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirsas-loss-wont-hit-party-akalis-345679
03-12-2021||---||Warring: SAD's pact with saffron outfit exposed||Chandigarh, December 2Alleging that former Akali leader and DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s joining the BJP had exposed SAD’s understanding with the BJP, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today said he won’t be surprised to see Bikram Majithia following suit and joining the saffron outfit soon.“You will soon see Majithia breaking the news of joining the BJP,” said Warring, taking a swipe at the Akali leader, adding the SAD was shedding crocodile tears on Sirsa’s ouster.Taking a swipe at Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, the minister said the entire Opposition was rattled and leaders such as Sisodia were constrained to orchestrate the inspection of a school toilet.“The SAD is fragmented and you will see they will scatter like Kejri’s broom in Punjab,” said Warring.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warring-sads-pact-with-saffron-outfit-exposed-345680
03-12-2021||Amritsar||Will ask Centre to resume trade with Pak: OP Soni||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni has appealed to the industrialists to expand and establish new industries in the state and said the state government was committed to provide all kinds of facilities to the industry.He assured that the government would approach the Centre to resume bilateral trade with Pakistan as it would help raise the economy of the state, especially Amritsar.Soni was addressing industrialists and businessmen after inaugurating the five-day 15th Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) being organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with the state government.He said efforts had been made to provide a better environment for the industry by making strategic policies favourable to them. “Such policies have fetched an investment of 1 lakh crore to the state, so far. Due to the fact, not only industrial infrastructure has been strengthened but also employment opportunities have increased,” he said.Further, congratulating the team of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry for organising PITEX on the theme of tourism, the Deputy CM said Punjab had immense potential for tourism.Punjab Industries and Commerce Principal Secretary Tejveer Singh said: “Around 3,500 new industries have been established recently and 52 per cent of the industries which signed MoUs with the government are operational and rest of the projects are in developmental stage.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-ask-centre-to-resume-trade-with-pak-op-soni-345682
03-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjab teachers strike work over UGC pay scales||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 2Higher education in state government universities and colleges has come to a halt as the faculty members led by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) have decided to suspend all teaching and academic duties over their demands of implementation of the 7th UGC Pay Commission scales and revocation of delinking of UGC pay scales of new assistant professors.The PFUCTO, joined by seven organisations, has been holding protests over its demands for long. The protests were held in Chandigarh and at several universities, including Punjabi University and Panjab University. They said the teaching and academic work had now been put on indefinite halt in all five universities, 48 government and 160 government-aided colleges. Federation president HS Kingra is now on an indefinite hunger strike.General secretary Jagwant Singh said the Centre had notified the revised pay scales in 2017 but their implementation remained pending. “Other states have already implemented them. Importantly, the 7th UGC pay scales are the central pay commission scales which are implemented from the date of notification. They can’t be ignored.”He said, “By delinking pay of new recruits from UGC pay scales, which has been done as per the state’s recent notification, the government is pushing higher education into a state where it will be rendered without research and development.”The federation members said they had brought the matter to the notice of all officials concerned, including the CM and the Higher Education Minister. “We submitted a memorandum to Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh when he came to Punjabi University,” Punjabi University Teachers’ Union president Bhupinder Singh Virk said. Secretary, Higher Education, Krishan Kumar and Minister Pargat Singh did not answer the phone despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-strike-work-over-ugc-pay-scales-345683
03-12-2021||Bathinda||Statewide protest on Dec 5: Guest faculty||The academics of scores of students at Government Rajindra College has been affected as the indefinite strike of the guest faculty and assistant professors entered the 32nd day on Thursday.Representatives of the Punjab Government College Guest Faculty and Assistant Professors’ Association said they would be holding a state-level protest against the government in Patiala on December 5. They added that farmers’ organisations had vowed to extend their support to their stir.classes suspendedWith guest faculty going on a strike, classes are not being held and studies of students are getting affected, but we are helpless. —Sarbjit Singh, Teachers’ association chiefThe examinations for various streams are scheduled to begin from December 17 while students rued that syllabus of many subjects was still pending. Members of the association have been demanding regularisation of their services.Students from various streams, requesting anonymity, said only 60 to70 per cent of the syllabus was covered before the lecturers went on a strike and revision classes were also not conducted this time. “Our academics are getting affected and this surely will reflect poorly in the results later,” said a student.Sources said amid shortage of staff in the absence of guest faculty teachers, even services of retired staff are being sought by the authorities. There are more than 4,000 students studying in various streams in the college. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/statewide-protest-on-dec-5-guest-faculty-345684
03-12-2021||Satya Prakash||This is not walk-in court: Supreme Court||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2The Supreme Court has ordered a litigant to pay up Rs 20,000 for wasting its time by filing a special leave petition against an adjournment order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“If this is not a misuse of the process of law, one can say little else. This court is not a walk-in place only because Chandigarh happens to be in the proximity to Delhi,” a Bench led by Sanjay Kishan Kaul told petitioner Ramesh Chander Diwan.“We are of the view the petitioner must pay for wastage of judicial time and thus dismiss the petition with cost of Rs 20,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group ‘C’ (Non- Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks from today,” ordered the Bench which also included Justice MM Sundresh. “The special leave petition has been preferred not on any other fact or even the fact that the order is wrongly recorded but that the High Court erred in mechanically adjourning the matter for three months without issuing notice to the respondent and that the long adjournment without any interim protection would take away the petitioner’s right to approach a Higher Court,” the top court noted.“We do not know why the adjournment was requested — whether the counsel was not ready or whether there was lack of material instructions from the petitioner to the counsel! The fact remains that the learned judge only obliged the counsel for the petitioner by accepting the request for adjournment. Yet the order is sought to be faulted by the petitioner by filing a petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India,” it said in its November 22 order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-is-not-walk-in-court-sc-345685
03-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab: 43 illegal rehabilitation centres come up in 1 year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2When people were dying of Covid in the state, health officials, allegedly in connivance with certain parties, issued licences on the basis of old rules for opening private drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres on a mass scale.The state government had first notified ‘The Punjab Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Counselling and Rehabilitation Centres Rules’ on January 16, 2011. However, there were many reports of irregularities and malpractices by centres.New strict RulesTo regulate the functioning and licensing of drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres under Sections 71 and & 78 of the NDPS Act, and give more power to the department, the state government decided to amend the rules and notified amended rules as ‘The Punjab Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Counselling and Rehabilitation Centres Rules 2020’ on July 28 last year. However, the Health Department did not implement the amended rules for 16 months. In all these months, it kept issuing licences as per the rules of 2011, which had ceased to exist with the notification of the new rules.By doing so, health officials not only indulged in an illegal act but also issued licences in haste. Between 2011 and 2020, in nine years, the Health Department had issued 132 licences for the opening of such centres. However, the department issued as many as 43 licences by following “non-existent rules” for the opening of new centres in over one year — between September 2020 and October 2021. The number is much higher than the annual average of nine years before the notification of the new rules.Now, after 15 months, the Health Department has implemented the new rules by issuing an order on November 15. Health officials, in connivance with de-addiction centre owners, have taken the entire system for a ride and their act has raised questions on the legal sanctity of these licences.Dr GB Singh, who was the Director Health Services, when the controversial licences were issued, said they had sought legal opinion on the issue, which came quite late. However, when asked why licences were issued based on rules that had ceased to exist, he said he could answer only after looking at records.Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni, who holds the health portfolio, was not available for comments. Sources said as per a rough estimate, the de-addiction business had grown into a Rs 500-crore industry annually. It had become a lucrative business not only for doctors but also for politicians. They said doctors were being edged out by business tycoons.Rules not implemented for 16 monthsThe state government amended rules in July last year but the Health Department did not implement these for 16 months. In all this time, it kept issuing licences as per rules that had ceased to exist. Besides, a relatively large number of licences were issued in this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/43-illegal-rehab-centres-come-up-in-1-yr-345687
03-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Tardy pace of works ails grain hub||The slow pace of development works, including strengthening of sewerage system and revamping of streets, has irked residents of the constituency. Besides, the illegal distillery case, leaders’ disconnect with locals, discontent among some councillors, etc., are some of the issues that might impact the Assembly elections’ result here.Like any other locality undergoing development, Khanna, too, has been facing problems related to civic amenities, including solid waste disposal and sewerage. A number of low-lying areas of Khanna city and rural localities have been bearing the brunt of waterlogging during monsoon. Lalheri Road, Sabzi Mandi, Grain Market area, Subhash Bazar, Main Bazar and Bank Colony are among the low-lying areas where residents are not happy with their representatives in the MC and the Assembly.Maintenance of the flyover on the Ludhiana-Rajpura road does not fall under the jurisdiction of either the council or the Assembly. Inconvenience caused due to damage to the bridge is apprehended to negate achievements of MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Khanna has received abundant grants and seen development. Many projects are in progress.Past trendIn the past 50 years, the electorate has sent Congress and SAD nominees to the Assembly alternatively, except the last elections when Gurkirat Singh Kotli was re-elected. Kotli defeated AAP’s Anil Datt Phally by over 20,000 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,64,020Male 86,464Female 77,554Third gender 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tardy-pace-of-works-ails-grain-hub-345690
03-12-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Border woes hamper industry growth||O nce considered to be a land of prosperity, the historic town of Ferozepur, notwithstanding huge funds spent on various development works by sitting MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, continues to remain economically backward due to lack of industry and employment-generating institutions.Pinki was instrumental in setting up new gardens, open gyms, improving the condition of roads, augmenting water supply and upgrading sanitation system.However, the issue of reopening the Hussaniwala-Lahore border, which was the lifeline of traders before its closure in 1971, still hangs fire. Investment remains thin with not many industrialists evincing interest in setting up base here.Even the residents of villages that shared boundary with Pakistan are upset as the swollen Sutlej often brings misery due to which standing crop on thousands of acres gets inundated and destroyed. “If something has changed, it’s just the course of the river,” says Sarwan Singh, a marginal farmer.Past trendTraditionally, it has been a Congress stronghold as the party has won eight times. Sukhpal Singh Nannu of the BJP halted the winning streak of the Congress’s old horse Balmukand Sharma in 1997. He won two straight terms in 2002 and 2007, before losing to Pinki.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,66,319Male 88,065Female 78,248Third gender 6||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/border-woes-hamper-industry-growth-345692
03-12-2021||---||Rebel Punjab MLA quits AAP||Chandigarh, December 2AAP rebel MLA from Kharar Kanwar Sandhu today resigned from the party, saying he would neither join any ‘traditional’ political party nor contest the upcoming elections. In a video post, Sandhu said he was listening to his conscious and not joining any party as his ideology had not changed.He said he had joined politics with the dream of new Punjab but no party had that ideology. He would remain active as a social activist.“An ordinary MLA has no power or funds. The situation gets worse if the MLA is from the Opposition,” he said, adding the constituency incharges appointed by the ruling parties acted like “super MLAs”. Hitting out at the AAP leadership, the MLA said he was suspended from the party for seeking more powers to state units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rebel-mla-quits-aap-345694
03-12-2021||Bathinda||NHM workers wave black flags in Bathinda||Members of the NHM Joint Front Punjab staged a protest on footpaths by holding black flags and raised slogans in favour of National Health Mission (NHM) employees here on Thursday.Claiming that they had been rendering services for the past over 10 years on “meagre” salaries, NHM staff have been demanding that the state government must regularise their jobs. Union leaders said they wanted to bring to the notice of people that after performing their duties diligently during the Covid pandemic, the government had left them helpless to suffer on roads.NHM Joint Front state convener Narendar Kumar said: “In today’s protest, we did not raise slogans against the state government. We spoke in favour of the NHM staff and their contribution during the pandemic. We stood on footpaths in thecity by holding black flags and raised slogans peacefully.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-workers-wave-black-flags-in-bathinda-345696
03-12-2021||---||Sangrur: Rape victim alleges coercion||Sangrur, December 2A minor rape victim has accused the Dhuri police of threatening to book her under the NDPS Act if she doesn’t withdraw her complaint against the accused, said to be close to some ruling party leaders.A delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Punjab general secretary Jiwan Gupta and Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol, visited the victim this evening and assured her of taking up the matter with the higher authorities.The victim claimed the suspect promised her to help her in getting pension for her family members and arranging a private job. A few days ago, the suspect allegedly took her to his house and raped her after giving sedatives. “Initially, I did not disclose the matter to my parents, but when my health deteriorated, I revealed everything. They took me to the hospital. A police officer took my statement and signatures and later threatened to implicate me in a drugs case if I did not withdraw complaint. The suspect is close to some leaders and the police are helping him,” claimed the victim. On his part, Dhuri Congress MLA Dalvir Goldy said: “I have not received any complaint against any party leader or worker of Dhuri. BJP leaders are trying to defame the party. If there is a complaint, I will get it investigated for adequate legal action.” Dhuri DSP Parminder Singh, however, denied the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-victim-alleges-coercion-345697
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Use tech for law awareness, says info body chief||Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Harpreet Sandhu, who took over as the Chairman, Punjab Information and Communication Technology Corporation Ltd (Infotech), today said he would prioritise use of technology for further improvising the online mode of functioning to curtail corruption and save public time.Interacting with the media, Sandhu said stringent laws were already in place. Technology was required to be used to make people aware of the laws and their rights to bring transparency to ensure administrative reforms.Sandhu, with expertise in international laws and relations, was former Additional Advocate-General of Punjab. He has authored four books after comparing laws of different nations with India. He has been awarded a ‘practice’ diploma in International Human Rights & Criminal Procedure from the College of Law of England and Wales, United Kingdom. He is a member of the International Bar Association, UK, and has represented India as the Ambassador of Goodwill to France. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/use-tech-for-law-awareness-says-info-body-chief-345698
03-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Wine shops to remain shut in Fatehgarh Sahib during Jor Mela||The three-day major event of the district, the annual Shaheedi Jor Mela, to be held from December 25 to 27 in the memory of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh, who were bricked alive here by the Mughals, would be totally religious in nature and spirit.All wine shops will remain closed while gambling stalls, dance pandals, circuses, swings and other sources of entertainment have been banned during the Jor Mela.Ban imposedElaborate security arrangements, alternative traffic routes, 20 free parking and large number of police personnel and officials will be deputed for smooth conduct of the Jor Mela, said Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur and SSP Sandeep Goel, while talking to mediapersons here today.The DC said carrying of all type of weapons, including sharp-edged weapons and plying of loud speakers had been banned. All wine shops and ahatas (taverns) within the 3-km radius of the gurdwara sahib would remain closed from December 25 to 27, the DC added. She said to maintain law and order, carrying spears, tridents ,etc, was also prohibited in the area till January 31, 2022. She said Covid guidelines would be implemented strictly. Mobile Covid-testing vans will be pressed into service for random testing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wine-shops-to-remain-shut-during-jor-mela-345699
03-12-2021||---||Muktsar: Sarpanch dismissed for bungling MGNREGA fund||Muktsar, December 2The Muktsar Deputy Commissioner today dismissed Congress sarpanch of Ballamgarh village here after finding her guilty in misappropriation of MGNREGA funds worth Rs 1.16 lakh. Besides, the ADC (Development) is directed to terminate the gram sewak of the village.Muktsar BDPO Kusum Aggarwal said Gurmeet Kaur, sarpanch of Ballamgarh village, MGNREGA mate Rajinder Singh and gram sewak Charanjit Singh were found guilty in misappropriation of MGNREGA funds worth Rs 1,16,206. “The trio had misappropriated the funds by releasing them in the name of some deceased persons as well,” she said. She said the misappropriated money was being recovered from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sarpanch-dismissed-for-bungling-mgnrega-fund-345701
03-12-2021||---||Oberoi appointed honorary adviser||Chandigarh, December 2The Punjab Government today appointed philanthropist Dr Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi the honorary adviser, Health and Skill Development.An official spokesperson for the state government said orders in this regard would be issued later. He said Dr Oberoi was managing trustee, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust; president, Asian Gatka Foundation; and founder-chairman, Apex Group of Companies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oberoi-appointed-honorary-adviser-345704
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shukla takes oath as PSSSB chief||Advocate Shekhar Shukla took oath as the chairman, Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB), here on Thursday. Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari administered the oath at his office at the Punjab Civil Secretariat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shukla-takes-oath-as-psssb-chief-345706
03-12-2021||Faridkot||2 held for issuing threats||Trucks catch fire, 2 deadAbohar: Two truck drivers were killed after the vehicles caught fire due to a collision in Sriganganagar on Wednesday. A dead cow was lying near the bus stand of Raziasar village on the National Highway-62. The drivers failed to notice it and collided while overtaking. The police said the bodies of the drivers were badly burnt. OCArmy’s cycling expeditionAbohar: A 12-member cycling expedition from the Kelnor border outpost, undertaken by the 24 Mechanised Infantry (20 Rajput), was received by Brigadier Rohit Teotia, Commander, Kavach Brigade of Chetak Corps, at the War Memorial, Lalgarh Jattan military station, near Abohar, on Thursday. The expedition was flagged off from the Kelnor border outpost on November 27. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-issuing-threats-345709
03-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||STF report in court, mustn't raise issue at public forum: CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2A day after Punjab CM Charanjit Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu were summoned to Delhi by senior party leaders and told to work as a team, little seems to have changed. With Sidhu adamant on his demand that the STF report on drug trafficking be made public, Channi, while addressing the media here on Thursday, refused to comment, saying this could have a bearing on the matter that was in the court.Chinks in CongPunjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu has been demanding that drug report be made publicOn Sidhu’s Pb model...I’m implementing pro-people decisions. One day Sidhu sahib will also have faith in decisions being made by me. CS ChanniChanni, who was among those who had accused Capt Amarinder Singh of sitting on the STF report, without naming Sidhu, said, “Leaders are making statements... The ‘sensitive’ issue must not be raised at a public forum.” At the same time, he denied any differences with the PPCC chief, saying: “The government must toe the party line.” At the Delhi meeting, the CM is learnt to have raised objections to Sidhu criticising his own government. Sources said the crux of the problem was the party choosing not to declare its CM face in the run-up to the Punjab elections in order to cash in on Channi’s vote bank as well as Sidhu’s popularity. While removing Capt Amarinder Singh as CM, party leaders were told Sidhu would be the CM candidate for the 2022 elections. But with Channi taking over, political equations have changed drastically.“Taking action against the big fish and making the drug report public were the key issues when Captain was removed. We can’t go slow on these issues now,” observed a senior Congress leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stf-report-in-court-mustnt-raise-issue-at-public-forum-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-345689
03-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court cracks whip on lower judiciary, 2 judges retired||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2Cracking the whip to check corruption, indiscipline, complacency and other factors in the subordinate judiciary, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has compulsorily retired two Additional District and Sessions Judges from both Punjab and Haryana.Its full court, comprising the Chief Justice and other judges, has also approved the initiation of disciplinary proceedings for major penalty against the two District and Sessions Judges and 10 other judicial officers from the two states.Placing under the scanner the functioning of the judiciary in Punjab, the full court gave its approval to stop two annual increments with cumulative effect against Bathinda Additional Civil Judge Ajay Mittal, while Abohar Magistrate Harpreet Singh was awarded a “recordable warning”.In all, action is believed to have been taken or proposed to be initiated against 16 judicial officers belonging to the subordinate judiciary of both states. The decisions were taken during the full court meeting held on November 30. This is the second time in less than a year that the High Court under Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha has send out a strong message of zero tolerance amidst the subordinate judiciary. Action was taken or proceedings initiated against 16 judicial officers on December 14, 2020, too. As per information, Nuh Additional District and Sessions Judge Harish Gupta has been retired compulsorily along with Additional District and Sessions Judge Rakesh Kumar. The District and Sessions Judges against whom the initiation of disciplinary proceedings has been approved are Jagdeep Jain from Haryana and Kishore Kumar from Punjab.In addition to two Sessions Judges, disciplinary proceedings were also approved against two Additional District and Sessions Judges and two Magistrates in Punjab. In Haryana, the proceedings were approved against three Additional District and Sessions Judges, a Chief Judicial Magistrate and two Magistrates.Zero-tolerance policyStern action 2nd time||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-cracks-whip-on-lower-judiciary-2-judges-retired-345688
