04-12-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 46 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||One more person died from coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday as 46 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 6,03,451, according to a medical bulletin.The death was reported in Ludhiana district, which took Punjab’s total fatality count to 16,608.Ferozepur reported 12 cases, followed by nine in Jalandhar and seven in Hoshiarpur.The number of active cases was 347.Fifty-two more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,86,496, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported three COVID-19 cases, taking the total count to 65,481.No death was reported in the city in the past 24 hours. The death toll stood at 820.The number of active cases in the city was 60 while the number of cured persons was 64,601. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-death-46-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-346304
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly polls: ECI takes stock of poll preparedness||The Election Commission of India on Saturday reviewed preparedness for the Punjab Assembly polls, scheduled for early next year.The virtual review meeting was chaired by Deputy Election Commissioner (DEC) Nitesh Kumar Vyas in the presence of Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju.All deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers (DEOs), commissioners of police and SSPs of Punjab attended the meeting, an official statement said.In the wake of new Covid variant “Omicron” being detected in some countries with four cases found in India so far, Vyas stressed the need to vaccinate the entire staff and volunteers to be deputed for election duties.He asked the DEOs to clear the pendency of adding new voters and cases of deletion or shifting of existing voters.He directed to intensify the SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation programme) activities, including sending text messages or roping in celebrities or sportspersons to encourage people to vote and promote 1950 helpline.Vyas asked the DEOs to ensure certified training of all returning officers/AROs and also directed them to visit maximum polling stations, especially in the remote areas.He asked them to ensure hassle-free voting experience for persons with disability (PwD) and old-age voters by ensuring proper ramps and wheelchairs at all polling booths.Vyas asked the officers to ensure 100 per cent webcasting of all polling stations.He asked the officers to expedite the process of deposition of firearms.Vyas also asked officials to expedite the process of identification of vulnerable polling stations and expenditure sensitive constituencies.During the meeting, the officials briefed Vyas about the status of poll preparedness in their districts. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-eci-takes-stock-of-poll-preparedness-346301
04-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC restrains Punjab Govt from going ahead with recruitment of Assistant Professors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court has restrained the Punjab Government from going ahead with the recruitment of Assistant Professors in government colleges. The direction came as the Bench termed as “wholly arbitrary and discriminatory” the decision to grant weightage in lieu of work experience only to the guest faculty, part timers and contractual teachers working in “government colleges of Punjab”. The order will remain in force till the next date of hearing, at least.The matter was brought to Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu’s notice after a bunch of petitions were filed by Kulwinder Singh and other petitioners. They were represented by senior advocate Gaurav Chopra, counsel Anurag Chopra and Jagtar Singh Sidhu.The Bench was told that a decision was taken to fill up 1158 posts of Assistant Professors in different subjects for government colleges in Punjab. Justice Sindhu asserted it was the respondents’ prime duty to attract the best talent in the interest of the students and the community at large.Initially, the government vide memo dated October 18 decided to grant maximum five marks weightage in lieu of work experience to part time, guest faculty and contractual teachers working in the “government-run colleges”. It was incorporated in the advertisement as well. There was no interdict that the benefit would be restricted only to the teachers working in the “government colleges of Punjab”.Justice Sindhu added the selection criterion was tinkered with during the ongoing selection process at its fag end. The benefit was restricted only to the guest faculty, part timers and contractual teachers working in “government colleges of Punjab”, without there being any lawful authority with the committee concerned.Justice Sindhu added the decision dated November 28, debarring the guest faculty, part timers and contractual teachers from government colleges of other States to avail the benefit of weightage was wholly arbitrary and discriminatory as the respondents had failed to show any reasonable basis for making such a classification for the ongoing selection process.“There is no option except to restrain the respondents till the next date of hearing from proceeding with the matter while taking shelter under the clarification dated November 28…,” Justice Sindhu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-restrains-punjab-govt-from-going-ahead-with-recruitment-of-assistant-professors-346297
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP alleges illegal sand mining in Punjab CM Channi's constituency Chamkaur Sahib||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining is being carried out in Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency Chamkaur Sahib as he paid a surprise visit to a village there.Terming it an "expose", the AAP leader also accused the ruling Congress in the state of "patronising" the sand mafia.Chadha made the accusations after he visited Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib."Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi constituency's constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics," Chadha told reporters at the site."We are in Jindapur village, which is in the chief minister's constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Illegal sand mining is going on here openly. Sand is being illegally ferried in trucks," the AAP leader said. Chadha said when Channi became the CM, he had declared that those connected to the sand mafia should not try to approach him. "But here we can see this mafia is enjoying the patronage of the ruling outfit," he alleged.He said as per their estimates, 800 to 1,000 trucks, called tippers, filled with sand were being taken out from the site."Right under the chief minister's nose and in his own constituency, this illegal activity is going on," he alleged."Channi's hoardings can be seen in the state that his government has checked various mafia. The truth is that in his own constituency illegal mining is going, so his claims are hollow. Another claim that people were getting sand at Rs 5 per cubic feet is also hollow," Chadha claimed.He said AAP wants to know how many sites like this are in Punjab where this illegal activity is going on."Chief Minister Channi should give an answer," he said.Chadha also alleged that a forest officer recently wrote to the local SHO and tehsildar, telling them about illegal mining in  Jindapur village.In the letter, the officer mentioned that the land comes under forest department and activities like mining cannot be conducted there, Chadha said referring to the site in Jindapur."He wrote the letter on November 22 and just a day he was transferred," said Chadha.Later, in a tweet, Chadha wrote, "Mega expose by AAP on Congress' Channi government that can shake up the politics of Punjab. Mafia, scandals and loot in the chief minister's own constituency being exposed." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-in-channis-constituency-chamkaur-sahib-346239
04-12-2021||---||Jalandhar police 'lathicharge' youth protesting against 'anomalies' in Punjab Police recruitment||Jalandhar, December 4The youth protesting against the alleged anomalies in the Punjab Police recruitment for the past two days were lathicharged by the police here on Saturday.They had come to block the NH1 at the PAP flyover.Some girls were said to be injured and they had been hospitalised.Jalandhar DCP Jagmohan Singh denied any lathi charge. He said the protesting youth who had come from Moga, Bathinda and other towns had tried to obstruct the entry of eligible aspirants for physical trials at the PAP Complex and were not ready to move and hence they had to be pushed aside. An FIR against 60-odd youth is being lodged at Navi Baradari Police Station. A few of them have been detained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-lathicharge-youth-protesting-against-anomalies-in-punjab-police-recruitment-346215
04-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Me or mutton’: In a first love triangle in which a girl has to choose between a man and a goat. This vegetarian husband breaks all record||Chandigarh, December 4A vegetarian husband approached a newspaper columnist, saying that his wife refused to give up on eating meat. In a newspaper clipping of the column that recently went viral, the man has talked about this bizarre love triangle saying how his wife loved eating mutton.He also fears that his wife’s love for mutton was so that she may end up choosing eating non vegetarian over him.In the column, the vegetarian man wrote about how he married a girl who comes from a “caste” that eats vegetarian food.However, he found out she was having a ‘secret affair’ with mutton.He has also given her an ultimatum, “It’s mutton or me”. He said that she had promised to give it up after their wedding. However, the man shared that he recently found out that she continued to eat meat “secretly”.When he confronted her, she said that she loved mutton and that she cannot live without it. So he decided to approach newspaper columnist for help.The viral post was shared on Twitter by journalist and author Paranjoy Guha Thakurta.प्यार चाहिए या मटन चाहिए pic.twitter.com/JFJhRB1pbz||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/me-or-mutton-in-a-first-love-triangle-in-which-a-girl-has-to-choose-between-a-man-and-a-goat-this-vegetarian-husband-breaks-all-record-346210
04-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Watch: Was it a UFO? Mysterious lights in the sky have left residents in Punjab's Pathankot puzzled||Chandigarh, December 4A mysterious line of bright lights seen darting through the night sky has left residents of Punjab's Pathankot puzzled.A line of bright lights was seen for 5 minuted around 7 pm. The unidentified fast moving bright object sparked quite a flutter on Twitter as well. Those who saw the light said that they had not seen anything as beautiful as that light, which sparked the sky for five minutes and then vanished in the sky. #Breaking:🚨 A suspicious object was seen flying over Jammu and Pathankot#isro #nasa pic.twitter.com/KZYyiFKlgf  #MestriousLights over #pathankot #Punjab #India looks like starlink lights..Is that you Mr. @elonmusk ..? pic.twitter.com/WK6E7ZqP1M  Mysterious 'Light' object seen flying in the Skies of Northern parts of India. Reportedly from #Jammu #Pathankot areas. Suspected as #SpaceX's #StarLink, #UFO & so on..Video Credits - @OsintUpdates pic.twitter.com/eQYC08RUuH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-mysterious-lights-in-sky-above-pathankot-for-5-minutes-triggers-ufo-speculation-346206
04-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala police detain protesting Covid warriors, clear  highway||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 4Patiala police on Saturday detained protesting Covid warriors and cleared the national highway they were blocking here.Many protesters reportedly received injures in police action. The injured have been admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital.Demanding jobs, outsourced Covid warriors were blocking the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway near Government Rajindra Hospital. The protesters have been staging a sit-in at the highway and paralysing the traffic since Friday morning.The protesters held a night-long protest at the highway braving cold weather.Meanwhile, traffic was diverted by the Patiala police.The protesters, after a meeting with the Director Principal of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital on Friday afternoon, had for some time allowed partial traffic movement by clearing one side of the road. Later in the evening, the protester, however, again blocked the highway.The district administration tried to convince the protesters to lift the dharna, but the protesters said they would lift the dharna only after getting their job letters from the government.The protesters have been on an indefinite protest since October 25 - on the main gate of the Hospital. Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka had to leave in the middle of the scheduled programme during his visit to the hospital on November 26 following massive protests by the outsourced Covid warriors.The protesters - paramedical staff and nurses - said that they had been given assurances of jobs by the government, but nothing had been done so far.Jashanpreet Kaur said, “We were hired last year after the Covid pandemic broke out and had been working during both the Covid waves. Once the Covid situation started getting back to normal, the government, on September 30, asked us to go home. The government should immediately give us jobs.”Meanwhile, the hospital authorities and officials in the medical education department said the files pertaining to their jobs had already been moved to the Finance Department to get the go-ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blocking-of-national-highway-in-patiala-by-covid-warriors-continues-into-night-346204
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress ropes in Sidhu Moosewala to pull Punjab young voters||Controversial Punjabi singer-actor Sidhu Moosewala (28), booked last year for allegedly promoting gun culture, joined the Congress in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu here today.To cash in on his popularity among the youth, the party plans to field him from Mansa, said sources.As the Opposition parties targeted the Congress over its questionable choice, Sidhu defended the decision: “The matter is sub judice, he (Moosewala) hasn’t been proven guilty. Every second person is facing a case in Punjab. Let the people’s court give a verdict on him in the coming elections.”Moosewala was booked last year on the charge of promoting violence and gun culture through his song “Sanju”. He was also booked under the Arms Act after his photographs of firing an AK-47 at firing ranges in Barnala and Sangrur during the lockdown went viral on social media.The singer hails from Moosa village in Mansa district. His father is an ex-serviceman and mother a sarpanch. Moosewala said the Congress was the only political party which offered an effective platform to ordinary people to serve society.Transport Minister Raja Warring apparently has played a key role in bringing Moosewala into the Congress fold. Later, the singer and Sidhu met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-ropes-in-moosewala-to-pull-pbs-young-voters-346049
04-12-2021||New Delhi||Only Punjab reported four deaths due to oxygen shortage: Union Health minister||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday told the Lok Sabha that only Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh had responded to the Centre’s emails asking for data on deaths of Covid-19 patients due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave.“The Centre sought data from the states and the UTs regarding deaths of Covid-19 patients due to oxygen shortage across the country during the second wave of the pandemic. Request for data on the subject was emailed several times and the last email was sent on November 29. In response, only two states —Punjab and Arunachal — responded,” he said.Punjab emailed that four suspected deaths had occurred due to lack of oxygen at a private hospital in Amritsar.Mandaviya told the House that only 19 states had responded to the ministry’s emails and out of them only Punjab shared the figure on deaths and added that even these were being investigated. He said 22 crore doses of Covid shots were lying unused with the states. Asking the MPs not to ‘play politics on health’, he said, “If all the MPs ensure 100 per cent vaccination in their segments, the entire India will be vaccinated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/only-pb-reported-four-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-mandaviya-346052
04-12-2021||New Delhi||Punjab ex-DGP Virk joins saffron party||SS Virk, former DGP of Punjab and Maharashtra, on Friday joined the BJP along with several prominent persons from Punjab. A Padma Shri awardee, Virk was once at the forefront of the fight against terrorism in the 1980s and 1990s.A 1970-batch IPS officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Virk was brought to Punjab on deputation in 1984 during militancy. He was the Punjab DGP during Capt Amarinder Singh’s first tenure as Chief Minister 2002-2007 before being moved back to his parent cadre. Just months after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, he was appointed Maharashtra DGP.In 1986, he was sent on deputation as CRPF DIG and was stationed at Amritsar, with KPS Gill as the IG of the paramilitary force. In May 1988, during Operation Black Thunder, Virk was hit by a bullet in his face outside the Golden Temple and remained in coma for nine days.Union Minister and BJP’s Punjab in charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat welcomed him into the party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-dgp-virk-joins-saffron-party-346055
04-12-2021||Fazilka||Stone laid for Rs 16-crore canal in Fazilka||Jalalabad MLA Raminder Singh Awla laid the foundation stone of the much-awaited Suhelewala canal in Chak Vairoke village of Fazilka district today.Awla said Rs 16 crore would be spent on the 14-km long canal. According to sources, the canal would benefit thousands of farmers of several villages, including Dhab Khushal Joyia, Chak Panj Kohi, Chak Kabarwala, Chak Gulab Rasoolwala, Chak Balochan, Bahmniwala, etc.Awla said the first instalment of Rs 702.56 lakh had been released by the Punjab Government to acquire the land for the purpose. He said cheques of the acquired land had also been disbursed among some farmers.The MLA claimed that the long-pending demand of the farmers shall soon take a practical shape and the canal would be a lifeline for those who were otherwise deprived of canal water for irrigation purposes since long. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stone-laid-for-rs-16-crore-canal-in-fazilka-345974
04-12-2021||---||Former CKD chief Charanjit Singh Chadha dies||Amritsar, December 3Charanjit Singh Chadha, former Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president, passed away today. He was around 85. His grandson Harpreet Singh said Chadha died due to a cardiac arrest. The cremation will be held at 11 am in Amritsar tomorrow.Chadha was lately in news in April when Akal Takht had lifted the ban on him from addressing religious, social, political or educational programmes following charges of an immoral act in 2018.During the same period, he also suffered a setback when his elder son Inderpreet Singh Chadha shot himself dead with his licensed revolver. Chadha took over as the president of 117-year-old CKD with the support of then Akal Takht jathedar Joginder Singh Vedanti in 2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-ckd-chief-charanjit-singh-chadha-dies-345975
04-12-2021||Muktsar||Out on bail, Dera Sacha Sauda man shot in Muktsar||A Dera Sacha Sauda follower out on bail in a sacrilege case was shot by two bike-borne persons at Bhundar village in Gidderbaha segment today.Charan Dass, 40, a grocery store owner, was inside his shop when one of the attackers posing as a customer entered the store and shot him in the presence of his mother. The second attacker waited outside,” said Sarbjit Singh, SSP, Muktsar. “The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital, Gidderbaha, where he was referred to a Bathinda hospital, but died on the way. We are trying to get the CCTV footage of the area,” said the SSP.Sources claimed that one of the attackers had covered his face with a piece of cloth.In April 2018, Dass along with his sister-in-law Sapna Rani had allegedly tried to take away the ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a village gurdwara. However, the granthi thwarted their attempt. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-on-bail-dera-man-shot-in-muktsar-345976
04-12-2021||---||Punjab SIT probing sacrilege cases to quiz dera officials in Sirsa||Faridkot/Ludhiana, Dec 3The special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, probing the sacrilege incidents, has decided to go to the Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters at Sirsa for the questioning chairperson Vipassana Insan and vice-chairman Dr PR Nain.“Despite summoning them two times on November 26 and December 3, both senior functionaries of the dera have skipped their appearance before the SIT. So we have decided to reach the dera headquarters at Sirsa for questioning both suspects,” said Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, head of the SIT.The questioning of these dera functionaries is important for further investigation into its role in the sacrilege incidents, said Inspector General of Police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar.The SIT took a decision to question Vipassana and Nain after dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh denied his involvement in the sacrilege incidents. During his questioning at the Sunaria jail by the SIT last month, the dera chief had claimed he had no role in the functioning or decision-making of the dera. On July 6, 2019, the dera chief was named as an accused in the sacrilege incidents. Though the SIT had got the production warrants of the dera head to bring him from the Sunaria jail to Faridkot for questioning in the sacrilege incidents, as per the directions of the High Court, instead of bringing the dera head here, the SIT went to the Sunaria jail to question him about the sacrilege incidents.“For the furtherance of the investigation, we need to question both Vipassana and Nain but they are avoiding their appearance before the SIT. While Vipassana did not respond back to the summons, Nain sought relief from personal appearance on medical grounds. As both these high executives of the dera will be camping in Sirsa, we have decided to go there,” said the SIT chief. Earlier, Vipassana Insan and Dr PR Nain again failed to turn up before the SIT. This was the third summon issued to both persons.Adjourn Behbal case sine die: Accused||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-quiz-dera-officials-in-sirsa-345977
04-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||99% of accused may be granted bail on technical grounds: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that almost 99 per cent of all accused facing trial would be admitted to bail on the sole ground that the trial court did not pass a formal order extending remand while adjourning the hearing of a case. The observation by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came as the Bench, among other things, referred to a 70-year-old Supreme Court judgment.Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted it was required to be observed by the court that submissions by the petitioner’s counsel in the matter, in terms of Sub-section (2) of Section 309 of the CrPC, would “otherwise seem to be correct especially on the touchstone of the Supreme Court judgment”. Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted: “Yet after almost 70 years of that judgment having been passed, and criminal litigation having increased manifold above what was existent in the year 1953, as already observed in the order dated November 3, it may amount to admitting every single accused facing trial to bail, or almost 99 per cent of them, on that ground alone.”Fixing the case for December third week for issuance of directions to the trial courts in terms of the judgment and “any judgment to be relied upon by the state counsel”, Justice Amol Rattan Singh issued a notice to Punjab and Haryana. “All state counsel to assist the court in the matter on the touchstone of the Supreme Court judgment,” the Bench added. The matter was brought to the court’s notice after one Gurjant Singh filed a petition through counsel Saurav Bhatia, who referred to Sub-section (2) of Section 309 of the CrPC. The section on “power to postpone or adjourn proceedings”, among other things, says: “If the court, after taking cognisance of an offence, or commencement of trial, finds it necessary or advisable to postpone the commencement of, or adjourn, any inquiry or trial, it may, from time to time, for reasons to be recorded, postpone or adjourn the same on such terms as it thinks fit, for such time as it considers reasonable, and may by a warrant remand the accused if in custody.”SC judgmnent citedThe Supreme Court had ruled Section 344 of the Criminal Procedure Code required a magistrate, if he chose to adjourn a case, “to remand by warrant the accused if in custody”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/99-of-accused-may-be-granted-bail-on-technical-grounds-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-345978
04-12-2021||---||Tiffin bomb, 4 grenades seized in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur, December 3Barely 48 hours after the Gurdaspur police seized 1-kg RDX from an unspecified location in Dinanagar, four hand grenades and a tiffin bomb were recovered from Salempur Araiyan village, 5 km from the city, on the Gurdaspur-Kartarpur Corridor road late last night.The fact that the ammunition was found from a road that led to the corridor has sent the cops into a tizzy. There are contradictory reports as to whether the grenades were smuggled from across the border or were procured by the accused from India itself.The police have set up checkposts in border police districts of Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot. Each ‘naka’ is being supervised by a gazetted officer. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said several ADGPs had been deputed to personally supervise night domination operations in these areas.On Monday, the police had arrested Sukhwinder Singh from a checkpost in Dinanagar. He had disclosed that he was the one who had planted the RDX and a detonator. SSP Nanak Singh later said Sukhwinder had links with Pakistan agencies.The official line being given by the cops for today’s recovery is that Sadar police SHO Jatinder Pal Singh and his team were carrying out patrolling duties on the Gurdaspur-Kartarpur corridor road when they stumbled across a yellow-coloured bag.The bag was then taken away by the cops to an undisclosed place where the grenades and the tiffin bomb were defused. Sources said this could also be a ploy to disturb peace in Punjab which is going to the polls early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiffin-bomb-4-grenades-seized-in-gurdaspur-345979
04-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Dinanagar: MLA rides on road infrastructure promise||MLA Aruna Chaudhary has pulled off a coup of sorts by impressing upon the Punjab Government to build a railway flyover at its own cost which will connect Dinanagar with a cluster of schools, colleges and villages.Chaudhary, a three-time legislator, is the daughter-in-law of four-time MLA Jai Muni. Normally, whenever a rail overbridge or underpass is constructed, the Railways and state government share the cost. However, in this case, the MLA insisted the government should walk it alone as taking necessary permissions from the Railways and other departments was a cumbersome process and could delay the project. Her efforts bore fruit when the state government sanctioned the entire cost of Rs 55 crore following which the PWD started the construction process.The other bridge being constructed, which also bears Chaudhary’s stamp, is the one connecting Dinanagar to a group of 12 villages located across the Ravi. Every year, the PWD builds a temporary structure. However, this has to be dismantled during the rainy season following which residents of 12 villages are cut off from the mainland for four months. Chaudhary seeks to ride to victory on these two bridges. Another major relief for residents is the construction of the 14-km-long Mirthal-Dinanagar road. Dinanagar has been upgraded from a tehsil to a subdivisional town. “This means we no longer have to travel to Gurdaspur to get our administrative work done,” said Sanjay Kumar, a local.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dinanagar-mla-rides-on-road-infrastructure-promise-345980
04-12-2021||Ropar||Teachers threaten agitation||Members of the government aided school teachers’ union, who have been demanding the implementation of the sixth pay panel report, today said they would start an agitation. Union leaders said if the Chief Minister failed to hold a meeting to resolve the issue within two days, they would start a large-scale agitation in Chamkaur Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-threaten-agitation-345981
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to IPS officer on Sumedh Singh Saini's petition||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice to IPS officer BK Uppal and two others on a petition filed by ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He was seeking the initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Vigilance Bureau officers for illegally detaining him in violation of High Court orders.In his petition placed before Justice Raj Mohan Singh, Saini through counsel SPS Sidhu alleged his illegal detention was carried out at the “insistence of Bharat Inder Singh Chahal, political adviser to CM through BK Uppal”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-ips-officer-on-sumedh-singh-sainis-petition-345982
04-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||DGP post: UPSC asked to consider September 30 as cut-off date||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 3Punjab has asked the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to consider September 30 as cut-off date for eligibility of officers for the post of DGP.This cut-off date makes DGP (Vigilance) Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and DGP (Human Rights) Rohit Choudhary eligible, relegating officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota to the fourth position.Another complexity is a court judgment over the post. Chattopadhyaya has lost his case against the appointment of Dinkar Gupta. It remains to be seen if the UPSC will consider him. Usually, the UPSC choses top three officers as per seniority. From these, the state picks one.Punjab’s response follows several clarifications by the UPSC seeking a cut-off date to set eligibility of officers. As per the procedure laid down by the Supreme Court, officers with minimum six months of tenure left are eligible for empanelment.The post is at the centre of a tug-of-war between Congress leaders. PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is reportedly pushing for Chattopadhyaya’s candidature, while CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa favoured Sahota for the top post.At stake also is the issue of transparency and legality of the selection process for the DGP. The UPSC is reportedly in a fix over adopting a procedure that avoids the DGPs’ selection as a precedent for other states. It is feared the selection process may be circumvented.Sources said the UPSC had to set the cut-off date first and then decide on the merit and seniority for choosing the final three candidates.In Punjab, there was a regime change within the majority party — Congress — in power. After Channi took over as the CM from Capt Amarinder Singh, DGP Dinkar Gupta went on leave on September 25 and Sahota was appointed officiating DGP. Sidhu opposed the appointment. The state Home Department sent a panel of 10 officers to the UPSC on September 30 evening, ostensibly to keep Chattopadhyaya in the race and keep Sidhu in humour. However, the government gave a new posting to outgoing DGP Gupta on October 4. This became a matter of much debate as to which of these dates the post of DGP fell vacant for the state to recommend a panel of eligible officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dgp-post-upsc-asked-to-consider-september-30-as-cut-off-date-345983
04-12-2021||---||Bizman SPS Oberoi declines Punjab CM's govt post offer||Gurdaspur, December 3Dubai-based construction magnate Dr Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi today declined Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s offer to appoint him as honorary adviser (health and skill development), saying neither he nor his charitable organisation — Sarbat Da Bhala — engaged in any political activities.Oberoi admitted he had met the Chief Minister last week and urged him to let his organisation play a role in the upgrade of industrial training institutes (ITIs) and improving health infrastructure across the state.He added he had been doing charity for the past 11 years and would continue to serve the poor and needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bizman-oberoi-declines-punjab-cms-govt-post-offer-345984
04-12-2021||---||Medical college in Pathankot soon, says Punjab CM||Pathankot, December 3Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today declared that a medical college and hospital would be established in Pathankot soon. He was addressing a gathering at the Bhoa Assembly seat which is represented by Congress MLA Joginder Pal.On August 15, 2017, Capt Amarinder Singh made a similar announcement during his Independence-Day speech. Four years down the line, not a single brick has been laid. Observers say the Pathankot project might not see the light of the day as just a few weeks are left before the model code of conduct comes into force. "Getting funds sanctioned and obtaining clearances and permissions from the Medical Council of India are a long and cumbersome process,” said a leader.The Chief Minister announced a new administrative block for Bhoa, besides the construction of a sports stadium at Bani Lodhi village. He dedicated 66 KV Power Station at Laahdi Mahanta village. All these places fall in the Bhoa Assembly segment, widely perceived to be the most backward area of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-college-in-pathankot-soon-says-punjab-cm-345985
04-12-2021||Ropar||Kangana Ranaut  gheraoed, let off after apology||Farmers today protested actor Kangana Ranaut’s “objectionable” statements against anti-farm laws agitators and gheraoed her at Bunga Sahib on Ropar-Manali road today.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Union (KMU) were reportedly following her from Bilaspur. When she reached Bunga Sahib around 2.30 pm, protesters, including a large number of women, sat in front of her car. Soon a heavy police force reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters. In videos uploaded on her Instagram, the actor said she would have been lynched, if it weren’t for her security personnel.Alleging the actor had used derogatory language against agitating farmers, especially women, KMU president Sethi Sharma said they would not allow her to go until she tendered an apology.A few months ago, Kangana allegedly called protesters names and tweeted a photo of an elderly woman participating in the rally and mistook her for the one famous for Shaheen Bagh protests. She went on to claim she was “available for Rs 100” to protest. She, however, deleted the tweet later on.After an hour, she agreed to meet protesters. She reportedly hugged women protesters and apologised, clarifying she never said anything derogatory against them. Protesters relented and she left the spot. The actor thanked the Punjab Police for taking her out safely and informed her followers that she was safe. SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said the district police had no prior information about her visit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kangana-ranaut-gheraoed-let-off-after-apology-345986
04-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar South: Down in dumps, locals await relief||In the 2017 elections, the constituency was in focus as a large section of residents demonstrated seeking shifting of the Bhagtanwala dumping ground from the city, prompting political parties to use it as a poll plank.Akali leader Inderbir Singh Bolaria shifted his loyalty to the Congress and promised residents that the dump would be shifted on a priority basis. Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh included the demand in the poll manifesto and FM Manpreet Singh Badal promised a hospital for chest diseases.Hoping for a change, voters gave their verdict in favour of Bolaria, who won with a handsome margin. Almost five years on, Bhagtanwala residents feel betrayed. The dump still remains a problem.Prabjeet Singh from Sultanwind village said the historic village in the urban constituency didn’t have proper sewerage and water supply system. The sitting MLA says work on a beautification project is under way and the outer ring road is being redeveloped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-south-down-in-dumps-locals-await-relief-345987
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside I-T Department's order against PCC chief||Allowing a petition filed by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today set aside an order passed by the Principal Commissioner, Income Tax. The case has been remanded back to the Principal Commissioner to decide the matter afresh on merits. The order was yet to be uploaded on the High Court website.In his petition placed before the Bench of Justices Ajay Tewari and Pankaj Jain, Sidhu through counsel Chetan Bansal had submitted that his revision petition under the provisions of the I-T Act was dismissed by an Income Tax Joint Commissioner on flimsy and untenable grounds.Sidhu submitted he filed income tax return of assessment year 2016-17 on October 19, 2016, declaring total income of Rs 9,66,28,470. The assessment under Section 143(3) of Income Tax Act was completed by the Assessment Officer on December 21, 2018, at the assessed income of Rs 13,19,66,530 after making addition of Rs 3,53,38,067.Against the erroneous assessment, the petitioner expressly waived of his right to file appeal before Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal).He filed a revision petition under Section 264 of the Act after taking various grounds before income tax joint commissioner, Range 1, Amritsar. Instead of going into the merits of the revision, his focus was to seek an explanation on the reasons behind Sidhu’s preference for revision under Section 264 of the Act instead of appeal before the Commissioner Income Tax (Appeal). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-sets-aside-i-t-departments-order-against-pcc-chief-345988
04-12-2021||Jalandhar||Centre conspiring to weaken SAD: Sukhbir Singh Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the Centre was trying to weaken the Akalis and asserted all those who had left them had been “finished forever”.Addressing rallies here in favour of party candidates Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Bachitar Singh Kohar at Nakodar and Shahkot, respectively, he said conspiracies were being hatched to weaken the SAD. Badal was reacting to the BJP’s recent move to rope in Akali politicians, including DGSMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa, Adampur former MLA Sarabjeet Makkar and others.Lashing out at CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Badal said it was shocking that the CM indulged in a farce by holding a ‘sangat darshan’ in front of his residence at 1 pm. “Had Channi been sincere, a woman of Cheema Kalan village in Nakodar would not have committed suicide on his doorstep in frustration after he refused to listen to her persistent pleas regarding help in resolving a property dispute.”Following an appeal from people, Sukhbir announced all blue cards which had been deleted during the Congress tenure would be revived within a month of formation of the SAD-BSP alliance government. He also announced ‘intekal’ would be done for all pieces of land to end strife within a year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-conspiring-to-weaken-sad-sukhbir-singh-badal-345989
04-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Will make Punjab model state: AAP leader Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia interacted with representatives of trade and industry at Amloh, industrial town of Mandi Gobindgarh and Fatehgarh Sahib today. He had come to listen to their problems so that the solutions could be included in the AAP’s manifesto.He said Punjab would be developed as a model industrial and agricultural state by implementing the Delhi model. Wrong policies of successive governments had not only ruined the industry in the state, but had also forced their migration to other states, he stressed.Earlier, traders and industrialists highlighted corruption, threats, raids, inspector raj and inadequate infrastructure and skilled labour among others with Sisodia. They demanded a single-window system and freedom from unnecessary interference of politicians.“We will set up a skill university keeping in mind the current needs of the industry and end the outdated system. Similarly, a new education policy will be formed in consultation with educationists. We will also ensure cheaper 24-hour power supply to units,” said the Delhi Deputy CM. — OCAAP workers clash||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-make-punjab-model-state-manish-sisodia-345990
04-12-2021||Sangrur||Punjab Govt scuttling probes against singer Sidhu Moosewala: Opposition||The Opposition has again accused the government of scuttling probes in the two 2020 cases registered against singer Sidhu Moosewala under the Arms Act in Sangrur and Barnala. The police have yet to file chargesheets.Leader of Opposition and Dirba AAP legislator Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the Congress government had “struck a deal” with Moosewala to “hush up” the cases.“Since the Congress government has lost ground in Punjab, it’s trying to lure youngsters. The authorities have been delaying the investigations in both cases as the Congress government has struck a deal with Moosewala,” said Cheema. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-scuttling-probes-against-singer-sidhu-moosewala-opposition-345991
04-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Jolt to Congress ticket aspirants in Mansa with Sidhu Moosewala's entry||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 3The joining of singer Sidhu Moosewala has come as a jolt for at least five Congress leaders seeking a ticket from the Mansa Assembly seat. Moosewala is likely to contest the seat.Moosewala’s mother is a Congress sarpanch of their native Musa village in Mansa district. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Moosewala had lent support to the police and district administrations.Mansa AAP legislator Nazar Singh Manshahia, who joined the Congress in 2019, is among the ticket aspirants. Besides, former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal’s wife Manoj Bala, who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls, Manjit Singh Jhalbuti and Gurpreet Singh Vicky are staking claim to the party ticket.Former minister Sher Singh Gagowal’s daughter-in-law Gurpreet Kaur Gagowal today held a show of strength by organising a rally at Khiala village in the district and has also thrown her hat in the ring. In the 2012 elections, Gurpreet had contested as a Congress nominee but lost with a narrow margin.The leaders have already indicated they would contest as Independent candidates if an outsider was given a ticket from the seat. It is learnt Moosewala is eyeing a ticket from Mansa, although his village is located in the Sardulgarh Assembly segment.Protesting Moosewala’s entry into the party fold, the Gagowal family said like actor Sunny Deol, he would also abandon the constituency after winning the polls. Addressing workers, Gurpreet said: “The party should seriously think about giving the ticket to a local and not an outsider.”The Congress is a divided house in the Mansa Assembly segment. Sources claim although not all Congress leaders are speaking up openly, they are irked at the singer joining the party.Sidhu firm on opening STF report||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jolt-to-congress-ticket-aspirants-in-mansa-345992
04-12-2021||Ropar||Kangana Ranaut's car stopped by protesting farmers near Kiratpur in Punjab||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut was briefly stopped by farmers at Bunga Sahib to protest against her comments allegedly during the farmer agitation, on the Ropar-Manali Highway, here on Friday.The actress was going in her car from Himachal Pradesh towards Chandigarh.The members of Bharatiya Kisan Union reportedly were following her from Bilaspur and when she reached Bunga Sahib, the protesters, including a large number of women, sat in front of her car blocking the road.Soon heavy police force also reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters.The president of the union, Sethi Sharma, said Kangana had used derogatory language against farmers who were sitting on dharna at Delhi borders.She had also used inappropriate language against women protesters participating in the agitation, and they would not lift her gherao till she doesn’t tender an apology before the women, he said.A few months ago, Kangana allegedly called the protesters as Khalistanis and also tweeted mistaking an elderly woman participating in the rally to be the one famous for Shaheen Bagh protests and claiming she was ‘available for Rs 100’ to protest. She, however, deleted the tweet later on.Nearly one hour after her gherao, she agreed to meet the protesters and initially two women were allowed to go near her car. Kangana reportedly said sorry to them and clarified that she never said anything derogatory for women. Following this she came out of the car and hugged the women protesters. Kangana was on the way from Manali as she had gone to celebrate her sister’s birthday with her family.In videos uploaded on her Instagram story, she said she would have been lynched if there wasn’t security with her.She is also seen pleading with women protesters as she is heard saying that she hasn’t said anything bad about farmers and women protesters but was referring to those women who were protesting at Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship Amendment Act.Kangana Ranaut thanked the Punjab Police for taking her out safely and informed her followers that she has been allowed to proceed and she is safe. After this the protesters announced that they were satisfied with the reply of the actress and she was allowed to proceed. SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said that the district police had no prior information about the visit of Ranaut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kangana-ranaut-alleges-her-car-was-attacked-by-farmers-in-anandpur-sahib-as-she-entered-punjab-345880
