05-12-2021||Ropar||Punjab CM Channi warns ‘outsider’ AAP leaders against raids, claims all desilting work as per norms||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said action would be taken against AAP leaders coming from outside Punjab who enter the government schools and other places unauthorised.Channi was here to visit a desilting site at Sutlej riverbed near mini secretariat as AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha yesterday had alleged that the chief minister was promoting illegal mining in his assembly constituency of Chamkaur Sahib.On December 1, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had visited two government schools in Chamkaur Sahib area claiming it as an ‘expose’.Channi claimed that the allegations of AAP were a bundle of lies and all the desilting work at different sites was being done according to norms.The chief minister while issuing a warning to the AAP over such raids said he would request local AAP cadre to not let outsiders vitiate the atmosphere of Punjab.Action would be taken against such unauthorised raids by outsiders, while local AAP workers were free to highlight any irregularities, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-warns-outsider-aap-leaders-against-raids-claims-all-desilting-work-as-per-norms-346562
05-12-2021||---||No Omicron case reported from Punjab: Om Parkash Soni||Amritsar, December 4Putting an end to social media rumours, Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni on Saturday said no case of Omicron, the new variant of deadly coronavirus has been reported from Punjab so far.Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, said the government was vigilant and all necessary steps were being taken in view of the safety of general public. He said 36 per cent of the population of the state has received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Replying to a media query regarding protest by ANMs, Soni said the protesting employees should end their stir now as their demand was being considered by the state government. The ANMs are protesting against the government demanding regularisation of their services. Soni said the matter has been discussed with the CM and all justified demands of the employees would be accepted.He said the work on the Rs120 crore cancer institute at Government Medical College has been completed and it would become operational soon. He said the institute would be a boon for patients, who earlier had to go to PGI for treatment.Earlier, Soni flagged off awareness vans and a cycle rally from Bhai Dharam Singh Satellite Hospital, Ranjit Avenue, to create awareness about non-communicable diseases. He said the state government has screened a total of 31 lakh residents in the state of which 14.37 per cent are diabetics, 15.38 are suffering from hypertension and 0.35 per cent have been found suffering from different kinds of cancer. He said diseases such as diabetes and hypertension are easily preventable by making certain positive changes in lifestyle.No fresh covid case reported in districtAmritsar: The district Health Department did not report any positive case on Saturday. At present, the district has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile, 11,886 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 4,398 have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 7,488 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-omicron-case-reported-from-punjab-om-parkash-soni-346343
05-12-2021||Bathinda||Debt-ridden farmer ends life in Bathinda village||27 booked over land disputeSangrur: The police booked 27 persons of Shadihari village here after they allegedly took away harvested paddy from Nazul land. Kohriya police post incharge Darshan Singh said: “There is a dispute over the allotment of Nazul land. We have registered a case against 27 persons and further investigations are on.” TNSMan dies as car hits treeAbohar: A 25-year-old man died when the car that he was driving hit a tree on Sriganganagar-Srikaranpur road here on Saturday. The police said the deceased had been identified as Sanjay of Phoosewala. OC8-month-old kidnappedMoga: An eight-month-old child was allegedly kidnapped by a masked youth from the district hospital premises here on Saturday. The act was captured in the CCTV camera. “We have sounded the alert and urge people who may have any information to come forward,” said the police. TNSTraders observe bandhMalout: Traders of the Malout town on Saturday observed a complete shutdown in protest of an attack on a shopkeeper and his son on Friday here. The police have booked 10 persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-in-bathinda-village-346409
05-12-2021||Muktsar||Dera Sacha Sauda follower cremated amid tight security||The Dera Sacha Sauda follower, who was shot by two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons late last night at his shop at Bhundar village here, was cremated amid tight security arrangements here today.The victim, Charan Dass, who was out on bail in a sacrilege case, was targeted by one of the assailants, who posed as a customer. The second suspect remained outside.In April 2018, Dass along with his sister-in-law Sapna Rani had allegedly tried to take away the ‘sarup’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a village gurdwara. A case of sacrilege was registered against them.Sarbjit Singh, SSP, Muktsar, said: “We have stepped up security at the deras in the district. We are scouring CCTV footage for clues. We have sent the bullet recovered from the victim’s body for forensic analysis to ascertain the weapon used in the crime.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-follower-cremated-amid-tight-security-346408
05-12-2021||Bathinda||Punjab Finance Minister lays stone for Rs 36.2-cr project||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal laid the foundation stone for the upgrade of the Bathinda-Badal road at the cost of Rs 36.21 crore.The road that leads to former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s and FM Manpreet Badal’s village was lying in utter disrepair for a long time. During the SAD-BJP regime, the 35-km stretch was well maintained. However, after the change of guard at the top level, the road remained in neglect.Apart from this, the FM today also inaugurated newly constructed buildings of three government schools in the city — Rs 1.71-crore Government Elementary School, Haji Ratan; Rs 1.57-crore Des Raj Primary School, Kikar Bazar, and Rs 2.1 crore Government Secondary School and Government Primary School, Sanjay Nagar. The FM said an international-standard swimming pool was being constructed at Dhobiana’s school. He said he was trying his best to keep the government schools up to date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finance-minister-lays-stone-for-rs-36-2-cr-project-346407
05-12-2021||Amritsar||136 Hindu pilgrims cross over to Pakistan||A 136-member jatha of Hindu pilgrims crossed over to Pakistan from the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP) near here on Saturday.Jatha leader Yudhishtar Lal said members of the group, from various parts of the country, had been issued visas for 12 days. They would visit a temple in Ghotki district in Sindh. Meanwhile, Kendriya Sanatan Dharam Sabha’s Shiv Pratap Bajaj said the Pakistan Government had granted an approval for a week-long pilgrimage to Katas Raj Temple, an ancient shrine.Another jatha would cross over to Pakistan from the JCP on December 17. The yatra had been cancelled thrice during the past two years due to Covid restrictions and acrimonious bilateral relations between India and Pakistan. — TNSSubmit passports for jatha by Dec 31The SGPC has sought passports from those who wish to be a part of a Sikh jatha to be sent to Pakistan to visit historic shrines there by December 31||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/136-hindu-pilgrims-cross-over-to-pakistan-346307
05-12-2021||---||Pictorial tribute to Sikh Guru, Guru Teg Bahadur||New Delhi, December 4An exhibition on life of the Ninth Sikh Guru, Guru Teg Bahadur, put up in Gurdwara Bangla Sahib here on Saturday was thronged by devotees of all ages.The exhibition, however, was a wholesome montage of more than 40 pictorial frames depicting the celebrated moments in the lives of all Sikh Gurus.While some of the frames were purely edifying, loaded with mystical frisson of spiritual excitement for some of the apparently spell-bound devotees, the others were a lesson in religion-spiritual historicity of Sikhism.A frame of painting of Bhai Jaita, who was later lionised as Baba Jiwan Singh, reverently carrying the severed head of martyred Guru Teg Bahadur from Delhi to Anandpur Sahib (Punjab) to be handed over to latter’s son Guru Gobind Singh apparently touched a deep chord among the visitors. Bhai Jaita, a Sikh general, who hailed from a lower caste, was an associate of Guru Gobind Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pictorial-tribute-to-sikh-guru-guru-teg-bahadur-346308
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab restrained from hiring Assistant Professors in government colleges||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has restrained Punjab from going ahead with the recruitment of Assistant Professors in government colleges. The direction came as the Bench termed as “wholly arbitrary and discriminatory” the decision to grant weightage in lieu of work experience only to the guest faculty, part-timers and contract teachers working in “government colleges of Punjab”. The order will remain in force till the next date of hearing, at least.The matter was brought to Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu’s notice after a bunch of petitions were filed by Kulwinder Singh and other petitioners. They were represented by advocate Gaurav Chopra, counsel Anurag Chopra and Jagtar Singh Sidhu.The Bench was told a decision was taken to fill 1,158 posts in different subjects for government colleges. Justice Sindhu asserted it was the respondents’ prime duty to attract the best talent in the interest of the students and the community at large.Initially, the government vide memo dated October 18 decided to grant maximum five marks weightage in lieu of work experience to part-time, guest faculty and contract teachers working in “government-run colleges”.“There is no option except to restrain the respondents till the next date of hearing from proceeding with the matter while taking shelter under the clarification dated November 28…,” Justice Sindhu added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-restrained-from-hiring-assistant-professors-in-government-colleges-346309
05-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Recovery of drugs in every case viewed with suspicion, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4Amidst claims of earnest efforts by the state agencies to arrest the drug menace, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted contraband recovery in every case was viewed with distrust following some false implication cases. The assertion came as the Bench ordered an inquiry into a case of alleged false implication.Justice Vikas Bahl made it clear the Khanna SSP would examine the matter before determining whether action was required to be taken against erring police officials.“The SSP, Khanna, while taking such a decision should aim at balancing the scales, inasmuch as it is on account of some false implication cases that the recovery in every case is seen with an eye of suspicion,” Justice Bahl added.In his order, Justice Bahl observed it was for him to ascertain whether police officials under his authority were performing their duties with honesty and in accordance with law. The matter was brought to court notice after a woman sought regular bail in a case registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at Machhiwara police station on March 5.Referring to the record before the court, Justice Bahl asserted it appeared to be a case of false implication. The petitioner was, as per the FIR, arrested on March 4 at about 9.50 pm by a police team while riding a scooter. Prima facie evidence in form of photographs and CCTV footage showed persons, admitted to be CIA officials, accompanying her in a lane in front of a shop at 6.47 pm the same day.Justice Bahl added the SSP in his affidavit did not dispute the photographs, the CCTV footage and the presence of the petitioner along with CIA officials. But the aspect was sought to be brushed aside by merely stating she was not apprehended at that time. No explanation was given as to where she was taken or how four-five persons from the CIA staff were accompanying her “in exactly the same direction and in a close proximity”.Allowing her plea, Justice Bahl added it could not be said from the photographs that the officials were moving independent of the petitioner. Prima facie proof of enmity between the police officials and her family was also in existence. Even her husband was falsely implicated, apparent from a judgment dated March 7, 2015. A false case was planted upon him, following which the Ludhiana Special Court judge directed appropriate action against all police officials involved in false implication. The police official, who appeared as a prosecution witness in that case, was the investigating officer in the present matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recovery-of-drugs-in-every-case-viewed-with-suspicion-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-346310
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court rejects bail plea of motorist involved in mishap at protest site||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rejected the bail plea of a motorist allegedly involved in an accident during a peaceful demonstration by farmers. Two minors and another person had died in the accident. The accused had taken the plea that he had suffered a seizure due to epilepsy, resulting in the accident.Pritpal Singh had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the state of Punjab and another respondent seeking regular bail in a case registered at the Tripuri police station in Patiala district on March 30 for rash or negligent driving, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other offences under Sections 279, 337, 338, 427, 308 and 304 of the IPC and provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.Opposing the plea, the State counsel argued that a peaceful demonstration by farmers was going on at a roundabout near Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib. Driving the vehicle in a negligent manner, the petitioner intentionally struck a car at the traffic lights before hitting the farmers sitting on the agitation. In that process, two minors and another person died, while another person sustained multiple injuries and had to undergo two brain surgeries before remaining on ventilator from March 29 to April 5. Apart from this, four other persons were also injured. The petitioner’s counsel argued that the motorist was a patient with history of epilepsy undergoing treatment since 2016. He was in custody since March 30, the investigation was complete and the trial would take some time to conclude. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-motorist-involved-in-mishap-at-protest-site-346311
05-12-2021||Sameer Singh||Help expedite projects: Mansa residents to Sidhu Moosewala||Tribune News ServiceMansa, December 4A day after Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala joined the Congress, residents of Mansa district have come up with a ‘11-point development agenda’ (list of pending works) in the district and urged him get these works done before the code of conduct comes into effect.The residents of Mansa have hailed his decision of starting a political career and said the singer must ensure he takes concrete steps so that these projects can be materialised. With the political power he enjoys now, he must put in concerted efforts and try to get the pending developmental works of the district completed on priority, they said.Munish Danewalia, president of Arhtiya Association of Mansa, said, “After joining the Congress, Moosewala has to take the responsibility. He will have to share a comprehensive roadmap with residents on how is he going to get these works done. The residents of Mansa have always played a significant role in mass movements and voters are quite alert and informed here.”Gurlabh Singh Mahal, a leader of the Samvidhan Bachao Manch, said, “In our 11-point agenda, we have asked for a detailed plan. Around 70 per cent sewerage in Mansa is faulty and there are no proper arrangements for cleanliness in the city area. The state government announced more than four years ago that it would provide a permanent solution to the stray cattle menace but there is no headway in that project also.”“At Nehru Memorial Government College, there is not even a single regular professor and it does not have required academic infrastructure. The government hospital in Mansa does not have expert doctors and medical infrastructure to provide quality treatment. The repair work of the canal tributary channel that supplies water to Moosewala village is also lying pending,” added Mahal.Laud political moveThe residents of Mansa have hailed Sidhu Moosewala’s decision of starting a political career and said the singer must ensure he takes concrete steps so that developmental projects can be materialised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/help-expedite-projects-locals-to-sidhu-moosewala-346312
05-12-2021||Arun Sharma||Ropar: Development only on paper||The constituency came into existence ahead of the 2012 Assembly elections. AAP candidate Amarjit Singh Sandoa registered victory in the 2017 elections but the party had to sit in the Opposition. Sandoa joined the ruling Congress in the run-up to the 2019 General Election, claiming it would help him undertake development works in the area. Things, however, failed to improve and the MLA returned to AAP.The internal roads in the rural areas are in a poor condition. The main road in Giani Zail Singh Nagar, from Radha Swami Satsang Ghar to Congress Bhawan, is riddled with potholes. A bridge on the seasonal river between Purkhali and Bidrakh villages remains a distant dream for locals. The residents are yet to get a bus stand building in the town as construction work could not be started despite earmarking of land several years ago near the Police Lines.A project to drain the water emanating from the sewage treatment plant also remained a non-starter leading to stagnation in open areas near the IIT campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-development-only-on-paper-346313
05-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana South: Residents trapped in cesspool||IT is an ordeal for Manish Pandey and his family each time they step out of their Makkar Colony house as the street is flooded with sewage. Despite protests by residents, no permanent solution has been found. The problem is rampant across the constituency.The area witnessed a diarrhoea/gastro outbreak four years ago and the residents blamed it on the mixing of water with sewage. "After protests, the authorities swung into action but the problem persists. We want a permanent solution," says Pandey. The situation is similar in Shanti Nagar, Giaspura and nearby areas.The constituency is also faced with the problem of mushrooming illegal colonies. Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Ishar Nagar says: “There is no action due to political patronage.” The residents also rue lack of a government college or a civil hospital. “We also want new senior secondary schools in our area,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-south-residents-trapped-in-cesspool-346314
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure vaccination of election staff: Election Commission||The Election Commission (EC) on Saturday reviewed preparedness ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Chairing a virtual meeting, Deputy Election Commissioner Nitesh Kumar Vyas stressed the need to vaccinate the entire staff and volunteers to be deputed for poll duties and directed all district election officers (DEOs) to organise camps in this regard.Amid concerns over Omicron, the new Covid-19 variant, he asked the DEOs to clear any pendency related to the addition of new voters and deletion or shifting of the existing ones. He sought to intensify systematic voters’ education and electoral participation activities, including sending text messages or roping in celebrities and sportspersons, to encourage voters to exercise their franchise. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-vaccination-of-election-staff-election-commission-346315
05-12-2021||Ropar||Junion engineer 'thrashed' in Punjab's Ropar by mining mafia, held 'captive'||A junior engineer of the Mining Department was allegedly thrashed and held hostage by the mining mafia after he tried to take action against them at nearby Mandwara village here yesterday.The victim, Gagandeep Singh Sangha, managed to escape and informed his superiors, who took him to the local Civil Hospital. Sangha said around 2.30 pm, he noticed a man digging up the land using a poclain machine in the fields and informed the police. Before the police could arrive, accomplices of the machine operator from the area allegedly caught hold of the JE and thrashed him. SHO Navdeep Singh said an investigation was underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/je-thrashed-held-captive-346316
05-12-2021||---||Illegal mining rampant in Punjab CM's constituency: AAP||Chamkaur Sahib, December 4After the recent visit by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia to government schools to “expose” the state of affairs there, AAP state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha today reached a desilting site on the Sutlej riverbed near Chamkaur Sahib, claiming illegal mining was rampant in Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency.No norms floutedDesilting in the Sutlej has been going on as per the norms and the contractor has not intruded into the forest area. SS Gill, XEN, Ropar mining deptA large number of tippers were being loaded at the site near Jindapur and Mallewal villages when Chadha along with party workers and mediapersons reached the spot.He accused the ruling Congress of “patronising” the sand mafia and claimed nearly 1,000 tippers were loaded with sand from the site every day. The AAP leader alleged sand was being lifted from land falling in the reserved forest area. Referring to a letter written by the Forest Range Officer, Chadha claimed the police as well as other officials had failed to take action against offenders. Ropar Mining Department XEN SS Gill, however, denied the allegations. Claiming the confusion had arisen as the forest land had not been demarcated by the officials concerned, Gill said they had asked them to get the demarcation done at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-rampant-in-cms-constituency-aap-346317
05-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu will damage Congress: SAD||Accusing Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi of indulging in theatrics, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed the CM controlled the sand mafia and illegal colonisation in the state.Talking to mediapersons in Amloh, Sukhbir said there was a fight among Congress leaders to “grab the booty”. Taking a swipe at Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said the PCC president was capable of defeating the Congress on his own. Addressing a rally in support of party candidate Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna, Sukhbir said from the response he had been receiving from people during his tour of various constituencies, he could safely bet on winning 85 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections.The SAD chief said they would set up a commission to cancel all FIRs registered against party leaders and take action against erring officers and Congress leaders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-will-damage-congress-sad-346318
05-12-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu bats for trade with Pakistan via Attari||Amritsar, December 4PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today questioned the Centre for allowing trade with Pakistan through Karachi and Mumbai, while halting it between Amritsar and Lahore.This has resulted in a loss of Rs 4,000 crore and 15,000 jobs to Punjab over the past 34 months, said the PCC chief during a visit to trade exhibition ‘PITEX’ here.Key to growthThere is no shortcut to success, but the ICP is. Entire Europe was devastated following World War II but they revived their economies within 10 years by opening up their borders. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefHe asserted mischievous elements could not be stopped because the border was porous. Cargo from the North should be exported through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post and not routed via the ports of Maharashtra and Gujarat, he said.The ICP could open up trade opportunities with 34 countries beyond Pakistan, generating business worth Rs 2,75,000 crore ($37 billion) per year, he said, adding it currently stood at $3 billion. “It is not even 5 per cent of the total potential.”“This is the roadmap for development of Punjab by raising income of farmers and providing adequate employment opportunities,” said the PCC chief, adding it would enable farmers to sell crops to other countries.“There is no short way to success, but the ICP is. Entire Europe was devastated following World War II but they revived their economies within 10 years by opening up their borders,” said Sidhu.He favoured giving the minimum support price to farmers on cereals and pulses, which the country imported from overseas. He lashed out at the Centre for increasing debt on the FCI by Rs 4 lakh crore in the past five years, saying it stood at Rs 91,000 crore during 60 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-bats-for-trade-with-pakistan-via-attari-346319
05-12-2021||New Delhi||BJP in talks with Capt Amarinder, Sukhdev Dhindsa for alliance in Punjab: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that the BJP is in talks with former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the state assembly polls.During an interaction followed by his keynote address at an event, Shah also ruled out the possibility of farmers’ protests impacting elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, saying after the repeal of the agri laws, no other issue remains.He asserted that the BJP will form once again form the government in Uttar Pradesh with a comfortable majority.Assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will be held early next year.“We are talking to Captain saab (Amarinder Singh) as well as (former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh) Dhindsa saab. It is possible that we will have an alliance with both (their) parties. We are talking to both parties with a positive mind,” Shah said.On the farmers’ agitation, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed a big heart to repeal the three farm laws.“The prime minister showed a big heart to end the farmers’ protests, (saying) OK fine, if you think farm laws are not in favour of the farmers... repealed the three farm laws. Now I don’t think any issue is left in Punjab. The elections will be fought on merit,” he said.Asked if there had been any changes in the electoral atmosphere in western Uttar Pradesh, he said the impact of farmers’ protests was even less in the state.In Punjab, the BJP will be testing waters on its own after its decades-old ally Shiromani Akali Dal parted ways with it over the issue of farm laws last year. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP will try to return to power.Responding to a question about former BJP allies joining the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, Shah said connecting coalitions with vote arithmetic is not the correct way of assessing elections.“Politics is not physics but chemistry. When two parties join hands, their votes will be added is not a correct assumption according to me. When two chemicals combine a third chemical is created.“We have seen in the past when the SP and the Congress joined hands and later all three (SP, BSP and Congress) came together, (but) the BJP won the elections. People are aware. Coalitions formed on the basis of vote banks cannot guide people now,” he said.The minister said the Uttar Pradesh elections are being fought under organisational in-charge and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the political leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.“I have been to Uttar Pradesh. I can confidently say that the BJP will form a government in Uttar Pradesh with a thumping majority,” Shah said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-in-talks-with-capt-amarinder-sukhdev-dhindsa-for-alliance-in-punjab-amit-shah-346256
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Farmers? protest: SKM forms 5-member panel for talks with govt, wants written assurance on pending demands||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Saturday formed a five-member panel for dialogue with the government on their pending demands, including MSP, compensation to kin of farmers who died during the agitation against the agri laws and withdrawal of cases against the protesters.The development comes after Union Home Minister Amit Shah, according to sources in the SKM, spoke to a senior farmer leader over the phone earlier this week.“The five-member committee will now hold talks with the government on our pending demands. There have been informal talks with the government in the past but we want a written assurance on the remaining issues, including withdrawal of cases and a legal guarantee on MSP,” a farmer leader said.The sources said that in the coming days, the SKM’s state committees are likely to have meetings with the home ministers of states where cases have been registered against the protesting farmers.“We will not end this agitation without a formal response on each of the issues being raised by us. We want to see all the cases foisted against farmers as well as their supporters, who were part of this movement, to be withdrawn and assurance to be made formally,” the SKM said in a statement.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh were named the members of the committee after a meeting was held by the SKM here on Saturday.Addressing a press conference with other SKM members at the Singhu Border protest site, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that the next meeting of the Morcha will take place on December 7 at 11 AM to decide the future course of the movement.SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, in the statement said that farm unions have had a “bitter experience” in the past of securing oral assurances and ending their agitation only to find that the government reneges on them.“The Government of India has chosen to work informally and in a piecemeal fashion of responding to some of the issues being raised by the protesting farmers,” the SKM statement said.Protesting farm unions have been pressing for their demands to be considered including withdrawal of cases filed against farmers during the movement, legal guarantee on MSP and compensation to kin of farmers who died during the agitation.SKM leaders, after the meeting, said they will not move from the protest sites until cases filed against farmers are withdrawn, and demanded an assurance in writing.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh under the aegis of various farmers’ unions have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand repeal of the three farm laws.On Monday, a bill was passed in parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil the other demands also.“The next meeting of SKM has now been fixed for December 7, with the next two days kept for the Government of India to respond to SKM and work along with the 5-member Committee to resolve this agitation to its logical conclusion,” the SKM statement said.Shiv Kumar Kakka, farmer leader and SKM member, said that the five-member panel will be a coordinating agency between the SKM, and Centre. Kaka is a member of the newly formed panel.“It was premature on part of those who were thinking that we will call off our agitation,” he said.Unless the MSP guarantee is ensured and cases against farmers are withdrawn, “we are not going to move from here”, Kakka said.“Once our other demands are met, then we will decide about the further course of the agitation,” he added.The SKM meeting lasted for about three hours and was attended by farmer leaders including Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Ashok Dhawale among others.Farmer leader and SKM member Ashok Dhawale said that issues of compensation to be given for martyred farmers, “false cases” lodged against farmers and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident were discussed in the meeting.He said that SKM members demanded the dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident case.Dhawale, who is also a member of the farmers’ panel, said that repeal of three farm laws is the biggest victory of all farmers of India.“The three farm laws were anti-farmer, anti-people and pro-corporate. SKM has also been demanding allotment of land to install a memorial to martyred farmers, at Singhu Border, which will be built by the Morcha,” Dhawale said during the press conference after the meeting.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 in an address to the nation has announced the repeal of the three farm laws.On November 21, the SKM had sent a letter to the PM urging him to consider farmers’ six demands including on MSP and compensation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukta-kisan-morcha-meeting-underway-to-decide-future-course-of-agitation-346246
