06-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) core committee authorises Dhindsa to decide on alliance||The core committee of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) on Monday authorised party chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to take a call on forging an alliance with any political outfit ahead of the state Assembly polls, a senior party leader said.Two days ago, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said the BJP is in talks with former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Dhindsa for an alliance.Amarinder Singh, who floated his own outfit after quitting the Congress, had on Monday reasserted that his outfit, along with the BJP and Dhindsa’s party, will form the next government in the state.SAD (Sanyukt) general secretary Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said over the phone that the party’s core committee on Monday authorised Dhindsa to take a call on it keeping in mind Punjab’s interest and the “Panth” (community).The meeting was held in Mohali, in which 25 prominent leaders, including Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, ex-MLAs and former ministers were present.Deliberations were held for three hours, said the party leader.Detailed discussions were held regarding the current political situation in Punjab and chalking out strategies for the polls, he said, adding Dhindsa would announce the strategy for the elections in the next few days.When asked to comment on Amarinder Singh’s assertion, Karnail Singh said, “We are not bothered about what Amarinder Singh is saying. Our party has authorised our chief Dhindsa sahib.”      Dhindsa, meanwhile, left for Delhi.The SAD (Sanyukt) is led by Rajya Sabha MP Dhindsa and the outfit was formed by the merger of Akali Dal breakaway factions earlier this year. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-core-committee-authorises-dhindsa-to-decide-on-alliance-347033
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder, Badals secretly working on seat-sharing pact: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday accused his predecessor Amarinder Singh and the Shiromani Akali Dal of being secretly engaged in a seat-sharing exercise ahead of the Assembly polls early next year.He charged that Amarinder Singh, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the BJP leadership had been hand in glove in the past and said they are “clandestinely harming” the state’s interests even now.He claimed that Singh, who recently floated his own party after quitting the ruling Congress in the state, had been playing a “friendly match” with the Badals of the Akali Dal.Addressing a conclave organised by a private television channel, Channi said the former chief minister and the Badals helped each other to pursue their “narrow vested interests”.He described them as “foes-turned-friends” and said they are “secretly engaged in adjustment of seats for the upcoming assembly polls to extend political gains to one another”.Channi also alleged that Amarinder Singh and the SAD and BJP leaders earlier worked “hand in glove” and would continue to pursue their politically motivated agenda in the future too.They are “clandestinely harming the state’s interests, solely eyeing the forthcoming Assembly polls”, a state government statement quoted him as saying at the event.The chief minister said there was a sea change now in the mood of the rank and file of the Congress, “especially after the ouster of Captain Amarinder Singh”.Both Amarinder Singh and the BJP have said they are working on an alliance, along with former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s outfit, for the Assembly polls. The SAD, however, had walked out of the BJP-led NDA over the now repealed farm laws.Channi also hit out at Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal.He asked the Delhi chief minister to concentrate on his own government rather than “befooling” people of Punjab by promising them the moon, knowing that he will never come to power in Punjab, the statement said.Channi said the opposition leaders had earlier mocked him, asking what he could do. “Now with my performance on the ground they are compelled to say what to do about him.”             On the possibility of Amarinder Singh damaging the poll prospects of the Congress, he said the former CM could not deliver during the four and half years of his term and “confined himself within the four walls of his farmhouse”.Singh’s “fledgling party” lacked credibility, he added.Asked to comment on Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Channi claimed there was “perfect coordination” between them.Reacting to the Centre’s recent move to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Force up to 15 km from the boundary, he accused the BJP government of trying to create “a bogey of terrorism” to thrust the “unwarranted decision” on people of the state.He said the state police force was competent to handle law and order as demonstrated by its handling of militancy in the past.On the 2015 sacrilege case and the drug trafficking issue, he said justice would soon be delivered to the satisfaction of the people.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-badals-secretly-working-on-seat-sharing-pact-channi-347023
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh opens his party office in Chandigarh||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday opened his new party’s office here and reasserted that his Punjab Lok Congress, along with the BJP and former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s outfit, will form the next government in the state.Singh quit the Congress and launched his Punjab Lok Congress after his unceremonious exit as the Punjab chief minister in September.Addressing the media after opening his party office, Singh said the membership drive of his outfit had already begun.“We are very hopeful that the upcoming elections, we will win...with seat adjustment with the BJP and Dhindsa sahib, we will form the next government,” said Singh.Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah on Saturday had said that the BJP was in talks with Singh and Dhindsa for an alliance for the assembly polls early next year.To a question on when he will meet BJP president J P Nadda for seat-sharing talks, Singh said that in principle, a decision has been taken on the alliance. “Now it is only seat adjustment. For seat adjustment, we will go and I cannot tell you the numbers (of seats each party will contest),” he said.He said he would request both the BJP and Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) to pick “winners (winnable candidates)”.“If Dhindsa’s party puts up a winning candidate (from a particular constituency), then I will support him and the BJP too will support, I am sure. If the BJP candidate is a winning candidate, we will support him,” he said.“All have one aim, that is to win Punjab and we will win it,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-opens-his-party-office-in-chandigarh-347018
06-12-2021||New Delhi||SC disposes of plea against appointment of Prashant Kishor as Punjab CM?s principal advisor||The Supreme Court said on Monday a plea filed against the decision of the Punjab government to appoint poll strategist Prashant Kishor as an advisor to former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in the rank of a Cabinet Minister “does not survive for consideration” as the poll expert has resigned from the post.“The expert has himself resigned on August 4, 2021, as an advisor to the Chief Minister. Lis does not survive for consideration,” said a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh in its order while disposing of the appeal filed against the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Kishor had resigned as Singh’s principal advisor, saying he was taking “a temporary break from an active role in public life”.He had managed the Congress’ successful campaign in the 2017 polls and devised programmes such as “Punjab Da Captain” and “Coffee with Captain” to drum up support for the party during the polls.The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Labh Singh, a retired boxing coach, and Satinder Singh, an advocate, who had contended that Kishor is an expert in organising elections and is assisting parties in various states.The appeal had stated that the appointment of Kishor as principal advisor to the Chief Minister, in the rank and status of a Cabinet Minister, at the cost of public money is not permissible. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sc-disposes-of-plea-against-appointment-of-prashant-kishor-as-punjab-cms-principal-advisor-347013
06-12-2021||Aditi Tandon||Congress forms Punjab poll panels: Ambika Soni to head coordination, Sunil Jakhar is campaign chief||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 6The Congress on Monday sounded the poll bugle for the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections announcing the appointment of veteran leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni as chairperson of the election coordination committee and naming former state chief Sunil Jakhar the head of the campaign panel in the state.Announcing four election panels—coordination committee, campaign committee, manifesto committee and screening committee today, party president Sonia Gandhi signalled the Congress readiness for the elections, which are all set to be multi-cornered.Gandhi has also appointed AICC general secretary for Rajasthan Ajay Maken the chairperson of the party’s screening committee for the Punjab elections. Maken will be assisted by former Youth Congress chief Chandan Yadav and IYC secretary in-charge Krishna Allavaru as committee members in candidate short-listing.The ex officio members of the screening committee will be AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Choudhary, Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu, CM Charanjit Singh Channi, campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar and all AICC secretaries in-charge of the state.Rajya Sabha MP and former PCC chief Partap Bajwa will head the manifesto panel.The appointments are significant and signal the Congress intention of reaching out to the Hindus—a segment currently seen as distant from the party which has consolidated its Scheduled Caste hold by naming Channi as chief minister when the buzz was favouring a Hindu leader.Today’s appointments have three Hindus faces—Ambika Soni, Jakhar and Ajay Maken.The inclusion of Jakhar in the election screening panel is important. The Congress hopes to strengthen its presence among the Hindus of Punjab with the Aam Aadmi Party wooing them actively.Out of the 80 MLAs the Congress has, 13 are Hindus, the highest for all parties.The Congress realises it must hold on to this segment to register a strong win in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-forms-punjab-poll-panels-ambika-soni-to-head-coordination-sunil-jakhar-is-campaign-chief-346998
06-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Centre may call for talks today: SKM||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 5A day after forming a five-member committee, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders now hope that the Centre will invite them for talks over pending demands tomorrow.Shiv Kumar Kakka, a member of the committee, said: “Home Minister Amit Shah was probably away for a BSF programme and today is a holiday. So, we are expecting a formal invitation for talks by tomorrow.” Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said the SKM had given two days to the Centre to resolve their issues. Besides, a group of Nihang Sikhs, who had been squatting near the TDI mall in Kundli area, started packing their belongings and also uprooted their tents. They loaded their goods and horses in their trucks and began preparations to move to their deras today.Six farmers — Rajender Singh of Kohla village in Sonepat, Satnam Singh of Patiala, Bikram Singh of Gurdaspur, Kartar Singh of Kaithal, Naresh Sangwan of Ambala and Kuldeep Singh of Moga — sat on an indefinite fast till December 7 near the main stage of the SKM. The next SKM meeting would be held at the Singhu border on December 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-may-call-for-talks-today-skm-346823
06-12-2021||New Delhi||Scholars, poets salute Bhai Vir Singh's legacy||Poets, scholars and admirers of Bhai Vir Singh, the father of modern Punjabi literature, assembled in here on Sunday to mark his 149th birth anniversary and recall his glorious legacy.Gursharan Kaur, the wife of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh; Prof Jaspal Singh, former Vice Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala; and Preneet Kaur, Patiala MP, were among those who attended the event hosted by the Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan.Also read: Reliving Kashmir through Bhai Vir Singh’s verseFormer PM Manmohan Singh is the president of the sadan, a premier literary and cultural organisation established in 1958 to further the legacy of the saint poet.The function commenced with the recitation of Bhai Vir Singh’s poems and readings from his works followed “kirtan” recital by Hazoori Ragi Bhai Gurmeet Singh Shant.Prof Singh spoke on the life and times of Bhai Vir Singh, and stressed the litterateur’s message of ecological conservation. Gursharan Kaur released a special issue of “Khalsa Samachar”, a weekly founded by Bhai Vir Singh in 1899. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/scholars-poets-salute-bhai-vir-singhs-legacy-346765
06-12-2021||---||Was offered money, berth of  choice by senior BJP leader, claims AAP leader Bhagwant Mann||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab unit president and Member of Parliament from Sangrur Bhagwant Mann on Sunday claimed that a senior BJP leader had offered him money and a berth of his choice in the Union Cabinet for joining the saffron party.They did this in Madhya Pradesh, K’taka, Goa and Meghalaya and now they think this can be done in Punjab too. — Bhagwant Mann, AAP leaderState BJP president Ashwani Sharma denied the charge. At a press conference here, Mann claimed he was approached four days ago but refused to name the BJP leader.Sidhu does a Kejri, joins teachers’ protest in Delhi “He tried to convince me, saying since I was the lone AAP MP, I could not be disqualified under the anti-defection law. I am on a mission, not on commission. My mission is to make Punjab prosperous,” Mann declared, claiming some MLAs of his party too had been approached by the BJP.Blaming the BJP for the death of more than 700 farmers at Delhi borders, the MP said the BJP had no base in Punjab and its leaders were not being allowed to enter villages for holding meetings and rallies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/was-offered-money-berth-of-choice-by-senior-bjp-leader-claims-mann-346756
06-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||'Thank you, Haryana', say Punjab farmers as they prepare to leave Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 5Punjab farmers at Tikri are on a special job these days to further strengthen the bonhomie with Haryana residents.Punjab visit inviteBarahi villagers ensured uninterrupted supply of milk, vegetables, fruit and other eatables. We have invited them to Punjab to reinforce this bond of brotherhood. Lakhwinder Singh, BKU (Sidhupur) leaderThey are visiting nearby villages to honour those who provided them succour in the shape of eatables and free accommodation over the past one year. They are also inviting them to visit Punjab.A committee of Punjab farm unions is also felicitating people from Haryana and Punjab to express their gratitude for their support.On Sunday, BKU (Sidhupur) leaders reached Barahi village (near Tikri) and felicitated some villagers there with siropa and mementos. The joint panel also honoured around 20 locals and as many from Punjab at the main protest site in recognition of their contribution in the success of their ongoing protest.“It seems, the protest is about to end now, hence it’s our duty to express gratitude to all those who stood by us. Residents of Barahi village ensured uninterrupted supply of milk, vegetables, fruits and other eatables. We have invited them to Punjab to reinforce this bond of brotherhood,” said BKU (Sidhupur) leader Lakhwinder Singh. Advocate Amarveer Singh Bhullar said yesterday they honoured a Bahadurgarh man for providing free accommodation to Punjab farmers. “It will continue till the last person who helped us is felicitated. We will go to another village tomorrow,” he added.BKU (Rajewal) leader Pargat Singh said they could never forget the support Haryana residents provided them to make their protest successful hence such persons were being felicitated. “We are also honouring those who have been camping with us at Tikri since the protest started. The unity of Punjab and Haryana farmers was instrumental in our historic win,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/thank-you-haryana-say-punjab-farmers-as-they-prepare-to-leave-tikri-346758
06-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi visits Jwalamukhi temple||Dharamsala, December 5After spending a night in the Baglamukhi temple, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi offered prayers at Jwalamukhi temple this morning. He was accompanied by former Congress MLA Sanjay Rattan.Channi, talking to newspersons, said he had deep faith in Baglamukhi and Jwala Mata and came to the temples earlier too. With the elections in the neighbouring state approaching, many politicians are visiting temples in Himachal to seek divine help.The Baglamukhi temple on the Dehra-Ranital road receives a large number of politicians. Capt Amarinder Singh also visited the temple before the last Assembly elections. Former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh and MP and former Bollywood actor Jaya Prada had also visited it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/channi-visits-jwalamukhi-temple-346782
06-12-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu joins teachers stir outside Kejriwal house||New Delhi/Chandigarh, Dec 5Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday took the election-bound state’s fight to the doorstep of Arvind Kejriwal when he joined a protest by Delhi’s guest teachers outside the Chief Minister’s residence at the Civil Lines here and asked him to “practise what he preached”.Sidhu, who was heard sloganeering with the protesters, said, “An ounce of performance is worth a pound of preaching, practice what you preach, Arvind Kejriwal ji. Delhi school teachers say they are treated as bonded labour and daily wagers, paid per day, no payment for holidays or weekends, no guarantee of contract, and removed without notice!”Where are the jobs?In your 2015 poll manifesto, you promised eight lakh jobs and 20 new colleges in Delhi. Where are the jobs and colleges? You have given only 440 jobs in Delhi. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefSidhu’s offensive is seen as a reply to Kejriwal, who has been constantly targeting Punjab’s school education, and his deputy Manish Sisodia, who recently conducted surprise visits to government schools in the state and challenged Education Minister Pargat Singh to release a list of best schools.Days after meeting party leader Rahul Gandhi, the PCC president has trained his guns on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), especially in the light of Kejriwal frequenting the state with populist announcements ahead of the Assembly elections. One of the promises Kejriwal has made in Punjab is regularisation of contract teachers.“Delhi education model is a contract model. The Delhi Government has 1,031 schools while only 196 schools have principals; 45 per cent teacher posts are vacant and schools are run by 22,000 guest teachers on daily wages with every 15 days renewal of contracts! AAP promised to regularise contractual teachers and give equal wages as permanent staff but made it worse by just having guest teachers. Through school management committees, so called AAP volunteers earn Rs 5 lakh yearly from government funds that were earlier meant for the school’s development!” Sidhu tweeted. The Punjab Congress chief also added that in 2015 there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi but in 2021, there are 19,907 job vacancies of teachers in Delhi. “The AAP government is filling vacant posts through guest lecturers!” Sidhu said.Sidhu’s impromptu action today came amid agitations by the All-India Guest Teachers’ Association which has been questioning Kejriwal for saying that “all teachers will be regularised in Punjab”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-joins-teachers-stir-outside-kejri-house-346726
06-12-2021||---||Desilting work as per norms, AAP lying: Punjab CM||Ropar, December 5Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said action would be taken AAP leaders who were entering government schools and other places “unauthorisedly”.Channi was here to visit a desilting site on the Sutlej riverbed near the Mini Secretariat. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha had yesterday “raided” one such site near Chamkaur Sahib and alleged the Chief Minister was promoting illegal mining in his Assembly constituency.Hits out at bjp tooCM Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said the BJP had now zeroed in on Capt Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as new allies to fill the space vacated by the SAD to promote its “divisive politics” in Punjab.Channi claimed the allegations of AAP were a bundle of lies and all the desilting work at different sites was being done according to norms. The Chief Minister claimed the desilting work was being carried out to clear a big sand mound between the passage of the river, so as to ensure the smooth flow of water. He said the removal of the sand mound was necessary, which could obstruct the flow of water floodingthe nearby areas.Issuing a warning to the AAP over such raids, Channi said he would request the local AAP cadre not to let outsiders vitiate the atmosphere of Punjab. Action would be taken against such unauthorised raids by outsiders, while local AAP workers were free to highlight any irregularities, he said.“All activities at mining sites are transparent. Any Punjabi, Punjab-based AAP leader or worker can make a video and highlight any irregularity, but we will not allow any outsider do such drama,” he said.He also interacted with tipper drivers ferrying sand from the site who told him it was being sold at Rs 5.50 per cubic foot to them. The Chief Minister said he wanted to provide cheaper sand at mining sites but due to a contract made in the past, he was unable to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/desilting-work-as-per-norms-aap-lying-cm-346728
06-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||SAD fields outsiders in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 5Giving ammunition to its opponents, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has given all five Assembly tickets to ‘outsiders’ in Sangrur. The party is already facing a tough situation after the revolt by senior leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his son Parminder.In the last Assembly elections, SGPC former president Gobind Singh Longowal, who is from Longowal, contested unsuccessfully on SAD ticket from Sunam. This time, the party has sent him to Lehra to face SAD (Sanyukt) nominee Parminder Singh Dhindsa, who is the MLA from the area. Similarly, former Sangrur MLA Parkash Chand Garg has been shifted to Dhuri, irking the family of former Punjab CM Surjit Singh Barnala as his grandson Simar Partap Singh Barnala, whi had been preparing from Dhuri.Gulzar Singh is from Moonak and again got ticket from the Dirba (reserved) to face Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema. Another SAD leader Baldev Mann, who has based in Dirba, has to be shifted to Sunam.“Our party has shifted some candidates for better management of all districts. There is nothing wrong as all are from Sangrur district and they know very well about the district,” said Iqbal Singh Jhunda, Sangrur district president of the SAD. Jhunda is also a party candidate from the Amargarh constituency of Malerkotla district. Similarly the announcement of party spokesman Winnerjit Singh Goldy, who is close to president Sukhbir Singh Badal and is from Sunam, as the candidate from the Sangrur seat, has also come as surprise for voters.Dhindsa factorAfter the revolt of Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, the Akali Dal is facing a tough challenge in Sangrur district. Dhindsa and his family have commanded both districts and enjoy influence in a majority of Assembly constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-fields-outsiders-in-sangrur-346732
06-12-2021||---||Cong: Sukhbir Badal's job scam charge baseless||Chandigarh, December 5Reacting on allegations of a recruitment scam, Congress MLAs on Sunday slammed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and levelled counter-allegations against him of duping the people of the state during the Akali-BJP rule.Congress MLAs Kuljit Singh Nagra, Barindermeet Singh Pahra, Kulbir Singh Zira and Amit Vij said Sukhbir had no moral right to question the integrity of Education Minister Pargat Singh, who had been working round the clock to bring reforms in the education system.“Badals had looted Punjab for years and during their 15-year rule in the past two decades, they had not recruited even a single professor,” they claimed.The MLAs said under the leadership of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the Education Minister was recruiting 1,091 assistant professors after 25 years in a transparent manner. Rather than welcoming this ‘revolutionary’ move, Sukhbir was levelling baseless accusations, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-sukhbirs-job-scam-charge-baseless-346735
06-12-2021||Amritsar||Parallel jathedar declares Capt Amarinder Singh tankhaiya||Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh has been declared a ‘tankhaiya’ (guilty of religious misconduct) on the charges of deceitfully scuttling the Bargari morcha against sacrilege incidents by parallel acting Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand today.Mand, who spearheaded the Bargari morcha, pronounced a ‘hukamnama’ against Capt Amarinder outside the Akal Takht Secretariat in this regard.Mand appealed to Sikhs to boycott Capt Amarinder socially and politically till he appeared before Akal Takht to clarify on the failure of the government in delivering justice in the Kotkapura and Behban Kalan cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parallel-jathedar-declares-capt-tankhaiya-346736
06-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab Government to ramp up registration of workers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 5Ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections, the government has asked the Labour Department to register around 60,000 construction workers in the state every day. The target is to take the number of registered workers from the current 3.70 lakh to 10 lakh in the coming weeks so as to provide financial benefits to maximum workers.The benefits, however, cannot be extended to workers who have not worked for 90 days in the year they apply for benefits in. It has been learnt that MGNREGA workers might also be registered as construction workers. In an order of the Labour Commissioner on December 1, all deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure smooth registration of eligible beneficiaries, including MGNREGA workers. Ironically, the Labour Department in 2017 had issued orders on the directives of the Centre that “MGNREGA workers can’t be registered as construction workers”.It’s a poll gimmickThe govt is violating the SC orders. I’ll file a contempt of court case against it. The spending can only be made via designated modal schemes. The idea of massive registration and giving benefits is to woo voters ahead of the polls. —Vijay Walia, Construction workers’ activistThe registration targets are said to have been given reportedly after the 28th board meeting of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (BOCW) chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday.Ravneet Kaur, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “We have launched a campaign to register as many as workers as possible. However, we have not set any targets for that.” When asked about legality of registering MGREGA workers, she replied, “I am not aware of the 2017 orders, however, eligible MGNREGA workers, as per the BOCW Act, will be registered.”The apex court in a judgment in March 2018 had said the government cannot spend money from the balance amount of the BOCW Welfare Board. The state board is allowed to spend on designated welfare schemes only from the cess collected every year. However, the Punjab board has been spending from the balance amount which has to be decided by Parliament as per the Supreme Court orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-to-ramp-up-registration-of-workers-346737
06-12-2021||Bathinda||Only 24% fully vaccinated in Bathinda||Despite Omicron becoming a cause for concern for the Health Department, vaccination is not being taken seriously by locals. So far, just 24% of the district population is fully vaccinated.As per the Health Department, around 10.50 lakh population of the district is to be vaccinated against Covid. To date, 9.39 lakh people have been vaccinated. Of these, 6,31,439 (60%) have taken the first jab and 2,52,393 (24%) both the doses. As many as 3,79,046 people are yet to take the second jab and 1,46,014 have not been administered even a single dose so far.Meanwhile, four deaths and 50 Covid-positive patients were reported in Bathinda in November alone.Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said if a person had taken both the doses then at least serious symptoms and hospitalisation could be avoided.Also, in view of the new variant scare, the Health Department has once again increased the sampling. Also, emphasis is being laid on vaccination and ward-wise camps are being organised.Moreover, besides being checked at airports, visitors from abroad will be fully monitored at the district level too. Also, seven-day quarantine will have to be done after the Covid-negative report arrives and sampling will be done again on the eighth day. If the report is negative, then the person has to undergo seven-day more quarantine. However, if a person tests positive and is asymptomatic then they need to be home isolated. While if a person is symptomatic then they will be shifted to a hospital and their contacts will be sampled, which will sent for genome sequencing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-24-fully-vaccinated-in-bathinda-346738
06-12-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Fazilka district hospital shifted to site with inadequate facilities||Fazilka, December 5Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will inaugurate the newly constructed bus stand and the new building of the 100-bed Fazilka district hospital on Tuesday.The construction of both the projects was started during the previous SAD-BJP regime and had been completed after years now.The 112-year-old Dane Hospital (now a district hospital) is being shifted to a new building adjacent to a carcass-dumping ground. With the Assembly elections round the corner, the government is keen on shifting the hospital despite certain glaring shortcomings in the new building.Plan to gherao CMAccording to information gathered by The Tribune, the building lacks an overhead water tank, due to which the supply requirement of the 100-bed hospital will be hit. Experts pointed out that motors alone won’t be enough to provide the water supply, resulting in a lot of wastage.Recently, Sukhchain Singh, Executive Engineer, Punjab Health System Corporation, had said that the tender for the construction of an overhead tank has been floated and it would be built soon. Besides, the sewer system of the hospital had also been connected in an allegedly unauthorised manner without remitting the requisite amount of Rs 65 lakh to the Municipal Council (MC).An official, however, said only four-inch thick wall had been erected for X-ray and CT scan room against the desired width of 14 to 18 inch to prevent the adverse effects of the radiation on the staff and attendants of the patients. Moreover, no arrangement for a canteen and parking are in place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-dist-hospital-shifted-to-site-with-inadequate-facilities-346739
06-12-2021||Archit Watts||Malout residents await road to growth||Known for its car bazar and agricultural implements, the constituency has remained the favourite of the Badals. It is located next to Lambi and late Bibi Surinder Kaur Badal, wife of former CM Parkash Singh Badal, played a vital role in developing the town.Sitting Congress MLA-cum-Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti claims he has left no stone unturned in developing the area.However, a majority of locals have a different story to tell. They allege though traffic lights have been installed and few saplings planted along some roads, nothing much has been done. Corruption, too, remains an issue. In villages, the reverse osmosis water treatment plants are lying defunct. Many residents have also claimed the sitting MLA is rarely seen in the constituency. “The national highways pass through this small town, the lack of development leaves much to be desired,” residents said.Past trendFive-time CM Parkash Singh Badal contested his first election from here on the INC ticket in 1957 and won. Harpreet Singh Kotbhai has won twice in 2007 and 2012. His father Sujan Singh, who remained a Cabinet Minister too, became an MLA from here in 1997.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,73,348Male 92,108Female 81,234Third gender 6||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-await-road-to-growth-346740
06-12-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana central: Public utilities cry for upkeep||the old city areas fall under the Central constituency and are crying for care. Not many facilities for recreation are available here.The uplift of Mini Rose Garden was promised but nothing has been done in this regard. “The term of the government is coming to an end but the situation of Mini Rose Garden has still not improved while in the other constituency, the well-maintained leisure valley has been reconstructed again,” said Tejbir, a resident of Kidwai Nagar. Broken roads and choked sewerage in many areas have made lives difficult. During monsoon, things get worse as there is no safety wall along the Buddha Nullah while filthy water gets accumulated in many areas.“Garbage heaps have accumulated near Shivaji Nullah and become an eyesore for passersby,” said Gurminder, a resident living nearby.“Development is done in posh areas while old city areas are ignored,” said Jatinder, a resident of Gaushala Road.Past trendSurinder Dawar has been elected twice from the Central constituency. He was elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in 2002, 2012 and 2017. He had previously remained the Chief Parliamentary Secretary, Punjab Government, from 2005 to 2007.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,56,374Male 83,929Female 72,434Third gender 11||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/public-utilities-cry-for-upkeep-346741
06-12-2021||Faridkot||Punjab revenue officials on 2-day mass leave from today||To protest against the alleged implication of an officer in a criminal case, the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association (PROA), Revenue Kanungo Association, Revenue Patwari Union and DCOE Union along with the PCS Officers’ Association have given a united call to go on mass leave on Monday and Tuesday.The PROA is on a strike since November 22 after the arrest of Naib Tehsildar Sandeep Kumar and Mahilpur Registry Clerk Manjit Singh by the Vigilance Department under corruption charges.The PROA alleged that the duo was arrested without any fault of theirs as there was no complaint, acceptance or recovery of the graft money from them. It demanded an immediate impartial inquiry, cancellation of the “illegal” FIR and punishment for Vigilance officials who arrested the naib tehsildar. The association members have already met the Chief Secretary, the Financial Commissioner (Revenue) and the Principal Secretary of the Vigilance Department in this regard, but no concrete solution has been found so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revenue-officials-on-2-day-mass-leave-from-today-346742
06-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||No fixed honorarium, Punjab health workers left in lurch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Though Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi has been promising the moon to Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in Uttar Pradesh, her party’s government is yet to give them fixed monthly honorarium in Punjab.Recently, Gandhi had announced if the Congress forms the government in UP, it will raise the honorarium of the workers to Rs 10,000 per month. But in Punjab, where there are 21,418 ASHAs, they are neither being given any maternity leave nor fixed monthly honorarium like other states.The neighbouring states are giving minimum monthly honorarium to the workers besides other incentives. Haryana pays them Rs 4,000 per month, Himachal Pradesh Rs 2,000, Rajasthan Rs 2,700 and Delhi Rs 3,000. At present, ASHAs are getting only per-patient incentive in Punjab.Earlier, during the Covid wave, Punjab’s former Health Minister Balbir Sidhu had promised to give them Rs 2,500 per month as minimum wage. After the change of guard, Health Minister OP Soni had said they should be given Rs 4,000 like Haryana. But in the last meeting, the government refused to do so. Sources said the National Health Mission had even sent a proposal to give minimum wages of Rs 2,500 to them, but the government refused to do so. Health Minister Om Parkash Soni did not take the call despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-fixed-honorarium-health-workers-left-in-lurch-346743
06-12-2021||Amritsar||Afghanistan traders seek Centre's help||Exhibitors from Afghanistan participating in the Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), being held in Amritsar, showed gratitude towards the Union Government for giving them shelter temporarily. However, they said they were striving for better prospects of earning livelihood after the situation got worse with Taliban taking the reins of their native place.Situation tenseMy friends and relatives back home told me about the condition there. Girls cannot go out to study or do jobs. The banks have no cash. — Farhad, Afghan citizenThey are selling the best quality Afghani ‘kagzi almonds’, cashews and walnut, and organically grown saffron and dates at the exhibition. Born and brought up in Kabul, 20-year-old Mustafa does not want to recall how his parents had to abandon their jobs, property and shift to New Delhi for a safe life, a year ago. “After Taliban started penetration into the Afghan area, we migrated to Noida temporarily after my parents quit their jobs and sold the assets.” Hailing from Mazar-i-Sharif, 23-year-old Farhad said the governance in Afghanistan had collapsed with the Taliban taking the control. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghanistan-traders-seek-centres-help-346744
06-12-2021||Amritsar||24 gharials released into Beas||The Department of Punjab Forest and Wildlife Preservation, in collaboration with the World-Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) recently released another lot of 24 gharials into the Beas under the Phase-III of a project.It was an extension of the state’s programme, conceptualised in 2005, to reintroduce, preserve and breed these critically endangered species of crocodile in Punjab streams. The long-snouted gharials (Gavialis gangeticus) were brought here from Morena, Madhya Pradesh.Gursharan Singh, DFO, Wildlife, Hoshiarpur, said under the Phase-III of the project, the latest batch of gharials had been released near the Kulla Fatta forests in the Beas Conservation Reserve in the presence of Forest Minister Sangat Singh Gilzia and RK Mishra, Chief Wildlife Warden, Punjab.“These gharials are around three-year-old and three-ft long. Special marking has been done to distinguish between the male and the female reptiles,” he said.Earlier, in the Phase-I of this project, 47 juvenile gharials were reintroduced into the Beas Conservation Reserve in batches between 2017-2018 in Amritsar and Tarn Taran.Under the Phase-II of the project, 23 gharials were released in the river near Saleempur and Tahli Forest in Hoshiarpur in February.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, WWF-India, said joint field surveys were being conducted by the Punjab Department of Forest and Wildlife Preservation and the WWF.“A total of 94 gharials had dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites into the reserve. Around 40 to 50% of these gharials were sighted during the field survey. They are healthy and have adapted the reserve as home,” she said.The surveys focus on understanding dispersal, habitat preference, population ecology and general wellbeing of the gharials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-gharials-released-into-beas-346745
06-12-2021||Aman Sood||Most transferred Patiala policemen back to choicest postings||Tribune News ServiceRajpura, December 5Just after the 2020 hooch tragedy that left 120 persons dead in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, the Patiala police top brass had transferred over 100 cops from Ghanaur and Rajpura subdivisions to break the “smuggler-police” nexus.It has come to the fore that most of the transferred cops were back in the twin jurisdictions using “clout”. They included ASI Sarabjit Singh, posted as the Rajpura Sadar munshi, who was arrested and dismissed following the November 27 extra neutral alcohol (ENA) seizure.Keeping vigil The extra neutral alcohol was being sold clandestinely from Rajpura Sadar police station to bootleggers and our vigil against it will continue. —A Venu Prasad, Addl chief secretaryThe Patiala police had shifted over 150 personnel, including SI-level officials and ASIs, from Ghanaur, Rajpura and Samana over their alleged links with bootleggers and mining mafias.The probe revealed smugglers’ links with Ghanaur and Rajpura from where the ENA was being smuggled out to the border belt.“Many cops were hand in glove with smugglers and allowing them to manufacture and sell illicit liquor,” the Patiala police had claimed in 2020. The then DGP had ordered the then Patiala SSP to personally supervise raids in Rajpura against the illegal ENA supply chain.On November 27, excise officials recovered 510 litre ENA from two vehicles near Banur. “It was meant for bootleggers in Amritsar,” they said.A senior police officer confirmed Sarabjit too was transferred last year but managed a posting back in the police station again, within months.A year on, a majority of these cops are back in their choicest police stations, using clout. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the police-smugglers nexus would be ended in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-transferred-policemen-back-to-choicest-postings-346746
06-12-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Sheer announcements||‘Border’ is born!Amritsar: Pakistani couple Balam Ram and Nimbu Bai, part of a 99-member group waiting for approval to return their country, have named their child Border. They say since the child was born on the border, they named him so. The baby boy was born on December 2. All of them are staying at a shelter home, situated near the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post, for the past several months. They had come to India for a visit to their relatives and paying obeisance at temples before the outbreak of Covid-19. However, they could not return due to imposition of the lockdown.Rivalry over residenceMuktsar: Two senior officials in the district administration, who hold the same rank, are these days entangled in a controversy over their official residences. While one claims the right over a particular residence, the other has already occupied it. A politician of the ruling party recently intervened but failed to sort it out and felt humiliated. It will be interesting to see who wins the war of official residence in the coming days. Archit WattsRetirement planMuktsar: President of Muktsar DC Office Employees’ Union Varinder Dhosiwal, who is presently serving as a superintendent in the Deputy Commissioner’s office here, has applied for premature retirement from service. He is set to join the AAP and wants to contest the MLA election from Malout (reserve) constituency. Dhosiwal said, “My retirement was due after three years, but I have applied for the premature retirement. For the past many years, I am raising the voice of government employees. People from all walks of life know me well. I was booked twice for raising the voice of employees, but both cases have been cancelled now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sheer-announcements-346747
06-12-2021||Abohar||Bike collides with bull, woman dies||A woman was killed while her spouse was injured when a stray bull hit their bike on the Abohar-Fazilka stretch of the NH-10 near Nihalkhera village on Sunday.The body of the deceased has been kept in the mortuary of the Sub-divisional Civil Hospital here and her husband is also admitted there.Mani Ram of Gobindgarh village said he was on his way to attend a wedding in Fazilka with his wife on a bike. When they reached near Nihalkhera, a stray bull suddenly came on the road and the bike collided with the animal. They victims were taken to a hospital where the woman was declared dead by the doctors. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bike-collides-with-bull-woman-dies-346748
06-12-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: 2 arrested for issuing fake licences & RCs||The Vigilance Department on Sunday arrested an Assistant Transport Officer (ATO) and a Junior Assistant (JA) for issuing fake driving licences and vehicle registration certificates (RCs).Causing about Rs 18 lakh revenue loss to the government, these licences and RCs were issued by accused ATO Gurnam Singh and JA Amritpal Singh between 2018 and 2019 during their posting at the Regional Transport Office.A probe against the accused, both suspended, was pending since June 2019. Today, the department summoned the accused to record their statement and arrestem them on the basis of its finding, which prima facie found them guilty, said Raj Kumar, DSP (Vigilance). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-arrested-for-issuing-fake-licences-rcs-346749
06-12-2021||Abohar||275-kg poppy husk seized||There seems to be no end to smuggling of drugs into Punjab as the police seized 275-kg poppy husk from a vehicle near Manaksar village here.Suratgarh police sub-inspector Om Parkash Mann said the vehicle had collided with a truck and was found damaged. Two mobile phones of suspected smugglers were found in the vehicle. The driver of the truck, who was injured in the accident, had been admitted to a hospital. The police said 14 plastic bags with 275-kg poppy husk were seized.Earlier, the police had seized 65 bags with 1,300-kg poppy husk and 4.4-kg opium from a truck. Truck driver Mukhtiar Singh of Tarn Taran was arrested and booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/275-kg-poppy-husk-seized-346750
06-12-2021||Muktsar||Unidentified persons booked in Muktsar||Jain body sends memo to CMAbohar: The Vishwa Jain Sangathan that represents all four sects of Jains in India has told CM Charanjit Singh Channi that senior officials had so far not taken a decision on allowing restricted holidays on prime festivals of Jains. The sangathan has been demanding closure of slaughterhouses during Jain festivals and declaration of restricted holidays on Samvatsari and Anant Chaturdashi. OCTablets stolen from hospitalMuktsar: Some unidentified persons stole nearly 4,000 buprenorphine tablets from the Civil Hospital in Gidderbaha on Thursday. Notably, these tablets are administered to drug addicts in outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics. The Gidderbaha police have registered a case against unidentified persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unidentified-persons-booked-346751
06-12-2021||---||Scholars salute Bhai Vir Singh's legacy on his 149th birth anniversary||New Delhi, December 5Poets, scholars and admirers of Bhai Vir Singh, the father of modern Punjabi literature, assembled in the National Capital on Sunday to mark his 149th birth anniversary and recall his glorious legacy.Gursharan Kaur, the wife of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh; Jaspal Singh, the former Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala; and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur were among those who attended the event hosted by the Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, New Delhi, in both the physical and virtual formats.Former PM Manmohan Singh is President of the Sadan, a premier literary and cultural organisation established in 1958 to further the legacy of the saint poet.The function commenced with the recitation of Bhai Vir Singh’s poems and readings from his works followed a ‘kirtan’ recital by Bhai Gurmeet Singh Shant, Hazoori Ragi Sri Darbar Sahib, Amritsar, and a literary tribute to the scholar-theologian by Prof Jaspal Singh, currently, Member, National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions.Prof Singh spoke of the life and times of Bhai Vir Singh and stressed the litterateur’s message of ecological conservation.Gursharan Kaur later released a special issue of Khalsa Samachar, a weekly founded by Bhai Vir Singh in 1899, along with recent books the Sadan has published, to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.On the occasion Gursharan Kaur, Preneet Kaur, and Prof Singh jointly honoured three students of the Punjabi Department, the University of Delhi, who received Bhai Vir Singh Gold Medal from the varsity for topping the MA Punjabi course over the past three years.The awardees Harmit Kaur Nagi, Manpreet Kaur and Anjali Gupta topped MA Punjabi at DU in the academic years 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.A host of Bhai Vir Singh’s admirers joined the event online from India and abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scholars-salute-bhai-vir-singhs-legacy-on-his-149th-birth-anniversary-346563
06-12-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||AAP MP Bhagwant Mann claims senior BJP leader offered him money, Cabinet berth to join party||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the BJP of trying to poach its lawmakers from Punjab, including its state unit president Bhagwant Mann who claimed he was offered money and a place in the Union Cabinet if he joined the saffron party ahead of Assembly election.There was no immediate reaction from the BJP to the allegations.Without naming anyone, Mann, who is an MP from Sangrur, claimed that a senior BJP leader contacted him four days ago and asked him, “What would you take to join the BJP?”                  The AAP leader claimed he was asked if needed money and was told that he would be made a Union Cabinet Minister if he joined the BJP.“I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission not on commission,” Mann told reporters in Chandigarh.Replying to a question on Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu who joined a sit-in protest of Delhi guest teachers demanding regularisation of their jobs outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence, Mann said the AAP, after coming to power in the national capital, raised the salary of guest teachers to Rs 36,000.He said the guest teachers were getting Rs 6,000 during the Sheila Dikshit-led Congress government.The AAP leader said the Delhi Vidhan Sabha had even passed a bill to regularise their services in 2017 but the Delhi Lieutenant Governor allegedly rejected it.He said the AAP is making promises to the people of Punjab as it enjoys full statehood and whatever decision is taken by the Vidhan Sabha is final.Mann further said that not many of the protesters who were joined by Sidhu were teachers.Replying to a question, he said that the Charanjit Singh Channi government should give an account of its promises made to the people before 2017.Replying to a question on rival parties targeting Kejriwal's visits to Punjab, Mann said that there is no ban on the AAP national convener from coming here. Actually, the rival parties are scared of Kejriwal, he claimed.To a question on the chief ministerial face, Mann said that the AAP would announce its CM face for the Punjab Assembly polls before other political parties do.AAP's Raghav Chadha takes swipe at BJPTaking a swipe at the BJP, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha claimed that 25 Congress MLAs have been approaching his party to join it, but the AAP doesn’t want this “garbage” and said he is ready to share the list with the BJP if it wants to take them in its fold.Chadha alleged that “top BJP leaders” from Delhi had approached the AAP leaders in Punjab over phone requesting them to join the saffron party and offering bribes.“Senior-most leaders of the BJP are making phone calls from Delhi to our party leaders, MP, MLAs in Punjab requesting them to join the BJP offering them to take any amount of money, land, property and position they want for coming to their party fold quitting the AAP,” Chadha alleged at a press conference in Delhi.“Calls have been made to our MP Bhagwant Singh Mann directly from the office of Amit Shah (Union Home Minister),” he added.Hitting out at the BJP, he said leaders and workers of AAP “can neither be intimidated nor purchased”.He asked the BJP not to try to poach the AAP’s MLAs and MP from Punjab, saying that all the phone calls from saffron party leaders will now be recorded and made public.“We will make the recorded conversation over the phone public. All the AAP leaders have been asked to record the phone calls from now on from the BJP leaders,” he said.Chadha, co-convenor of the party’s political affairs in Punjab, refused to share the names of other AAP leaders and MLAs who were allegedly contacted by the saffron party leaders from Delhi in this connection.“They have been contacted and asked to quote their price or tell whatever they want for quitting the AAP and joining the BJP,” he alleged.Chadha claimed that as many as 25 Congress MLAs have been “constantly” approaching the AAP expressing their interest in joining the party.“If you (BJP) want, we will share the list of these 25 MLAs who want to quit the Congress and join the AAP. We don’t want this garbage. If you are interested in them, you can take them in your party fold,” Chadha said.AAP leaders would not quit their party to join the BJP at any cost, he asserted.“Leave aside AAP MP and MLAs, even a worker of the party will not leave AAP to join the BJP no matter how much money you offer to them, or you put CBI, ED or police after them.  AAP leaders can neither be intimidated nor purchased,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mp-bhagwant-mann-claims-senior-bjp-leader-offered-him-money-cabinet-berth-to-join-party-346551
06-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Eye-for-an-eye? Navjot Singh Sidhu joins protesting teachers outside Delhi CM residence||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu joined guest teachers protesting outside the house of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence on Sunday in what appeared to be a “tit-for-tat” response to the latter’s action of joining a similar protest in Punjab's Mohali.“Joined Delhi Guest Teachers Protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Ji's residence in Delhi,” Sidhu said in a tweet.Videos from the protest site show Sidhu joining the sloganeering outside Kejriwal’s house.  “You come to our house and speak about (Higher Education Minister) Pargat Singh? Pargat Singh’s fighting," he said. "I came here to support these protesters. I stand with people fighting on the streets of Punjab as well,” Sidhu said.AAP national convener Kejriwal had joined protesting contractual teachers in Mohali last week. The protesters were demanding regularisation of their services.  Punjab goes to polls in early 2022 and the AAP is not leaving any stone unturned to make a decisive presence in the border state.Kejriwal has announced a slew of sops for different sections of society, including teachers. Among the assurances are regularising contractual teachers and revamping the education system in the state if voted to power.Hitting out at Kejriwal, Sidhu said the Delhi government was following a contractual model of education.“Delhi Education Model is Contract Model … Delhi Govt has 1031 Schools while only 196 schools have Principals … 45% teacher’s posts are vacant and schools are run by 22,000 Guest Teachers on daily wages with every 15 days renewal of contracts,” Sidhu alleged in a tweet.The Punjab Congress chief said that there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi in 2015, but in 2021, the number had shot up to 19,907.He said the AAP government had been filing up the vacant posts by hiring guest lecturers.“AAP promised to regularise contractual teachers give equal wages as permanent staff but made it worse by just having guest teachers. Through School Management Committees, so called AAP volunteers earn Rs 5 Lac yearly from Govt funds that earlier were meant for school’s development,” Sidhu’s another tweet read. —with PTIJoined Delhi Guest Teachers Protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Ji's residence in Delhi https://t.co/OQvOmSNMHz||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/eye-for-an-eye-navjot-singh-sidhu-joins-protesting-teachers-outside-delhi-cm-residence-346534
