07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Webcasting to be arranged in all 24,689 polling stations in Punjab||To prevent any kind of poll-related model code of conduct violations during the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections, the state’s chief electoral officer, on the directions of Election Commission of India, will arrange webcasting in all the 24,689 polling stations in the state.“This is for the first time that 100 per cent webcasting will be done at all the polling stations in Punjab,” said Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju on Tuesday.Raju, accompanied by Additional CEO Amandeep Kaur, was chairing a meeting with representatives of various political parties to know about their concerns, suggestions, as part of poll preparedness for the next year’s elections.Responding to a question by a representative of a political party on security during elections, Raju said security aspects to identify vulnerable areas are being reviewed and final assessment to demand Central Armed Police Forces will be sent to ECI by December 10.Additional force will be deployed in critical polling booths and vulnerable pockets, he added in an official statement.He also asked representatives of political parties to inform him or his office “if anyone is allegedly using liquor or money power to induce voters or matters of irregularities in voting” or any other illegal activities come into their notice.Raju said he is taking weekly meetings with the deputy commissioners, commissioners of police, district police chiefs of the state to review the status of execution of non-bailable warrant cases, parole jumpers, troublemakers and suspected drug peddlers.He said the process to deposit licensed firearms has also been started in each district and they will ensure that at least 95 per cent to 98 per cent weapons are deposited at police stations or gun houses.Raju informed that over 2.5 lakh employees will be deputed in the state to conduct these elections and they are undergoing training.He apprised political parties that all out efforts are being made for giving wide publicity to electors for making their votes.He informed that any new voter can register their vote by approaching the booth-level officer or using the Voter Helpline Mobile Application. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/webcasting-to-be-arranged-in-all-24-689-polling-stations-in-punjab-347530
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Amarinder meets BJP leader Gajendra Shekhawat||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday met over lunch and are learnt to have discussed possible seat-sharing arrangement for the Punjab Assembly polls.Shekhawat, a Union minister, is the BJP’s in-charge for the Punjab polls. He held a one-on-one meeting with the former chief minister at the latter’s farm house in Mohali’s Siswan.“Met with Union Minister for Jal Shakti & @BJP4India election Incharge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat ji at my residence today. @gssjodhpur,” said Amarinder Singh in a tweet.The former CM also shared his photograph with Shekahwat on his Twitter handle.Met with Union Minister for Jal Shakti & @BJP4India election Incharge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat ji at my residence today. @gssjodhpur pic.twitter.com/iXXBcsjZghIn his tweet, Shekhawat said, “Met with@capt_amarinder ji at his residence today. Discussed present political scenario of Punjab.”        The meeting between both leaders lasted for about an hour and they are learnt to have discussed issues relating to the Assembly elections, said sources.    Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday had said the BJP was in talks with Amarinder Singh and former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the state assembly polls.Amarinder Singh had quit the Congress after his unceremonious exit as the state chief minister in September.Later, he floated his own party, Punjab Lok Congress, to fight the elections. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-amarinder-meets-bjp-leader-gajendra-shekhawat-347506
07-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri, Punjab poll is hot topic of discussion among farmers||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 7After the repeal of three farm laws, upcoming assembly polls in Punjab have now become a hot topic of discussion among protesting farmers at Tikri border.They are not only taking updates about the poll promises being made by the political parties to woo electors but also analysing the prevailing political scenario in Punjab.Interestingly, they also do not hesitate to claim that farmers hold the key to power in Punjab hence they would decide the shape and direction of state politics in the upcoming elections.“Since the protest is likely to end soon as the Centre has no other option except to accept our pending demands, the topic of discussion has changed now. Farmers are now talking about emerging political equations in Punjab and also eyeing on the farmer unions’ next move in connection with assembly polls there,” says Jaswinder Singh, a farmer.  Jagsher of Moga said after winning over a yearlong battle from the Centre, now the farmers were ready to play a crucial role in Punjab elections too to show their strength yet again so they not only deliberate about the political scenario with fellow protests but also get report from ground zero by talking to family members and friends in Punjab. Social media is also proving helpful to a large extent in getting updates about political activities taking place in Punjab, he added.Balwinder from Mansa said they would teach a lesson to anti-farmer leaders in the elections while Buta Singh from Muktsar said he would follow whatever decision of the Samyukt Kisan Morch (SKM) regarding the polls.Gurchant Singh of Bhatinda questioned how they can stay without discussing the Punjab polls in a situation when the next battle was to be fought in their home state against those supporting the corporate houses. “Many farmers want the farm leaders to jump into the fray in order to give a suitable alternative to people of Punjab for electing a pro-farmer government but a final call in this respect is to be taken by the SKM,” he added.A senior farm leader on anonymity said, “There is immense pressure on us to contest the elections but our first priority is to ensure full victory of the ongoing agitation by getting our pending demands met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-tikri-punjab-poll-is-hot-topic-of-discussion-among-farmers-347475
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal alleges illegal sand mining going on in Punjab CM's constituency, demands probe||Illegal sand mining is taking place in Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency, and theft of sand worth Rs 20,000 crore is under way in the state, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Tuesday.Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, also demanded an independent probe into the alleged illegal sand mining in Channi's home constituency and the registration of an FIR.Kejriwal is in Amritsar on a day-long visit ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab scheduled for early next year."If illegal mining is going on in the chief minister's own constituency then it is difficult to think that he (Channi) is not aware of it," the Delhi chief minister said outside the Amritsar airport.Kejriwal's accusation comes days after his party's leader Raghav Chadha made a surprise visit to Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib and claimed that illegal sand mining activity was going on in Channi's home constituency.Channi on Sunday had refuted Chadha's claims.Kejriwal sought to know who was patronising alleged illegal sand mining in Channi's constituency."People of Punjab want to know whether he is the owner or has partnership in the illegal sand mining in his constituency or is he patronising it,"  he said."What is the truth and it should come out," he told reporters in Amritsar.Kejriwal said former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had recently said that there were several MLAs and ministers who either patronised illegal sand mining or were involved in it.The AAP leader also alleged that illegal mining was taking place in Punjab on a large scale."If people who are at the helm are involved in it and ministers and the chief minister face such accusations then where the public will go and how will development take place," he asked."According to an estimate, Rs 20,000 crore worth of illegal sand mining is taking place," Kejriwal alleged.The Delhi chief minister said if his party came to power in Punjab, it would stop illegal sand mining and the money so generated after stopping it “will go into the pockets of women”, referring to his poll promise of Rs 1,000 per month for women. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-going-on-in-punjab-cms-constituency-demands-probe-347441
07-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court tells Punjab to 'wake up from slumber' on drugs case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7More than seven years after the drug menace case under the judicial scanner, Punjab on Monday told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it was no more in “deep slumber”.The submission came in response to the High Court’s observation that the state was apparently not only lazy, but also in “deep slumber”.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil expressed the hope that the state really wake up from slumber. It was also of the view that so far there were only talks and no action in the matter. The Bench also made it clear during the course of hearing that it was concerned with the larger aspects of the public interest litigation before it and not allegations against individuals. The Bench added that it had gone through all the orders and made points.Appearing before the Bench, Punjab Advocate-General DS Patwalia reaffirmed the state's commitment to take strict action in the matter while submitting, “We have woken up from the slumber.”Representing the state of Punjab along with Patwalia, senior advocate Dushyant Dave agreed that the state had been lazy in taking action in the matter, adding that it had now been advised to take appropriate action.Seeking directions to be made a party to the on-going proceedings after alleging attempts by his political opponents to target him, Bikram Singh Majithia through senior counsel RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema argued that neither the special task force nor the Enforcement Directorate had found any evidence against the Akali leader and MLA in relation to the case.Cheema submitted that some of the accused had filed a petition for transfer of investigation in July 2015. The PIL was to be segregated from cases of individual accused in accordance with an agreement between the parties as the petition before the court was “in the nature of non-adversarial proceedings”.Cheema said the court had monitored investigation and in the process entrusted the cases for further investigation/re-investigation to a high- level supplementary investigation team. It could safely be inferred that the so-called incriminating material and the allegations now being projected as requiring investigation were well within the court’s notice and the fresh investigation/re-investigation was directed to cover these aspects as well. Advocate Navkiran Singh on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International said there was no effective action in the matter since May 2018. He said that the High Court had not ordered stay in the matter, yet, there was no action.The case will now come up for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-punjab-to-wake-up-from-slumber-on-drugs-case-347413
07-12-2021||---||Protest, black flags greet Punjab CM Channi at GNDU||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s GNDU visit was greeted with protests and black flags as Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union members, who have been sitting on protest for the past four days, gathered and held demonstrations outside the GNDU main gate. The teachers from major colleges in the city gathered outside the university gates in the morning and also attempted to enter the university premises, but were prevented by the police personnel. Later, members of various unions, who came to protest at the back gate of the university, submitted memorandums to the police officers after assurances. The teachers are demanding implementation of the 7th Pay Commission wages and several other benefits and have announced indefinite strike across the state, suspending academic activity in colleges and universities.Dharna outside CM’s residence tomorrowLeaders of the aided school teachers and other employees union announced to join teachers from across the state to hold a rally outside Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Morinda on December 8. Sharing that they were disappointed by the government for not implementing the 6th Pay Commission, the union has given an ultimatum of two days to the government to work out a solution for resolving their issues.Meanwhile, the CM inaugurated five academic chairs at GNDU. In his address, Channi said: “A new education model will be introduced by the government shortly which would focus on quality education for all. This will provide better opportunities to youth for employment, with an objective to retain youth in their homeland.”GNDU will now have Dr BR Ambedkar Chair, Sant Kabir Chair, Bhai Jiwan Singh/ Bhai Jaita Ji Chair, Makhan Shah Lubana Chair & Bhagwan Valmiki Chair at the university. The grant for the chairs will be given by the state government. The CM said he is happy over the establishment of five prestigious chairs named after great personalities with the objective to carry forward the legacy of wisdom, truth, humanity and courage. He said our younger generation should know the great sacrifice and struggle made by our ancestors. “A sangeet academy in the name of eminent folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, who passed away recently, would be established shortly at the GNDU, CM added.Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti, MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, Cabinet minister Rajkumar Verka, too were present at the ceremony.While inaugurating these chairs, Channi said Punjab model of education will be based on equality and job oriented education for all. He shared that the state government has already decided to bail out universities from the fiscal crisis as grants have been given to Punjabi University, Patiala, and all requirements relating to grants will be provided to the GNDU as well as per demand.Navjot Singh Sidhu, president, Punjab Pradesh Congress, in his address said as per the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev, sarbat da bhala and unity is the key mantra of success. He said Sant Kabir, Baba Sahib Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Bhai Jiwan Singh, Makhan Shah Lubana and Maharishi Valmiki are not religious personalities only but institutions themselves.Rally planned in Education Minister’s constituencyThe Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, Punjab, (Joint Teachers’ Front) district unit announced to hold a massive rally in Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency on December 8 as he has failed to resolve the issue of their demands, despite repeated assurances. “The minister failed to address the issues of teachers. The Joint Teachers’ Front (JTF) held several meetings with him on the demands that include merger of the computer teachers in the department, the condition of 50 per cent should be removed, immediate regularisation of vacancies, cancellation of cases against teachers, clearing outstanding promotions of each category, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-black-flags-greet-channi-at-gndu-347377
07-12-2021||---||Channi: Will approach Centre to resume trade with Pakistan||Amritsar, December 6To give impetus to the state’s economy, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has appealed to the Centre to resume trade with Pakistan.The CM was here as a chief guest at the valedictory function of Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) today.Conceding to the demand raised by state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu in his address earlier, the CM said he would soon write to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to resume the India-Pakistan trade through the Attari-Wagah border.Five academic chairs at Guru Nanak Dev universityHe, meanwhile, announced an exhibition-cum-convention centre here, which has been hanging fire for the past few years. The state government wanted to establish the project under the PPP mode, but it could not materialise. A tract of 10 acres has been earmarked for the project.“The foundation stone will be laid within a week. The centre will enable the PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry to carry out business activities, including the PITEX, on a large scale. This will help boost the economy,” said the CM.To boost economyThe trade with Pakistan will not only boost the state’s economy, but also that of the country. If the international trade can be carried out via the sea route, what is the problem in doing so through land? —Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterHe further said a digital single-window system would soon be introduced. It would enable industrialists to get approvals for their projects in a seamless and transparent manner. “The government plans to introduce syllabus for educational institutions keeping in view the skills required for the industrial sector,” said Channi.Sidhu, in his address, said his vision for the state went beyond 2022, for which a roadmap had be framed. “The CM and I will implement a better Punjab model.”The CM inspected 450 stalls set up at PITEX and awarded Sonalika the “Best Indoor Stall” award, while JAL Company bagged the “Best Outdoor Stall” award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-will-approach-centre-to-resume-trade-with-pakistan-347223
07-12-2021||---||AI will change future warfare: Army Chief||Patiala, December 6Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane attended a national seminar organised to commemorate the 50 years of 1971 India-Pakistan war at Punjabi University here on Monday.He discussed the changes in the Army and the use of new technology to battle external and internal threats.General Naravane said warfare in future would completely change with the involvement of artificial intelligence (AI) and exhorted the students and teachers to invest in technology and research as “conventional methods of war would not become insufficient”. He is currently pursuing PhD from the Punjabi University.Citing the technological advancements in other fields, he said changing with the needs of the time was very important.General Naravane further said, “Smartphones and watches are making our lives easier. Those who evolve are still around, but in different avatars. Those who refuse to see this change, or are too slow to adapt, disappear.”He said big companies including Apple, Google and others had kept pace with technology, adapted to change and reinvented business models. “Similar is the case with warfare. The advent of rapidly evolving dual-use technologies presents new opportunities and is changing the character of warfare like never before.”Meanwhile, VC Prof Arvind said the university would pen down the history of the 1971 India-Pakistan war.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ai-will-change-future-warfare-army-chief-347225
07-12-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh: Corruption up manifold||Chandigarh, December 6Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh today launched a scathing attack on his successor Charanjit Singh Channi, claiming corruption had increased manifold in the Congress government ever since he stepped down.“Total chaos prevails in the Congress government. They used to tag me with Akalis or others for not properly handling the sacrilege cases or booking the Akalis in STF drug report. Those who were raising the voice are in power. One needs proper evidence to take action and not just run false political narrative,” said Capt Amarinder after inaugurating the office of the Punjab Lok Congress here.On the mining mafia, the former CM said illegal mining was still there. “I had constituted a special task force to check illegal mining.”Capt Amarinder said his party would contest the elections in partnership with the BJP and that the alliance would be announced soon. “Our party, Sukhdev Dhindsa’s SAD (Sanyukt) and the BJP will have a seat-sharing arrangement. I can’t tell you the exact number,” he said.Referring to reports of nearly 35 Congress MLAs likely to be denied a party ticket, he said only those would be welcomed who had the ability to win.Asked whether he expected to be the CM candidate of the alliance, Capt Amarinder said: “All alliance partners will decide on the CM face.” He clarified his son Raninder Singh would not contest the elections, but would manage the party office. To a question on when he would meet BJP president JP Nadda for seat-sharing talks, he said in principle, a decision had been taken on the alliance.Plea against Kishor’s appointment junkedNew Delhi: The SC on Monday disposed of a petition challenging poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s appointment as an adviser to then CM Capt Amarinder Singh in view of the fact that he himself had resigned. Kishor was accorded the rank of a minister. He had said he was taking a “temporary break”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-corruption-up-manifold-347226
07-12-2021||---||Punjab CM misleading people on mining: AAP||Chandigarh, December 6AAP state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha has accused Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi of misleading the people of Punjab on illegal sand mining at Jindapur village in his Chamkaur Sahib constituency.Chadha demanded registration of a case against Channi and the mining mafia, as he presented to the media statements by some area residents on illegal activity.Chadha said a few days ago, he along with the media raided an illegally operated sand mining site at the village in Channi’s constituency and “exposed” the sand mafia.Instead of taking action against the sand mafia, the CM visited a mining site at a river near Ropar and claimed he (Channi) was standing at the Jindapur mining site and illegal mining wasn’t being carried out there, he claimed.“CM Channi lied about going to a sand pit at Jindapur village, when he was present at a sand pit near Ropar, 40 km from the village. In the CM’s video, a gurdwara on the banks of a Ropar river is visible, whereas there is no gurdwara near the Jindapur site.”Chadha released videos of some local leaders of villages near Jindapur, who claimed illegal sand mining had put the lives of residents of 35 nearby villages at stake. The villagers claimed extraction was discontinued only for three hours when Chadha visited the site.The AAP leader said if mining was taking place at Jindapur as per the law, why was the quarry not marked under rule No. 20 of the government notification.Channi: locals will give befitting replyAmritsar: CM Charanjit Singh Channi said people of the state would give a befitting reply to AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal for making malicious remarks. Referring to Kejriwal’s recent ‘kale angrez’ remark, CM Channi said people would never tolerate outsiders who insulted their elected representatives. TNSKejriwal to meet women, SCs todayChandigarh: AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal will meet women at a programme in Kartarpur on Tuesday. Later, he will interact with people of the SC community from Hoshiarpur under party’s ‘Arvind Kejriwal’s Interaction with SC community’ programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-misleading-people-on-mining-aap-347231
07-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||BJP using other parties to target us, alleges AAP's Raghav Chadha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The upcoming Assembly elections will not be a four-way fight but a direct contest between the AAP and other political parties, all remote controlled by the BJP, claims AAP MLA from Delhi and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha.“We are preparing for this and our list of candidates will be out anytime soon,” he told The Tribune, in the midst of preparations for party supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s visit on Tuesday. Chadha claimed there was a palpable groundswell in favour of the AAP, as voters of Punjab were “tired of misgovernance” by other parties. “Seeing this, the BJP at the Centre will use its ‘remote control’ to use other parties as puppets so as to keep us at bay. And this is not the first time that it will try to control the outcome of elections.”Chadha said even during the last Assembly elections, the BJP, using central agencies, had swayed voters away from AAP, to thwart the formation of a strong anti-BJP front.“This time, too, they have tried to coerce some of our Punjab leaders, like Bhagwant Mann, to join them. As the elections are approaching, the BJP will again pull strings and try and manoeuvre its way to keep us out. However, they are forgetting the power of people in a democracy. Punjabis will give the BJP a befitting reply,” he said.Asked about the party’s strategy and delay in announcing the candidates, Chadha said the party had Delhi’s good governance to show in Punjab. People were comparing AAP government’s development model with the rivals’ “personal development model”.“Our candidates will be announced anytime soon. People are enthused with what Kejriwal is promising them through his guarantees and unlike in the case of other parties, that are viewed with suspicion, people are willing to take a chance with AAP,” he said.Chadha said the AAP would seek votes only on the development agenda, and not engage in divisive politics practised by their opponents.‘Money offer’: Mann dared to Name leaderBJP leader Tarun Chugh on Monday slammed AAP MP Bhagwant Mann for claiming that a party leader offered him money and a Cabinet berth to win him over, saying it was gimmickry to strengthen his position within the outfit. Chugh challenged him to name the leader. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-using-other-parties-to-target-us-347232
07-12-2021||Bathinda||SAD lists 3-pronged plan to revive kabaddi||Seeking to woo sportspersons, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today promised the revival of kabaddi at the state, national and international levels by restarting the World Kabaddi Cup and organising two fresh tourneys if the Akali-BSP alliance is voted to power.Interacting with kabaddi players along with representatives of various associations, he said the Akali government would hold two new tournaments — Punjab Kabaddi Cup and Kabaddi League.Slamming the Congress government for discontinuing the initiative taken by the Akali regime, Sukhbir said he would restart the World Kabaddi Cup. “We have devised a three-pronged strategy,” said Sukhbir in the presence of Punjab Kabaddi Association president Sikander Singh Maluka.“We will start a Punjab cup that will see teams from all districts of the state vying for Rs 1 crore prize money.”To take the sport to the national level, a league would be formed, which would be run on the lines of the cricket league and carry a prize money of Rs 2 crore. He said the world cup would carry a prize money of Rs 5 crore. Sukhbir said a stadium would be constructed for kabaddi matches in each segment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-lists-3-pronged-plan-to-revive-kabaddi-347234
07-12-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Moga: Battling poor amenities, drug menace||the Assembly segment, which has always been at the centre stage of Punjab politics, is all set to witness an exciting battle with Bollywood actor Sonu Sood announcing his sister Malvika Sood’s candidature from the seat.The SAD has again decided to bet on its youth leader Barjinder Singh, alias Makhan Brar, a popular figure among the locals. The Congress is yet to announce its candidate.Locals say they are fed up with the false promises made by politicians. “We need someone who can frame policies for the development of the segment. A lot needs to be done. The drug menace, crumbling education and healthcare systems, and poor civic amenities are the bane of the segment,” said Bhavna Bansal, a social activist.Ajay Sood, a progressive farmer, said: “Moga needs good railway connectivity, which will attract the industry, create job avenues and provide local traders with more business opportunities.”Past trendJoginder Pal Jain of the Congress won the seat twice — in 2007 and 2012. He, however, resigned from the party later. In the 2013 bypoll, Jain again won the seat but, this time, on the SAD ticket. In the 2017 poll, Youth Congress leader Dr Harjot Kamal won.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,99,440Male 1,05,410Female 94,017Third gender 13||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/battling-poor-amenities-drug-menace-347237
07-12-2021||---||Release New Deep, Orbit buses, says HC||Chandigarh, December 6The Punjab and Haryana HC today directed Punjab and its functionaries to release forthwith the buses of Badals-run Orbit Aviation Private Limited and New Deep Bus Service.The Bench also directed the state to permit the petitioner-companies to ply the buses subject to the condition of the permit. The Bench, at the same time, granted liberty to the state to proceed as per law “about any other infractions which may have been made by the petitioners”.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain asserted a “host of allegations” had been levelled. Yet the primary allegation was that the permits were cancelled post-haste without issuing a notice and the fact was not disputed.Petitioners deserve to be heard outPetitioners deserve an opportunity of hearing or at least a show cause notice before penal action of cancellation of their permits is taken. The state can proceed as per law about any other infractions which may have been made by the petitioners. —High Court BenchReferring to the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act and a scheme of the Punjab Government, the Bench asserted its conjoint reading led to the inevitable conclusion that the petitioners deserved an opportunity of hearing or at least a show cause notice before penal action of cancellation of their permits was taken.The Bench added, “Though there are a host of allegations levelled by the petitioners in the writ petition, including hostile discrimination against them, political vendetta, malice in law etc., having found the action of the state to be arbitrary and illegal on the primary issue we need not go into the said issues.”The matter was brought to the HC’s notice with the filing of two petitions by Orbit Aviation Private Limited and New Deep Bus Service along with another petitioner. They were seeking the quashing of impugned orders dated November 12, whereby permits granted to the petitioners were cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-new-deep-orbit-buses-says-hc-347238
07-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Malerkotla: District now, but poor drainage a bane||Being the only Muslim-majority town of Punjab, the politics of Malerkotla has always been point of discussion. Cabinet Minister and MLA Razia Sultana is ready with her list of achievements, while her opponents are focusing on her unfulfilled promises.Razia has been reminding the voters about the hard work she’s put in to get Malerkotla elevated to the district status and get a Government Medical College for the area. “We have fulfilled all our poll promises... We will win this time too as votersare satisfied with our work,” said Mohammad Mustafa, Razia’s husband and former Punjab DGP.But even as development works continue, many areas face drainage issues during monsoon. Frequent traffic jams have been a source of nuisance for locals. Besides, there are Muslim families whose members are married in Pakistan and are facing problems in getting the visa. “We aren’t able to visit our relatives... The state should take up our cases with the Centre for a special policy to grant speedy visas,” said a local woman.Past trendIn the past seven elections, the Congress has won four times and the Shiromani Akali Dal thrice. Being a Muslim-majority constituency, voters here exercise their franchise after analysing the policies of both the central and state governments.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,47,827Male 78,830Female 68,997Third gender 0||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dist-now-but-poor-drainage-a-bane-347239
07-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can stop screening if film being 'publicly shown': HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the authorities concerned can only suspend the exhibition of a film that is ‘being publicly exhibited’.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli also stayed — by way of an interim measure — the operation of the impugned order/notification dated July 12 issued by the state on the screening of a Punjabi flick “Shooter”.The Bench also made it clear that the stay would remain in force till further orders.Taking up the matter, the Bench observed that the State of Punjab was granted repeated opportunities to file an affidavit stating that the film in question was being publicly exhibited and, as such, the authorities had suspended its exhibition in exercise of powers under Section 6 of the Punjab Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1952.Referring to an affidavit eventually filed by the state, the Bench observed it clearly stated that the film was never publicly exhibited. In fact, the matter was examined by a committee constituted by the authorities prior to its release. It was of the opinion that the film should not be permitted to be released as it would cause breach of peace.“Therefore, the undisputed position that permeates the record is: The film (Shooter) has not yet been released and publicly exhibited. The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) vide certificate dated March 13, 2020, had certified that the film was fit for public exhibition. A bare analysis of the provision of Section 6 of the Punjab Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1952, reveals that the authorities can suspend the exhibition of a film that is ‘being publicly exhibited’,” it added.Before parting with the matter, the Bench fixed January 31 as the next date of hearing. Shooter’s producer had moved the HC challenging the suspension of the film exhibition by Punjab and Haryana on the ground that the CBFC had given a nod for its release.ORDERS ON PUNJABI MOVIE ‘SHOOTER’The HC Bench made it clear that the orders were being passed keeping in line with the law and in the “wake of interpretation of term ‘being publicly exhibited’ by the Supreme Court in Prakash Jha Productions and another versus the Union of India”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/can-stop-screening-if-film-being-publicly-shown-hc-347240
07-12-2021||---||Master storyteller Gurdev Singh Rupana dies at 85||Muktsar, December 6A prolific Punjabi writer, Gurdev Singh Rupana, passed away on Sunday. He was 85.The last rites were performed on Monday at his native village Rupana in the district. He was unwell for about a month. He is survived by wife and two sons.The Sahitya Akademi Award 2020 was bestowed upon Rupana for his anthology of stories “Aam Khaas” in March this year. His body of work put Rupana village situated on the Muktsar-Malout highway on the literary map of the state.Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianvi, who represented the Punjab Arts Council, paid floral tributes to Rupana, who was known as a master storyteller. None from the district administration attended the cremation.Rupana authored more than 70 anthologies of short stories and novels.After having completed his master’s in Punjabi literature from Delhi University, he got the job of a teacher in the national capital. After his retirement, he returned to his native village.He did his PhD on the life and poetry of the 19th-century Punjabi legend Kadaryaar.Many of his short stories have been translated into other languages along with two novels into Hindi. He penned the stories on Dalits, labourers and slum-dwellers.Early beginningsGurdev Singh Rupana had penned his first short story ‘Draupadi’ when he was in class X. He won the Sahitya Akademi Award-2020 for his anthology of stories ‘Aam Khaas’ in March this yearAnother author passes awayProf Gurnam Singh, an author-cum-orator of the Bahujan history, passed away at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Sunday. He was 74. A resident of Muktsar town, Prof Gurnam was battling cancer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/master-storyteller-rupana-dies-at-85-347241
07-12-2021||Bathinda||Regularisation: Guest faculty burn Punjab Govt's effigy||Demanding regularisation of services, members of the Guest Faculty Assistance Professors’ Association staged a protest and burnt effigies of Education Minister Pargat Singh and CM Charanjit Singh Channi here before Government Rajindra College on Monday.Reeta Aggarwal, association president, said: “As per the HC’s December 3 directions, there is a restriction on recruitment of professors in colleges. But, it has been observed that the government is still busy in the process. We will intensify our stir if we don’t get a written confirmation for our jobs. We have been working for the past over 15 to 20 years, but our services have not regularised.” — TNSRoadways, PRTC staff’s strike from todayPatiala: Passengers will be on the receiving end as contractual staff of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and the Punjab Roadways will go on an indefinite strike from Tuesday. Around 7,500 employees will remain off duty to press for regularisation. The protesting employees claimed around 80% of the buses would not ply. Meanwhile, the PRTC administration has already told the contractual staff that they would be liable to action if they participated in the strike. TNSClass C, D workers go on mass leaveFazilka: Contract and outsourced Class C and D staff went on a mass leave here on Monday. As a result, patients, using opioid medicines, could not get rehab drugs, forcing them to protest outside Jalalabad Civil Hospital on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway. Sukhdev Singh, a patient, said he covered 12 km, but had no info about the strike. Nodal officer Dr Sidharath Kalucha said it was necessary to provide medicines to the patients on priority, and assured of making the arrangements soon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regularisation-guest-faculty-burn-govts-effigy-347242
07-12-2021||Bathinda||Malout con woman marries three men, flees with valuables||A woman, in her forties, allegedly married three men on different occasions without their knowledge and fled with cash and valuables from their houses.At press meet on Monday, kin of the three men said con woman Manjit Kaur of the Malout area demanded money from them and threatened of dire consequences in case they failed to do so. They alleged the police were neither taking any action nor registering a case against the woman despiterepeated complaints at Maur police station.Action as per law I’ll get the matter probed and whosoever is found guilty, action will be taken against them as per the law. — Ajay Maluja, Bathinda SSPJoginder Singh, brother of Mahinder Singh, one of the victims, said, “She is a professional con artist who has a team. They target families that are not well-off and hence can’t pursue the case later. Manjit first married Kala Singh from Burj Hari village of Mansa in May 2018, left him within a month and fled with valuables. She then married Balwinder Singh of Fazilka and then my brother in November 2019. She fled both times with valuables.”Maur DSP Paramjit Singh said, “The woman’s location is unknown. We have asked the SHO to record the victims’ statements so that if any substantial evidence is found against the woman, then an FIR will be lodged and search initiated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malout-con-woman-marries-three-men-flees-with-valuables-347243
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Slain PWD staff's kin get job letters||Public Works Department and Administrative Reforms Minister Vijay Inder Singla today handed over letters to 20 newly appointed employees in the department. The employees have been inducted into the PWD on various posts on compassionate grounds. In all, two clerks, 17 peons and a chowkidar have been appointed.Addressing the newly appointed employees, Singla said the loss of the deceased workers could not be compensated, but by giving regular appointment to their family members, the government had fulfilled its promise of providing a respectable means of livelihood to the dependents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slain-pwd-staffs-kin-get-job-letters-347244
07-12-2021||Muktsar||Employees' strike across Punjab puts job aspirants in fix||The strike by employees of the District Administrative Complexes (DAC) across the state has put some job aspirants, who need new Punjab residence certificates for their counselling, in a fix.The Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board (PSSSB) has asked them to produce domicile certificates, which must be less than five years old, for the counselling scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday.Govt apathetic or unaware?Isn’t the government aware that staff in the DC offices are on strike since Nov 23? Some candidates like me can’t get a new certificate because of the strike. The counselling must be postponed. job aspirantWith employees in the DC offices on strike, candidates demand that the counselling be postponed.They have applied for the posts of excise and taxation inspector, block-level extension officer and senior industrial promotion officer.One of the candidates, who did not wish to be named, said: “Isn’t the state government aware that employees in the DC offices have been on strike since November 23? Some candidates like me cannot get a new certificate because of the strike. Therefore, the counselling must be postponed.”A protesting employee said, “The residence certificates are issued by the tehsildar. The strike will continue till December 8. If the government does not fulfil our demands by then, we may extend the strike.”Amandeep Bansal, secretary, PSSSB, could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employees-strike-puts-job-aspirants-in-fix-347245
07-12-2021||Abohar||Pakistani youth in love with Mumbai woman intrudes into Indian territory, nabbed||A Pakistani youth, who claimed to be in love with a Mumbai woman, sneaked into the Indian territory illegally but was caught by BSF men in Anupgarh, Sriganganagar, on Saturday night.After interrogation, the BSF handed him over to the Anupgarh police. He will be interrogated by a joint team of central and state agencies.Official sources said Mohammad Ahmar (22) from Pakistan’s Hasilpur tehsil crossed the zero line at 11 pm. As he tried to cross the fencing, BSF men confronted him and he surrendered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistani-intruder-nabbed-by-bsf-347248
07-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Nurses seek pay parity||Staff nurses under the banner of the Nursing Association Punjab, started an indefinite strike here at Bathinda Civil Hospital on Monday.They raised slogans against the state and sought that anomalies in pay parity be removed and all allowances cut as per the new pay panel report must be revived on priority basis soon. Swaranjit Kaur, association chief, said: “We must be given the status of nursing officers on the lines of other states.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-seek-pay-parity-347250
07-12-2021||---||No invite for talks from Centre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha threatens to step up stir||Sonepat, December 6The five-member committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) did not get any formal invitation from the Centre to discuss pending issues.The SKM would make an announcement on intensifying the farmers’ stir at the meeting of the SKM on Tuesday at the Singhu border, the SKM’s five-member committee said on Monday.Notably, the SKM had formed a five-member committee of farmer leaders on December 4 to hold talks with the Centre to resolve the pending issues. They held a meeting on Monday evening at the Kisan Andolan office and also called the nine-member coordination committee of the SKM to discuss the situation.After a two-hour-long meeting of the four members of the committee, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Ashok Dhawale and Yudhvir Singh said PM Narendra Modi had announced to repeal the three farm laws on November 19 and the SKM had written a letter to the PM on November 21 to resolve six pending demands.Charuni said a five-member committee was formed on December 4 and two days have passed but no formal invitation from the central or state government has been received. Now, the next course of action would be announced after the SKM’s meeting tomorrow, he added.Shiv Kumar Kakka, member of the committee, said the agitation would continue.The scrapping of the laws was a victory for all farmers but the government hasn’t stepped out to resolve the pending issues, said Ashok Dhawale, another committee member.“It is unfortunate that the government was maintaining an indifferent attitude towards the farmers’ genuine demands,” said Yudhvir Singh, committee member, adding: “We have been trying to create an atmosphere for talks with the Centre, but the indifferent attitude of the government in the past two days has disappointed farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-invite-for-talks-from-centre-samyukt-kisan-morcha-threatens-to-step-up-stir-347102
07-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||It's Bajwa versus Bajwa: Brothers Partap Singh, Fateh Jung stake claim to Qadian||Tribune News ServiceQadian (Gurdaspur), December 6The Bajwa brothers — Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and Qadian sitting MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa — have put themselves on a collision course with both staking claim to their home seat of Qadian. Partap’s RS term ends in April next year, a month after the formation of the new Punjab Assembly. Though he had indicated on several occasions that he would contest the Assembly poll, he today announced the seat he had chosen — Qadian — and claimed that he had the “green signal” from the high command. Incidentally, the AICC today appointed Partap as chairman of the Congress manifesto committee for Punjab.Reacting to the development, Fateh said he failed to understand “what his brother was up to”. “I have stood by him through thick and thin. In any case, the lower he goes, the higher I go. Let me tell him that I am here to stay. I will contest from Qadian and that’s final,” he said.Last week, Fateh had held an impressive rally in Kahnuwan, which was attended, among others, by PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla. This was seen not only as a show of strength, but the Bajwa Junior had also kick-started his campaign with the rally. Partap had distanced himself from the proceedings. Fateh and his son Arjun Partap, who is a member of the Gurdaspur zila parishad, had worked hard during Covid. The family’s NGO Satbachan Foundation was at the forefront of distributing Covid kits among masses during the lockdown. The father-son duo had gone from village to village to impress upon the locals the need to get vaccinated.Qadian is the home borough of the Bajwa family. In 2012, Partap’s wife Charanjit Kaur had won by 16,000 votes. In 2017, it was Fateh who beat his nearest rival Sewa Singh Sekhwan by 12,000 votes.Partap, who has remained the PPCC chief, is also a three-term MLA from Kahnuwan, the seat that was rechristened as Qadian post-delimitation in 2012. He started his career in 1976 as a student leader in DAV College, Chandigarh. In the 2009 General Election, he beat three-time MP and film icon late Vinod Khanna by 8,000 from Gurdaspur.Collision course||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-bajwa-versus-bajwa-brothers-partap-fateh-jung-stake-claim-to-qadian-347224
07-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Course correction by Congress party in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6By appointing AICC general secretary for Rajasthan Ajay Maken as chairperson of the screening committee with former Youth Congress chief Chandan Yadav and Congress joint secretary Krishna Allavaru as members, the party high command has tried to placate traditional Congress men.Old-timers felt ignored after the elevation of Navjot Sidhu as PPCC chief and Charanjit Channi as CM, whom they viewed as ‘new entrants.’Channi joined the Congress in 2012 and Sidhu in 2017 ahead of elections.Two former PPCC chiefs, Sunil Jakhar and Partap Bajwa are on the campaign panel and manifesto panel, respectively. Also on the screening panel, they will have a say in picking candidates. With Jakhar repeatedly hitting out at Channi and Sidhu, it was pointed out to the high command that the old-timers felt ignored during the crisis that led to Capt Amarinder Singh’s ouster as CM. Ajay Maken was on the panel that removed Captain. Ever since Rahul Gandhi aides Harish Chaudhary, Punjab affairs in-charge and IYC secretary in-charge Krishna Allavaru were tasked with streamlining the functioning of the Punjab Congress amid the Sidhu-Channi row, efforts were on to mollify Jakhar. “Fearing a face-off between the PPCC chief and CM regarding the selection of candidates, the party high command has included Jakhar on the screening committee as ex officio member and Chaudhary and Allavaru have been handling Punjab affairs long enough to be part of the screening committee,” explained a senior leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/course-correction-by-congress-party-347222
07-12-2021||---||Congress names Punjab poll panels, Ajay Maken screening chief||New Delhi, December 6The Congress on Monday formed committees for the upcoming Punjab elections. It named AICC general secretary Ajay Maken head of the committee for screening prospective candidates and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar campaign committee chief. Maken was involved in the consultative process that finalised the appointment of Charanjit Channi as CM.He will be assisted in the screening committee by former Youth Congress chief Chandan Yadav and IYC in-charge Krishna Allavaru.Ex officio members of the screening committee are CM Channi, Jakhar, AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Choudhary, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, and AICC secretaries in-charge of the state. Forming four election committees — coordination, campaign, manifesto and screening — Congress president Sonia Gandhi signalled the party’s readiness for the elections, which are set to be multi-cornered.Five-time Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni is chairperson of the coordination committee, while former PCC chief Partap Bajwa will head the manifesto panel. The appointments mirror the Congress intention of reaching out to Hindu voters — a segment currently perceived as distant from the party which has consolidated the Scheduled Caste base by elevating Channi. Today’s appointments involve three Hindu faces — Soni, Jakhar and Maken. The inclusion of Jakhar in the election screening panel is equally important.The party hopes to strengthen its presence among Hindus with the Aam Aadmi Party wooing them actively. Of the 80 MLAs the Congress has, 13 are Hindus, the highest among all parties. The party realises it must hold on to this segment to power its edge in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-names-punjab-poll-panels-maken-screening-chief-347221
07-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Kangana Ranaut summoned over her derogatory remarks on Sikh community, asks for more time from Delhi Assembly panel||Chandigarh, December 6Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut was told to appear before Delhi Assembly’s panel on peace and harmony today, but the actress sought more time and cited professional and personal commitments as the reason. This meeting was called over her controversial and “derogatory remarks” on social media against the Sikh community.Head of the committee, Raghav Chadha told NDTV, "Kangana Ranaut's lawyer, in a letter, has informed that the actor cannot appear before the panel due to personal and professional commitments. She has sought more time. Today's meeting stands cancelled. The committee will inform its decision to her in a letter.”The committee was formed in the aftermath of the riots in northeast Delhi in February 2020 with a mandate to look into incidents that could disrupt peace in the city.According to NDTV, “The summons document said Ms Ranaut's "blanketly labelling (Sikhs) as Khalistani terrorists... has the potential to engender disharmony as well as cause wounding humiliation to the entire Sikh community."The committee has received numerous complaints eliciting inter alia, outrageously offensive and derogatory Instagram stories/posts allegedly published by yourself on 20.11.2021 over your official Instagram account..." the committee said in its notice to the actor.The actor also faces a first information report, or FIR, in Mumbai filed by Sikhs for using derogatory language against them on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/kangana-ranaut-summoned-over-her-derogatory-remarks-on-sikh-community-asks-for-more-time-from-delhi-assembly-panel-346979
07-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Month after moving to Canada, Jalandhar girl lands in ICU||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 4The dreams of a 23-year-old physiotherapy passout girl from a local college who made it to Canada nearly two months back have shattered.Barely five weeks after she landed in Toronto, Kanika met with an accident in which she suffered serious head injuries. Since she got unconscious, the doctors there conducted two brain surgeries immediately after the accident. After a month long treatment, she remains paralytic on the left side and the doctors have said the treatment could take several months.While the girl’s mother Anju is working in a private school, her father Paramjit Singh is in a government job. Ever since the accident occurred on November 5, both her parents kept making rounds to the Jalandhar visa office for a month. Even getting air tickets remained cumbersome owing to huge rush for Canada. They finally took a flight last evening, said Kanika’s maternal uncle HS Gill.Gill said, “Kanika has passed out in April this year. Since she has been a bright girl with more scope in career abroad, her parents had used all their savings and had even taken some loans to arrange for her immigration. It was just her first day to the job when she met with an accident. All the future plans of the family crashed there and then.”Asked how her hospitalisation was being managed, Gill said, “Her friends in Canada have been of great help. They organised a fund raiser for her realising that she would need funds for her care even though it would be partly done through her insurance. While she herself is a physiotherapist, doctors have told that she would have to take long sessions from an expert for full recovery. Ever since she got conscious and realised her state, she had been under depression. Her wait for her parents to reach her became too long. Now that they would be there for her, we expect some better results soon.”The fund raiser post mentions that she was hit by a car and has two clots in her brain leading to left side paralysis, multiple fractures, chest and liver injury. As per the doctors, the entire treatment for her to recover shall take 0.2 million CAD, it further reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/month-after-moving-to-canada-girl-lands-in-icu-346913
