08-12-2021||Gurbax PuriTarn Taran||Helicopter crash: Pall of gloom descends on village of Naik Gursewak Singh||A pall of gloom descended on Dode Sodhian village in Khalra as the news of Naik Gursewak Singh flashed in the media.He was accompanying the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, who along with his wife, had died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Thirteen people had died in the IAF helicopter crash.According to the information, he belonged to a very poor and backward family. His father used to work as daily wager while his mother had died. He has five brothers and two sisters. Four, including Gursewak Singh, are married.Gursewak was married about 11 years ago and has two daughters and one son with ages 10, 7 and four years respectively. He had returned just two weeks back from leave.His friend Harwinder Singh said he was an honest and hardworking boy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/helicopter-crash-pall-of-gloom-descends-on-village-of-naik-gursewak-singh-347952
08-12-2021||---||Income Tax dept raids premises of Torque Pharmaceuticals director, JW Marriot owner in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 8The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided the residential and office premises of the Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, JW Marriot Hotel and their related entities. The residences of Paramjit Singh Chhatwal, Amar Iqbal Singh Bedi, the Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, and Harpal Singh, owner of JW Marriot Hotel, Chandigarh, have also been covered in the raid. As per sources, the raid has been carried out in 22 various premises located in Chandigarh, Punjab and Mumbai. The raid started at around 7.30 am and the proceedings went on late into the night.Sources revealed that the officers have taken custody of important documents, including property papers and electronic devices, which are found from various premises. The documents and electronic devices are being examined by the tax officers to check the unaccounted income generated by these entities. Sources also revealed that during the raid, various documents related to Benami properties and foreign investments are found which are being examined.The search has been conducted under the guidance of Anand Jha, Pr. Director of Income Tax (Inv.) and is led by Ankur Alya, Addl. Director of Income Tax (Inv.) and Jyotinder Kaur Bajwa, Dy. Director of Income Tax(Inv.).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/income-tax-dept-raids-premises-of-torque-pharmaceuticals-director-jw-marriot-owner-in-chandigarh-347944
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief Sukhbir-Punjab CM have struck deal to create drama of arresting Majithia in weak case: AAP||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Wednesday claimed that a deal has been struck between SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to create a drama of arresting Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a weak case to deceive the people.Last month, Badal had accused the Congress, which is in power in Punjab, of hatching a conspiracy to implicate Majithia, a leader of his Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), in a “false” drug case.SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema too had recently said that the Punjab Congress is bent upon framing Majithia in a “false case” and arresting him.Addressing the media here, Chadha claimed that Channi and Badal held a “secret” meeting in which a “deal” had been struck to register a “weak case” against Majithia.Police will then arrest Majithia on the basis of “weak grounds” and a “weak case”, and the Akali leader will be able to get bail from court in the first hearing next day, Chadha, who is Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) co-in-charge of Punjab affairs, alleged.“An understanding and a deal have been reached. Badal and Chief Minister Channi will create a drama of arresting Majithia in a weak case to deceive the people of the state,” he said, claiming that information regarding the “secret meeting” and preparation of a case on “weak grounds” were provided to the AAP by a senior Punjab police officer.Replying to a question, Chadha refused to reveal the identity of that police official but said he was a responsible policeman in the Punjab Police.“If the need arises, then we will submit proof in this regard,” he said.Chadha said it was his duty to protect the identity of the police officer.“I do not wish to reveal the identity of the official concerned because it will jeopardise the life and liberty of that officer,” he said.The AAP leader said it was the responsibility of his party to put information related to the “deal” before the public. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-sukhbir-punjab-cm-have-struck-deal-to-create-drama-of-arresting-majithia-in-weak-case-aap-347927
08-12-2021||New Delhi||Consensus on govt’s fresh proposal, meeting on Thursday to take decision on ending protest: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday said that a consensus has been reached over a revised draft proposal of the Centre on their pending demands and it will now meet on Thursday to decide the future course of the movement, even as its leaders demanded a formal communication on government letterhead.Farmer leader and SKM core committee member Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that the earlier draft from the central government on pending demands was not acceptable to them following which a fresh proposal was received from the Centre on Wednesday.“We are in agreement with the government regarding our demands. We will decide about suspending the agitation after the meeting tomorrow. No decision has been taken yet on calling off agitation. Another meeting of SKM will be to be held tomorrow (Thursday) at 12 noon,” Chaduni said at a press conference after a meeting of the SKM core committee.The SKM, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, said in a statement that a consensus has been achieved on the central government’s draft regarding farmers’ demands.“Consensus has reached on government’s fresh proposal. Now, a formal communication signed on the government’s letterhead is awaited. SKM will meet again tomorrow at twelve noon, at Singhu Border, to take a formal decision thereafter to lift the morchas,” the SKM said in a statement.The SKM has also formed a five-member panel for a dialogue with the Centre regarding pending demands of farmers including legal guarantee on MSP, withdrawal of cases against farmers registered during the movement and compensation to kins of farmers died during the agitation.Another farmer leader and SKM’s five-member committee member, Yudhvir Singh said, “The ball is now in the government’s court and a final decision will be taken tomorrow (Thursday).On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points in the government’s proposal, including on the precondition set for the withdrawal of “fake” cases against farmers.On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of cases against farmers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/received-fresh-proposal-from-govt-hopeful-of-resolution-farmer-leaders-after-skm-panel-meeting-347921
08-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Who's the groom? Shashi Tharoor 'mistaken' as 'dulha' after photo with newlywed couple||Chandigarh, December 8A photo of Congress MP Shashi Tharoor standing with the bride and the groom has gone viral on Twitter. Reason, Tharoor stole the limelight from the groom. While the groom wore an all-white look, Tharoor’s headgear and outfit make him stand out as he looked “overdressed” than the groom.  The groom is Abhishek Kulkarni, the MD & Group CEO - Urbane Media Network.  He shared the photo on Twitter, thanking Tharoor for being present at his wedding, sharing “The man who never fails to bless me in whatever I do, either in person or in spirit. For the most special occasion of my life, Shashi Tharoor travelled all the way & stayed with us for two days in Mahabaleshwar to bless (my wife) and me and enjoyed every bit of our wedding."The man who never fails to bless me in whatever I do, either in person or in spirit. For the most special occasion of my life, @ShashiTharoor travelled all the way & stayed with us for two days in Mahabaleshwar to bless @chahatdalal & me and enjoyed every bit of our wedding 1/2 pic.twitter.com/aKeCG5iR8D  Several people on Twitter shared the picture of Tharoor at the wedding, taking jibes at him over his picture with the young couple on their marriage day.Congratulations @ShashiTharoor ji pic.twitter.com/jp3HeKZyBB  Shashi Tharoor giving Dulha vibes & overshadowing the Dulha 😂😂 pic.twitter.com/9qp0JfZLEt  Meanwhile, Shashi Tharoor hit back at trolls for mocking, saying he is used to being trolled by an "organised brigade of Bhakts" but dragging non-political people into "your malice is not cool"."I am used to being trolled by an organised brigade of Bhakts & I can take it, knowing it comes w/the territory. But dragging non-political people into your malice is not cool, and insulting a young couple on their wedding day to take cheap shots at their guest is disgraceful," he said.I am used to being trolled by an organised brigade of Bhakts &I can take it, knowing it comes w/the territory. But dragging non-political people into your malice is not cool, & insulting a young couple on their wedding day to take cheap shots at their guest is disgraceful. 🚫🔚🙏 https://t.co/qnkIUQtMOg  Later, responding to a Twitter user, who asked him what he means by "bhakts", Tharoor said, "Bhakti towards the divine is to be respected. Bhakti towards a political leader or cause, especially in the name of religion, is deplorable."                "'Bhakts' in the latter sense refers to the devotees of the Sangh Parivar & Moditva," he said. With inputs from PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/whos-the-groom-shashi-tharoor-mistaken-as-dulha-after-photo-with-newlywed-couple-347905
08-12-2021||---||Morinda: Former sarpanch shot dead by two unidentified gunmen||Morinda, December 7Two unidentified gunmen on Wednesday fired upon Avtar Singh (58), a former sarpanch of Udhampur village, killing him on the spot.According to eyewitnesses, Avtar Singh, had was going home after delivering milk around 7.30 am when two unidentified youth who were waiting outside his home fired upon him indiscriminately and killed him on the spot. The relatives said the deceased had no enemies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morinda-former-sarpanch-shot-dead-by-two-unidentified-gunmen-347901
08-12-2021||---||Parkash Singh Badal turns 94; Modi wishes him long and healthy life||Muktsar, December 8Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal turned 94 on Wednesday.SAD leaders from neighbouring districts have arrived at his Badal village residence in this district to greet him.The family has not planned any special celebrations.Birthday greetings to one of India’s most respected statesmen, Shri Parkash Singh Badal Ji. He has worked very hard for the progress of Punjab, particularly the weaker sections of society. I pray that he is blessed with a long and healthy life.  Meanwhile, PM Narendra Modi tweeted his wishes, “Birthday greetings to one of India’s most respected statesmen, Shri Parkash Singh Badal Ji. He has worked very hard for the progress of Punjab, particularly the weaker sections of society. I pray that he is blessed with a long and healthy life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-parkash-singh-badal-turns-94-modi-wishes-him-long-and-healthy-life-347895
08-12-2021||New Delhi||Samyukt Kisan Morcha panel likely to meet Amit Shah, Narendra Tomar today||A five-member committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is likely to meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Narendra Singh Tomar separately on Wednesday to discuss their pending farm-related issues, a farmer leader said.The likely discussions with the two ministers will take place hours before the scheduled meeting at 2 pm of the SKM, which is spearheading the movement against three farm laws.The members of the SKM has called a crucial meeting at the Singhu Border on Wednesday to decide the fate of the agitation.“The five-member panel of the SKM will have an internal meeting on Wednesday morning and then they are scheduled to meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to discuss farmers’ issues and pending demands.They are also likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Afterwards a decision is likely after the SKM's 2 pm meeting,” a senior farmer leader told PTI on condition of anonymity.The farmer leader said the government's attitude in considering farmers' demands has been “positive” lately and hinted towards a positive decision in connection with the fate of the farmers' movement.On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points, in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers.According to the farmers' body, the government's proposal said that it would form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel would include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states.The SKM members have objection to this and they have decided to meet again on Wednesday to deliberate on these issues and announce the future course of the agitation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/samyukt-kisan-morcha-panel-to-meet-today-to-discuss-centres-proposal-draft-347848
08-12-2021||---||Punjab Governor urges people to follow legacy of Guru Teg Bahadur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit exhorted people to follow the ideals of secularism, humanism, compassion, tolerance and the spirit of self-sacrifice as preached and practiced by Hindi-Ki-Chadar, Guru Teg Bahadur.Paying tributes to the ninth Guru on the eve of his martyrdom day, the Punjab Governor, in a message, said Guru Teg Bahadur undertook the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the most fundamental of human rights. His Shaheedi Diwas was a solemn occasion to perpetuate the ethos of peace, harmony and national integration as propagated by Guru Teg Bahadur.Purohit said: “Guru Teg Bahadur’s saga of supreme sacrifice is not only unique but also unparalleled in the history of mankind that symbolised the crusade against tyranny and oppression”.The Governor said: “Let us observe this day with fervour, rededicate ourselves to serve society and let us stand up for ourselves and mankind and spread the message of peace and universal brotherhood. This will be a real homage to Guru Teg Bahadur”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guv-urges-people-to-follow-legacy-of-guru-teg-bahadur-347754
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19:  Vaccination awareness vans||2 bikers killed in accidentFatehgarh Sahib: Two youths riding a bike were killed when an unidentified vehicle hit their bike on Sirhind GT Road near Cheema Haveli. The deceased have been identified as Anshu Chopra (21) of Kotkapura and Himanshu Sharma (19) of Paonta Sahib. ASI Amarjit Singh said a case had been registered against the unidentified driver. OCNo headway in murder caseMuktsar: Four days after the killing of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower at his shop in Bhundar village here, the police are still clueless. Notably, Charan Dass was shot dead by two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants on Friday evening. He was out on a bail in a sacrilege case. Muktsar SSP Sarbjit Singh said: “We have not got any clue so far.” TNSLocals protest water shortageSangrur: Lehra residents on Monday protested shortage of water in the city. They said they had been facing water shortage for the past many months, but the authorities had failed to take action. The agitation would be intensified in the coming days, said Barinder Goyal, patron, Lehra Vikas Manch. TNSHealth body chief takes chargeChandigarh: Renowned cardiologist Dr Charnjit Singh Pruthi took over as the president of the Punjab Medical Council. After assuming the office, Dr Pruthi said he would carry out the new responsibility with honesty. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-awareness-vans-347557
08-12-2021||---||Punjab CVC begins probe into 'lopsided' power pacts||Sanjeev Singh BarianaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The Punjab State Vigilance Commission has initiated an inquiry into the allegations of lopsided terms of the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the SAD-BJP government between 2007 and 2017.Chief Vigilance Commissioner Justice Mehtab Singh Gill has asked the Department of Power to provide the differences in the rates of power purchase from various companies during 2007-17, especially during the peak period of paddy.CVC seeks copy of agreementsThe Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) has sought a “copy of the pacts signed between Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and power companies between 2007 and 2017”.Response sought by Dec 9 on PPAsChief Vigilance Commissioner has sought Addl Chief Secy’s reply on ‘non- transparency, financial impropriety and the lopsided terms of power purchase agreements’The probe comes days after Chief Minister Charanjit Channi had announced in the Vidhan Sabha that “a vigilance probe will be conducted into the faulty Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) between the previous SAD-BJP government and power companies.”PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, too, has been opposing the PPAs, alleging the common man has been duped. He wanted the government to scrap the PPAs signed by the previous government. Channi had also tabled a White Paper pointing out the irregularities in the PPAs during the Assembly session in November.The Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) has asked the office of the Additional Chief Secretary (Power) to submit a reply by December 9 on “non- transparency, financial impropriety and the lopsided terms of agreement”.The Assembly had raised some questions like why the state went in for pacts on power purchase that exceeded the state requirement.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had pointed out during the session that the Central Regulatory Commission had assessed Punjab’s power shortage to be 1,800 MW. The SAD-BJP government, however, sought 4,000 MW.The commissioner has sought a “copy of the agreements signed between the PSPCL and power companies between 2007 and 2017”. The PSPCL has been asked to appoint a senior officer to assist the office of the CVC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cvc-begins-probe-into-lopsided-power-pacts-347691
08-12-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha gets govt proposal on 5 demands; dropping of cases key sticking point||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServiceSonepat, December 7The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today received a draft proposal on five of the six pending demands from the Centre, even as it decided to put off till tomorrow its decision on carrying forward the agitation. Rahul submits list of deceased farmersCongress MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday submitted in the Lok Sabha a list of farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws. Speaking during the Zero Hour, Rahul said more than 700 farmers died during the agitation.Contentious issuesThe five-member committee of the morcha would renegotiate with the Centre over the draft proposal and apprise the SKM members about the outcome at a meeting to be held at Singhu at 2 pm tomorrow.The committee comprises Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawale, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Yudhvir Singh. A draft proposal over the pending demands of the SKM was received from the Ministry of Home Affairs today, they said. Some farm leaders wanted clarification on various issues, they added.As regards Centre’s proposal to form a panel on the MSP issue, the SKM wants to know if the panel would work for the formation of a law.Another proposal by the Centre is that cases against farmers will be dropped in Delhi, Haryana, UP and various Union Territories after the stir is called off.SKM panel members say the dropping of cases should be unconditional in all states and UTs.The Haryana and UP governments have agreed to give compensation to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation, but the SKM wants an assurance that the compensation will be on the Punjab pattern (Rs 5 lakh and job to a family member).On government’s proposal that the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, will be discussed with all stakeholders before being introduced in Parliament, SKM leaders said the Centre had earlier assured them that it would never be presented in Parliament.The government has also proposed to free farmers of the criminal liability under Sections 14 and 15 of the Air Pollution Act for stubble burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-gets-govt-proposal-on-5-demands-dropping-of-cases-key-sticking-point-347689
08-12-2021||Abohar||5 die in mishaps||Three persons, including a couple, died when a vehicle reportedly hit their bike near Chak 38-GB village on Srivijayanagar-Ramsinghpur road. The deceased have been identified as Chena Ram Nayak (55), his wife Savitri (50) and brother Krishan Lal (35).In another incident, two youths were killed while three were injured here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-die-in-mishaps-347558
08-12-2021||Bathinda||SHO accused of abetting drug supply, action sought||A video purportedly showing an alleged drug peddler accusing a Station House Officer of “abetting” drug supply has gone viral, prompting political parties to demand action against erring officials.In the video, suspect Ramesh, alias Rambo, from the Dhobiana area, is seen seated beside SAD senior leader Sarup Chand Singla and levelling serious allegations against the Civil Lines police station SHO Ravinder Singh.Terming the allegations as baseless, the SHO said: “The police are working to wipe out the drug menace. Rambo faces eight cases under the NDPS and Excise Acts and wants to pressure the police not to take action against him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sho-accused-of-abetting-drug-supply-action-sought-347559
08-12-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||'Cremated' by kin, Sirsa woman returns home||A fortnight after a Haryana family identified a body recovered in Hanumangarh, near here, as that of their daughter and performed her last rites, the woman has returned home.Inspector Sukh Ram Chotia said the body was found on the road near Jogiwala village on November 21. The next day, a family member from Haryana’s Sirsa district identified the deceased as Paramjit Kaur (38) after seeing pictures on the social media.Her parents alleged her in-laws in Rania had killed her and thrown the body. A case of murder was registered against her husband and in-laws. After the post-mortem, the body was handed over to the family, which performed the last rites at their native Mangala village.Investigations revealed Paramjit had gone missing from her in-laws’ house on November 15 and her husband lodged a case at the Rania police station, accusing her of stealing jewellery, clothes and valuables, two days later.After the body was found on November 21, the police had claimed it bore injury marks and that the victim had died two-three days ago. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cremated-by-kin-woman-returns-home-347560
08-12-2021||---||Sukhpal Singh Khaira's bail petition dismissed||Mohali, December 7A local court today dismissed the bail application of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in an alleged money laundering case.On December 3, the court had reserved its decision on his bail application till December 7. Khaira is currently in judicial custody at the Central Jail, Patiala. The court had extended Khaira’s judicial remand till December 16 earlier.On November 18, the former Leader of Opposition was sent to a 14-day judicial custody after completing seven days of Enforcement Directorate (ED) remand in the money laundering case.The ED arrested Khaira on November 11 in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to a drug racket after he “evaded some questions” put up by investigators, officials had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-singh-khairas-bail-petition-dismissed-347561
08-12-2021||---||Punjab gets Rs 402 cr for water scheme||New Delhi, December 7The Union Government has released a grant of Rs 402 crore to Punjab under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).“With a focus to expedite the implementation of the JJM in Punjab, the Government of India released Rs 402.24 crore to the state,” the Union Jal Shakti Ministry said on Tuesday.Central funds amounting to Rs 1,656.39 crore have been allocated to the state for 2021-22 for the implementation of the JJM, which is nearly four times the allocation for 2020-21.As sum of Rs 616 crore has been allocated to the state as the 15th Finance Commission grant for water and sanitation to rural local bodies/panchayati raj institutions and there is an assured funding of Rs 3,246 crore over the next five years i.e. up to 2025-26 to the rural local bodies.The JJM is a flagship project of the Centre, aimed at providing piped drinking water to every rural household in the country.It is anchored by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry and implemented by it in coordination with the states/UTs.Punjab has informed the ministry it plans to provide tap water connections to 8.69 lakh rural households in 2021-22. It has set a target of “Har ghar jal” (water for every household) by 2022.Supply status34.41 lakh Rural households in state31.55 lakh Have tap water connection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-gets-rs-402-cr-for-water-scheme-347562
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to state on plea of Dera Sacha Sauda functionary||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the state of Punjab on a petition filed by Prithvi Raj Nain, summoned as a witness in a sacrilege-related case in which Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was examined by the Punjab Police.Nain is presently serving as vice-chairman of the dera management committee. He was seeking the issuance of at least seven-day advance notice in case coercive action was taken against him.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Raj Mohan Singh, senior counsel Vinod Ghai with Kirti Ahuja and Kanika Ahuja contended notice under Section 160, CrPC, had been issued to the petitioner in the capacity of a witness. In case he was also sought to be interrogated in the case, some prior notice be issued to the petitioner to allow him to avail his legal remedies in such an eventuality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-state-on-plea-of-dera-functionary-347563
08-12-2021||---||Behbal Kalan firing: Accused cops trying to delay trial, says SIT||Faridkot, December 7Amid the pending probe into the Behbal Kalan police firing episodes, the High Court stay on investigation against ex-Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and all other accused seeking the adjournment of all cases for indefinite period, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday claimed that the demand was aimed at delaying the trial and avoid the framing of charges against them.“Exempting Sumedh Saini from personal appearance before the court here and staying of probe against him can’t effect the trial and the case proceedings in the court of Faridkot,” claimed the SIT, in reply to the applications of the accused on Tuesday.The High Court hasn’t imposed any stay on the trial in the case, it added.Opposing a contention of an SP-rank officer, Bikramjit Singh, an accused, who sought the adjournment of the case for indefinite period till the completion of the inquiry into the Behbal Kalan incident, the SIT claimed that the probe against him was concluded and the challan had already been presented against him in the court, so framing charges against him won’t be unfair.In another application, former Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Charanjit Sharma, also an accused, on Tuesday sought the court to give directions to the SIT and the police to file a status report on the investigation carried out by them in the Behbal Kalan case to date. The court adjourned the case for December 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-firing-accused-cops-trying-to-delay-trial-says-sit-347564
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drug case: No more in slumber, Punjab tells court||The State of Punjab has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it was no more in “deep slumber”. The submission came in response to the High Court’s observation that the state was apparently not only lazy, but also in “deep slumber”.As the ongoing case of drugs menace came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil expressed a hope that the state woke up from slumber. It was also of the view that so far, there were only talks and no action in the matter. The Bench also made it clear during the course of hearing that it was concerned with the larger aspects of the public interest litigation (PIL) before it and not allegations against individuals. The Bench added it had gone through all orders and made points.Advocate Navkiran Singh on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International added there was no effective action in the matter since May 2018. He added the High Court had not ordered stay in the matter. Yet, there was no action. The case will now come up for further hearing on Thursday.Appearing before the Bench, Punjab Advocate General DS Patwalia reaffirmed the state’s commitment to take strict action in the matter while submitting, “We have woken up from the deep slumber”. Representing the state of Punjab along with Patwalia, senior advocate Dushyant Dave agreed that the state had been lazy in taking action in the matter, adding that it had now been advised to act swiftly.Seeking directions to be made a party of the ongoing proceedings after alleging attempts by his political opponents to target him, Bikram Singh Majithia through senior counsel RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema argued that neither the special task force, nor the Enforcement Directorate had found any evidence against the Akali leader and MLA in relation to the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-more-in-slumber-punjab-tells-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-347565
08-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside 14-year jail term for 2 in drugs case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Amid claims by the state agencies of having made efforts to bring drug peddlers to book, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has acquitted two persons accused in three-year-old appeals. It observed that contradictory statements by officials spearheading the prosecution had caused a “fatal blow” to the case. The matter involved the alleged recovery of 2 kg of narcotics from the accused.The accused were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of 14 years and a fine of Rs 1,50,000 by Judge, Special Court, Amritsar, in a case registered in October 2013 under the provisions of Narcotic Drugs and other Psychotropic Substances Act and the IPC.As their appeals came up for hearing before the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain, counsel Vijay K Jindal and Vipul Jindal referred to the statements of the official witnesses — the investigating officers and the then ACP, North, Amritsar. Jindal submitted that the discrepancies in the statements by the two “material witnesses” completely belied the recoveries and could not be relied upon.“Having given our careful consideration to the statements made by the officials, we find that the discrepancies cannot be ignored. Both witnesses are officials, who were spearheading the prosecution. Each one of them is specific in his own version. However, when both statements are juxtaposed, one belies the other. Oral evidence needs to inspire confidence in the mind of the court. Trustworthiness is the test. Contradictory statements made by the prosecution witnesses have caused a fatal blow to the case of the prosecution. It, in fact, discredits the version of the prosecution,” the Bench asserted.The Bench added that the prosecution had failed to establish that the contrabands were “really recovered” from the possession of the appellants. “Consequently, the appeals are accepted and the appellants stand acquitted as the recoveries in the present case are found to be doubtful,” the Bench concluded.Contradictory statementsThe Punjab and Haryana High Court has acquitted two persons accused in three-year-old appeals after observing that contradictory statements by officials spearheading the prosecution caused a “fatal blow” to the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-sets-aside-14-year-jail-term-for-2-in-drugs-case-347566
08-12-2021||Manav Mander||Of repulsed tank attack & generosity to PoW||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 7It was on December 3, 1971, when Pakistan launched a series of airstrikes against Indian airbases and the war ended in the formation of Bangladesh. Fifty years later, war heroes relive their valour and glory as they went down the memory lane and share their courageous deeds.Undying spiritI am grateful to the people I have met throughout my life. One such person is Gun Position Officer Gurmail Singh, who fractured his arm and was asked to rest. But he was so determined to go to war that he joined us with a plaster on his arm. Col HS Kahlon (retd), war veteranLudhiana-based Col HS Kahlon (retd) was decorated with Vir Chakra for his bravery during the war. What Colonel Kahlon has earned is loyalty during his life.Sharing an episode from the war, he said: “On December 3 and 4, Pakistani soldiers attacked us seven times with the aim of entering Amritsar through Ranian as security and defence at the Attari-Wagah border was tight, but were unsuccessful.” To prevent another attack on December 8, Colonel Kahlon, then a Captain deployed in Ranian (near Amritsar) on the western border, suggested neutralising the leading tank. As a result, the tanks coming behind retreated.In the Army for just four and a half years, Major Inderjit Singh Sandhu (retd) considers himself lucky to be a part of the war. “What still haunts me is that some of our fellow officers didn’t even get wood for their last rites, but that is the sad truth of war and one has to be strong enough to stomach it.... Fifty years have passed, but the images still flash before my eyes as if it was yesterday,” recalls Major Sandhu.Major BS Gill (retd), however, didn’t fight in the war but got closely acquainted with its after-effects. He was posted in Sikkim where the war clouds were already gathering but after it ended, he was sent to Madhya Pradesh.“I was appointed as the Commandant of the Prisoner of War (PoW) camp No. 52. There were 3,000 PoWs who were let off after two and a half years. I remember Capt Asgar Ali, a doctor with the Pakistan army, who requested me to send him in the first or second train otherwise he would miss getting admission to his course. I accepted his request after which he said he owed his career to me,” reminisces Major Gill.Recalling the day when the PoWs came to meet him, Major Gill says: “I thought they all must be having some complaints or grudges but they were all praise for the Indian soldiers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/of-repulsed-tank-attack-generosity-to-pow-347567
08-12-2021||---||1984 riots: Delhi court orders framing of murder, rioting charges against Sajjan Kumar||New Delhi, December 7A Delhi court has ordered framing of murder and rioting charges against former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.Special Judge MK Nagpal said, “…this court is of the considered opinion that a prima facie case is made out against the accused for framing of charge against him for commission of offences punishable under Sections 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC (rioting) as well as the offences punishable under Sections 302, 308, 323, 395, 397, 427, 436, 440 (murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other offences) read with Section 149 of the IPC. Charges are accordingly directed to be framed against him for the said offences.”‘Led the mob’There is sufficient material on record to prima facie show that Kumar was not only a part of the mob, but was also leading it. — MK Nagpal, Special JudgeThere was sufficient material on record to prima facie show that Kumar was not only a part of the mob, but he was also leading it, the judge said in his December 4 order.The court is likely to formally frame charges against him on December 16 when he will be asked if he would like to plead guilty or claim trial.The judge, however, discharged him of the charges of attempt to murder and destruction of evidence for want of “sufficient or prima facie material”.The case relates to the killing of S Jaswant Singh and his son S Tarun Deep Singh of Raj Nagar in West Delhi on November 1, 1984, allegedly by a mob led by Kumar. An FIR was registered in 1985 on the basis of an affidavit of the complainant, whose identity was not revealed. An SIT set up by the MHA in 2015 to reinvestigate the 1984 anti-Sikh riots cases had closed 233 of the 292 cases it examined. The complainant had recorded her statement on November 23, 2016, before the SIT. This is one of the five cases in which the SIT has filed chargesheets.Kumar (75) is already serving a life sentence in another case relating to anti-Sikh riots. He has been in jail since December 31, 2018, when he surrendered – 14 days after being convicted and awarded life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court. The case in which he is in jail relates to the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment’s Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-court-orders-framing-of-murder-rioting-charges-against-sajjan-kumar-347568
08-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot: Endless wait for elevated rail track||THE issue of eliminating nine narrow gauge railway crossings over a stretch of 3.6 km running through the municipal corporation limits takes precedence over everything else in this Assembly seat.The matter has been hanging fire for decades. Former BJP MP Vinod Khanna tried his best to solve the conundrum and so did ex-MP Partap Singh Bajwa. However, their laborious efforts bore little fruit. Now, it has been left to MLA Amit Vij to unravel the knot.The economy goes for a six while traffic comes to a standstill for hours when the Jogindernagar toy train passes several times a day. The Railways has pegged the cost of elevating the track at nearly Rs 300 crore. Of this, 40% cost is being borne by the state. Vij has already obtained administrative approval of Rs 120 crore from the state. “The idea is to have an elevated track on the lines of the one established in Rohtak,” Vij said.Insiders, however, are sceptical. “It’s not as easy as it is being made out by certain people. Many encroachments have come up near the track and it’s impossible to remove all of them,” said a former MLA.Residents are, however, happy that the MLA has managed to get a Rs 110 crore package for laying new sewerage and water supply pipes. “I have also brought in Rs 70 crore for new roads and widening the existing ones,” Vij added.“We know neither Deol nor Vij. What we know is that whosoever fits the pieces in the jigsaw puzzle will get our votes,” said Pushpa Devi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-endless-wait-for-elevated-rail-track-347569
08-12-2021||Lovleen Bains||Sahnewal: Healthcare facilities await booster||THIS Assembly constituency in Ludhiana may have become a sub-tehsil, but residents here are far from satisfied with regard to the basic healthcare facilities.There is a severe shortage of doctors and medicines in the otherwise new building of the Community Health Centre. People are forced to visit private doctors due to the non-availability of staff at government centres.Basic facilities elude Mattewara. Dhandhari Khurd residents have been for long waiting for a solution to the perennial problem of sewage overflow in their area. Thousands of new colonies have mushroomed in the constituency, and a majority of these lacks basic facilities. Garbage disposal leaves a lot to be desired. Mounds of waste in residential areas and at dumps have become a nuisance. Expansion joints of Sahnewal-Kohara railway over-bridge have given way four times ever since it was installed in 2015. Industries in this part of the city have rendered the groundwater unfit for consumption. Unchecked release of hazardous chemicals is adversely affecting the health of residents. Traffic congestion is becoming a major problem.However, MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon counts sewerage system, water supply, railway over-bridge, sub-tehsil status, link roads, model police station, Mattewara over-bridge, Dream Park and Cycle Valley in Dhanansu as his major contributions to the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sahnewal-healthcare-facilities-await-booster-347570
08-12-2021||Amritsar||SGPC chief authorised to name DSGMC member||With Manjinder Singh Sirsa quitting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to join the BJP, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today convened its executive body meeting to take a call on nominating a fresh member to the Sikh body.Sajjan chargesheet a consolationIt is a matter of consolation for the Sikh families. Many others were involved in the genocide. Every culprit should be punished. Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC PresidentSGPC’s newly elected president Harjinder Singh Dhami said it had nothing to do with Sirsa switching over to the BJP. “The exercise to nominate a fresh member was required as Sirsa’s membership was cancelled by the Director, Gurdwara Elections. We had to send a fresh name in his place,” he said.Nonetheless, the maiden meeting of the SGPC executive was called under the leadership of Dhami, where the executive body authorised Dhami to nominate a new member to the DSGMC on behalf of the SGPC.As per the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Act, one member is nominated by the SGPC to the DSGMC on the lines of the members nominated for Takht Harmandar Ji Patna Sahib and Takht Sri Abchalnagar Hazur Sahib, Nanded.On August 23, 2021, the SGPC had nominated Sirsa as its member in the DSGMC, despite his defeat in the gurdwara body elections.Without divulging who would replace Sirsa, Dhami said during the initial course, the executive body had authorised him to select the nominee for the DSGMC on behalf of the SGPC and the decision would be made shortly.On the Delhi court ordering framing murder charge against Sajjan Kumar, he said: “Imposition of charges against Congress leader Sajjan Kumar in connection with the murder of two in Delhi’s Raj Nagar is a matter of consolation for the Sikh families. Many other leaders, including Jagdish Tytler, were also involved in the genocide and every culprit should be severely punished.”He condemned the Congress for awarding the perpetrators of the Sikh genocide with high positions. Dhami also slammed the state government’s advertisements on the big screens on the heritage street leading to the Golden Temple. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-authorised-to-name-dsgmc-member-347571
08-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab Govt faced with series of protests; work hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7With Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi looking to reach out to the targeted vote bank ahead of the Assembly elections, his government is faced with a series of protests from various sections to get their demands accepted.From contract employees to healthcare workers, including nurses and ASHA workers; ETT teachers to patwaris and kanungos; roadways staff to employees in deputy commissioner’s offices; and regular employees to farm labourers, all are flexing their muscle.As a result, the state is hearing the din even before the poll bugle has been sounded by the Election Commission. Various sections of these voters have taken to the roads, disrupting normal life.While the strike by the roadways contract employees led to disruption in public transport services, the strike by revenue officers is hampering regular works linked to registration of sale deed, attestation of certificate, issuance of fard, etc.Sudhir Chadha, who has to fly abroad to be with her family, says she is desperately trying to get a sale deed registered before she leaves and has been frequenting the tehsildar office in Dera Bassi, but to no avail due to the strike. Similarly, people are suffering as the healthcare services have come to a near standstill because of the strike by the National Rural Health Mission workers.On the other hand, protesting employees say they have no choice but to stirke, as the government in power first promises to fulfil their demands, but backtracks later. Both Sukhchain Khehra, convener, Sanjha Mulazam Manch, and Dr Inderjeet Singh Rana of the NHRM Employees Association accuse the government of first agreeing to their demands, but later issuing notifications accepting only a part of these.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary to CM, said: “All issues with various unions are on the discussion table and these will be sorted out soon. Discussions are being held with the protesters at different levels — with ministers, officers, and sometimes with the CM. The government is trying to fulfil all genuine demands.”PRTC employees go on indefinite strikeBathinda: Employees of the PRTC, Punjab Roadways and Punbus have started an indefinite strike at the bus stand to get contract employees regularised. A majority of PRTC buses remained off road on Tuesday.NHM staff demand regularisationRopar: A large number of National Health Mission (NHM) workers on Tuesday blocked the Chandigarh-Nawanshahr road, demanding regularisation. The NHM employees have been on strike since October 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-faced-with-series-of-protests-work-hit-347572
08-12-2021||Barnala/Sangrur||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal wants power, Channi wealth: Sukhbir Badal||The SAD today accused Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal of deceiving Punjabis by forcing them to fill forms to get registered for the proposed Rs 1,000 a month scheme for women. “Earlier Capt Amarinder Singh got forms filled to give jobs to each household in Punjab. Now, Kejriwal is doing the same by launching bogus camps to fill the forms,” alleged SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal while addressing rallies at Tapa in Barnala and Sunam in support of party candidates.“Kejriwal wants to grab power in Punjab by hook or by crook. This is why AAP has not announced its CM face,” he alleged, adding Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was trying to portray himself as an ‘aam aadmi’, but in reality he had amassed wealth. On employees’ strike across the state, he said: “Once the SAD-BSP forms the government, we’ll give them their dues.” In Sunam, Sukhbir promised a state-of-the-art multi-specialty medical college and hospital in the memory of Shaheed Udham Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-cm-wants-power-channi-wealth-347573
08-12-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi visits border village, listens to farmers' woes||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited Khuali village in Amritsar near the India-Pakistan border last evening. He relished the traditional Punjabi dinner with a family in the village.He also interacted with farmers to know about the problems being encountered by them in the border belt. Farmers told him that even those owning 15 acres were not able to make ends meet.Farmers complained about difficulty and restrictions in tilling their land located across the border fence. The CM noted down their suggestions on how to make agriculture a profitable venture and ensure better and effective management of paddy straw.Next morning, he paid a surprise visit to Government Senior Secondary School, Wadala Bhittewad, and lauded the school management for ensuring proper upkeep, cleanliness and educational standards. He participated in the recitation of the National Anthem and interacted with students. — TNSCong leaders spar at rally venueBathinda: Ahead of the CM’s rally at Rama Mandi on Wednesday, former Congress minister Harmander Singh Jassi and party halqa incharge Khushbaz Singh Jattana on Tuesday had a heated argument at the venue. Both leaders, who are vying for a party ticket, reportedly argued while overseeing preparations for the scheduled rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-visits-border-village-listens-to-farmers-woes-347574
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Won't make false promises: Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma||Asking opposition parties to refrain from promising freebies which the Punjab couldn’t afford, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma today said the party would not make false promises and would instead give the state a roadmap for progress.Accusing AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal of misleading the public with his poll promises, Sharma said: “The BJP would not merely come out with a manifesto, it would also have a commitment plan wherein progress and equal opportunity for every citizen would be the primary duty of the government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-make-false-promises-ashwani-sharma-347575
08-12-2021||---||Amid talk of alliance, Capt Amarinder Singh meets BJP's Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Chandigarh, December 7A day after inaugurating the office of the Punjab Lok Congress, former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today held a “private” meeting with BJP state incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.This was the first formal meeting between Capt Amarinder and Shekhawat, who was given the charge of looking after the state affairs in September.Capt Amarinder had earlier met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah from the saffron outfit in Delhi. The meeting with Sekhawat, who is also a Union Minister, is being termed “nothing more than a private meet over lunch”.A source close to Capt Amarinder said: “There was no major development on any front.” Although no details were given on the ‘one-on-one’ meeting between the two leaders, sources pointed out discussions were held on the election scenario, existing conditions on the ground and the best way forward.Capt Amarinder has already pointed out that in-principle decision had been taken on an alliance with the BJP. Although he also pointed out that the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) was also on board for a possible alliance, the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led outfit has not yet given any confirmation in this regard. Meanwhile, Capt Amarinder has lashed out at the Congress high command for appointing Ajay Maken as the chairman of the party’s screening committee for shortlisting candidates for the upcoming elections.In a statement, Capt Amarinder said Maken was the nephew of Lalit Maken, one of the main culprits of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi. The Congress should have avoided naming someone like Maken, as the name itself drew “derision and revulsion in Punjab due to the involvement of his late uncle in the anti-Sikh riots.Hits out at Cong for key role to Maken||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-talk-of-alliance-capt-meets-bjps-shekhawat-347576
08-12-2021||Amritsar/Kartarpur||Sand mafia making a killing in Punjab: Arvind Kejriwal||Accusing the Congress of patronising the mafia in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today said the illegal business of sand mining was worth over Rs 20,000 crore in the state.Illegal trade worth Rs20K cr rampantAn illegal trade to the tune of Rs20,000 crore per annum in sand mining is going on in Punjab. This money can be used for people’s welfare. Arvind Kejriwal, AAPUpon his arrival at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport in Amritsar before proceeding to Kartarpur (Jalandhar) and Hoshiarpur, he said when there were allegations of involvement of Congress MLAs and ministers in sand mafia and many other illegal activities, who would protect the interests of people?“I have reports that illegal mining is rampant in CM Channi’s constituency in Fatehgarh Sahib. Can the welfare of Punjab be expected from such patrons?” he said, while demanding a probe by an independent agency.Kejriwal alleged earlier the SAD-BJP regime had looted Punjab by patronising the mafia, after 2017, Capt Amarinder-led Congress followed in the footsteps of the Badals for four and a half years. He promised to end all sorts of mafia if AAP was voted to power in 2022.During his visit to Sarai Khas village of Kartarpur (reserved) seat, he initiated registration of women for his proposed Rs 1,000 per month scheme. “Those sitting in the present government are saying that I intend to make my mothers and sisters kaam chor (slackers) and aalsi (lazy) with this scheme, but how come those who have embezzled millions are still active,” he hit back at his opponents.Replying to those questioning about the funds for this scheme, the Delhi CM claimed, “Sand worth Rs 20,000 crore is being stolen in Punjab. We will form a government to stop this theft. Just Rs 10,000 crore of this amount would be enough to arrange for Rs 1,000 per month.”In Hoshiarpur, the Delhi CM interacted with the members of Scheduled Caste (SC) community from Shamchurasi. He accused the successive governments of using the community only for the vote bank. He said AAP would ensure free education and coaching for competitive exams to every SC child.(With inputs from Hoshiarpur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sand-mafia-making-a-killing-in-punjab-arvind-kejriwal-347577
08-12-2021||Jalandhar||Kejriwal starts registration for AAP's promise of paying Rs 1,000 for all women of Punjab||AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal started a registration drive in Punjab on Tuesday following his promise that Rs 1,000 would be given to women if his party comes to power in Punjab after the 2022 Assembly polls.Kejriwal, who was on a daylong visit to Punjab, launched the drive from Sarai Khas village in Kartarpur here.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) released a mobile phone number on which women have to give a missed call for registration.Kejriwal said women just have to give a missed call on the number and they will get Rs 1,000 per month after the formation of the AAP government in the state.The Delhi chief minister had earlier promised to give Rs 1,000 to women every month if his party forms the government in Punjab.Seeking to give a reply to his political opponents who questioned him over the funds needed to honour the promise, the AAP leader said he will stop the Rs 20,000 crore illegal sand mining activity after his party comes to power and fund the scheme with that money.“We will stop the theft of Rs 20,000 crore through illegal sand mining and arrange Rs 1,000 to be given to women from that money,” he said.Kejriwal said the women of Punjab are very hard working and the sum of Rs 1,000 per month is for their empowerment and to make them financially stronger.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu asked Kejriwal how he would fund the “freebies” that he has been announcing for the people of the state.“Punjabis want to know @ArvindKejriwal Ji, How’ll you finance freebies you announce daily? Stop fooling People, if you can’t provide basic economic backing for promises. Punjabis deserve Income not Bheekh—Punjab Model is Model to provide income & opportunities for all Punjabis,” he said in a tweet. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-starts-registration-for-aaps-promise-of-paying-rs-1-000-for-all-women-of-punjab-347528
08-12-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Samyukt Kisan Morcha puts off decision on the fate of agitation until Wednesday||No decision has been taken yet on calling off the farmers’ protest, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the stir, said on Tuesday and demanded clarification on certain points, in the government’s proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of “fake” cases against farmers.Farmer leaders, who are members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), after a meeting also said they will meet again at 2 PM on Wednesday to decide the future course of action.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a prominent farmer leader, has claimed that a consensus has been arrived at and “nearly all demands” have been met.However, the SKM said there was no consensus yet on ending the protest, which was triggered last year after the government enacted three farm laws.“SKM confirms to have received a written draft proposal from the government of India. The proposal was constructively discussed by the farm leaders at the SKM meeting at the Singhu Border today. The morcha will seek further clarifications on a few points of the government’s proposal, and will reconvene at 2 pm tomorrow for further discussion. The SKM hopes for a positive response from the government,” the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions said in a statement following the meeting.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the government’s proposal said that it will form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states.                    “We had objections to it … we do not want other committees who have been against our demands since the start to be part of the panel on MSP. We have demanded the government give a clarification in this regard,” Rajewal said.“We are also against the condition set by the government that farm unions should lift the protest for the withdrawal of fake cases against farmers,” he said, adding the cases include those registered in connection with the January 26 violence.Another farmer leader said they received the government’s proposal on Tuesday afternoon.“We discussed it in the meeting. We had certain objections to some points in the proposal. Our members have given some suggestions and these have been sent to the government,” he said.The SKM had formed a five-member panel on Saturday to hold talks with the government on the pending demands of the protesting farmers, including a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, compensation to the kin of the farmers who died during the agitation against three agriculture laws and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters.The five-member panel of the SKM has farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh.“We have sent our proposal to the government and their response will deliberated upon further. Then we want a letter from MHA (ministry of home affairs) on their letter head with the sign of the home minister,” Kakka said.Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said protesting farmer unions have reached a consensus on the future course of the agitation as nearly all their demands have been met, but a formal announcement of the decision will be made on Wednesday.“Nearly all demands raised by us have been met.... Letter (from the government with assurances on farmers’ demands) has been received. A consensus has been reached, the final decision will be announced tomorrow,” Sandhu told reporters after the SKM meeting.Another farmer leader and SKM member said the agitation is likely to be called off on Wednesday as there have been some positive responses from the government side on the farmers’ demands.However, a final decision will be announced after another meeting of SKM on Wednesday, he said.On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands too. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farmers-meet-at-singhu-border-get-draft-copy-from-centre-on-six-demands-347469
08-12-2021||Vibha Sharma||Rahul Gandhi submits in Lok Sabha list of farmers who died during agitation||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 7Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday submitted in the Lok Sabha a list of farmers who died during the farm laws agitation.Speaking during Zero Hour, Gandhi, who had also given an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha seeking compensation for the families of farmers who died during farm laws protest, said more than 700 farmers died, however, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Parliament that “he had no record of the deaths”.“Almost 700 farmers were martyred. The Prime Minister accepted his mistake when he apologised for making anti-agriculture law. The Punjab government has given compensation to the families of those who were killed. So, what I want to say is that here are the names of all those who died in the agitation and that they should be given their due since the Prime Minister has also admitted his mistake,” Gandhi said.He told the House that the Congress government in Punjab had paid Rs 5 lakh compensation each to the families of 403 deceased farmers in the state, and provided jobs to 152 of their relatives.In addition to the list of 403 deceased farmers from Punjab, Gandhi said he was also providing names of those from places outside Punjab, including Haryana, compiled from public records.“The Prime Minister himself has said that he has made a mistake. He has apologised to the nation. Well, as a result of that mistake, 700 farmers have died,” he said.Earlier too, Gandhi had slammed the Centre for claiming that there is “no record” of the farmers who had died in the protests.The government in a reply to Parliament had said that it had not kept track of farmers who lost their lives in the agitation against the farm laws and hence the question of compensation did not arise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/rahul-gandhi-submits-in-lok-sabha-list-of-farmers-who-died-during-the-farmers-agitation-347438
