09-12-2021||Chandigarh||NIA conducts searches in Punjab in connection with narcotics, arms smuggling from Pakistan||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday carried out searches at four locations of accused and suspects in Punjab’s Ferozepur in connection with a case of smuggling of narcotic substances, arms and ammunition from Pakistan, an official said.The case was registered in August in Ferozepur, the official of the premier investigation agency said.The NIA re-registered the case last month.During the searches, incriminating documents and digital devices were seized, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case is continuing. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-conducts-searches-in-punjab-in-connection-with-narcotics-arms-smuggling-from-pakistan-348289
09-12-2021||---||TMC clarifies it has no state unit in Punjab||New Delhi, December 9Trinamool Congress on Thursday clarified that it was having no state unit in Punjab.Pointing out the link of a newspaper report saying TMC has tied up with a political party in Punjab, the party said in a post that media should refrain from spreading such disinformation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tmc-clarifies-it-has-no-state-unit-in-punjab-348288
09-12-2021||London||UK High Court rejects India’s appeal to extradite terror accused Kuldeep Singh||The High Court in England on Thursday rejected an appeal by Indian authorities seeking permission to appeal against a magistrates’ court order turning down the extradition on human rights grounds of Kuldeep Singh, wanted in India as an alleged senior member of the banned terrorist organisation Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF).Singh alias Keepa Sidhu is charged with conspiring with others to commit terror activities in Punjab dating back to 2015-16, including a plot to assassinate then chief minister and deputy chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal, respectively.The 44-year-old is also accused of recruiting youths in Punjab to the banned KZF organisation by offering them money and organising a meeting of separatists in a gurdwara.District Judge Gareth Branston, presiding over the extradition case at Westminster Magistrates’ Court here, ruled in January that as the offences carry maximum sentences and “no possibility of a review of such a life sentence with a view to its commutation, remission, termination or conditional release”, it would be contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights.“The District Judge’s comprehensive and clearly reasoned judgment cannot be faulted,” High Court Justices Nicola Davies and Pushpinder Saini said in their judgment, handed down at the Royal Courts of Justice here.“There are no grounds upon which it would be appropriate for this court to interfere with the discretion exercised by the District Judge,” they conclude.Singh faces a total of four charges in India, under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act related to raising funds for terrorism, conspiracy and being a member of a terror outfit and of the Arms Act related to firearms offences.The court documents note that he is accused of being a point of contact in Punjab and liaising with the head of the KZF, who was residing in Pakistan, and other co-accused members of the organisation, who lived in Belgium and England.Singh, who entered the UK illegally in 2005, was on immigration bail when he was arrested at Loughborough Immigration Reporting Centre in eastern England in October 2019.In September 2020, the Indian authorities were successful in revoking bail granted to him at the magistrates’ court level.Singh – who used a Punjabi interpreter in court – then remained remanded in judicial custody for the duration of the extradition hearings before District Judge Branston, which concluded in December last year.In his judgment in January, District Judge Branston accepted Indian government assurances regarding prison conditions under which Singh would be kept as “clear, binding and sufficient”.“There is no evidence that Mr Singh has previously been ill-treated in India. This country has considered and accepted previous assurances by the Indian government. There is no cogent evidence to suggest that they will not be complied with,” he said.He also noted that it is undisputed that there is evidence of a conspiracy to commit criminal offences in India but questioned the proportionality of a life term without parole.The judge said: “In my judgment, if such a sentence were imposed upon Mr Singh in the context of this case, then such a sentence would plainly be grossly disproportionate to the offending alleged.“Whilst clearly very serious allegations, Mr Singh is alleged to have been involved in the funding and recruitment of terrorist activity. As is observed, there is no evidence that anyone was actually killed as a result of his alleged activities. He is accused of acts preparatory to terrorist offences.” Besides the human rights issue relating to a life sentence without parole, the court also found that there is “insufficient evidence to make a case requiring an answer by Kuldeep Singh”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-high-court-rejects-indias-appeal-to-extradite-terror-accused-kuldeep-singh-348281
09-12-2021||---||Capt Amarinder congratulates farmers over triumphant end to stir against farm laws||Chandigarh, December 9Congratulating the farmers over the triumphant culmination of their over year-long agitation against the Farm Laws, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday hoped it would pave the way for a more constructive political environment for the progress of the farming community, who constitute the backbone of India’s economic growth and sustainability.Amarinder said he was happy the farmers’ fight had reached its logical conclusion and the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments had agreed in principle to follow his own erstwhile government’s decision in Punjab to compensate the families of farmers who had lost their lives during the agitation. The Captain Amarinder Singh government had announced Rs 5 lakh in financial aid and a job for one member each of the deceased farmers’ families in December 2020 and January 2021, respectively.In a statement today, the former Chief Minister expressed relief that the agitating farmers, farm labourers and their families will finally be back in the warm comfort of their homes after camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year.Captain Amarinder hoped the lingering issue of MSP, for which the Centre had constituted a committee, would also be resolved soon to the satisfaction of the farmers. He further hoped all future legislations and decisions concerning the farming community, which has been at the forefront of India’s progressive march since Independence, would be taken in the spirit of mutual agreement, after due consultation with all the stakeholders.Asserting his party’s unequivocal support for the farmers, Captain Amarinder said, as in the past, he would continue to do everything in his power to protect their interests and ensure their welfare. He pointed out that as chief minister of Punjab, he had not only supported the farmers’ fight for the repeal of the Farm Laws but had ensured that they were not, in any way, harassed even when they were sitting in protest across the state or marching towards Delhi.As far back as in June 2020, he had convened an all-party meeting to seek repeal of what were then the three Farm Ordinances, pointed out the former chief minister. His government had followed it up with a Resolution rejecting the Ordinances, which was passed by the Punjab Assembly in August, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-congratulates-farmers-over-triumphant-end-to-stir-against-farm-laws-348264
09-12-2021||Rabbi Shergill was in Chandigarh to launch a book||Rabbi Shergill, in Chandigarh for a book launch, says Punjab's literature and history is very rich||Rabbi, who is planning to write a book (in Punjabi as well as English) adds, “Any creative thing has two aspects — art and the craft. If art comes from within, it is the craft that you control through hard work, constant learning and practice. As I have written my songs, I also have sung Heer or Bulleh Shah and credit the original writers. So, it is not necessary to always come with completely fresh topics. Subjects are usually the same; it’s your sensibility and observation that give it shape.”Changing timesRabbi’s first album was Rabbi in 2005 and he credits KJ Singh, the producer of the album, “He knew poetry, so gave my words and music a chance.” About the current Punjabi music scene, “I am not clued in to everything. But, I like Motia Chameli by Satinder Sartaaj and also a singer named Bir Singh.” The independent musician adds, “While earlier musicians had just one or two platforms, now it has all changed, which has helped young talent.” — Sheetal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/rabbi-shergill-in-chandigarh-for-a-book-launch-says-punjabs-literature-and-history-is-very-rich-348216
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sucha Singh Chhotepur joins Shiromani Akali Dal; to contest Punjab election from Batala||Former Punjab AAP convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur joined the Shiromani Akali Dal in the presence of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal here on Thursday and will contest the upcoming polls from the Batala assembly seat.Chhotepur was the state convener of the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab but was removed from this post by the AAP leadership in August 2016 on charges of corruption.He was accused of accepting money from a ticket aspirant ahead of the 2017 assembly polls. However, Chhotepur had denied these charges.SAD chief Badal called Chhotepur an "honest" politician and said with him joining the party, the Akali Dal would get a boost not only in the Majha region but also across Punjab.He said Chhotepur had played a key role in building AAP in Punjab but later it "deceived" him."Chhotepur will be the candidate of the SAD-BSP alliance from Batala seat," he said.Badal has also appointed Chhotepur as the SAD's senior vice president.Replying to a question, Chhotepur slammed the Aam Aadmi Party saying there is a big difference in what the AAP leadership says and what it does.He claimed that the AAP ignored workers who had worked hard in building the party.After Chhotepur was sacked from the AAP, he had formed his own outfit called Apna Punjab Party.Chhotepur was a minister in the Surjit Singh Barnala-led government in Punjab in 1985.He had contested as an independent in 2002 from Dhariwal constituency in Gurdaspur and defeated SAD candidate Sucha Singh Langah.In 2012, he had contested from Qadian assembly seat in Gurdaspur as an independent and had lost to Congress candidate Charanjit Kaur Bajwa.In 2014, Chhotepur had unsuccessfully contested on an AAP ticket from Gurdaspur parliamentary seat. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-punjab-ex-president-sucha-singh-chhotepur-to-join-shiromani-akali-dal-today-348204
09-12-2021||---||GPS trackers on SGST Dept vehicles: Cheating case registered against unknown persons||Ludhiana, December 8After three weeks of lodging a complaint regarding the fitting of GPS trackers on official vehicles of the Ludhiana wing of the State Goods and Service Tax (SGST) Department, the police have registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy against unknown persons.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered yesterday.Randhir Singh, an official in the department, had filed a complaint with the Ludhiana police about three weeks ago. The complaint was marked to the cyber wing of the city police for investigation.The SGST official in his complaint stated that they had five official vehicles which they use to conduct raids to catch GST tax evaders.“A few weeks ago, we got information that some tax evaders had installed GPS trackers on our official vehicles and whenever the vehicles move from our offices to catch tax evaders, the latter could easily know our location and could hide their loaded vehicles easily. The tax evaders even come to know about checkpoints by tracking our vehicles’ location and they could divert their vehicles to another route,” SGST officials said.They said when they got their vehicles inspected, they found four GPS trackers fitted on Mahindra Bolero, three on Toyota Innova, one on Mahindra Bolero, and one on Renault Triber vehicle. Nine GPS devices in total were seized.The department handed over the devices to the police for investigation.ADCP (Crime) Jagatpreet Singh said the crime wing was conducting investigation in a technical and scientific way and the police would soon bust the gang behind this crime.Sources said the SGST Department was also checking the role of some employees of the department who could have connived with tax evaders as a few of the trackers were installed by drilling on the vehicles, while others were installed underneath them using magnets.Role of employees under scannerSources said the Ludhiana wing of the SGST Department was also checking the role of some employees of the department who could have connived with tax evaders as a few of the trackers were installed by drilling on vehicles, while others were installed underneath them using magnets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gps-trackers-on-sgst-dept-vehicles-cheating-case-registered-against-unknown-persons-348059
09-12-2021||Abohar||Gang of robbers busted, 4 held in Abohar||Seminar on telecommunicationBathinda: A two-day national convention on electronics and telecommunication was organised at the Institution of Engineers in Bathinda on Wednesday. Pawan Kumar Garg, former chairman of Radio Regulation Board of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, inaugurated the conference. Dr Savina Bansal, MRSPTU, Bathinda, Dr Harpreet Singh of Wayne State University and Er Pawan Garg, former wireless adviser, Government of India, were given the ‘Eminent Engineers Award’. tnsDr Pruthi is med council headChandigarh: Cardiologist Dr CS Pruthi has taken over as the president of the Punjab Medical Council. Thanking Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Medical Education Minister OP Soni, Dr Pruthi said he would use his experience to improve the medical council’s working. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-of-robbers-busted-4-held-in-abohar-348117
09-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Five booked for embezzling gold worth Rs 69 lakh in Sriganganagar||Sriganganagar, December 8Embezzlement of Rs 69 lakh in a gold loan firm situated in Sriganganagar has come to the fore.Rajesh Sindhi, regional manager of the company, has filed a complaint against five persons, including branch manager of the firm, for stealing gold mortgaged by customers and further taking loans by mortgaging the same with other companies.The accused have been identified as branch manager Saurabh Chhabra, gold appraiser Puneet Rawal, Gulshan Soni, Manish Sharma and Raman Dawra.The complainant said on November 29, he came to know that gold packets were being stolen from the vault and loan was being raised by mortgaging the same to other companies.Sindhi said a complete audit of the branch was done on November 30 and December 1. It was found that a total of 1,624.57-gm gold was stolen worth Rs 69.10 lakh.Sub-Inspector Rohtash Poonia said CCTV footage was being examined and data related to gold mortgaged with other companies was being compiled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-booked-for-embezzling-gold-worth-rs-69-lakh-347969
09-12-2021||---||Teachers roped in to dispel myths on epilepsy||Faridkot, December 8As students with convulsive disorder (epilepsy) from low-income families suffer from stigma and discrimination in absence of proper treatment due to lack of knowledge, the state School Education Department and Guru Gobind Singh Government Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot have started a special programme to educate teachers in government schools to understand the genetics of epilepsy and dispel myths about it.Saying proper education and appropriate healthcare services can make tremendous change in the life of an epileptic patient, doctors at the programme organised at the medical college on Sunday said many people with active epilepsy don’t receive appropriate treatment for their condition, leading to a large treatment gap. The programme was attendedby 250 principals and teachers of government schools of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-roped-in-to-dispel-myths-on-epilepsy-347970
09-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Establish trauma centre at Abohar hospital, Punjab CM urged||Abohar, December 8On Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s visit to inaugurate a 100-bed building of the district hospital at Fazilka on Monday, BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang sought his intervention to equip the sub-divisional Civil Hospital in Abohar with a trauma centre. He said most of the people injured in road mishaps had to be referred to Faridkot or other facilities. The hospital was upgraded from 50 to 100 beds about 20 years ago, but many other facilities were missing.“If a trauma centre is provided at the hospital, even grievously injured patients can be treated here. Apart from this, the hospital has no CT (computed tomography) scan machine. There have been no ophthalmologists and skin specialists at the hospital for a long time, and patients have to go to private hospitals, where the treatment is costly,” he said.Last year, Narang said he had requested Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal to provide ventilators and other necessary equipment at the hospital to battle Covid-19, but he did not respond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/establish-trauma-centre-at-abohar-hospital-punjab-cm-urged-347971
09-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Temple 'razed' in Fatehgarh Sahib, outfits block Delhi-Amritsar road||A massive jam was witnessed on the Delhi-Amritsar national highway on Wednesday as members of various right wing outfits along with leaders of Opposition parties staged a dharna on GT Road in Sirhind against the ‘demolition’ of a Shiva Temple by the district administration to construct the Fatehgarh Sahib administrative complex.The protesters alleged the demolition took place in the presence of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra’s wife. However, she refuted the allegations. The policemen had to divert the traffic through link roads to ease the jam. Nagra said, “It is unfortunate that the name of my wife is being dragged into the controversy. We are ready to face any inquiry and can’t even think of demolishing any religious place. It is a political conspiracy ahead of the 2022 poll.”Mandeep Kaur Nagra, wife of the MLA, said: “Let the police inquire about my location. I will file a complaint against all those who named me.”“There was no temple. A ‘Shiv ling’, majar and ‘Shani Dev Temple are still there. Someone from Uttar Pradesh had encroached upon government land and bricks were removed from that portion,” said the local SDM. SSP Sandeep Goel said, “No temple has been demolished. Inquiry will be conducted and action will be initiated as per the law.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/temple-razed-outfits-block-delhi-amritsar-road-347972
09-12-2021||Bathinda||Revenue staff's protest halts registry work in Bathinda||As tehsildars have been on mass leave for the last two weeks over the alleged high-handedness of the Vigilance Bureau, residents are perturbed over the suspension of work at the Revenue Department offices.Tehsildars under the banner of the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association have been holding protests across the state against the arrest of a naib tehsildar and a registry clerk by the Vigilance Bureau in Hoshiarpur on November 22. Employees of the DC office, kanungos, patwaris and district revenue officers have extended their support to the protesters.A group of visitors at the Bathinda tehsil office said they had been running from pillar to post, but could not get the registry of land purchased done for the last 10 days. All main tehsil and sub-tehsil offices, including Rampura Phul, Talwandi Sabo, Maur, Goniana, Sangat, Bhagta, Nathana and Ballianwali, have been lying closed. Gurdev Singh, chief, Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association, said, “As long as the Vigilance Bureau does not cancel the case registered against the naib tehsildar and his reader, we will continue our protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revenue-staffs-protest-halts-registry-work-347973
09-12-2021||Amritsar||No documents, Border's family stuck in Amritsar||A local lawyer has come to the rescue of a Pakistan-based Hindu couple who could not cross the Attari-Wagah border with their India-born child for want of official formalities.As a mark of their struggle to cross the border due to paper work, the couple had named their son ‘Border’. Nimbu Bai and her husband Bala Ram, who belong to Rajanpur district of the Punjab province, were among the 99 travellers from Pakistan who had arrived in India last year on a pilgrimage, before Covid-19 restrictions were imposed. Since September this year, they were camping near the Attari border. Now, to go back to Pakistan, it was necessary to procure documents such as a fresh Covid-19 test report and exit letter as the validity of visas had expired.As the travel documents of all were arranged and they crossed over to Pakistan two days back, the couple got stuck here as they didn’t possess the birth certificate and passport of ‘Border’. Without the documentation, the Pakistan authorities were unwilling to accept them. Amritsar district court lawyer Navjot Kaur Chabba has taken up the task to send ‘Border’ and his parents back to their native place. “Since they do not possess valid visas and exit letters, the Pakistan authorities were reluctant to accept them back. I have been trying to convince the Pakistan Embassy to issue them a transit visa and efforts are on to procure the birth certificate of the child from Amritsar,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-documents-borders-family-stuck-in-amritsar-347974
09-12-2021||Faridkot||Strike on, agency threatens to sack PRTC employees||A Patiala-based manpower consulting agency that provides contractual staffto the state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) today warned the striking employees to join duty by evening or face the axe.The move comes a day after contractual employees of the PRTC and the Punjab Roadways went on an indefinite strike demanding regularisation of their services.As per terms and conditions of an agreement between the PRTC and the firm (SS Service Provider), if the manpower provided by the latter remained wilfully absent from duty without assigning any valid reason on any day, it would not be entitled to any remuneration for that day. Moreover, if the route assigned to the service provider by the PRTC is not covered due to wilful absence by manpower, the loss to the PRTC will be recoverable from the service provider.PRTC Faridkot Depot Accounts Officer Kashmir Kaur said the PRTC had nothing to do with the notice to the employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strike-on-agency-threatens-to-sack-prtc-employees-347975
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Norms eased for wood-based industry in Punjab||In a boost for industry, the Punjab Forest Department has paved the way to streamline the establishment of wood-based industry in the state.The department has clarified that as per the Ministry of Environment guidelines, called as the Wood-Based Industries (Establishment and Regulation) Guidelines, 2016, the industry would be permitted at a distance of 10 km from notified government block forests, besides demarcated and undemarcated protected forests in the state.The issue had been embroiled in legal tangles after the state government made the Punjab Regulation of Wood Based Industries Rules, 2017, notified in 2019. Instead of the 10-km distance guidelines of the Centre, the state had fixed the distance to set up the industry within 100-metre aerial distance from notified government block forests, besides demarcated and undemarcated protected forests in the state. Now, the Centre’s guideline of 10 km has been made applicable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-eased-for-wood-based-industry-347976
09-12-2021||Faridkot||Punjab Govt schools to get 4K tablets||In a move to improve e-learning, the School Education Department has started a project to provide 4,361 tablets (computers) to libraries in 872 government schools.Costing around Rs 5 crore, these tablets would be supplied to the District Education Officers (DEOs) on Thursday and the DEOs would further distribute these electronic gadgets to the schools. Each of the 872 schools would get five tablets.The state has 1,880 Government Senior Secondary Schools. The step has been taken in the light of increasing dependence on digital mediums. These tablets would be made available to students through the libraries as digital reference books.Yadwinder Singh, assistant manager (hardware), School Education Department, said, “We will distribute all the tablets by this week.” While 22 districts would be provided the tablets, Amritsar has maximum share (400 tablets), followed by Ludhiana (336) and Patiala (320). Sukhjit Pal Singh, Director, School Education Department, said, “Education is being more technology-based. The government schools should not lag behind.”“The present generation is using desktop computers. The app ecosystem in tablets provides an abundance of learning content for all ages,” said Yadwinder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-schools-to-get-4k-tablets-347977
09-12-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Punjab Govt holiday on Bhai Jaita's birth anniversary||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has declared a government holiday on the birth anniversary of Bhai Jeevan Singh, popularly known as Bhai Jaitaji, who brought the severed head of Guru Tegh Bahadur from Delhi to Anandpur Sahib and handed it over to Guru Gobind Singh. Bhai Jaitaji was honoured by Guru Gobind Singh with title "Rangrete Guru ke bete". Channi was here on the martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur to digitally lay the foundation stone of four projects, including modernisation and upgrade of Guru Tegh Bahadur Museum situated near Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib.He also laid the foundation stone of a solar plant at Virasat-e-Khalsa, second phase of Bhai Jaitaji memorial and a nature park where saplings of plants mentioned in Guru Granth Sahib and Gurbani will be planted.The CM said the nature park would be developed at a cost of Rs 10 crore over 62 acres. He also announced a community centre in each block of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-holiday-on-bhai-jaitas-birth-anniversary-347978
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||GST cash collection in Punjab up 32%||GST cash collection in the state grew by 32 per cent to Rs 1,845 crore in November. It is second only to what was collected in April this year. The growth rate is the third highest in the country after Odisha and Kerala.An official spokesperson for the Taxation Commissionerate said the GST revenue receipts for the state in November stood at Rs 1,377.77 crore against Rs 1,067 crore for the corresponding period of last year, registering a growth of 29 per cent. This is very much in line with the trend in economic recovery.He said the GST revenue up to November this year witnessed a growth of around 54 per cent as compared to the corresponding period last year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gst-cash-collection-up-32-347979
09-12-2021||Manav Mander||50 years of the 1971 war: When both sides showed compassion, bonhomie||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 8It’s been 50 years since the 1971 India-Pakistan war, but Brigadier Indermohan Singh (retd) recalls the events as if it happened yesterday. From the movement of his regiment to the map of the area — he remembers all the little details.Back then, he was all of 20; only three months into the service. He was the second lieutenant in the 69 Armoured Regiment. His was the first mixed-class armoured regiment that had 53 tanks.Rescue actI was in the leading tank from Hilli to Goraghat when I saw an injured Pakistani soldier. The crowd hurled stones at him. I saved him. Later, we came to know that our tank driver, presumed to be dead, was saved by the Pakistan army. Brig Indermohan Singh (retd)He recalls how he had saved a Pakistani soldier and the Pakistan army had rescued an Indian tank driver.“I was in the leading tank from Hilli to Goraghat when I saw a Pakistani soldier with a bullet in his leg. The crowd hurled stones at him. I saved him from the crowd and took him to a military hospital. This good turn was rewarded when we came to know that our tank driver Sahab Singh, whom we were presuming to be dead, was saved by the Pakistan army,” he shares.Brigadier Indermohan says when the war was over, Indian and Pakistani soldiers had tea and snacks together and talked in Punjabi and longed to visit this part of Punjab.Brigadier SS Gill (retd), then 21, was the Second Lieutenant and gun position officer during the war. “The enemy bombarded my gun position thrice and a splinter went through my turban. My mother preserved that turban. We lost five of our soldiers,” shares Brigadier Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-both-sides-showed-compassion-bonhomie-347980
09-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays employee's transfer over 'bias'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8With just eight months to go before his retirement, a Punjab Government employee has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging his transfer.He has claimed that his transfer was ordered about 10 months after his previous posting “ostensibly at the behest of the political dispensation of the state of Punjab”.The petitioner-employee has alleged that the person he has swapped places with is the husband of Harjeet Kaur — an “elected councillor of Nagar Panchayat, Chamkaur Sahib, and very close to the present Chief Minister of Punjab”.Taking up the matter, Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the High Court stayed the operation of the impugned order. The stay order will remain in force at least till February 10 next year, when the case comes up for resumed hearing.The matter was brought to Justice Sindhu’s notice after petitioner Guriqbal Singh, working as a superintendent in Department of Cooperation, challenged his transfer from Ropar to Barnala on the ground that it was done “evidently in an arbitrary, mala fide and biased manner”.His counsel Harsh Chopra contended on the petitioner’s behalf that the impugned transfer order dated October 1 was against the transfer policy of the Department of Personnel.Appearing before the Bench, Chopra submitted that a complaint dated October 1 was made the basis for his transfer. He added it was a matter of record that the complaint was received by the quarter concerned on October 11. As such, the stand of respondents-state was absolutely unfounded.Chopra added the court could interfere and set aside the transfer order as it “smacked of bias, arbitrariness, highhandedness and was also in violation of the transfer policy”.Adjourning the hearing of the case, Justice Sindhu added the state counsel, faced with the situation, sought time to file a better affidavit.‘Link’ to corridors of power||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-employees-transfer-over-bias-347981
09-12-2021||---||Kin object to 3rd wedding, woman seeks protection||Chandigarh, December 8A woman married thrice, along with her husband, has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking protection of life and liberty after she claimed that she received threat from her parents and relatives.The High Court has made it clear that its direction to the police authorities to decide the couple’s representation for protection would not be treated as a stamp of approval on their marriage or the bride’s divorce from her “earlier husbands”.Apprehending danger to their life, she and her third husband told Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi’s Bench that her parents and relatives objected to the marriage.The couple’s counsel submitted that the private respondents — relatives — might cause harm to the petitioners as they had solemnised the marriage against their wishes. The woman has divorced both her earlier husbands.The counsel further argued that both petitioners were major and had solemnised the marriage according to the Hindu rites on November 29. They wanted to live an independent life without any interference from the bride’s parents and relatives.He also drew the court’s attention to a representation dated November 2 made by the petitioners to the respondent — the Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar — for protecting their life and liberty.Justice Sethi directed the respondent to take appropriate decision on the couple’s representation, expressing apprehensions.The judge set a month’s deadline for the purpose.Threat from familyApprehending danger to their life, she and her third husband told Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi's Bench that her parents and relatives objected to the marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-object-to-3rd-wedding-woman-seeks-protection-347982
09-12-2021||---||Ex-sarpanch Avtar Singh shot in Morinda||Morinda, December 8Two unidentified persons shot dead Udhampur village former sarpanch Avtar Singh (58) here today.Avtar Singh, a former secretary of the Bassi Gujran cooperative society, was now a nambardar of the village. He had reportedly returned home after delivering milk at a milk collection centre in the village around 7.30 am when two unidentified youths fired upon him indiscriminately.He was taken to the local government hospital, where doctors declared him “brought dead”. There were eight bullet injuries on his body.Believed to be a confidant of Chief Minister Charnajit Singh Channi, the deceased was appointed director of Land Mortgage Bank recently.Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said the police had got some leads in the case and the assailants would be nabbed soon. The CCTV footage of the suspects had been seized, he added.Sources say the assailants initially went to the milk collection centre to enquire about Avtar. Later, they reached his home and called him out. They asked him his name to verify the identity of their target.Avtar’s wife Kulbir Kaur said they had three children and all of them were in Canada. She said she had no idea about the accused as her husband had no enemies. She was in the kitchen when the incident took place. On hearing the sound of firing, she ran out only to find her husband lying in a pool of blood.Had eight bullet injuries||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-sarpanch-shot-in-morinda-347983
09-12-2021||Sangrur||Memorial to farmers inaugurated at Sangrur||PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday inaugurated a memorial to farmers, ‘Yadgar-e-Shaheedaan’, in Sangrur. Memorial has the names of all farmers and labourers, who sacrificed their lives during the protest in Delhi against the recently scrapped three farm laws.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and SAD leader Winnerjit Singh Goldy asked the minister why the Congress government failed to fulfill its poll promises made to farmers.“Every section of Punjab has contributed in the farmers’ protest irrespective of their caste, religion or profession. We in Punjab have a history of honouring martyrdom. This memorial is our tribute to those brave souls who sacrificed their lives for the noble cause,” Singla said.Cheema said the government had given neither the complete debt waiver nor jobs to all those who died during the yearlong protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/memorial-to-farmers-inaugurated-at-sangrur-347984
09-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Coonoor crash: Pall of gloom descends on Tarn Taran village||Pall of gloom descended on Dode Sodhian village in the district as the news of Naik Gursewak Singh’s death in the Coonoor helicopter crash flashed in the media today.He was accompanying Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, who along with his wife, were among 13 persons who died in the crash. Naik Singh (35) belonged to a poor family. He has five brothers and two sisters.He is survived by his father, who worked as a daily-wager, wife and three children — two daughters and a son. He was on leave and had rejoined duty two weeks ago.His friend Harwinder Singh said Gursewak was an honest and hardworking man. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pall-of-gloom-descends-on-tarn-taran-village-347985
09-12-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Protest over pay scales hits teaching in 184 Punjab colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8The ongoing ‘Total Education Bandh’ across 184 colleges of Punjab is affecting the studies of more than 8 lakh students. Teachers have been protesting for the past one week over the non-implementation of the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The affected institutes include five universities, 48 government colleges and approximately 136 government-aided colleges. Teachers are abstaining from work on a call given by the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) and the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations since December1. The permanent staff strength in these institutes is around 12,000. Some contractual teachers have also joined the protest and are abstaining from classes at certain places. Talking to The Tribune, Education Minister Pargat Singh said: “I have had several meetings with the protesting teachers, and agree that their demands are genuine. I have already discussed the matter with Chief Minister Charanjit Channi and have sent my recommendations to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal.8 lakh students affected“Education in our state is bound to suffer in case Punjab delinks its higher education from the UGC. I will again take up the matter with the Finance Minister after the Cabinet meeting tomorrow, and am hopeful of an early resolution to the problem.”Meanwhile, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today succeeded in persuading Prof HS Kingra of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, to end his indefinite hunger strike which he began a week back. Teachers, however, have decided that they will continue their agitation till their demands are met.PFUCTO general secretary Dr Jagwant Singh said: “We have been complaining since 2016 about the non-implementation of the pay commission recommendations in Punjab, whereas it has already been adopted by all other states and UTs (except Chandigarh and HP).” Dr Amanendra Mann of DAV College, Chandigarh, said: “We do not want the state to delink higher education from the UGC. We fear that the decision will have a long-term impact on the facility for research grants, scholarships and fellowships being offered by the UGC.”Besides, nearly 13,000 ad hoc teachers are also seeking regularisation of their jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-over-pay-scales-hits-teaching-in-184-pb-colleges-348099
09-12-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha accepts govt's revised proposals, may announce suspension of stir today||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 8The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday accepted the Union Government’s revised draft proposal on the pending demands. It is likely to announce the suspension of the agitation after a meeting at Singhu on Thursday.A five-member SKM committee, comprising Balbir Singh Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Ashok Dhawale and Yudhvir Singh, today held a meeting in Delhi to discuss the revised proposal.Dhawale said the earlier draft was sent back after leaders raised certain objections. “We now received the revised proposal in which the government has either given a clarification or addressed the concerns,” he said.Addressing the media, the SKM leaders said they could not share the details of the draft proposal and would send their consent to the government tomorrow.A farmer leader said in the revised draft, the government had made some additions, including acceptance of their demand for immediate withdrawal of cases registered against farmers.“The second addition is related to the MSP committee. There was till now a vague declaration regarding the formation of a committee. It has now been mentioned that the MSP would be for all farmers. The government has also given assurance to adequately compensate the families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-accepts-govts-revised-proposals-may-announce-suspension-of-stir-today-348106
09-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Fatehgarh Churian: Bumpy road to development||VOTERS are happy that after a long time, their voices are being heard in the corridors of power. During the 2017 Assembly elections, they had vowed to vote for a candidate who would wean their children away from drugs.They claim Cabinet Minister and local legislator Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has kept his word. For the Congress leader, the most effective antidote to drugs is sports. This explains why he had promised to build stadiums in all 180 villages of the segment. To date, stadiums have been constructed in 126 villages, while the construction is underway in the remaining villages.Locals say that earlier, drugs were rampant in villages, but now the things have changed. “Instead of staying idle, the youth has something constructive to do,” says Pritam Singh, a local photographer.The school infrastructure has also improved, if not fully, at least partially. “Unlike earlier, now a majority of schools have boundary walls and rooms,” says Pritam.Voters say the MLA has done a good job, but a lot more needs to be done. “The segment needs a new drug de-addiction centre. Besides, roads in and around the town must be re-carpeted. Take the example of the Fatehgarh Churian-Amritsar road, which is in deplorable shape. We had hoped that the road would be widened when the Kartarpur corridor was being constructed, but that was not to be,” said Makhan Singh, a villager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-churian-bumpy-road-to-development-347986
09-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma ||Raikot: Awaiting education, sports facilities||HAVING sent representatives in the Assembly from various political parties, 77 villages, besides the major town in the segment, have remained starved of development for the past couple of decades.Construction of link roads and bus stands at Raikot and Sudhar, government degree college, polytechnic institutes and industrial training institute besides construction of parks and sports stadia were among major demands of residents before the government formation in 2017.Residents led by Municipal Council president Sudarshan Joshi said the region had remained ignored during the past terms as elected representatives had no say in respective governments. “Unfortunately, leaders enjoying power in the government did not bother to get demands of residents fulfilled. It is after so many decades that we succeeded in getting enough grants for the overall development at Raikot town and majority of villages in the constituency,” said Joshi, adding that MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai had played a significant role in persuading the two CMs to allocate adequate grants for development projects in the region.MLA Jagtar Singh Hissowal, who had won election as an AAP candidate, has joined the Congress. He said he had tried his best by establsihing a college and an ITI, upgrading schools and vast network of link roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raikot-awaiting-education-sports-facilities-347987
09-12-2021||Muktsar||Parkash Singh Badal turns 94, keeps it low key||SAD patron-cum-former CM Parkash Singh Badal turned 94 today. He, however, kept his birthday a low-key affair this time due to the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur falling on the same day.PM Narendra Modi greeted him, tweeting: “Birthday greetings to one of India’s most respected statesmen, Shri Parkash Singh Badal Ji. He has worked very hard for the progress of Punjab, particularly the weaker sections of society. I pray that he is blessed with a long and healthy life. (sic)” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-turns-94-keeps-it-low-key-347988
09-12-2021||Bathinda||Heritage street for Takth Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced construction of a heritage street at Takth Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo on the lines of already existing in Amritsar and Sri Chamkaur Sahib.Channi also announced Rs 5 crore for laying link roads, 50-bed hospital and a model school at Rama Mandi. He also claimed he had already cleared Rs 15-crore grant for the development works in Talwandi Sabo.Addressing a rally at Rama Mandi, he accused Badals of neglecting the religious town. He said concerted efforts would be made to develop the town. He also announced the construction of a flyover in Rama Mandi to solve traffic problems.He questioned his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal as why he promised Rs 2,500 assistance for women in Goa and not the same for Punjab. He said AAP were outsiders who have done nothing but only false promises. He said pink bollworm-hit farmers would get Rs 17,000 compensation by next week. — TNSAllow all channels to telecast GurbaniThe CM on Wednesday appealed to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to direct the SGPC to grant rights to all TV and radio channels for the direct telecast of live Gurbani kirtan from the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-street-for-damdama-sahib-347989
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann slams Capt Amarinder Singh for teaming up with BJP||State AAP president Bhagwant Mann has slammed former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s possible alliance with the BJP. He said the people of Punjab would never forgive Capt Amarinder, who was going to play a new political innings by forming Punjab Lok Congress Party with the support of BJP.“He has stabbed Punjabis in the back and is now openly taking political support of the BJP, which has left no stone unturned to our farmers miserable,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-slams-capt-amarinder-singh-for-teaming-up-with-bjp-347990
09-12-2021||Amritsar||Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh raises conversion issue||Acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has shown concern about conversion of Sikhs on the occasion of martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Comparing the modern times with the Mughal era, the Jathedar said some people were running a campaign to allure Sikhs to adopt their religion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jathedar-giani-harpreet-singh-raises-conversion-issue-347991
09-12-2021||New Delhi||Set up university in Guru Tegh Bahadur's name, demand MPs||Punjab MPs today raised a demand in the Lok Sabha to set up a university in the national capital to honour the memory of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Akali Dal member Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Congress members Ravneet Singh Bittu and Jasbir Singh Gill and BJP member SS Ahluwalia recalled the sacrifice of the Sikh guru.Ludhiana MP Bittu demanded that a national university be set up in Delhi to honour Guru Tegh Bahadur’s sacrifices. Similar demands were made by Harsimrat Kaur Badal. She also asked for keeping silence to pay tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur, who was executed by the Mughals for his refusal to convert to Islam.Gill, a Congress member from Khadoor Sahib, urged the government to set up Guru Tegh Bahadur Handicrafts Institute at Sathiala in Amritsar district. PM Narendra Modi also paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur on his martyrdom day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/set-up-university-in-guru-tegh-bahadurs-name-demand-mps-347992
09-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||PCC in quandary as 2 more enter Batala fray||Tribune News ServiceBatala, December 8Notwithstanding Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s withdrawal as a contender for the party ticket from the Batala Assembly seat, the picture remains hazy with two new candidates announcing their candidature.Those in contention are three-time former MLA Ashwani Sekhri, considered to be the most prominent Hindu face in the Congress, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Gurdaspur District Congress Committee president Roshan Joseph and five-time councillor Harinder Singh.Post Partap Bajwa’s exit, it was expected that Tript Bajwa and Sekhri would square off for the nomination. However, two more Congress leaders —Roshan Joseph and Harinder Singh — have thrown their hat into the ring. “I met AICC general secretary KC Venugopal on Monday. I apprised him of the fact that there are enough Christian votes to swing the pendulum in my favour,” said Joseph. He added Venugopal had assured him that he would look into his credentials as a ticket-seeker. Joseph hails from the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian.Harinder Singh, a Ramgarhia, says “What tilts the balance in my favour is the fact that there is a heavy concentration of my community’s votes.” His detractors say he is a first time Councilor. To this, he says, “I have contested five elections from different parties and have never lost even a single one.”Sources say Amardeep Singh Cheema, a former Chairman of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, is also a contender. He could not be contacted for comments.Keen to contestCongress leader Roshan Joseph, who hails from the neighbouring Fatehgarh Churian, believes he can draw Christian voters. Harinder Singh, a Ramgarhia and first-time councillor, has also expressed his intention to contest poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-in-quandary-as-2-more-enter-batala-fray-347993
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress-SAD pact to save Bikram Singh Majithia: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had made a deal to save Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in the drugs case.Weakening caseAs per the deal, Majithia will be arrested on weak grounds so that he can get bailthe very next day. Raghav Chadha, AAP affairs co-inchargeAddressing mediapersons, AAP Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha alleged after the Punjab Government was reprimanded by the High Court in the case, CM Channi held a secret meeting with Sukhbir at a farm house. “During the meeting, a deal was reached between the two leaders that the government would arrest Majithia by making a very weak case, so that he can get bail the very next day,” he claimed, saying the information had been provided to the party by a senior police officer.Chadha said a few days ago, Transport Minister Raja Warring seized Badal’s buses with an army of camerapersons to fool the public. But the very next day, the court ordered the release of all buses. This time the Chief Minister himself was going to do something similar, he said.Chadda further said CM Channi and Sukhbir had a long-standing relationship. In the past, Channi, accused in the ‘Ludhiana City Centre scam’, had gone to meet Sukhbir to save his brother. This had been confirmed by the Akali legislators themselves in the Assembly, he added.Questioning the Chief Minister, the AAP leader said at which farm house did he meet Sukhbir? What is his deal with Badal? How much money is involved? The Chief Minister should answer all these questions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-pact-to-save-majithia-aap-347994
09-12-2021||Aman Sood||Sanaur poll pot on boil, three stake claim to Congress ticket||Tribune news servicePatiala, December 8The state Congress appears to have plunged deeper into crisis in Sanaur constituency with three leaders adamant on contesting the upcoming elections. Congress stalwart Lal Singh, former Information Commissioner Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann and youth leader Mansimrat Riar have locked horns over Congress ticket from the seat.After Lal Singh on Wednesday held a function at his government residence in Patiala to distribute cheques for development grants to panchayats in Sanaur, the daggers are out in the Congress.Prominent Jat Sikh face in the Congress Harry Mann has declared that he would contest from Sanaur.“It is my ‘karambhoomi’. I have worked hard to nurture the constituency for over six years now. Instead of addressing the concerns of workers at Samana, from where his son is an MLA, Lal Singh is interfering in my constituency,” said Mann, who lost the last elections from Sanaur to SAD candidate Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra but managed a 42,000 lead for the Congress during the 2019 LS polls.In 2017, octogenarian Lal Singh lost his battle to then PCC chief Capt Amarinder Singh’s one-family-one-ticket diktat with the party deciding not to nominate him from Sanaur. His son Rajinder Singh was fielded from Samana segment from where he won. “If Lal Singh is given the ticket, it would open a pandora’s box for the party as many senior leaders want two or more tickets per family,” said a senior leader.Interestingly, already three Congress MLAs — Hardyal Singh Kamboj (Rajpura), Madan Lal Jalalpur (Ghanaur) and Rajinder Singh (Samana) — are from the OBC category. All three are seeking re-election. The Congress has two reserved seats in Nabha and Shutrana, while minister Brahm Mohindra is seeking re-election from Patiala Rural. Only Sanaur and Patiala Urban are left, where Jats can be fielded, who constitute around 30 per cent of the total 14.85 lakh population of Patiala.Harry Mann said there was no provision in the government that a person who is not even an MLA will hold a function to distribute cheques. “After being absent from Patiala from the past five years, this is sheer misuse of authority by Lal Singh who is merely the chairman of Punjab Mandi Board. I will report the developments to the Congress high command,” he stated.Undeterred by the allegations of his interference, Lal Singh told The Tribune that he had every right to seek a ticket. “There is nothing wrong if I want to contest from Sanaur,” he said, adding that it is for the party high command to decide. “I have worked hard from almost a year in this constituency and we will work hard under PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu,” says youth congress leader from Sanaur Mansimrat Singh Riar. “Being a Jat Sikh, I feel that the Congress should do a balancing act and consider my candidature from Sanaur,” he said.Eyeing assembly seatCongress stalwart Lal Singh (L), former Information Commissioner Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann (C) and youth leader Mansimrat Riar are eyeing the party ticket from Sanaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanaur-poll-pot-on-boil-three-stake-claim-to-congress-ticket-347995
