11-12-2021||---||Limitless: Boy with epilepsy embarks on 1000 km Brevet to inspire hope||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 11Diagnosed with epilepsy in 2005, Delhi-based Vinay Jani had two options to choose from---allow himself to get overwhelmed by the stigma that ignorance about the disorder perpetuates or pull himself together and get on with life.Vinay chose the latter and here he is, having completed half of his 1000 km Brevet which began from Gurugam in Haryana on December 10 and is scheduled to end at Kundli on December 13.“This is my second 1000 km Brevet and must be completed in 75 hours. This time I am riding to create awareness about epilepsy and to motivate other persons with epilepsy to believe in my philosophy -- there are no limits,” says Vinay Jani, who has already covered 551 km today reaching Punjab’s Attari after covering a range of towns including Ludhiana and Phagwara. He is now on his return journey---Punjab to Haryana (Kundli)---to spread awareness about epilepsy, one of the most common neurological disorders affecting more than 65 million people worldwide. India alone has an estimated 15 million or more cases. “Despite such a high prevalence, the awareness about epilepsy in India is very low. This lack of awareness further perpetuates the already existing stigma around epilepsy. Persons with epilepsy face discrimination and harassment for education, employment, and marriage. Thus, the lack of knowledge makes epilepsy a social problem, not just a medical one,” said Manjari Tripathi of AIIMS Neurology department, speaking at a meet and greet event which EKATWAM, an NGO working for persons with epilepsy, organized here on December 10 with Vinay.The event was significant with Vinay showing others like him that it is possible to push the envelope.He started long-distance running and Randonneuring (endurance or long-distance cycling in specified time) called BREVET.“Vinay has completed five half marathons, a full marathon, and several BREVETS: multiple 200 km, 300 km, 600 km ones, one 1000 km. He even attempted Paris Brest Paris Brevet,” says Komal Kamra, founder member of the NGO supporting the event.Accompanying Vinay are his teammates and they must all cover a phenomenal 333 plus km daily to hit their goal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/limitless-boy-with-epilepsy-embarks-on-1000-km-brevet-to-inspire-hope-349166
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of 11 farmers who died during protests given jobs by Punjab govt||The kin of 11 farmers who lost their lives during the stir against the Centre’s farm laws were given appointment letters for government jobs in Punjab on Saturday.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Randeep Singh Nabha handed over the letters of appointment as clerk to the next of kin of the deceased farmers, according to an official release here.Calling farmers the backbone of the state’s economic structure, the chief minister said, “The state government will always undertake every possible step to ensure welfare of the victim families.”The state government has already given jobs to the kin of the 157 deceased farmers.The state government had earlier announced Rs 5 lakh as financial aid and a job for one member each of the deceased farmers’ families.Farmers had claimed death of more than 700 peasants from Punjab, Haryana and other states during the agitation against the now-repealed farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-11-farmers-who-died-during-protests-given-jobs-by-punjab-govt-349165
11-12-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers recall year-long struggle before leaving Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 11Before their departure from Tikri, farmers from Punjab celebrated their victory on Friday night with full enthusiasm and zeal by dancing, singing patriotic songs and distributing sweets.They retired late at night and woke up early in the morning and packed their bags to go back home. Many of them could not sleep and spent the night by refreshing memories of the protest.  “We made last night at the Tikri border memorable by doing whatever we could to express our happiness and joy after our victory in the year-long struggle. We spent sleepless night by sharing good and bad memories besides talking about the protest from beginning to end. This morning, we dismantled our makeshift abode and loaded all belongings on our tractor-trailers. We are now ready for the victory procession that is to start from Tikri and will culminate at our village,” said Jaspreet Singh Balian of Sangrur district.Hakam Singh, another farmer, said that on Friday they called on locals to express their gratitude for supporting and motivating them during the past one year. “We have decorated our tractors with flowers and flags. Local people in a considerable number also came to meet us on Saturday morning to extend their best wishes,” he added.   Around one third farmers have returned home during the past two days. They started leaving for home after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha announced to call off the stir on Thursday morning. Majority of those who have already left were from distant places like Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur.Soon after farmers leave, JCB machines start removing barricades at TikriSoon after the protesting farmers left for home, the process to open the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border was started to provide passage to the commuters on the National Highway-9 (Rohtak to Delhi). JCB machines were pressed into service to remove the concrete barricades to open the border.The highway was closed by Delhi police around a year ago by putting multi-layered barricading at the border. Even, spikes were also placed after the violence during the tractor parade on January 26.“Three to four JCB machines were called in the morning after Punjab farmers left for home. Since concrete barricading is multilayered the work is still under way to remove the boulders and concrete wall from the highway,” said Darshan Singh, manager at a petrol pump on the border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/farmers-recall-year-long-struggle-before-leaving-for-their-homes-349113
11-12-2021||Neha Saini||Strike by teachers set to hit GNDU exam schedule||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10The ongoing teachers’ strike across the state is set to disturb the examination schedule for the current odd semester conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU). As all teaching and non-teaching activities have been called off by the protesting teachers, GNDU is considering its options before they plan the schedule for the coming examinations that usually begin in mid-December.This will be the second consecutive year when the normal course of examinations stands to be delayed or disturbed as last year the pandemic-induced lockdown had delayed the conduct of semester examinations.With other universities in the state, including Panjab University and IKGPTU, already announcing online examinations under the given situation, GNDU has ruled out any such move. “The question of online examinations does not arise as we have been conducting offline classes since August 16 onwards. Considering the situation, we are planning to release the examination date sheet within 10 days. Syllabus is not the issue here, but participation of teachers is required for conducting the examinations offline. Naturally, with teachers on strike, it might cause delays,” said Prof Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDU.While most affiliated and constituent colleges were expecting practical exams to begin by December 15, the ongoing strike has moved the date sheet forward by at least 10 days. Prof Manoj said they were hopeful that the situation with teachers might find a solution in three-four days. “We are keeping our watch on the cabinet meeting scheduled for Monday. We hope the government considers student welfare and future academic discourse. The teachers’ strike is also not a good signal for the future of higher education as according to the UGC guidelines, 90 days of regular classes are required for the semester system. If teaching remains suspended for more days, the legitimacy of the course can be revoked or challenged.” He also termed the teachers’ strike justified. “They have been waiting for years for the 7th Pay Commission pay grades. Their demands must be taken seriously if the quality of higher education in the state has to improve,” he said.Meanwhile, the teachers’ strike entered its 11th day as they blamed the government for giving empty assurances. Gurdas Sekhon, a teacher from DAV College and member of the district unit of PFUCTO, said if the education of students was affected, then the government would be responsible for that. “The government should shun its obstinate attitude and fulfill the teachers’ demands. The policies of the Punjab Government are completely wrong. We will not end the strike until our demands are met,” he said.Dr BB Yadav of PFUCTO said the teachers of Punjab and Chandigarh were suffering financial loss due to non-implementation of the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. The Seventh Pay Commission recommendations were not implemented even in Himachal Pradesh as the rules of Punjab were implemented in Himachal.Dr Yadav said according to the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, 50 per cent of the fund was to be given by the University Grants Commission to the Punjab Government for teachers’ salaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/strike-by-teachers-set-to-hit-gndu-exam-schedule-349080
11-12-2021||---||Amid teachers' strike, GNDU says no to online exams this semester||Jalandhar, December 10Even though the college students across the region were today expecting Guru Nanak Dev University to take a final call on announcing the final schedule of the semester examination amid the ongoing teachers’ strike, no announcement came in till this evening. This leaves the students of 34 colleges from the district in a complete dilemma as the practical papers ahead of the theory examination were slated to begin from December 14.The varsity officials have, however, made it clear that there would be no online examination as has been announced by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University and Panjab University. Ruling out any such move, GNDU Controller of Examination Prof Manoj Kumar said: “The question of online examinations does not arise as we have been conducting offline classes since August 16 onwards. Considering the situation, we are planning to release a fresh datesheet within 10 days. Participation of teachers is required for conduct of examinations offline. With teachers on strike, it might cause delays.”The college teachers, who have announced a complete education bandh since the past nearly a week, were expecting some outcome in the yesterday’s Cabinet meeting regarding their demand for implementation of the 7th Pay Commission of the UGC. “We were expecting some outcome in the Cabinet meeting at Chandigarh yesterday but not a word was discussed about the massive protests going on in the colleges of the state,” said principal of an aided college here adding that they have all met new Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh with their demands a number of times, but to no avail. “They have funds to announce tens of thousands of crores for every project but nothing for the nation-builders,” said another principal.Prof Manoj is also concerned about the adherence to UGC guidelines of 90 days of regular classes under the semester system. “If teaching remains suspended for more days, the legitimacy of the course can be revoked or challenged.” He also termed the teachers strike as a justified move. “They have been waiting for many years for the government to implement the 7th pay commission pay grades. Their demands must be taken seriously if the quality of higher education in the state has to improve”, he said.Over 200 teachers of different colleges of Jalandhar district lined up along the road outside Lyallpur Khalsa College on Friday under the banner of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) to register their protest against the anti-education policies of the state government.District General Secretary of the union, Dr SS Bains, said the process of de-linking teachers’ pay scales from the UGC scales was going to hit higher education in the state very badly, leading to lack of financial resources for colleges and universities of Punjab.Addressing the gathering the President of GNDU-affiliated non-government colleges Principal Association and Principal Lyallpur Khalsa College Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra appealed to the government to pay attention to the just demands of the teachers by implementing the 7th Pay Panel recommendations and by revoking the state government decision of delinking with UGC pay scales and to save higher education. State PCCTU General Secretary Dr. Sukhdev Randhawa said that the education bandh would continue till a favourable action by the government was made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-teachers-strike-gndu-says-no-to-online-exams-this-semester-348809
11-12-2021||---||On victory march eve, Punjab CM says will welcome farm protesters on their return||Tribune News ServiceMansa, December 10Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said the state government would welcome the victorious farmers upon their return from Delhi borders. The protesters will carry out a ‘victory march’ to their homes on December 11.Congratulating the farmers, farm labourers and SKM leaders, the Chief Minister said it was the victory of the people and unmatched unity of various sections of society that forced the central government to roll back the draconian agricultural laws.Channi said despite not paying heed to the demands of the farmers for almost a year, BJP leaders now wanted to cash in on the victory and were trying to use it as an electoral card in Punjab.He said farmers and people of the nation would never forgive the central government and its leaders for testing their patience for more than a year. He said the victory didn’t come easy for farmers as more than 700 protesters sacrificed their lives during the agitation.Channi said their government had always stood by the farmers and labourers and extended every possible help to those who were fighting for the historic and noble cause to save the farming community. He said their government had also given jobs and financial assistance to family members of around 350 farmers who lost their lives during the agitation and the remaining families of ‘shaheed’ farmers from Punjab would also be facilitated soon.Terming AAP a party of “looters”, CM Channi said non-Punjabis of the ‘khas party’ were trying to fool people with their poll gimmicks, but Punjabis will teach them a lesson. He also announced subdivision status to Bhikhi town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-victory-march-eve-cm-says-will-welcome-protesters-on-their-return-348858
11-12-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to honour farm union leaders at Golden Temple||Expressing relief over the victory of farmers’ agitation, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s (SGPC’s) executive committee (EC) has decided to honour the farm union leaders on their scheduled arrival to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple on December 13.“The SGPC has stood by the farmers’ cause and will continue to stand firmly by them,” said SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, who chaired the EC meeting.In the wake of ‘shahidi pandarwarah’ of martyrdom of sahibzadas, the SGPC has announced that only a simple menu would be in the langar distribution at all gurdwaras to commemorate the martyrdom fortnight between December 21 and 30. There will be no sweets in langar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-honour-union-leaders-at-golden-temple-348859
11-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||List farmers owning land beyond limit, Punjab Govt tells DCs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Ahead of the Assembly elections, the Punjab Government has issued directions to all DCs to prepare a list of all persons who have land ownership beyond the limit of 17.5 standard acres of chahi (land that depends on wells for irrigation) to 52 standard acres of banjar (wasteland) as prescribed under the Land Ceiling Act, 1972.Immediate triggerThe move comes after CM met representatives of the farm labour union on November 23, wherein they raised the demand for getting excess land with upper caste landowners for cultivationThese orders are bound to have political ramifications in an already charged atmosphere between Jat Sikhs and Dalits. Soon after the orders were issued today, there was concern among the Jat Sikhs, and the matter was conveyed to the ministers and the Congress office-bearers from the community. The orders, issued by the Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Department, say CM Charanjit Singh Channi has sought a report of all those holding land beyond the permissible limit, and this list should be sent to the department immediately.The decision comes following a meeting between the CM and the Pendu and Khet Mazdoor Union on November 23, wherein the demand for getting excess land with upper caste (Jat Sikh) landowners was raised.They had pleaded that though the Dalits comprised 33 per cent of the state population, they owned just two per cent of the land. The problem, say revenue officers, is that it is not possible to make the list as all families have divided the land amongst themselves years ago to evade the Land Ceiling Act, declaring themselves as separate entities.In Malwa villages, there are cases where members of families with large landholdings have shown legal separation to evade the Act. Also, many families have got “benami” land showing ownership in the name of farm labourers. “The issue has been settled 50 years ago. Even the cases of land transfer to non-existent people, or land bought in different districts to evade the Act have been settled,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/list-farmers-owning-land-beyond-limit-dcs-told-348860
11-12-2021||Muktsar||Many head to Delhi for farmers' victory march||As the farm unions have announced starting a victory procession from the Delhi borders on Saturday, a large number of farmers today left from Muktsar and some neighbouring districts to participate in the ‘historic’ event.Ranjit Singh, a farmer, who left for Delhi along with three others, said, “We have reached near Panipat. A number of langars are organised on the way to Delhi. People in Haryana are very excited. Most of the farmers moving towards Delhi have installed the national flag, saffron and green-coloured flags on their vehicles.”Meanwhile, some farmers today left for Delhi via trains as well. A group of young farmers, namely Gurjeet Brar, Navjot Singh, Manjeet Sandhu and Shamsher Chahal, said, “We are very excited as we have won the battle of our survival after 378 days. A number of us even lost lives amid bone-chilling cold. To make our victory procession a historic event, we are today leaving for Delhi.”Gurjant Singh, an elderly farmer, said, “I have come to the town for getting the engine of my tractor checked. Our trailer is parked at the Tikri border, which we have to bring back here.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/many-head-to-delhi-for-march-348861
11-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Agitation taught us a lot, say farm protesters||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 10All are aware that the victory of farmers against the central farm laws has come after a hard work of more than a year, but only few know about the persons who made this happen. The indefinite agitation has created an army of experienced workers, who will make future agitations of farmers stronger.Learnt stir mgmtThe Delhi protest taught us invaluable management skills. Our future agitations would be stronger and better organised. — Ratanjot Kaur, A Sangrur ProtesterThere are many youngsters, who have proved their managements skills without having any required qualification. They were driven only by passion to save the farming community. The Tribune spoke to various groups and persons who have been involved the agitation since its beginning.Gharachon is a big village of Sangrur district and youngsters here worked hard to arrange ration, milk and other essential commodities for protesters at New Delhi. A group of youngsters from village ensured the supply of 160 litres of milk from the village every week to Delhi protest sites. “We collected and supplied milk to Delhi sites on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday each week with the help of vehicles and trains. We did it with the support of all villagers, who contributed wholeheartedly,” said Raghuvir Singh told The Tribune from the Tikri border while removing a tent. Similarly, teams of Harigarh villagers not only ensured the required supply to Delhi border, but also contributed for Badbar toll plaza protest. Many strongly believe that the yearlong protest has given them required training and they will play a vital role in future agitations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agitation-taught-us-a-lot-say-protesters-348862
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, focus will be on agriculture crisis, says SKM leader Prem Singh Bhanghu||Prem Singh Bhanghu, a leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and president of the All-India Kisan Federation, said the historic victory of the agitation was the win of democracy and the defeat of fascist forces and corporate houses. About 700 farmers had to sacrifice their lives to make the ‘kisan andolan’ a success.He said the morcha had been suspended from Delhi borders, but the agitation would continue in some other form for finding the solution to deepening agriculture crisis. The Punjab Government had also made promises to waive the debt of farmers and withdraw all cases registered against them in the meeting held with the unions, but no progress had been made so far, he said.After the victory procession, the leadership would visit the Golden Temple on December 13, the SKM leader said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-focus-will-be-on-agri-crisis-says-skm-leader-348863
11-12-2021||Sameer Singh||Mohinder Kaur urges Kangana Ranaut not to indulge in 'cheap publicity' by attacking farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 10Octogenarian Mohinder Kaur from Bahadargarh Jandian village in Bathinda district, whom actress Kangana Ranaut had termed Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh protests, is quite elated after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha decided to call off their over yearlong agitation against the recently scrapped farm laws.The controversyActor Kangana Ranaut had courted controversy by terming Mohinder Kaur from Bahadargarh Jandian village in Bathinda Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh protest.Kaur (80) congratulated farmers who continued their stir for more than a year resolutely in the face of adversity and also expressed gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking the decision to repeal the laws. She, however, lashed out at Kangana for her recent remarks terming farmers as ‘khalistani terrorists’ and said such demeaning statements to gain publicity would not get her anywhere and it was time she mended her ways.Referring to the number of deaths of farmers and those affected during the agitation, Kaur said the stir would certainly affect the poll outcome in Punjab. “I cannot express my happiness in words. I am an 80-year-old woman but feel like dancing to celebrate the victory of farmers. The government could not withstand the resilience of farmers fighting for the just cause of protecting their land which they got from ancestors.” “Kangana blurts out just about anything without much thinking. Calling the farmers terrorists will not get her anywhere. She should not use demeaning and derogatory remarks against a community that has sacrificed a lot for the country,” Kaur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resilience-paid-off-says-bathinda-octogenarian-348864
11-12-2021|| Manav Mander||Ludhiana west: Unplanned projects trouble residents||Many development works are being carried in the areas falling under the constituency, but the problem is all these were started at almost same time, leading to traffic jams and congestion in most areas.Past trendMLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu registered two straight wins in the 2012 and 2017 polls. He remained a councillor for three terms between 1997 and 2012. In 2007 and 1997, the seat went to SAD’s Harish Rai Dhanda and Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, respectively.Locals’ key demandsElectorate strengthTotal voters 1,78,290Male 92,333Female 85,946Third gender 11Traffic on Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Sarbha Nagar and BRS Nagar is disrupted as projects were not planned properly and started in a phased manner.Besides, people are finding some of the works carried under the Smart City Project a mere wastage of money. Residents of posh localities like Sarabha Nagar and BRS Nagar complain of fixing interlocking tiles and granite or cement blocks within a metre of the radius of existing trees. Revamp of Sarabha Nagar market is also seen as a waste of funds by residents.Jagmeet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said the government was fooling people in the name of development. “Some parks which were in already good condition were revamped unnecessarily,” he said. Similarly, tiles, which were already in good condition, were changed on Malhar Road.Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar often complain of water contamination in the locality. Construction of a railyway underbridge is blamed for the same. In addition to this, a large garbage dump near Sunet Railway Crossing is an eye sore for the area residents.Old bazars like Ghumar Mandi are without parking facility. Ghumar Mandi is one of the busiest bazars in the city but it is without parking facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unplanned-projects-trouble-residents-348865
11-12-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Ferozepur Rural: No job avenues, youth disillusioned||The Ferozepur Rural segment was carved out following the delimitation in 2012 which included a major chunk of villages which were hitherto part of Ferozepur City and Cantonment areas.Past trendThe segment came into being in 2012 and has been represented by the SAD and Congress alternatively. In 2012, SAD candidate Joginder Singh Jindu scraped past Congress’ Satkar Kaur Gehri by 107 votes. In 2012, Satkar defeated Jindu by 21,416 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,91,083Male 1,00,357Female 90,721Third gender 5Locals’ key demandsPredominantly a rural segment, the Shiromani Akali Dal first grabbed this seat during a nail-biting contest in the 2012 Assembly elections when party candidate Joginder Singh Jindu defeated the Congress candidate Satkar Kaur Gehri by a wafer-thin margin of just 107 votes. Picked up by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi as a youth leader, Satkar Kaur bounced back and defeated Jindu in the 2017 Assembly elections.The segment, which comprises small townships like Mamdot, Mudki, Ferozeshah and Talwandi Bhai, has not seen much in terms of infrastructural development despite tall claims by parties.The youth of the area seem to be disillusioned in the absence of desired avenues for employment. Besides, illegal sand mining and drug abuse have been the major concerns for the local populace. The residents are seemingly not much amused with the functioning of local Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) who has been mostly represented by her husband Jasmel Singh Laddi Gehri at most of the forums.There are speculations regarding the party exploring more options for this segment and the sitting legislator being moved to another constituency. Caste factors also play an important role in the outcome of the elections here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-job-avenues-youth-disillusioned-348866
11-12-2021||---||SSP transfers in Punjab: Opposition seeks probe into kickback charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10With the two-month-old Charanjit singh Channi government having maintained a studied silence on the allegations of kickbacks in SSP transfers, allegedly levelled by minister Rana Gurjeet Singh at yesterday’s Cabinet meeting, the Opposition AAP and SAD have sought an independent probe into the “serious” matter.Conduct high-level probeIt is clear the CM chose to become party to the case and is trying to brush it under the carpet. We demand a high-level probe into the matter. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefWhat happened to transparencyCM Channi, who projected himself to be the leader of the common man, is answerable on the posting of police officers done by his government. — Harpal Cheema, Leader of oppositionThe Cabinet meeting had seen fireworks as Deputy CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa was engaged in heated arguments with Technical Education Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh over allegations of kickbacks in SSP postings levelled by the latter. With the Assembly elections round the corner, the minister’s allegations against his Cabinet colleague are not being taken lightly by the senior party leadership.The issue was raised at a meeting chaired by Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary at the CM’s residence last night. While Randhawa has not reacted on the issue, his associates claim the Kapurthala SSP had been posted with Rana’s consent and the real issue was strengthening of the cooperative sugar mills in Batala and Gurdaspur.Sources pointed out that as per the standing orders during former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s tenure, the matter of SSP postings rested with the CM.“When the Home Minister has rebutted and challenged the kickback allegations, the questions remains who is pulling the strings in transfers,” said a senior party leader. The issue of the new Malerkotla SSP meeting Capt Amarinder, raised by minister Razia Sultana, also pointed to the powers that be in the Congress government maintaining cordial ties with the former CM.Raising the issue, AAP leader Harpal Cheema said CM Channi, who projected himself to be the leader of the common man, was answerable on the posting of police officers done by his government. SAD leader Bikramjit Majithia said: “It is shocking a Cabinet minister has accused the Home Minister of pocketing bribe from police officers. The same accusations were made earlier also in the case of posting of Commissioners of Police”.Majithia said nepotism had touched such heights that all police officers who had been changed after 120 persons were killed in the hooch tragedy in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts were back in their old postings. He said similarly, ASI Sarabjit Singh, who was accused of selling extra neutral alcohol in Rajpura, had been reposted there.Meanwhile, at an event in Ropar, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said it was condemnable that despite the fact that the minister had made the accusation at a Cabinet meeting, no probe had been ordered into the corruption case. “It is clear the CM chose to become party to the case and was trying to brush it under the carpet,” he said, demanding a high-level probe into the incident as well as registration of a criminal case against those involved. Lashing out at Channi over issuing directions to the police to play Gurbani loudly during protests at the CM’s public meetings, he said Channi could not suppress people voice for justice by resorting to such actions and this smacked of “sacrilege”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-seeks-probe-into-kickback-charge-348867
11-12-2021||Chandigarh/Muktsar||AAP out with second list of 30 candidates for Punjab Assembly polls||Gurmeet Singh Khudian, son of former MP late Jagdev Singh Khudian, was on the list of 30 candidates released by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today for the 2022 Assembly elections. Gurmeet has been fielded from SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal’s home turf Lambi.The list also included IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was associated with the SIT probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case and had resigned. He will contest from Amritsar (North). This is AAP’s second list; the first one released earlier consisted of 10 sitting MLAs.Gurmeet, 59, served as the District Congress Committee president before joining AAP in July. The 94-year-old Badal has won five times in a row from Lambi. The SAD is yet to announce the candidate from the constituency this time. Though SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has already said he would like his father contests the election, the elderly Badal has not opened his cards. In 2017, he had, however, said that it was his last election.“If the elderly Badal contests the election, he will be the oldest candidate in the poll fray,” political observers said.A senior SAD leader from Lambi said: “If Badal sahib’s health allows, he will contest the election. However, the decision has to be taken by the party leadership.” He further said for the past few days, the former CM was touring the constituency and meeting public at his residence as well.Khudian said he was happy the AAP reposed faith in him. “Our national convener-cum-Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will soon come to hold a rally in Lambi,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-out-with-second-list-of-30-348868
11-12-2021||Mansa||Punjab CM Channi faces protest at Mansa rally||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was interrupted by protesters during his address at a rally in Mansa today. When Channi began addressing the gathering, the protesters sitting in the crowd started raising anti-government slogans due to which the Chief Minister could not speak for some time.At the front of the stage, police officials had a scuffle with women protesters demanding jobs. In a bid to keep them away from the CM’s rally venue, the district authorities arranged a meeting of contract workers with Channi on his landing at the helipad, but it remained inconclusive.Unemployed BEd and ETT-TET Pass Front leaders said they had been raising issues for the last four and a half years but the government was not paying heed to their demands. Meanwhile, former AAP MLA Master Baldev Singh joined the Congress on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-faces-protest-at-mansa-rally-348869
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||PMLA case: HC allows Sukhpal Singh Khaira to amend petition||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed former MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira to amend a petition filed by him against the Union of India and other respondents following his arrest during the pendency of the matter.In his plea placed before the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain, Khaira through senior advocate Vikram Chaudhary with Keshavam Chaudhary submitted that he had challenged the initiation and continuance of proceedings under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. But the respondents arrested the petitioner during the pendency of the writ petition and he was still under arrest. As such, he was praying for quashing the remand orders. The Bench observed the senior counsel had stated at the very onset that the petitioner had moved an application for regular bail before the trial court. Consequently, it was not going to permit him to agitate the issue of bail at the present stage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pmla-case-hc-allows-khaira-to-amend-petition-348870
11-12-2021||---||Recover Rs 1-cr dues from 79 Punjab schools, DEOs told||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, December 10The School Education Department has asked the District Education Officers (DEOs) to make a recovery of Rs 1.40-crore from 79 private senior secondary schools in the state.Post-matric scholarship fraudThe amount was paid to these schools under the post-matric scholarship scheme during 2016-17. However, during an audit by the Social Security Department, many discrepancies were found in the payment of this scholarship to students, who were either not eligible for it or it was claimed by faking enrolment data.Sending details of the recoverable amount, the Director General School Education (DGSE) has asked the DEOs to make the recovery of the amount from the schools. Maximum, nine of these schools are in Sangrur, followed by seven each in Barnala, Gurdaspur and Ropar, six in Hoshiarpur, five each in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Pathankot, four in Fatehgarh Sahib and three each in Ferozepur, Mohali and Kapurthala.It is alleged that in the performance audit of the implementation of the post-matric scholarship scheme, many discrepancies and inconsistencies in data generated through web portals was found. The scholarship is provided by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to give financial assistance to students belonging to Scheduled Castes, studying at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage, to enable them to complete their education.In the audit report, it was found that in Punjab, 3,684 of 57,986 post-matric students in 49 of the 60 selected institutes in six districts left the courses mid-session during 2012-17. However, fee and maintenance allowance of Rs 14.31 crore in respect of these students was claimed by these institutions from the department.After receiving the orders to make recovery from the DGSE office, the DEOs are facing a difficult time. In absence of any power to issue directions to these private schools, it is difficult for the DEOs to make recovery from private institutions. Moreover, in its letter to the DEOs, the education department has only mentioned the recoverable amount and there is no detail about how it was calculated, rued officials in the DEO office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recover-1-cr-dues-from-79-schools-deos-told-348871
11-12-2021||New Delhi||Mulling use of farm residue for biofuel: Centre in Lok Sabha||The government is working on using stubble in biofuel and manure to reduce incidents of its burning, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said while intervening during a discussion on climate change in the Lok Sabha after Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal alleged Punjab farmers were being “defamed” for stubble burning and demanded a white paper on the issue.Asking the Centre to provide farmers with resources, she cited reports, including a submission by the central government, to claim that stubble burning played a minimal role in air pollution.Replying to her observations, Yadav said the NTPC recently procured 3,000 tonne of stubble and the government would review the result to see how it could be used for biofuel.Pointing towards central allocations for machinery and measures to use it for different purposes so that farmers did not burn them, Yadav said stubble burning had now been decriminalised.Cases have been lodged against farmers and fines imposed on them for burning stubble, the Bathinda MP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mulling-use-of-farm-residue-for-biofuel-centre-in-lok-sabha-348872
11-12-2021||---||Govt delays provision of stubble management equipment||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 10The announcement of the Union Government to decriminalise stubble-burning, besides the lack of equipment to manage farm waste without burning will create serious problems. In Sangrur alone, 1,678 general category farmers are still waiting for equipment while 730 got it after November 24, when they were already done with the sowing of their crops.Crops already sownIn Sangrur alone, 1,678 general category farmers are still waiting for equipment while 730 got it after November 24, when they were already done with the sowing of their cropsExperts opine that the total decriminalisation of stubble-burning would aggravate the situation as many, who had been managing stubble without burning it, would feel discouraged. “There must be at least some symbolic penalty against stubble-burning to prevent farm fires,” said said Dr AS Mann, president of Scientific Awareness Forum, Sangrur.Amid claims of the state government of having provided required help to farmers, sources said in Sangrur, till October 31, out of 630, 555 farm machines had come to Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs), 40 to Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) and 19 to panchayats and the remaining to 16 farmers from reserved category. However, not even a single individual of general category had received any machines this year. On November 24, in the first draw, the Agriculture Department authorities allotted 730 machines out of the total 2,408 to general category farmers. Out of these, 606 were given in Sangrur and the remaining 124 in Malerkotla.Similarly, 259 farmers from SC families and 11 more panchayats and cooperative societies have reveived machines and the department had fixed November 29 as the date of verification of machines.“The Agriculture Department has given machines very late as more than 90 per cent sowing of crops has been done. We have written to the Union Government for a high-level inquiry and action against officers who delayed the process,” said Aman Punia, co-incharge, BJP Kisan Morcha, Punjab.When contacted, Sangrur Chief Agriculture Officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said, “Through a mandatory procedure, we will allot more machines after receiving more funds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-delays-provision-of-stubble-mgmt-equipment-348873
11-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||19 yrs on, Punjab and Haryana HC quashes FIR in arms licence case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Nearly two decades after an FIR was registered against then SSP Gurcharan Singh Ferurai in an arms licence case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed the same on a plea by a co-accused.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also quashed all subsequent proceedings, including an order declaring the co-accused a proclaimed offender. The direction came after Justice Sangwan observed the other accused stood acquitted and the judgment had attained finality.The matter was placed before Justice Sangwan after a petition was filed against the Central Bureau of Investigation Director and another respondent by Harpinder Singh through counsel HS Dhindsa. He was seeking the quashing of the FIR registered on July 16, 2003, for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act, by the CBI. Directions were also sought to quash all the subsequent proceedings, including an order dated April 30, 2009, passed by the Patiala CBI Special Judge, vide which the petitioner was declared a proclaimed offender.“I find that prosecution of the petitioner is nothing but misuse of process of law, as the CBI has produced all the available evidence, both documentary and oral, during the trial and by not believing the same to be worth conviction, all the accused were acquitted. Therefore, no useful purpose will be served in directing the petitioner to face the trial…,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The allegations in the initial FIR by the police were that Ferurai, ex-SSP, Ferozepur, got arms licences of 24 persons issued from the Ferozepur District Magistrate’s office. On inquiry, it was found that all these persons were Ferurai’s family members or close relatives and “the licences were prepared by using illegal methods by giving his address, while he was posted as the SSP, Ferozepur”.Justice Sangwan asserted the FIR was registered against 14 persons. One died and two persons, including the petitioner, were declared proclaimed offenders. The remaining 11 accused, including the main accused who faced a full-length trial, were acquitted by the Mohali CBI Special Judge vide judgment dated May 1, 2019. The prosecution could not prove the charges against the accused. The allegations against the petitioner were identical to the co-accused that he had also procured an arms licence by giving fake address of the then SSP as his own address.Justice Sangwan added the impugned order declaring him a proclaimed offender had lost its significance once the petitioner had appeared before the trial court and was granted the concession of bail. Besides, the main accused and similarly situated 10 other co-accused stood acquitted and the judgment had attained finality as no appeal was filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-yrs-on-hc-quashes-fir-in-arms-licence-case-348874
11-12-2021||Bathinda||Staff nurses seek pay parity, stage protest||Members of the Nursing Association, Bathinda, took out a protest march here on Friday and raised slogans against the state government.Striking engineers return to workProtesting engineers in various government departments, under the banner of Diploma Engineers Association of Punjab, have resumed their duties after an assurance by the CMThey said the government must provide pay scale benefits as per the revised pay scale in 2006 and also accord the status of nursing officers to staff nurses in the state.Association chief Swaranjit Kaur said: “We are continuing with our indefinite strike. Today, after carrying out the protest march, we went to Government Rajindra College to extend support to the protesting guest faculty assistance professors there. We also demand that the government must ensure pay parity.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-nurses-seek-pay-parity-stage-protest-348875
11-12-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Three years on, Changar area gets water under lift irrigation scheme||Three years after laying of foundation stone of lift irrigation scheme by the then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, residents of four villages in the Changar area have finally started getting water for irrigation purposes. Local MLA and Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh inaugurated the first phase of Rs 100-crore scheme here today.In absence of any source of water to irrigate their land, local farmers were dependent on rain and majority of them who also have dairies had to migrate to plains during summers due to paucity of water. It was on January 24, 2019 when acceding to their decade-old demand Capt Amarinder laid the foundation stone of the project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-years-on-changar-area-gets-water-under-lift-irrigation-scheme-348876
11-12-2021||New Delhi||IPD at Bathinda AIIMS soon: Union minister Bharti Pawar||Union Minister Bharti Pawar today said the IPD of Bhatinda AIIMS will be made operational in the coming days.Replying to a supplementary by Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the minister told the Lok Sabha that “Bathinda AIIMS was almost 95 per cent complete. The OPD services started there in 2019 and IPD services will begin in the coming days. From 2019-20, MBBS classes had also commenced there.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ipd-at-bathinda-aiims-soon-union-minister-348877
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab 1st in energy conservation: Raj Kumar Verka||Energy Development Minister Raj Kumar Verka on Friday announced that the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) has got the first prize in the country for its performance in the field of energy conservation. PEDA will be conferred the National Energy Conservation Award-2021 on December 14 at the Vigyan Bhawan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-1st-in-energy-conservation-348878
11-12-2021||---||CDS chopper crash: In Punjab village wait on for Naik Gursewak Singh's body||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 10Body of Naik Gursewak Singh (35) of Dode Sodhian village here will be brought to his native village after around two days. The brave heart died on Wednesday in a chopper crash in which the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), his wife, and other persons were travelling near Coonoor in Nilgiris (Tamil Nadu).The family of the martyr and area residents are worried over the delay in handing over of the body. As Gursewak’s body got charred in the mishap and it was difficult to be identified. A team of the Indian Army had reached his native village on Thursday and collected blood samples of his father Kabal Singh for DNA test.Jaswinder Singh, brother of the martyr, said the family had contacted the Army headquarters which told them that it might take two to three days to complete the formalities and then the body would be brought to the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wait-on-for-naiks-body-348879
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir's adviser Anish Sidana quits SAD||A correctionIn a report, ‘Chhotepur back in SAD fold’, in these columns on Friday, Mohan Singh Tur was erroneously referred to as Sucha Singh Chhotepur’s father instead of father-in-law. Tur never served as SGPC chief, as mentioned in the item. In a related report, Chhotepur was mentioned as Tur’s son, instead of son-in-law. TNSRs 1.34-cr embezzled, truckers seek probeSangrur: Some members of the Bhawanigarh Truck Operators’ Association have allegedly misappropriated Rs 1.34 crore. Operators have submitted a complaint to Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) and demanded a high-level inquiry. TNSDhigan is vice-chief of SC Land Development CorpChandigarh: The government has appointed Naresh Dhigan as vice-chairman of the Punjab Scheduled Caste Land Development and Finance Corporation. An official said Dhigan has assumed the charge. TNSPahra appointed member of Milkfed Board of DirectorsChandigarh: Gurdaspur MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra has been appointed as a member of Board of Directors of Milkfed. Pahra is a close associate of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa. TNSThree killed in road mishap on NH-62 in SriganganagarAbohar: A driver and helper were killed after their truck collided head on with another heavy vehicle on the national highway 62 in Sriganganagar on Thursday night. Cops said the deceased have been identified as Manoj Meghwal (30) and Raju Nayak (32) of Karmisar in Bikaner. OCProf Bansal conferred with Nat’l Eminent Engineer AwardChandigarh: The Institution of Engineers has conferred Dr Savina Bansal, professor and former Dean, MRSPTU (Bathinda), with the ‘National Eminent Engineer Award’ for her outstanding achievements and contributions made to the profession of electronic and telecommunication engineering. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbirs-adviser-quits-sad-348880
11-12-2021||Deepender Deswal||Haryana farmers plan warm send-off to Punjab brethren||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 10The farmers of Haryana, sitting on dharna at the toll plazas in Hisar and Jind districts, will give a warm send-off to the Punjab farmers on their way back home after nearly a year of their agitation at the Delhi borders near Tikri and Singhu.Reception for jathasWe will give a civic reception to all jathas coming from the Delhi borders at the Mayyar and Landhri toll plazas in Hisar and Khatkar toll plaza and Uchana town in Jind. Shamsher Numberdar, Kisan Sabha Dist ChiefFarmers at the Mayyar toll plaza held a meeting in this regard today. They decided that they would lift their dharna on December 14 after all farmers of Punjab return home. The SKM leader Rakesh Tikait will also address a meeting at the Mayyar toll plaza on December 14.Farmers at the Mayyar toll plaza said they had made arrangements for food for the farmers returning from the Delhi borders. “Every farmer will be served food and there are also be arrangements of rest for them. They will be welcomed by showering flowers on them since they are returning after getting their demands fulfilled,” Numberdar said. A large number of farmers are likely to turn up at the Mayyar toll plaza on their way to Punjab via Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts.Similarly, farmers in Uchana town of Jind district said they had made preparations for serving jalebis, kheer and snacks to the farmers returning to their homes via Jind district. Azad Singh Palwan, BKU president of Jind district, said they had been standing with the Punjab farmers shoulder to shoulder since November 26, 2020, when the latter started entering Haryana.“We are thankful to all farmers of Haryana and Punjab for making the agitation a success. The farmers from both states deserve laurels for their struggle, contribution and sacrifice,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/warm-send-off-to-punjab-brethren-348799
11-12-2021||---||Sucha Singh Chhotepur back in SAD, gets Batala ticket||Chandigarh, December 9Former AAP’s state unit convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur joined the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal here today.Sukhbir announced Chhotepur’s appointment as the party’s senior vice-president and fielded him from Batala. With Chhotepur on board, the Akalis are hoping to strengthen the Panthic vote.Also read: Gurdaspur leader Sucha Singh Chhotepur's political innings comes full circle Ex-MLA Master Baldev Singh quits AAPChhotepur won from Dhariwal constituency in 1985 and was the Minister for Health and Tourism in the Surjit Singh Barnala government. He joined the Congress in 2009, but switched to the AAP in 2014.After joining the SAD, Chhotepur appealed to “all Punjabi and Panthic forces to close ranks and unite under a single Akali flag to fight and defeat the vicious three-pronged attack by outsiders to ‘vanquish Punjabi and Panthic jazba’.”Welcoming Chhotepur into “his mother party”, Sukhbir said his return to the Akali fold symbolised the strengthening of the Panthic forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chhotepur-back-in-sad-gets-batala-ticket-348343
11-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur leader Sucha Singh Chhotepur's political innings comes full circle||Tribune News ServiceBatala (Gurdaspur), Dec 9The political career of Sucha Singh Chhotepur has come a full circle as he has now rejoined the party he left 36 years ago. He is son-in-law of former SAD president Mohan Singh Tur.Also read: Sucha Singh Chhotepur back in SAD, gets Batala ticketHis proximity to former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is well-known. Insiders claim he had been getting regular feelers to join the Punjab Lok Congress.In career spanning almost four decades, Chhotepur has flirted with the Akalis, Congress and the AAP besides floating his own party — Aapna Punjab Party — in 2017. As chief of his outfit, he contested from the Gurdaspur Assembly seat the same year but managed to garner less than a 1,000 votes.He has now bounced back and will contest from the Batala seat. When the SAD and BJP were alliance partners, the seat was always held by the latter. This development means the Akalis never got a chance to nurture and strengthen their party cadre. The party’s choice of allocating him Batala comes as a surprise to many because he is known to wield influence in the neighbouring seats of Qadian and Dera Baba Nanak.He started his career by contesting from the Dhariwal seat in 1985. Later, he contested two more elections from Dhariwal before the seat was dissolved ahead of the 2012 polls. Scores of villages of the erstwhile Dhariwal segment were shifted to Dera Baba Nanak and Qadian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-leaders-political-innings-comes-full-circle-348344
