14-12-2021||Moga||Punjab polls: SAD promises Rs 50,000 compensation for crop damage, old pension scheme||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday promised Rs 50,000 per acre compensation for crop damage, restoration of old pension scheme for government employees, free power for all religious places and ending alleged sand and liquor mafia if the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power in Punjab next year.Shiromani Akali Dal patron and five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal exuded confidence that in the coming assembly elections, the SAD-BSP alliance would repeat the performance like it had witnessed in 1996 when it had won all Lok Sabha seats.Addressing a rally organised to commemorate the centenary celebrations of the Akali Dal, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said there would be four fronts—the BJP, the Congress, the AAP and the SAD-BSP in the coming assembly polls.“Out of these four, only the SAD-BSP alliance is your front. We know your issues and problems and (will) also fight for you,” he said while exhorting people to vote for the alliance.He lashed out at rival political parties — Congress, AAP and the BJP — for not understanding the problems and raising the issues of people of the state.The Akali Dal was formed on December 14, 1920 and completed 100 years last year.Announcing new poll promises, Sukhbir Badal said farmers would be given crop insurance cover for any damage of their crop and minimum Rs 50,000 compensation would be given if the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power.He further promised restoration of the old pension scheme for government employees. At present, the employees recruited after 2004 are not entitled for pension after retirement.“Electricity supply to all religious places, including gurdwara, temple, mosque and church, will be made free,” he said.He also promised formation of a government corporation for the mining sector to end the sand mafia.Badal also promised to end the monopoly in the liquor business. He said more graveyard grounds would be made available for the Muslim and Christian communities.He announced that the SAD-BSP alliance would not allow anyone to disturb the peace and communal harmony in the state. “’Bhaicharak Sanjh’ cannot be compromised with. I am also committed to taking Punjab to new heights of development,” he further said.Later, former chief minister and Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal said in 1996 when there was an alliance between SAD and BSP, it won all Lok Sabha seats.This time too, the alliance will get similar results and repeat history, asserted Badal.The former chief minister said he will perform whatever duty the party assigns him for the upcoming assembly elections.Badal said the choice before Punjabis was “straight and simple”.It’s one between having a government of the Punjabis, for the Punjabis and by the Punjabis on the one hand or having “boastful puppets” remote controlled by outsiders, he said.The Akali stalwart also warned the Government of India against the “dangerous adventurism” of the past and said nothing should be done to disturb the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony in Punjab and outside.Speaking on the occasion, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary Satish Mishra said the alliance was set to sweep the forthcoming polls by securing 100 seats. He also lashed out at other rival parties including the Congress and the AAP.A resolution condemning the Congress government’s alleged attempts to register false cases against SAD-BSP alliance leaders was passed in the rally. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-sad-promises-rs-50-000-compensation-for-crop-damage-old-pension-scheme-350371
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder warns Punjab Police against intimidating his party workers at behest of local Congress leaders||Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday warned Punjab Police officials against intimidating his party workers at the behest of some local Congress leaders, saying he would take all necessary measures to come down heavily on such hooligans in uniforms.The former chief minister was reacting to reports of Punjab cops stopping PLC workers who were putting up posters in Malwa region. He said he had received reports that the Punjab Police officials, clearly acting at the bidding of local Congress leaders, were threatening to slap false cases against his party workers.Capt Amarinder expressed surprise that such mischievous acts were being allowed by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“If the present government has the guts, let them take me on politically instead of using these goons in uniform to do their dirty jobs,” he said.He asked Channi to “rein in” such elements within the Congress and in the police force, “unless you are deliberately allowing such anarchy to plunge Punjab into political mayhem ahead of the Assembly polls, in which the ruling party is set to be shamefully trounced”.“I know how to deal with such officials, who have compromised their integrity to appease their political masters,” said Capt Amarinder, adding that, if needed, he would not shy from taking the Centre’s help to deal with the lawlessness being unleashed by such police personnel.He asserted he would do anything needed to ensure that law and order is maintained in the state, which had witnessed complete peace and political harmony during his tenure as chief minister.“All such partisan officials who are going around trying to terrorise my party workers should remember that they aren’t above the law, and they will have to answer for their acts,” warned the former chief minister, adding that such draconian acts will not be tolerated at any cost.The job of the men in uniform is to maintain law and order and not to act in a partisan manner, said the PLC chief, warning the police personnel against becoming tools in the hands of the party in power.The Channi government should ensure that not just PLC workers but workers of BJP or Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), with which his party is headed for alliance/seat arrangement, should not be harassed in the state, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-warns-punjab-police-against-intimidating-his-party-workers-at-behest-of-local-congress-leaders-350369
14-12-2021||New Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to take part in AAP's 'Tiranga Yatra' in Punjab's Jalandhar on Wednesday||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will take part in his party's ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Punjab's Jalandhar on Wednesday.In a tweet on Tuesday, Kejriwal said the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ would be taken out in an atmosphere of patriotism, appealing to the people of Jalandhar to join him at the event in large numbers."Tomorrow, I will join the Tiranga (Tricolour) yatra in Jalandhar. I appeal to all the residents of Jalandhar that they come in large numbers. The Tiranga yatra will be taken out on the streets of Jalandhar in an atmosphere of patriotism with Tiranga in hands and chants of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'," he said.This will be Kejriwal's second visit to Punjab this month. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader has increased the frequency of his visits in the poll-bound state in recent weeks.Punjab goes to polls early next year and the AAP, which is the main opposition party in the state, is eyeing to wrest power from the ruling Congress.Kejriwal launched a registration drive in Punjab on December 7, following his promise that Rs 1,000 per month would be given to women if his party came to power in the state.He had launched the drive from Sarai Khas village in Kartarpur.Addressing a gathering during his daylong visit to Punjab, the AAP national convenor had also promised to provide free education to the children from the Scheduled Caste community, besides bearing their coaching fees for higher studies, if his party came to power in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-to-take-part-in-aaps-tiranga-yatra-in-punjabs-jalandhar-on-wednesday-350337
14-12-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||SAD-BSP is a holy alliance, it will form next govt in Punjab, says Parkash Singh Badal||Tribune News ServiceMoga, December 14Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday said that the Akalis would bounce back to form the next government in the state.Talking to The Tribune, he said, “The SAD-BSP is a holy alliance,” which will change the course of politics in the state.The senior Badal made his public appearance after five years at the centenary celebrations of the Akali Dal at Killi Chahal village in Moga district.The 95-year-old veteran leader said the BSP had a mass following in all assembly segments; therefore, its combination with the SAD would help form the next government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-is-a-holy-alliance-it-will-form-next-govt-in-punjab-says-parkash-singh-badal-350334
14-12-2021||Lucknow||SAD-BSP will form next govt in Punjab: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Tuesday said that the Shiromani Akali Dal-BSP alliance would form the next government in Punjab with a clear majority.Reiterating her party's alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), she said they would soon launch the campaign for the Punjab Assembly election."When the SAD-BSP will contest the elections in Punjab, the Congress will be wiped out," she said while talking to the media on Tuesday.Mayawati said the BSP- SAD alliance would free Punjab "of the misrule of the Congress party with victory in the 2022 Assembly election." She said that Punjab held a special place in her heart and BSP founder, late Kanshi Ram, also belonged to Punjab.Meanwhile, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra has embarked on a three-day visit to the poll-bound Punjab.On Tuesday, he will participate in the foundation day programme of SAD organised in Moga. Later, he will discuss the election strategy with top SAD leaders, including Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Mishra will meet BSP office-bearers and workers in Chandigarh. After that, he will attend a meeting of BSP-SAD candidates for the 2022 Assembly election and other leaders.The BSP, sources said, had decided to field candidates on 20 Assembly seats while SAD would contest on 97 seats. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-will-form-next-govt-in-punjab-mayawati-350297
14-12-2021||GS Paul||Punjabis taught Haryanvis how to raise voice peacefully against atrocities: Khap pardhan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13The pardhan of Kandela khap, Tek Ram Kandela, said such a massive farm agitation (384 days long) has exposed the Central Government’s nefarious designs of defaming Punjabis with derogatory tags, including ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘anti-nationals’ , which ended up by bringing people from Punjab and Haryana closer.He said residents of Kandela village located on Chandigarh-Jind Road were among the first ones in Haryana to actively participate in the farm agitation on Delhi border against the three agri laws.He said the Punjabis taught their Haryanvi counterparts the tactics of raising their voice against the government’s atrocities.“Before that, the Haryanvis always resorted to violent path when it comes to fight against the government policies and voice their concern. I am 85-year-old and I have never seen such a successful and powerful, yet non-violent agitation in my life. The Punjabis made us learn how to bring the government to its knees through dialogue and patience. We were impressed with the ‘langar’ tradition of the Punjabis, which continued to feed the agitators, despite several constraints,” he said.Criticising the Centre sponsored media for defaming the farm agitation, he said, “The Centre had adopted all tactics to scuttle the farm agitation by tagging the farmers as ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘Khalistanis’, but never succeeded in it. The January 26 violence at Red Fort was the outcome of some disgruntled elements whereas it had nothing to do with the farm agitation,” said Kandela.He said other issues like the guaranteed procurement on MSP and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, too, would be addressed across the table with the Centre.He said the SYL Canal issue would be amicably settled between people of both the neighbouring states, if not on political platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabis-taught-haryanvis-how-to-raise-voice-peacefully-against-atrocities-350235
14-12-2021||Amritsar||Babbu Mann: Was sure of farmers' victory||Punjabi singer Babbu Mann on Monday visited the Golden Temple along with farmers who came back from Delhi borders. Mann, who had been lending support to the farmers’ stir and had gone to Singhu border to boost their morale, said he never had a doubt about farmers’ victory.“Farmers are the backbone of nation. They are the ones running the economy. No government can afford to rule or suppress them. I was 200 per cent sure that they will emerge victorious. It’s a lesson for future governments as well that they cannot rule over farmers by ignoring their welfare,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/was-sure-of-farmers-victory-babbu-mann-350237
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manjinder Singh Sirsa seeks votes for BJP candidates in Chandigarh MC elections, goes door to door||Manjinder Singh Sirsa, former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), was here today to seek votes for BJP candidates contesting the MC elections scheduled for December 24.Apart from addressing a series of public meetings, he went door-to-door seeking votes for party candidates in various sectors. Manjinder Singh campaigned for Manjit Kaur from Ward No. 1, Bhupinder Sharma from Ward No. 34, Jasman from Ward No. 32 and Neha Arora from Ward No. 23 in the evening.Addressing the public meetings, he said the election results of the MC would decide the direction of polls to be held not only in Punjab but also in other states of the country. “Due to the favourable policies of the Central Government, Chandigarh continues to be favourite of local residents with the unprecedented win in the last Lok Sabha elections,” he said.City BJP expels five rebelsThe city BJP has expelled five rebels who are contesting against official candidates of the party. Party spokesperson Kailash Jain said state president Arun Sood had expelled Gurpreet Singh Happy from Ward No. 9, Kripanand Thakur from Ward No. 20, Narender Chaudhary from Ward No. 26, and Mukesh Goyal and Ashwani Gupta from Ward No. 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-ex-dsgmc-chief-seeks-votes-for-bjp-candidates-goes-door-to-door-350224
14-12-2021||---||SSP appointments: OP Soni sides with Sukhjinder Randhawa, says no one took money||Jalandhar, December 13In the tussle between Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Rana Gurjeet Singh with latter alleging use of money for the appointments of SSPs, Punjab Deputy CM OP Soni today took sides with the former.No exchange of money happened. There is some confusion and it will be sorted out. Hence, there is no need for anyone to probe into the matter. OP Soni, Deputy Chief Minister, PunjabSoni, who was in city to review pace of development works in the district, said, “No exchange of money has taken place. There was only some confusion and it will be sorted out and hence there is no need for anyone to probe into the matter.” He said this in a reply to the queries pertaining to demand by opposition parties for conducting a probe into Rana Gurjeet Singh’s allegations.Earlier in the day, Soni visited Sultanpur Lodhi constituency, represented by MLA Navtej Cheema. He was in the holy town for the inauguration of oxygen plants. His visit for a programme of Cheema in Sultanpur Lodhi, where Rana’s son Inder Partap Singh Rana is a ticket contender, too, is being seen as a move in favour of Rana’s opposite camp.On PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s statement that he would not be responsible for the party’s victory if the government cannot handle sand, cable and transport mafia, Soni said: “I have all the regard for Sidhu, but most issues such as those related to sand, cable and transport businesses were being well taken care of and won’t be much of an issue”.Responding to a query, Soni who is also holding the portfolio of health minister, said all genuine demands of nurses and ASHA workers would be fulfilled within a short span of time as the state government was sympathetically considering all their genuine concerns.On Omicron variant of Covid, the Deputy Chief Minister said there was no need to panic but precaution are a must. The state government is fully geared up to tackle any kind of third Covid wave as the state enhanced the production of oxygen to 609 MT against the peak demand of 300 MT during the second Covid wave, he said. He also announced to enhance the capacity of Sultanpur Lodhi government hospital to 80 beds against the present 50.In Jalandhar, accompanied by Education Minister Pargat Singh, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, MLAs Rajinder Beri, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Avtar Singh Bawa Henry, and Surinder Chaudhry, Soni said the state government was committed for the welfare of all sections of society adding that a slew of projects are being executed by the government to achieve the task of holistic development.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori apprised the Deputy CM that the Jalandhar is a frontrunner in the state in issuing timely mutations to property owners. He added that the district has implemented all welfare and development schemes.Under smart city project, a total of 71 projects costing Rs 1,460 crore would be completed in the city, he said, while also detailing the progress made under Jal Jeevan Mission, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, construction of Modal Playgrounds, Hariyawal Scheme, Smart roads, Bio-remediation project at Wariana dump site, LED lights in the city, drainage system and Burlton Park sports hub project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-appointments-op-soni-sides-with-sukhjinder-randhawa-says-no-one-took-money-349998
14-12-2021||---||Surjit Patar: A journalist's call of duty more difficult than poet||Phagwara, December 13Calling journalism as the soul of society, popular Punjabi poet and Punjab Arts Council chairman Surjit Patar said a journalist’s call of duty is more difficult than that of a poet.Patar said this while addressing a gathering of prominent writers as chief guest at a function by Punjabi Virsa Trust, Phagwara, on Sunday at an award ceremony for three journalists.Organised by Trust’s president Prof Jaswant Singh Gandam and general secretary Gurmit Palahi, the award carried a shawl, a citation, a memento and Rs11,000 each. Patar argued that a journalist has to be clear, straight, factual and fearless in reporting issues on daily basis and, like poets, has no escape routes in the form of symbolic or metaphorical expressions.Asserting that a journalist plays a stellar role in changing public thinking, Patar said a journalist has to be bekhof and bebaak in calling a spade a spade.“In doing so, journalists have to face a lot of dangers and difficulties as they did in the days of Emergency and are doing so even now,” he remarked, adding several writers also face these. “Varvara Rao is still in jail”, he said to substantiate it.Patar said: “Democracy has four pillars - judiciary, legislature, executive and press. The first three have in-built legal strength, but the strength of media was only its words, logic and arguments. Though journalists don’t have any in-built legal strength for their safety, but their words and writings become strength of peoples mind that act as shields. Actually, journalism and literature both play a big role in changing thoughts and mindsets of peoples.”He said pattarkari is our zameer while shayari’(poetry) is our soul as it stirs in us a feeling for others peeda (pain). Patar also distinguished between a khoti siyast and khari siyast, claiming that the former was vote-specific while the latter was issue-centric.Claiming that a debate keeps going on his mind about merits and demerits of ‘Parvas’(migration abroad), Patar quoted his old and later stage couplets to drive home his point: Jo badesan ch rulde ne rozi layi, jad partange apne desh kadi, kuchh ta sekange maa de sivey di agan, kuchh rukhan di chhan heth ja behnge. Patar regaled audience by reciting his other poems too.Speaking on the occasion, Satnam Manak dubbed Partition as unnatural and a monumental blunder. Among the founders of Hind-Pak Dosti Manch, Manak, while expressing grave concern over forced conversions of minorities in Pakistan, demanded implementation of Nehru-Liaqat Ali pact in toto for safeguarding interests and human rights of minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.Demanding MSP for farmers, Manak equated agriculture with army. “One provided food security while the other provided geographical security. They can’t be treated as per trade terms anywhere in the world and governments should shoulder the entire expenses of both.”Referring to problems and concerns of journalists, Manak said peoples’ problems were ‘sarokar’(concerns) of journalists. He said all journalists and writers must fight to keep up ‘sanjha-manjha’(common and colourful) character of our country and be watchdogs of peoples human rights, especially minorities.”Dr Lakhvinder Johal, secretary, Punjab Arts Council, called journalists as the permanent opposition of the establishment. Dr Swaraj Singh dubbed migration from Punjab to abroad as the worst ever curse for Punjab. Dr SS Chhina and NRI Ashok Bhaura also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-journalists-call-of-duty-more-difficult-than-poet-surjit-patar-350002
14-12-2021||---||Placated, Sunil Jakhar calls campaign panel meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13After days of speculation over his displeasure at the ongoing developments in the Punjab Congress, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar has called a meeting of the campaign committee on December 15. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu have been invited to the meeting.Bajwa to launch manifesto driveRS MP and manifesto committee chairman Partap Bajwa will launch a drive on Tuesday to get feedback on a toll-free number ahead of drafting manifesto.Capt: Channi will be night watchmanEx-CM Capt Amarinder Singh said he felt sad the way CM Channi was being treated. “He is being made to be subservient to the whims of PCC chief... Channi will end up as a night watchman only.” TNSIn an effort of mollify the former PCC chief, the Congress high command recently appointed him as the chairman of the campaign committee, besides appointing him as an ex officio member of both screening and election committees of the PCC for the upcoming Assembly polls.After being appointed the chairman of the campaign committee, Jakhar has been maintaining a studied silence, triggering speculation of him being unhappy at being ignored in the political hierarchy in the Punjab Congress.However, Jakhar after recently meeting party leader Rahul Gandhi, had reportedly agreed to comply with the task assigned to him. Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary has held a couple of meetings with Jakhar over the past few days. All eyes are on the meeting when Jakhar meets the CM and PCC chief. He has been critical of both.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/placated-jakhar-calls-campaign-panel-meet-350041
14-12-2021||Bathinda||Elections about Punjab vs mafia: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Continuing with his tirade, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today said it’s a fight between Punjab and mafia in the upcoming Assembly elections and it is for the people to choose which side they were on.CM yet to fulfil all promisesThe new Chief Minister has shown intent but I am not fully satisfied as all promises are yet to be fulfilled. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefBacks MLA from Bassi PathanaChandigarh: Day after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s brother Dr Manohar Singh threw his hat in the ring from the Bassi Pathana seat, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday came out in support of sitting legislator Gurpreet Singh GP by meeting him and posting a photo on Twitter. The PCC chief will inaugurate the MLA’s office on December 23. TNSAddressing a rally at Naruana village in the Bathinda Rural Assembly segment, Sidhu said he was fighting for Punjab and its next generation to wipe out the mafia from the state. “My motive is not to grab power, if a government is to be made by making false promises, then I am not in it,” said the PCC chief.Sidhu yet again questioned his own government in the state over high prices of sand, inadequate compensation to cotton farmers besides other issues.Holding a copy of The Tribune, Sidhu said: “A report printed in the newspaper claims sand is still selling at high prices. Despite government orders, sand is selling at Rs 25-30 per cubic feet. Until the contract system is ended, sand can’t be sold at lower prices.” He said while the government had announced Rs 17,000 per acre compensation for damage to cotton due to the pink bollworm attack, farmers weren’t getting the amount. “They should instead get Rs 25,000 per acre compensation,” he added.Sidhu said liquor mafia was still thriving in the state as a Rs 200 bottle was selling at Rs 1,000 and the money was going into someone’s pocket.“This will be rectified by implementing the ‘Punjab Model’,” said the PCC chief.Targeting AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, Sidhu claimed he was misleading people as industry in Delhi was being given power at Rs 13 per unit, while in Punjab it was a lot cheaper. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elections-about-punjab-vs-mafia-sidhu-350042
14-12-2021||---||Four Punjab Congress ministers in touch, claims AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today claimed that many big leaders, including four ministers of the ruling Congress in Punjab, are in touch with the party.Baseless: ChanniMorinda: Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi rubbished the AAP’s claim that four ministers were desperate to join them. Channi said state AAP affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha’s statements were baseless and meaningless. “AAP is indulging in misleading and malicious talk, but these tactics will backfire,” he said.Addressing a virtual press conference on Monday, party co-incharge for Punjab Raghav Chadha claimed four ministers had been approaching them to join the AAP for the past few days. “Since, these four leaders are facing serious allegations related to sand mafia, we have decided not to include them into our party,” he said.Confirming the claim made by Chadha, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Many leaders from other parties are approaching us to join the AAP. We will not include any corrupt and criminal leader (into the party) under any circumstances.”Meanwhile, AAP MP and Punjab state party president Bhagwant Mann took note of Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s revelations about illegal occupation of 900 acres of government and shamlat land in Mohali by two former Chief Ministers. He urged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to take immediate action and identify the two former CMs who had encroached upon land worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-congress-ministers-in-touch-claims-aap-350043
14-12-2021||---||SGPC honours Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders at Golden Temple||Amritsar, December 13Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Rakesh Tikait and others today got a rousing welcome upon their arrival in Amritsar today. They were received by SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami at the Golden Temple.Rajewal, Charuni differ on political courseAfter paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, the SKM leders attended the ‘shukrana ardas’ at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex. Later, they were presented with siropa at a programme organised by the SGPC. Dhami said: “The hardships faced by agitating farmers, who lost over 700 colleagues in the course of protest, had compelled PM Narendra Modi-led government to relent. This movement strengthened the bond between Punjab and Haryana. I especially thank the Punjabis from overseas who helped run the longest-ever farm struggle”, he said.Rajewal said it was the spiritual strength showered by the Almighty that helped farmers sail through many difficulties. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, Lakhanpal and Yudhvir Singh, who joined their colleagues later, were separately honoured by the SGPC at its headquarters. The others who were honoured included former Jathedar Giani Jasbir Singh Rode, Dr Swaiman Singh, Darshan Pal, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Pargat Singh, Buta Singh Burj Gill, Manjit Singh Rai, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Baldev Singh Nihalgarh and Harmeet Singh Qadian. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-honours-skm-leaders-350044
14-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Miss Universe: Native village in Gurdaspur erupts over daughter Harnaaz Sandhu's feat||Tribune News ServiceKohali (Gurdaspur), Dec 13This nondescript village located 20 km from Batala on the Sri Hargobinpur road suddenly came alive on Monday morning when the news of Harnaaz Sandhu winning the coveted Miss Universe title spread like a wildfire in her native village and also the adjoining ones.Fitness fanaticMy niece is a fitness fanatic. In October, she was with us at her ancestral house here after she won the Miss Diva Universe India-2021. — Jaswinder Singh, Harnaaz’s UncleHarnaaz’s uncle Jaswinder and his wife Lakhwinder Kaur remained busy throughout the day attending to fellow villagers who came in droves to savour the moment. The media also descended on the village in large numbers and everything changed for the family.“My niece is a fitness fanatic. In October, she was with us at her ancestral house here after she won the Miss Diva Universe India-2021. I remember, she was flooded with telephone calls from Bollywood personalities. Her Australia-based cousin too was in the village at that time. He had gifted a silver crown to her to mark her victory. We are four brothers and she is the only daughter in the family. She has a passion for modelling and working in films. When she told us she wanted to act in the Punjabi film industry, we never gave it a second thought,” said Jaswinder Singh.Her aunt said Harnaaz was a deeply religious girl. “She revels in cooking. I knew, given her talent, that she would make it big one day. Late last night, somebody told us that she was close to clinching the title. We were mentally keyed up for the news, and when it came this morning our joy knew no bounds,” she said.Village gurdwara head Sukhbir Singh said Harnaaz was very young when her grandfather passed away. “I still vividly remember the young girl taking part in the kirtan and ardaas (prayers) at the bhog ceremony,” he said.The family was apprehensive whether the Miss Universe contest would be held at all due to the latest Covid wave. “It was God’s wish that the event was held. And it was again God’s wish that our daughter won it,” said a relative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/native-village-erupts-over-daughters-feat-350045
14-12-2021||---||Sacrilege: SIT to quiz dera chief Gurmit Ram Rahim at Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail today||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, December 13Four days after questioning a senior functionary of the Dera Sacha Sauda at Sirsa, the special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, probing the sacrilege incident, will again visit the Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail on Tuesday to grill dera chief Gurmit Ram Rahim Singh.Ready with fresh posers: Probe teamOn the basis of Nain’s questioning, we are again going to Sunaria jail with a new set to questions. — Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, SIT HeadLast month, the SIT had visited the jail to question the dera chief to probe his role in the sacrilege incidents. The dera chief was nominated as an accused in three sacrilege cases in July 2019.During his questioning, the dera chief had claimed he had no role in the functioning or decision-making of the dera. His role was limited to holding ‘satsang’ to propagate dera’s ideology, he had maintained.To establish his links with the sacrilege incidents, the SIT had decided to question the senior functionaries of the dera about the decision regarding the sacrilege incidents.It is alleged a conspiracy to commit sacrilege was hatched at the dera in Sirsa and was executed by some central committee and other members of the dera at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages of Faridkot district between June and October 2015.On December 9, the SIT had visited Sirsa and questioned vice-chairperson Dr Prithvi Raj Nain, who had earlier failed to appear before the SIT despite having been summoned repeatedly. It, however, failed to question Vipassana Insan, the chairperson of the dera.“On the basis of Nain’s questioning, we are again going to Sunaria jail with a new set to questions,” said IG Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, head of SIT. After the two were summoned to appear before the SIT last month, Vipassana had failed to respond, while Nain expressed his helplessness in appearing before the SIT claiming he was suffering from dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-quiz-dera-chief-at-rohtak-prison-today-350046
14-12-2021||Aman Sood||Liqour cartels calling shots in Punjab, charge at will||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13Despite repeated assurances by the government, the liquor mafia in Punjab is making a killing by charging exorbitant rates. The mafia, having political backing, controls almost 80 per cent of the liquor trade.Taking Strict action on plaintsMinimum rates have been fixed to promote competition in the market. No one can form a cartel. Strict action is ensured whenever we get complaints. A Venu Prasad, Additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, TaxationMafia dictates pricesAccording to information gathered from various districts, same brand of liquor is sold at different rates at different vends, without any valid reason. While opposition leaders blame the government for the menace, excise officials say they act on complaints received.To promote competition, the excise policy has fixed minimum rates of liquor. Insiders claimed that a major portion of the trade was now controlled by four groups that had formed cartels in every district. “If you want a particular brand of liquor, either it will be as per their rates or you will not get it anywhere,” said an insider.In this regard A Venu Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner, Taxation, said anyone could buy liquor from any vend. “Minimum rates have been fixed to promote competition in the market. No one can form any cartel. Strict action is ensured whenever we get complaints,” he said.Interestingly, excise officials denied existence of syndicates. Information revealed that the syndicates in connivance with police and excise officials raid marriage palaces, put up illegal ‘nakas’ and “do not allow liquor to be served at any function” if it was “not bought from the vends” controlled by them. Such syndicates are allegedly operating in Amritsar, Khanna, Jalandhar, Patiala, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Ludhiana.Former Cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia claimed the government’s failure to curb the syndicates meant people were paying more for liquor and the excise revenue was being pocketed by the mafia. Senior AAP leader Harpal Cheema said he frequently got complaints about how the liquor lobby was selling liquor at high rates. “The rates are 40 per cent higher for functions and the government has done nothing to curb the menace,” he added.Deputy CM OP Soni said overcharging for liquor would not be tolerated. “I will ensure that such rates are not charged. Let me get complete information on overcharging for liquor, if any,” he said, adding that the Oppositon was merely playing politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liqour-cartels-calling-shots-in-state-charge-at-will-350048
14-12-2021||Sangrur||2 Union Ministers visit Bhuri Wale Sant’s shrine in Barnala||Union Ministers Som Parkash and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is also state BJP’s co-incharge, visited Bhuri Wale Sant’s shrine at Jhaloor, Barnala, on Sunday night and attended a function.Accompanied by other BJP leaders, including state unit president Ashwani Sharma, both the ministers held two different meetings with the management of the shrine. Sangrur BJP president Randeep Deol said it was a routine visit to pay obeisance at Jhaloor and nothing more should be read into it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-union-ministers-visit-barnala-shrine-350049
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mega SAD rally in Moga today; Mayawati may stay away||With farmers’ agitation over, the SAD hopes to find new momentum ahead of the Assembly elections through its mega rally in Moga on Tuesday to mark its 101st-anniversary celebrations.The venue of the rally, being organised with alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), is spread over 100 acres (including the pandal and parking). Satish Mishra, BSP national general secretary, will lead his party as a special guest, while party’s national president Mayawati has not confirmed her plans.Mayawati is yet to make her appearance along with the alliance partner in Punjab since the parties announced a poll pact in June.Five-time Chief Minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal will be the star attraction at the rally. At 94, he is the oldest politician active in the country. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is being projected as the party’s face, is likely to announce senior Badal’s candidature from Lambi.“Badal ji is active and fit. The rally would be his first major public appearance in some months,” said party leader Daljit Singh Cheema. On the possible absence of Mayawati, he said she had a prior commitment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mega-sad-rally-today-maya-may-stay-away-350050
14-12-2021||---||Hero's welcome for homebound farmers in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 13Farm leaders returned to a hero’s welcome in Jalandhar today after returning from the Delhi morcha. On their way to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, stalwart leaders of the Kisan Morcha stopped over at the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway amidst glorious cheers from the sangat and chanting of slogans and jaikaras.Tea, pinnis, barfis and showers of petals welcomed the leaders back to Punjab. Local members of farm outfits as well as Jalandhar citizens gathered in huge numbers at the national highway to welcome the leaders and honour them with garlands and siropas.The cavalcades stopped over at the highway with women, children, and men of farm groups jostling to honour the revered leaders. Passing cavalcades nodded in unison to standing sangat with all raising the slogan “Kisan mazdoor ekta zindabad”. A huge jatha of women from Jalandhar, Nakodar and Shahkot also stood by the roadside to welcome the leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heros-welcome-for-homebound-farmers-in-jal-350051
14-12-2021||Archit Watts||Muktsar: Despite giving 2 CMs, problems galore||Despite giving two Chief Ministers to the state — Harcharan Singh Brar (Congress) and Parkash Singh Badal (SAD) – the district headquarter town is still without basic amenities. Though both the Congress and SAD claim to have developed this town, residents are peeved at the sewage flowing on streets and contaminating the drinking water supply.Past trendIn the 2017 Assembly polls, SAD’s Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi got elected from here. Congress’ Karan Kaur Brar won in 2012 and Kanwarjit Singh Sonny Brar in 2007. Sukhdarshan Singh Marar, an Independent, won in the 2002 elections.Electorate strengthLocals’ key demands“Nothing much has changed here. When someone comes after even a decade, he says the town still looks almost the same. Some new showrooms and eating joints have opened, but the rest remains the same. Streets have been constructed during the previous SAD-BJP regime and the present Congress government, but quality remains an issue. During rains, the town converts into a lake,” say locals.The district administration close to Maghi Mela (January 14) every year spends a huge amount of money to give a fresh look to the town, yet these works don’t last long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-giving-2-cms-problems-galore-350052
14-12-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana East: Industry hub lacks infrastructure||Flowing through the Ludhiana East constituency, the Buddha Nullah is a major cause for concern for locals here. With many industrial units also located in the area, fly ash is another problem.Past trendThe constituency has sent MLAs from different parties to the Vidhan Sabha in the past. In 2012, the seat was won by SAD’s Ranjit Singh Dhillon, while it was occupied by BJP’s Satpal Gosain in 2007. Gosain also won from here in 1992 and 1997.Electorate strengthLocals’ key demands“The Buddha Nullah overflows during the rainy season and inconveniences people here. The stink caused by the drain is unbearable. Various governments have not been able to find a solution to the problem,” said Desraj, a resident.Many areas in the constituency remain covered by a thick layer of fly ash, caused by the burning of rice husk, used as fuel by industries. It causes respiratory and eye problems to locals here.Traffic congestion adds to the woes of the commuters. “A flyover should be constructed from Samrala Chowk towards the Chandigarh road to ease the traffic,” said Lalit, who runs a factory near Samrala Chowk.The Focal Point is in a bad shape with industrialists complaining of losing business due to the dilapidated roads.“Customers from other states and countries avoid coming here. Things become worse during the rainy season. We have to arrange meetings and showcase our products at other places, as customers are not ready to come here,” said Jeevan Singh, an industrialist.Some areas like Moti Nagar, Tajpur Road and Aman Nagar do not have basic facilities such as safe drinking water, sewerage system and roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industry-hub-lacks-infrastructure-350053
14-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Needle-free shots in Punjab by next week||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13The Punjab Health Department is likely to roll out a new Covid-19 vaccine (ZyCoV-D) in the state by next week.Initially, it will be administered in Patiala, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Beneficiaries aged above 18, who have yet to receive the first dose of any Covid vaccine, would be administered the world’s first needle-free vaccine. Unlike Covishield and Covaxin, ZyCoV-D will be administered in three doses at a gap of 28 days between consecutive shots.State Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhasker said, “Health workers’ training in administering the new vaccine will start from Tuesday. By the next week, we will start administering the new vaccine to the people.”Only around 41 per cent of the total targeted population has been fully vaccinated in the state so far. Around 1.68 crore beneficiaries in the state have received one dose of Covishield or Covaxin, while 85 lakhs have received both doses of the said vaccines.Bhasker said the vaccine would be administered into dermis (inner layer of skin), located between epidermis and hypodermis, using a needle-free applicator. “The vaccine administration will be painless. Moreover, it has not reported any side-effects so far,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/needle-free-shots-by-next-week-350054
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to ED on Sukhpal Khaira's bail petition||Taking up a petition filed by former MLA and Congress leader Sukhpal Khaira, seeking release on regular bail, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notices to the ED.Justice Sureshwar Thakur directed the ED to submit a status report on the issue within a week and fixed December 21 as the next date of hearing. Khaira was arrested by the ED on November 10 under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He had approached the High Court after his plea for regular bail was dismissed by a special court in Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-notice-to-ed-on-khairas-bail-petition-350055
14-12-2021||---||NHM stir hits testing, vax drive in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13With the government failing to find a solution to the National Health Mission (NHM) workers’ strike, the healthcare services, including Covid sampling and vaccination, have been severely impacted in the state.Around 11,000 NHM workers have been protesting for around a month seeking regularisation of services. The situation is such that even the Government of India has expressed concern over the issue. The government, including the Chief Minister, had held several rounds of talks with the NHM Employees’ Union, but despite assurances they have failed to take any decision.In a recent communication to the Punjab Government, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged the issue of a decline in testing. He said though there was a drop in the number of cases, in the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing, it was difficult to determine the true level of infection spread.He said Punjab had reported 24,300 average daily tests between November 16 and 22. “This is in stark contrast to a high of 71,257 average daily tests conducted between May 17 and 23.”He said with a majority of countries seeing multiple surges in Covid cases in recent times and a few developed countries facing even fourth and fifth wave despite high levels of Covid vaccination, there was a need for continued vigil given the unpredictable and contagious nature the disease.“Hence, all efforts must be made to preserve the gains made so far to prevent deterioration of Covid-19 scenario across the country,” he said.The central government has also asked the state to maintain high levels of testing, given the recent increase in travelling and events such as marriages, festive celebrations and vacation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-stir-hits-testing-vax-drive-350056
14-12-2021||---||Three weeks on, PAU employees' indefinite strike hits research work||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 13The indefinite strike of faculty members, including professors, agri-scientists and researchers, under the banner of Punjab Agriculture University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) has entered third week on Monday.With faculty members suspending work continuously for 21 days, research work, academics of students, training camps of farmers and other important works related to the agriculture sector has been getting affected on daily basis these days.More than 850 faculty members, including professors, researchers and agri-scientists among others, have been observing a strike for the past over three weeks. The teachers’ association members have been demanding that the state government must provide them pay scale benefits on the patterns of the Seventh Pay Commission Report recommendations, without de-linking from the UGC as it would affect their prospects of promotions and funding.Apart from academics of students, it’s the farmers who are getting directly affected by the strike. They are not getting required information on agricultural techniques or their queries related to farming are not getting addressed. Moreover, training of farmers and experts and awareness camps are also not taking place on account of the strike.Notably, work remains suspended at seven Regional Research Stations, 18 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs-extensions centres), four seed farms (production centres) and 15 farm advisory service centres functioning under the aegis of the Punjab Agricultural University.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Kamaldeep Singh Sangha, state secretary of the PAUTA said: “Training sessions administered to farmers and agricultural experts at our designated skill development centres on various crops, vegetables, food processing, horticulture floriculture and fruits among other branches have been lying suspended. Other vital research projects that would be instrumental in improving seed varieties and other agricultural techniques have also came to a grinding halt for now. It is ultimately a loss to the farmers in the state. Training sessions or workshops of agricultural development officers (ADOs) who further train farmers in judicious farming techniques as part of the TTT (training the trainer program) have also been lying suspended.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-weeks-on-pau-employees-indefinite-strike-hits-research-work-350058
14-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur: PPCB nod awaited, Punjab CM to lay stone of factory today||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 13Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will lay the foundation stone of a cement factory at Deh Kalan village on Tuesday, a no objection certificate (NOC) for which is yet to be issued by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Online application received by boardAn NOC has not been issued for the factory as yet. We have received the online application for the same and will send it to the Directorate of Investment, following which the NOC will be issued. — Rajiv Gupta, Punjab Pollution control board executive engineerApart from opposition leaders, who are accusing the CM of violating norms, various other organisations have also announced to gherao the CM for their long pending demands, while Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir has been trying to pacify them.“An NOC has not been issued for the cement factory as yet. We have received the online application for the same and will send it to the Directorate of Investment, following which the NOC will be issued,” said Rajiv Gupta, PPCB Executive Engineer.When asked whether an NOC was not mandatory even to start the construction of a factory, the official refused to comment and said multiple departments were involved in allowing the construction of the factory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppcb-nod-awaited-cm-to-lay-stone-of-factory-today-350060
14-12-2021||Moga||Pest attack in Moga district||Some farmers in isolated part of Moga district have reported pink stem borer attack on their crop. Many of them had shunned stubble burning and sown wheat with Happy Seeder.District Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Pritpal Singh said the farmers needn’t worry and must keep close watch on the growth of the crop.He said the Agriculture Department had received reports of pest attack on wheat crop in isolated places. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pest-attack-in-moga-dist-350061
14-12-2021||Bathinda||Punjab, Haryana inter-state pre-natal test racket busted in Bathinda, two arrested||In a joint sting operation conducted by teams of the Health Department officials from Bathinda and their counterparts from Fatehabad, Haryana, an inter-state pre-natal sex determination racket was busted and two persons have been arrested while three others are on the run.The police have also recovered Rs 27,500 from their possession. As per information received from the district health department officials, the racket was being operated from a house in Model Town area of Bathinda city.The police have booked the accused under the PCPNDT Act and IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pre-natal-test-racket-busted-two-arrested-350063
14-12-2021||Sangrur||Five pistols seized, 4 held||2 booked for sand miningAbohar: A police team in Kala Tibba village intercepted a tractor-trailer and a three-wheeler, carrying 160 sq feet of sand extracted illegally from Malukpura sub-canal. Both the vehicles have been impounded and the accused have been booked under the Mining Act. ocArmy cycling expeditionAbohar: A cycling expedition from Jaipur to Fazilka, undertaken by the troops of “Sada Vijayee” Engineer Regiment to commemorate Swarnim Vijay Varsh, will reach Fazilka on December 17. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-pistols-seized-4-held-350064
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana overtakes Punjab in providing logistics infrastructure to industry||Haryana has overtaken neighbouring Punjab in providing logistics infrastructure to trade and industry. While Haryana is placed at No 2, up from sixth position in 2019, Punjab has slipped to No 3 from number two position.According to the latest report of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the logistics ease across different states, 2021, Gujarat has been ranked at the No 1 position.Haryana’s No 2 position in 2021, an increase of four places compared to 2019, is credited to quality of warehousing infrastructure, timeliness of cargo delivery and regulatory environment and efficiency of regulatory services in which the state had the highest score.Besides, improvement in ranking is reflected in the initiatives, including appointment of nodal officers for logistics and formulation of the logistics, warehousing and retail policy. This, coupled with the state simplifying the regulatory regime through single-desk mechanism has gone a long way in improving the state’s ranking.Game changer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-overtakes-punjab-in-providing-logistics-infrastructure-to-industry-349974
14-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Legal hitch, can’t probe SAD leader in drug case: ADGP SK Asthana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13The Punjab Government is all set to replace ADGP SK Asthana as the head of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) as a letter written by him to DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, citing legal hurdles in conducting reinvestigation in drugs cases against a senior Akali leader, was leaked.SS Randhawa, Dy CMThe incumbent officer is on leave. We will have to appoint a new officer if he is unable to rejoin duty soon.The letter written by Asthana on December 11 before proceeding on medical leave gives a reprieve to the leader against whom the Congress regime under CM Charanjit Channi wanted a reinvestigation in drugs cases.The letter also cast aspersions on Harpreet Singh Sidhu, head of the STF on drugs. It said he should have recused himself from any probe involving the leader as both were related. Sidhu has refuted the claim.Sources said the government was considering names of senior officials for replacing Asthana. “The post of the BoI chief is vacant as the incumbent officer is on leave,” said Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.In the over 40-page letter, Asthana pointed out that no investigation or reinvestigation could be carried out against the leader without permission of the High Court. He wrote, “I may place on record my apprehension that further investigation shall require appropriate order by a superior court, which in the present case is the High Court as the trials were conducted before the Special CBI Court, SAS Nagar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/legal-hitch-cant-probe-sad-leader-adgp-sk-asthana-350027
14-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||10 District Congress Committee chiefs retained, were picked by Sunil Jakhar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13The AICC has finally announced new District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents who have been attached with two or three working presidents, as demanded by the PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu.Significantly, the high command has retained 10 DCC presidents appointed by former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar in February 2019. Sources said it was after hectic parleys that Sidhu agreed to retain the Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala-Rural, Amritsar-Rural, Pathankot, Ludhiana-Urban, Ludhiana-Rural, Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda-Urban and Hoshiarpur DCC presidents.Ahead of announcing the DCC presidents, Punjab Affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary is learnt to have met Jakhar and other senior leaders. “It’s a please-all exercise as the party did not want Capt Amarinder Singh to poach on disgruntled leaders,” observed a senior leader.In Ropar, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Speaker Rana KP Singh seem to have cut Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon to size by appointing his opponent Ashwini Kumar as DCC chief. No working president has been appointed in Ropar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-district-congress-committee-chiefs-retained-were-picked-by-sunil-jakhar-350026
14-12-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu heads Punjab poll panel||New Delhi, December 13Signalling poll preparedness, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday constituted a 29-member Punjab Election Committee and announced 28 presidents and 54 working presidents of district committees in the state.The Punjab Election Committee, tasked with shortlisting candidates for the upcoming state elections, will be headed by PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi as a member.The poll committee includes former state chief Sunil Jakhar, all ministers and MPs of the state, including Rajya Sabha members Partap Singh Bajwa and Ambika Soni.Among others in the panel are former CM Rajinder Bhattal, former state party chiefs HS Hanspal and Mohinder Singh Kaypee, AICC secretary KL Sharma, senior vice-president of the state unit Laal Singh, state working presidents Kuljit Nagra, Sukhwinder Danny and Pawan Goel. As per the Congress constitution, the state president heads all state election committees.Among the district presidents Sonia Gandhi appointed today are Balraj Thakur for Jalandhar Urban; Darshan Tahli for Jalandhar Rural; Darshan Mahajan for Gurdaspur, Subhash Sood (Fatehgarh Sahib); Narendra Lally (Patiana Urban), Gurdeep Singh Unthsar (Patiala Rural), Ashwani Pappu (Amritsar Urban), Bhagwant Sachar (Amritsar Rural); Kirandeep Mitha (Tarn Taran); Ramesh Singh (Kapurthala), Sandeep Bhatia (SBS Nagar); Darshan Sahota (Faridkot); Sanjeev Bains (Pathankot); Rishiv Jain (SAS Nagar); Ashwani Sharma (Ludhiana Urban); Karanjeet Ghalib (Ludhiana Rural)l Rupinder Gill (Khanna); Rajinder Chhabra (Ferozepur), Gurpreet Singh (Barnala); Jaspal Das (Malerkotla), Kamaljeet Brar (Moga); Ranjam Kamra (Fazilka); Harcharan Sotha (Muktsar Sahib); Arun Wadhwa (Bathinda Urban); Kulwinder Singh (Bathinda Rural); Mangat Bansal (Mansa); Kuldeep Nanda (Hoshiarpur) and Ashwani Sharma (Rupnagar). Sonia also appointed 35 district working presidents.Channi, Jakhar, Soni on 29-member panel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-heads-punjab-poll-panel-350025
