15-12-2021||New Delhi||After a year, traffic movement allowed at Singhu border||After over a year, the Delhi Police on Wednesday allowed traffic movement as well as opened two carriageways at Singhu border after it dismantled all the barricades that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital.“It has been decided that Singhu border be opened from Delhi side also. It has been opened for all vehicles,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijesh Yadav said.The Singhu Border on Delhi-Chandigarh highway had been the epicentre of the farmers’ movement against the three central farm laws.Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands.“Only one part of the road was opened. The traffic was opened only for smaller vehicles such as bikes as the road needs to be repaired at many parts which has been damaged due to the protest. It is high time the authorities repair the stretch soon and open the traffic properly,” Jitin Dabas, a resident of Singhu village said.A commuter, Ashwani Tiwari, however, said it was a welcome move for those travelling to Haryana and Punjab.“One had to make a detour to reach Haryana and Punjab. Even if one wanted to go to Murthal, one had to take peripheral highways. Opening of traffic on the stretch will now save time and money of commuters,” Tiwari, a resident of Azadpur, said.Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi’s Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year.The roads have already been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch, police said.However, the traffic is yet to be started at Ghazipur border.A senior police officer said that the road is still close for the traffic movement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-a-year-traffic-movement-allowed-at-singhu-border-350746
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Pilgrims to Kartarpur gurdwara can carry up to Rs 11,000: RBI||The RBI on Wednesday permitted Indians as well as OCI card holders going on pilgrimage to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan through the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor to carry up to Rs 11,000 in rupees or US dollars, lower than the usual limit of Rs 25,000.As per the Foreign Exchange Management (Export and Import of Currency) Regulations, 2015, any Indian resident may carry outside currency notes of up to Rs 25,000, other than to Nepal and Bhutan. The same limit applies for bringing in the currency.In consultation with the government, the RBI “has decided that Indian passport holders as well as persons of Indian origin carrying the Overseas Citizen of India Card along with their passports travelling to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, Narowal, Pakistan through the Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, shall be allowed to carry outside and bring into India at the time of his/her return, only Indian currency notes and/or foreign currency in USD, the total value of which may not exceed Rs 11,000”.The Reserve Bank said this in a statement titled ‘Lower currency limit for pilgrims visiting Gurudwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur’.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district in India’s Punjab state.The 4 km-long corridor provides visa free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the Darbar Sahib.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March last year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Kartarpur corridor was reopened last month. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pilgrims-to-kartarpur-gurdwara-can-carry-up-to-rs-11-000-rbi-350739
15-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kejriwal's promises India's 'biggest' sports university in Jalandhar, international airport for Doaba NRIs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 15In keeping with his dole-disbursal spree ahead of the 2022 elections, National Convener of the Aam Aadmi Party and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised two major projects for the city of Jalandhar during a Tiranga Yatra.Kejriwal said Jalandhar will get India’s ‘biggest’ Sports University and an international airport to facilitate NRI-rich Doaba region, if the AAP forms the government in the state.Kejriwal made these declarations from an open vehicle from where he addressed crowds during his second Tiranga Yatra in the state. The first Tiranga Yatra was taken out in Pathankot some days ago. During the yatra, Kejriwal also evoked nationalist symbolism in speech and in his march.A sea of Indian-flag bearing crowds surrounding him on all sides, he said, “All through my way, people climbed on roofs and on windows and everyone said ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’.”He further said, “We have to make Punjab ‘khushhaal’ (happy). Terrorism days were very bad for Punjab. It is a border state. We have to make it khushhaal (happy). We have to maintain brotherhood. Like you maintain it.”Kejriwal also evoked Kisan Aandolan and BR Ambedkar, saying he salutes farmers and bow to Ambedkar.He started off the yatra garlanding portraits of Maharishi Valmiki, Guru Ravidas and Sant Kabir. The yatra started from Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk (also called Jyoti Chowk) and ended at Ambedkar Chowk (also termed Nakodar Chowk).Promising doles, Kejriwal said, “We are giving two guarantees here today. Many Doaba youths have gone abroad. When they return back to country, there is no airport for them in the periphery. It is a very old demand that Jalandhar should have an airport. If AAP forms government then we will make an international airport in Jalandhar.”He added, “We will make the country’s biggest Sports University here. Jalandhar has a sports industry and those who play cricket and hockey in country have to use Jalandhar (sports) goods. Sachin Tendular jab apne balle se chakke marta tha. To uske balle ke andar Jalandhar hota tha. (When Sachin Tendulkar hit a six, his bat had Jalandhar in it). When our Hockey team brought a medal in Olympics, their ball and their stick had Jalandhar in it. We will make biggest Sports University here.”Notably, Kejriwal’s airport declaration comes on a day when CM Channi announced a four-lane approach road to the Adampur airport -- which would be connected to Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur national highway having a total stretch of 5.55 km along with Bist Doab canal.Kejriwal was joined by AAP MP and state party president Bhagwant Mann, Delhi AAP leader Raghav Chadha among other key functionaries of AAP from the state and Jalandhar.Hundreds of vehicles from across the state supported the yatra today causing jam for over an hour. Some district AAP units brought in various buses to lend support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwals-promises-indias-biggest-sports-university-in-jalandhar-international-airport-for-doaba-nris-350733
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Loaded with possibilities': Navjot Singh Sidhu posts photo with Harbhajan Singh||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu posted a photo with Indian cricketing star Harbhajan Singh on Wednesday, setting off speculation about the veteran off-spinner joining the party ahead of the state assembly polls.“Picture loaded with possibilities …. With Bhajji the shining star,” Sidhu, a former international cricketer-turned-politician, wrote in the caption that accompanied the picture.Later when reporters asked Sidhu about the picture, he said, "Listen to me, this photo explains everything. What I said, loaded with possibilities, there are many possibilities and they are possible."The Punjab Assembly elections are due early next year.A few days ago, Harbhajan Singh had dismissed speculation that he and former cricketer Yuvraj Singh could join the BJP as "fake news".--- AgenciesPicture loaded with possibilities …. With Bhajji the shining star pic.twitter.com/5TWhPzFpNl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/loaded-with-possibilities-navjot-singh-sidhu-posts-photo-with-harbhajan-singh-350711
15-12-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||On centenary, SAD promises crop cover, pension, education sops||Tribune News ServiceMoga, December 14If voted to power, the SAD-BSP government will pay for education of children belonging to poor families in professional colleges, said Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal while addressing an event to mark 100 years of party’s foundation, at Killi Chehalan village today.Always deliveredWe don’t make false promises like others. We have always delivered what we promised like Atta Dal and Shagun schemes. — Sukhbir Badal, SAD Chief“Children from the underprivileged sections can’t afford higher studies and thus fail to make a decent living. We will help them out,” he said.Sukhbir highlighted the party’s commitment towards a federal structure in the country. He said on coming to power, they would give farmers an insurance cover of Rs 50,000 per acre for crop damage. “We will revive the pre-2004 pension scheme for the government staff and waive electricity bills of all religious places,” he said.The event was organised in an area spread over more than 100 acres. The elaborately spruced up stage had pictures of all former SAD presidents, besides those of important events concerning the party, including “Saka Punja Sahib”, “Jaiton Da Morcha” and “Dharam Yudh Morcha” among others.Sukhbir said, “We don’t make false promises like the Congress, AAP and BJP. We have always delivered what we promised such as Atta Dal, Shagun and scholarship schemes. Only we stand for Punjabiat. Other parties don’t even respect their own leaders.” The Moga conference passed a resolution condemning the Congress government’s “attempts to register false cases” against SAD-BSP alliance leaders. It warned CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu against pursuing “vendetta politics”.BSP senior vice president Satish Mishra claimed the alliance was set to win the elections by securing at least 100 seats. BSP Punjab in-charge Randhir Beniwal and state president Jasbir Singh Garhi also spoke on the occasion.Senior SAD leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Hira Singh Gabria and Jagmeet Brar and SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-centenary-sad-promises-crop-cover-pension-edu-sops-350498
15-12-2021||---||Punjab Cabinet okays 25K EWS housing units||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14The Punjab Cabinet, led by CM Charanjit Singh Channi, today approved inviting applications for the allotment of 25,000 houses to economically weaker sections of society. The dwelling units will be constructed by various urban development authorities across the state.Each such house will have a carpet area of around 30 sq m. At present, 397.048 acre land is available for EWS housing in Mohali, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar, an official of the Chief Minister’s Office said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-okays-25k-ews-housing-units-350500
15-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court orders SIT probe into 'treatment scam'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14Taking into consideration the “seriousness” and “magnitude” of an alleged scam purportedly involving forging of signatures of senior Army officials and appending fake stamps or seals of the Army on forged prescription or verification slips and documents, the Punjab and Haryana High Court entrusted the probe to a special investigation team (SIT).‘Documents forged’ to seek MoD grantsThe SIT would be headed by Punjab IPS officer and Special DGP, Investigation, Lokpal, Prabodh Kumar. The case allegedly involves transfer of “crores of rupees” of the Army and Ministry of Defence into the bank accounts of a hospital.The matter was brought to Justice Deepak Sibal’s notice after one Narinder Kumar filed an anticipatory bail plea in an FIR registered on April 17 for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B and 34 of the IPC at Shahpur Kandi police station in Pathankot district.An application was initially filed before the police by Vijay Kumar Thappa of Amandeep Group of Hospitals. He claimed that the hospital had received a complaint from the Army authorities that signatures of Army officials on treatment documents appeared to be forged in cases of certain patients referred under the ECHS scheme.He alleged that inquiries by the hospital pointed the needle of suspicion towards the petitioner and one Abhinandan Thakur entrusted with the task of seeking permissions and approvals from the Army authorities regarding admission and treatment of patients referred under the ECHS scheme.Justice Sibal asserted the petitioner was blaming the the hospital, while alleging that the investigation agency was under the hospital’s “influence due to its deep pockets”. The hospital, on the other hand, blame the petitioner and Abhinandan.Rejecting the bail plea, Justice Sibal asserted the Special DGP would be at liberty to select the team, including an SP-rank officer. To avoid parallel investigations, he would also probe two other FIRs, including one at Cantonment police station at Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/hc-orders-sit-probe-into-treatment-scam-350503
15-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi orders FIR over ADGP Asthana letter leak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14Taking a serious note of leaking of a letter written by ADGP SK Asthana to DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota in drug cases, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi today ordered the registration of an FIR to track those behind it.The cyber cell of the state police has been tasked to probe as to how the selective pages of the communication between the top police officers got leaked. Heads could role in the police department on the basis of a time-bound probe, said sources.In the letter that vent viral on social media on Monday, the ADGP had cited legal hurdles in conducting reinvestigation in drug cases against a senior Akali leader.Talking to the media after a Cabinet meeting today, CM Channi said a thorough probe was being done to get to the depth of the matter. “The leaked content was just a part of the entire communication. The relevant part, including a hand written note by the ADGP, has not been leaked,” the CM said.Targeting the Akalis, Channi said the big fish who feared action in the drugs cases were behind the leak. “They are threatening police officers. The drugs and sacrilege cases would be taken to logical conclusion,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-orders-fir-over-adgp-letter-leak-350510
15-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||OP Soni: Punjab Govt will accept genuine demands of health workers||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni on Tuesday said the government was making all-out efforts to involve NRIs in the process of development. Soni, who also holds the health portfolio, said the development would be rapid if NRIs adopted their native places and invested in charitable institutions.He was at Talania village today to inaugurate a hospital set up by an NRI. Soni also inaugurated a 50-bed Mother-Child Super Specialty Hospital at the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital.He said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had made announcements for the welfare of masses and all the decisions were being implemented. He said the government was committed to provide quality health facilities to residents and urged the healthcare workers not to disrupt the health services as their genuine demands would be accepted. He said 32 Mother-Child-Super Specialty Hospitals had been made operational in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-soni-will-accept-genuine-demands-of-health-workers-350412
15-12-2021||Ludhiana||BJP: Will ally with like-minded parties in Punjab||After Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi, who is also co-incharge of the state BJP for the Assembly polls, praised Captain Amarinder Singh during her recent visit to the city, another senior BJP minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat praised the former CM for being “like-minded” as the saffron party.Giving a strong indication of a formal alliance with Captain’s party soon, Shekhawat said the BJP would surely have an alliance with “like-minded” people. During a meeting with party workers and leaders, Shekhawat said the BJP would contest the Assembly polls on the agenda of development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-will-ally-with-like-minded-parties-350413
15-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda rural Congress working president quits||Newly appointed Bathinda rural District Congress Committee (DCC) working president Avtar Singh Goniana resigned over appointment of Bathinda rural Congress halqa in charge Harvinder Singh Laddi’s relative Kulwinder Singh Naruana as Bathinda rural DCC chief.In a letter to the PCC chief, Avtar said, “...Naruana, who has has not participated in any party activity, has been appointed as president... I am ready to work under any other person, but Naruana.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-rural-congress-working-president-quits-350414
15-12-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Partap Singh Bajwa hold meet to discuss manifesto||Chandigarh, December 14Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu held a meeting with manifesto committee chairman and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa at Punjab Congress Bhavan here to discuss the outline of the party’s manifesto for the 2022 Assembly elections.Sidhu also met a number of party MLAs, including Fateh Jung Bajwa, Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Kumar Darbar, Santokh Singh Bhaliapur, former MLA Tarlochan Singh Soondh besides others. Bajwa is learnt to have sought details of issues raised by the PCC chief for including in the manifesto.Speaking on the sidelines of an event to launch campaign ‘Aawaz Punjab Di’ to elicit inputs from people for the manifesto, Bajwa said after touring the state and taking suggestions from different sections of society, the manifesto would be ready in the next 15 days. Today, Bajwa held meeting with traders and industrialists in Ludhiana.“We will focus on issues related to agriculture, NRIs’ problems, health and education. It would be realistic and promises would be implementable,” said Bajwa. Congress social media head Rohan Gupta said as part of the campaign, a toll-free number was being launched for the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-partap-singh-bajwa-hold-meet-to-discuss-manifesto-350415
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Voices of dissent in SAD (Sanyukt) over alliance||SAD (Sanyukt)’s seat-sharing arrangement or alliance with the BJP and Punjab Lok Congress may not go out as planned as a large section of party leaders have expressed reservation regarding the move. Sources in the party revealed there are voices of dissent over the idea of any alliance or seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP and Punjab Lok Congress.Even during a seminar on Monday to mark 101th foundation day of SAD at Patiala, such concerns were expressed. The sources revealed that party leaders said emphasis should be on the ‘panth’ before taking any decision regarding the alliance. Even some leaders expressed reservation regarding the oath taken by Captain Amarinder Singh to wipe out the drug menace in four weeks. Similarly, apprehensions were raised regarding any alliance or seat-sharing agreement with the BJP, which is still being opposed by the people in Punjab.The sources revealed that the party had now decided to wait till the Samyukt Kisan Morcha takes any decision in its meeting. — TNSNo decision yetSAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa confirmed party leaders had reservations over the truck with the BJP or Punjab Lok Congress, but they were yet to take a call on it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voices-of-dissent-in-sad-sanyukt-over-alliance-350416
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Former MP, 4 ex-legislators join Captain Amarinder's Punjab Lok Congress||A two-time former MP, four ex-legislators, former district Congress presidents and several other leaders from various political parties today joined the Punjab Lok Congress at a function held here.The function was presided over by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Those who joined the party included former MP Amrik Singh Aliwal, ex-legislators Harjinder Singh Thekedar, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam and Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, former distirct Congress presidents Jagmohan Sharma and Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki also joined the party.“Soon, several sitting and former legislators from the Congress, AAP and SAD will be joining PLC. We will soon be holding a similar function but on a large scale as several leaders will be joining us,” he claimed. Capt Amarinder warned policemen against intimidating his party workers at the behest of some local Congress leaders, saying he would take all necessary measures to come down heavily on such “hooligans in uniforms”. He was reacting to reports of cops stopping PLC workers who were putting up posters in the Malwa region. — TNSDrama over Kalra’s inductionHours after Vijay Kalra, president, Punjab Arhtiya Association and senior vice chairman, Punjab Mandi Board, was seen at the Punjab Lok Congress’s event, he was produced before the media by CM Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-mp-4-ex-legislators-join-captains-punjab-lok-congress-350417
15-12-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||SAD-BSP combine will change course of politics, says Parkash Singh Badal||Tribune News ServiceKili Chahal (Moga), December 14Former Chief Minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday said the Akalis would bounce back in the upcoming Assembly elections and form the next government in the state.Talking to The Tribune, he claimed: “The SAD-BSP is a holy alliance that will change the course of politics in the state. The BSP enjoys mass following in all the Assembly segments which will help the alliance come to power.”Leaves audience guessing on fighting pollsI am a servant of the Shiromani Akali Dal. I have served the party my entire life and will continue to do so as per its order. Parkash Singh Badal, SAD patronThe 95-year old SAD veteran made his public appearance after a gap of five years during the party’s centenary celebrations at Kili Chahal village in Moga today. Addressing the gathering, the former CM said: “Mai party da sevak ha, poori jindagi isdi seva kiti hai, agge vi jo hukam hovega seva nibhavanga,” he said, keeping the audience guessing whether he would contest the elections as the party’s CM face or not.Reminiscing the SAD’s past rallies in Moga, he said in 1996, when the party celebrated its 75 years of inception on this soil, Akalis forged an alliance with the BSP and bounced back. The SAD won eight Lok Sabha seats while BSP three. It also came to power in 1997 in the state, he said.Urging people to vote intelligently, Badal said: “The upcoming elections are vital for the future of Punjab, particularly, the coming generations. We are fighting a battle against three governments — one is at the Centre, another in the state and the third one is of Delhi.”He said the Congress, BJP and AAP were being controlled by leaders living in Delhi who have no affection for Punjab and its people. The Congress attacked the Golden Temple and was also responsible for the 1984 riots. The BJP brought ‘black laws’ on agriculture. The AAP, too, has no vision for the state.“Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet against the black laws. Both Harsimrat and Sukhbir voted against the three farm Bills. Therefore, we are the only one who care for Punjab and its people”, he said.The SAD patron also lashed out at the BJP for trying to take control over religious institutions without making a direct reference to the issue of the Delhi Gurdwara Parbhandak Committee elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-combine-will-change-course-of-politics-says-parkash-singh-badal-350418
15-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Jagraon: Development takes back seat||LIKE many other constituencies, Jagraon, too, lacks basic amenities that have been ignored for long. Waterlogging during rains, dilapidated roads, choked sewers and mounds of garbage dumps along roads among others continue to be the constituency’s bane.Residents complain no concrete steps have been taken to deal with traffic snarl-ups in the town. Corruption and unemployment are also major issues in the constituency.Master Avtar Singh, a Jagraon resident, said: “A short spell of rain is enough to flood the roads here. The waterlogging problem has remained unresolved for years. Sewers generally remain choked and solid waste management, too, is not up to the mark. There is no check on the quality of works being done by the municipal council here.”Residents also want promotion of sports in the constituency. Their long-pending demand of a stadium has not been addressed so far. “There is a shortage of specialist doctors and medical staff in the government hospital,” said Kanwaljeet Khanna, another resident. Drug menace also remains an issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jagraon-development-takes-back-seat-350419
15-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar North: Drug menace overshadows works||ON the face of it, the political leadership in the constituency can claim of developmental works but residents are grappling with law and order and drug-related problems.Amritsar North constituency comprises the Civil Lines area, including posh localities of Ranjit Avenue, Green Avenue, Basant Avenue and localities on Majitha and Batala Road. The area roads are in somewhat better condition as compared to others. But when one visits localities like Faizpura, Karampura and Mustafabad, one gets to know about the crime and drug menace. Snatchers move in the area without any fear as the police authorities have failed to nail criminal elements.Jagtar Singh, a resident of Karampura, said a large number of people could be seen gambling and consuming drugs in the ground located on the rear of the mental hospital while the police looked the other way because of political patronage to nefarious elements.Several parts of Mustafabad area paint a picture of neglect as the residents are waiting for metalled roads for long. Sewerage lines have been laid but the dug up roads have turned into potholes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-north-drug-menace-overshadows-works-350420
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Attach four cars of Punjab Health Department: Court||Dr Aman Inder Singh, Civil Judge, Senior Division, Chandigarh, has ordered attachment of four cars of the office of Director, Health and Family Welfare Services, Punjab, after it failed to comply with an order of the court.It pronounced the order on the execution petition filed by Om Prakash Saini, a resident of Sector 37, Chandigarh. Saini retired as a superintendent-grade 1 from the Health Department, Punjab. Saini alleged the department had failed to release his full retirement benefits despite the orders from different courts in the past. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attach-four-cars-of-punjab-health-department-court-350421
15-12-2021||Faridkot||Congress bickering in Kotkapura, 11 booked||In a political tug-of-war between two senior Congress leaders in Kotkapura, the police have booked 11 persons belonging to one group on Tuesday on the complaint of Sutantar Joshi, vice-president of the Kotkapura Municipal Council.On December 4, the police had booked 12 persons of the Joshi group on the complaint of the rival group.The FIR relates to an alleged clash on November 29 when Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had visited Kotkapura.In order to lay claim to the ticket for the Assembly elections, members of both the groups allegedly were involved in a clash on the issue of installing hoardings at the CM’s venue. Joshi alleged that Kukki Chopra among others stopped them from putting up the posters.The police have booked 11 persons, including Chopra, under Section 323, 325, 148 and 149 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-bickering-in-kotkapura-11-booked-350422
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court quashes ad for filling 8,393 posts of primary teacher||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has quashed a public notice and advertisement dated September 14, for filling 8,393 posts of primary teachers.The Bench made it clear that Punjab could fill the posts of pre-primary school teachers by only allowing 50 per cent reservation for education volunteers etc. “The balance 50 per cent would have to be left out to the other categories for consideration,” the Bench ruled.The Bench read down a clause leading to 100 per cent reservation before directing the state to issue a fresh advertisement “keeping in view the reading down of clause”. “This action of the state is totally arbitrary and in direct conflict with the constitutional mandate laid down under Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, wherein the right of public employment and equality has been enshrined. Accordingly, it is held that it is not permissible for the state to have 100 per cent reservation for a certain category of person,” the Bench ruled.In the petitions placed before the Bench of GS Sandhawalia and Justice Vikas Suri, the petitioners challenged amendment made on September 7 to the Punjab State Elementary Education Group “C” Service Rules, 2020. The Bench added the state’s object could be laudatory to the extent of giving right of opportunity to the education volunteers etc. who had worked against various posts as they had put in several years of service. But the adopted methodology, excluding the right of consideration to others by virtue of the amendment, was arbitrary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-quashes-ad-for-filling-posts-of-primary-teacher-350423
15-12-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab's coal stocks shrink, PSPCL buys 300L units daily||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 14Despite paying crores of rupees to private thermal plants, Punjab continues to buy short- term power from national power exchange to meet the demand, even as private coal-based plants in the state are left with “limited coal stocks”. Around two months ago, the state had to resort to power cuts due to acute coal shortage.‘36 coal rakes in transit’State owned units will start operating from December 15 as the ban on their operation will come to an end. A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCLSources said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been buying power worth Rs 13 crore everyday to meet the electricity demand. “This despite the fact that the power demand in the state is as low as 7,000 MW as compared to the peak season demand of around 15,000 MW,” they said.The coal shortage at private thermal power plants in the state, coupled with the order of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR to shut down thermal units — Lehra Mohabatt and Ropar— has forced the PSPCL to buy power from the national power exchange.Insiders in the PSPCL confirmed that while private sector thermal plants at Talwandi Sabo and GVK were running at half load as the coal stock varies between one to two days, Rajpura thermal plant has one unit under maintenance since November 15 and only one unit was running at full load.“The total thermal generation in the state is around 1,700 MW. Talwandi Sabo’s three units with a capacity of 1,980 MW are running at 900 MW. Similarly, GVK is generating 300 MW against a capacity of 540 MW,” said sources. VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers’ Federation, said, “The coal stock at Talwandi Sabo is just sufficient for one day and GVK has three days stock. IPPS is not maintaining sufficient coal stock despite clear guidelines for minimum coal stock of 15 days. The coal stock at Ropar and Lehra Mohabatt is for 10 and 16 days, but these plants cannot be operated as per directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR.”“It is high time the PSPCL starts taking stern action against plants short of coal. They flout the guidelines just to save on inventory cost,” he said. The power supply in Punjab is 1,350 lakh units comprising 425 lakh units from private thermal plants in the state.A senior PSPCL official said they were purchasing 270 to 300 lakh units daily at Rs 4.50 per unit. “The total daily purchase is worth Rs 13 crore,” he said.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, said, “We have served notice on a private thermal plant for coal shortage and repeated outages. From January, the Government of India has framed new guidelines for private thermal plants in terms of coal stocks to be maintained by them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coal-stocks-shrink-pspcl-buys-300l-units-daily-350424
15-12-2021||Amritsar||Trustee points out 'lapses' in Jallianwala Bagh work||Pinpointing several lapses in the facelift of the Jallianwala Bagh, Tarlochan Singh, a former MP and member of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, has submitted a report to the Union Ministry of Culture.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampAmid criticism from several quarters over the changes and additions that were introduced during the renovation carried by the ministry under the supervision of Archeological Survey of India (ASI), Tarlochan Singh has asked the ministry to undo some of the alterations.Talking to The Tribune, Tarlochan Singh said he had submitted his observation in writing to the ministry to initiate action. “The first and foremost objection was to restore the narrow entrance passage to its original form.”“The murals that have now been installed on both of its sides should be removed immediately as these do not go with the unfortunate episode that had occurred at the site. It should have remained intact,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trustee-points-out-lapses-in-jallianwala-bagh-work-350425
15-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to meet in Ludhiana, 7 unions not invited||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14Days after the success of the year-long farmers’ struggle against the farm laws, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders have called a meeting in Ludhiana on Thursday.Among other things, the issue of forming a political front is to be discussed. However, representatives of seven farmers’ unions — Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU (Krantikari), Azad Kisan Committee Doaba, BKU (Sidhupur), Lok Bhalai Welfare Insaf Committee, Ganna Sangharsh Committee Dasuya and Jai Kisan Andolan — have reportedly not been invited to the meeting.Some keen on political plungeSome union leaders are in favour of taking a political plunge. However, we are against entering mainstream politics. Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, BKU (Ugrahan)“The unions had agreed that they would stay away from politics till the laws were repealed. Once this was done, some union leaders are in for taking a political plunge. We are against entering mainstream politics. It is not our mandate, so we decided to stay apolitical and part ways with the others,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the BKU (Ugrahan).BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was non-committal on himself contesting the elections. “We have called a meeting of all unions. Whatever decision has to be taken, will be taken jointly,” he said. Jagmohan Singh Patiala, BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary, told The Tribune: “Whatever decision is taken, there should be unanimity among all unions on entering mainstream politics.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-meet-in-ludhiana-7-unions-not-invited-350426
15-12-2021||Faridkot||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh grilled for 6 hours at Rohtak jail||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, led by an IGP-rank officer, reached Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail today to grill Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for his alleged role in three sacrilege incidents. The team members stayed in the jail for about six hours to question the dera head.However, like the last time when the SIT had visited the jail on November 8, Ram Rahim remained tightlipped and “highly evasive”.The SIT reached the jail today five days after it questioned a senior functionary of the Dera Sacha Sauda at Sirsa. Earlier, during his questioning about the sacrilege incidents which were allegedly planned at the dera headquarters in Sirsa in 2015, the dera head claimed he had nothing to do with any planning, decision-making or meetings at the dera as he was limited to holding ‘satsang’ to propagate the dera’s ideology.The questioning today remained inconsequential as the dera head was highly evasive about most of the questions, said insiders in the SIT. The SIT will present its report about the questioning of the dera head in the High Court. Keeping in view the evasive attitude of the dera head, the SIT will try to make out a case for custodial interrogation for not participating in the investigation and not cooperating to take the case to a logical conclusion, the insiders claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-sacha-sauda-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-singh-grilled-for-6-hours-at-rohtak-jail-350427
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet meet: Stage carriage vehicles exempted from tax||In a bid to relieve the transport sector from financial losses suffered due to a lockdown imposed during the second wave of Covid-19, the Cabinet has approved exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax to contract carriage vehicles (up to 16 seater), buses of religious organisations and stage carriage buses (up to 35 seater).With these decisions, the existing rates will be reduced from Rs 30,000 to Rs 20,000 per bus per year for all types of stage carriage buses (up to 35 seats, private/STUs) and to withdraw 5 per cent annual increase in the rate of Motor Vehicle Tax. Besides, it will give exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax to contract carriages up to 16 seater from May 20, 2020 to December 31, 2020 and buses of religious places from March 23, 2020 to December 31, 2020.The Cabinet has also decided to reduce 10 per cent simple interest and 3 per cent penal interest on outstanding dues of developers such as of the EDC to 8.5 per cent compounded annually in urban development authorities. Besides, the Cabinet also decided to drop normal and penal rates of interest to 7.5 per cent compounded annually and 10 per cent compounded annually in future for new as well as ongoing projects. — TNSOther key decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-meet-stage-carriage-vehicles-exempted-from-tax-350428
15-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi lays stone of cement plant, Government Medical College in Sangrur||Sangrur, December 14To boost the industrial and medical education sectors in Sangrur, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday laid the foundation stones of Punjab Cement Plant at Deh Kalan village and a Government Medical College (GMC) at Ghabdan village here, to be a built on a combined cost of Rs 1,050 crore.The CM and FM sought votes for Congress Sangrur MLA and Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla. However, at both events, the CM faced protests from the unemployed, who repeatedly created problems as despite claims of tight security, the protesters managed to enter the venues of both functions. The forcible removal of protesters invited criticism from Opposition parties.“The AAP leadership is not even using pictures of its Punjab unit leaders on posters and hoardings, which has made their nefarious designs clear. Sukhbir Singh Badal is luring poor people with populist measures such as Atta-Dal Scheme, but my agenda is to empower poor with quality education and health facilities,” said Channi. The cement plant will come up at an estimated cost of Rs 700 crore having a capacity of 5 million tonne per annum. Channi said the requirement of land area was approximately 104 acres, which had already been acquired. The power requirement will be 32 MW. About the GMC, the CM said the project would come up at a cost of Rs 350 crore.In the evening, Channi inaugurated the three-day Sangrur Heritage Festival at local Banasar Bagh to depict the heritage and culture of Punjab. He also dedicated Sangrur Kothi, Banasar Bagh, Marble Barandari and Clock Tower to people after their renovation. Channi lauded the performances of folk dancers and musicians from the stage and also tried his hand on folk musical instruments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-lays-stone-of-cement-plant-government-medical-college-350429
15-12-2021||Bathinda||Bill tabled to name Canada's Calgary area in NRI MLA Manmeet Bhullar's memory||Canada’s Alberta provincial government today introduced a Bill in the house to rename the Calgary-McCall constituency to Calgary-Bhullar-McCall in the honour of the late MLA Manmeet Bhullar’s contributions and legacy.Manmeet Bhullar served Albertans as the Minister of Service Alberta, Minister of Infrastructure and Minister of Human Services. He fought to better protect homeowners, advocated for vulnerable Albertans, defended visible minorities and championed capital projects across the province. Born and brought up in Calgary, Bhullar belonged to a family from Raiya village in Amritsar. In 2008, Bhullar was the youngest MLA ever elected at that time. He served as the MLA from March 2008 until he died in November 2015.He was struck by a vehicle while helping another driver on the QEII Highway. Calgary-McCall holds the largest area of Bhullar’s now-defunct Calgary-Greenway riding, which he represented for the Progressive Conservative party from 2008 until his death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bill-tabled-to-name-calgary-area-in-nri-mlas-memory-345196
