16-12-2021||New Delhi/Amritsar||Flights diverted as RVR measuring equipment fails at Amritsar airport||Multiple flights have been diverted from the Amritsar airport in Punjab during the last two days as runway visual range (RVR) equipment, which allows pilots to land flights amid dense fog, has stopped functioning, aviation industry sources said on Thursday.The RVR equipment at the airport is maintained by the Indian Meteorological Department, which has sent its officials to Amritsar to repair it, the sources said.The readings taken from RVR equipment allows an airport to use instrument landing system (ILS), which allows a flight to land when visibility is as less as 50 meters.Multiple flights—domestic and international—have been diverted from the Amritsar airport as the RVR equipment, and ILS system consequently, has not been functioning for the last two days, the sources said.The RVR equipment is likely to be repaired by Friday, they added.The Airports Authority of India (AAI said on Twitter on Thursday, “Due to un-serviceability of Runway Visual Range (RVR) at Amritsar Airport, many flights could not be accommodated.”“We are continuously working towards the rectification of technical issues involved and ensuring the best services in future. Inconvenience caused is deeply regretted.”In Punjab, Lok Sabha MP from Amritsar Gurjit Singh Aujla said flights have not been able to land or take off at the Shri Guru Ramdas International Airport for the past 24 hours.When contacted, airport Director V K Seth confirmed that flight operations remained suspended.He said some instruments were non-functional in the ILS. Due to non-functional CAT I, CAT 2 and CAT 3 systems, it becomes almost impossible to keep the airport operational, Seth added.However, he said the CAT 1 system has become operational Thursday evening allowing domestic flights to land.But the international flight operation cannot be resumed until the CAT 2 and CAT 3 become operational, he added.Seth said the airport will be fully operational on Friday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flights-diverted-as-rvr-measuring-equipment-fails-at-amritsar-airport-351094
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Parties raise concern over partisan administration, misuse of cash, drugs||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Thursday said political parties in Punjab have raised concern over biased local administrations and the misuse of liquor, cash and drugs in the Assembly polls, which the EC is committed to hold in a free and fair manner.The Election Commissioner said this after holding meetings with representatives of political parties and officials, a day after a full bench of the poll panel arrived here to take stock of the preparations for the Assembly polls.“Most political parties voiced concern regarding partisan behaviour by the local administration. Some political parties also complained that the local administration was not granting permission for holding rallies at designated government grounds in a free manner,” Chandra said.“Political parties have expressed their concern about the law and order situation in the wake of impending elections and the use of cash, liquor, drugs and other freebies during the forthcoming elections,” he told reporters.Chandra said all political parties sought the 100 per cent use of VVPAT (voter verifiable paper audit trail) units along with the EVMs.They also desired 100 per cent webcasting on polling day to ensure transparency, said Chandra.Cutting across party lines, representatives of the parties requested the commission to take stern measures to create a conducive atmosphere for free and fair elections, he said.“There has been a concern that money power, liquor, cash, drugs and freebies vitiate the elections process. The ECI has zero tolerance into this area and we never want any abuse of money power or government machinery or any other provisions which vitiate the electoral process,” he said.“The seizure of liquor, drugs and cash has to be dealt with a very heavy hand. We do not want any inducement to be given to any voter,” he said.Chandra said the Election Commission of India is committed to conduct the forthcoming elections in a free, fair and inducement-free manner.He said the term of state Assembly in Punjab is due to expire on March 27.To a question on deployment of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), Chandra said the ECI has discussed this issue with the state police force.“We will make the assessment accordingly. The assessment is being made based on various inputs given by the police force and state administration to us,” said Chandra.To a question on linking voter card to Aadhaar, Chandra said it will help in deleting duplicate votes while citing that some people enrol as voters in other places where they migrate for work.“We want our electoral rolls to be absolutely pure,” he said.He said to maintain social distancing at polling booths because of Covid, the number of booths has been increased by 1,478 to 24,689.He said there will be 165 polling stations, which will be managed only by women.There will be 57 polling booths, which will be managed by persons with disabilities, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-parties-raise-concern-over-partisan-administration-misuse-of-cash-drugs-351083
16-12-2021||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab polls: SKM constituents against supporting traditional parties, want farm unions to try luck at hustings, if at all||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16The farmers’ cause is far bigger than any political ambitions, and the farm unions should avoid going to any of the traditional political parties, in fray in the forthcoming Punjab Assembly elections. If at all, the unions should throw their own hat in the ring and contest the elections.This was the feeling of majority of 22 farmer unions, all part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, who met at an undisclosed destination at Samrala in Ludhiana on Thursday. Of the 32 Kisan unions that are part of the Morcha, only 25 had been invited for the meeting, following differences between BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal and BKU Sidhupur chief Jagjit Singh Dallewal that has threatened the historic unity of 32 farmer unions of Punjab.Seven constituents of the SKM (Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU Krantikari, Azad Kisan Committee Doaba, BKU Sidhupur, Lok Bhalai Welfare Insaf Committee, Ganna Sangharsh Committee Dasuya and Jai Kisan Andolan) had not been called for the meeting, and at least three others reportedly could not make it for the meeting because of “prior commitments” and “felicitation functions” to commemorate the win of the year long struggle.Interestingly, these seven unions held a separate meeting today. Jagjit Singh Dallewal of BKU Sidhupur told The Tribune that their meeting was not called to discuss the political scenario in the state or to extend political support, but only to chalk out the plan for their march to Harmandar Sahib in Amritsar on Friday, to pay their obeisance.Sources say that among discussions on the scheduled meeting of SKM representatives with Centre on the issue of assured Minimum Support Price next month, the role of the farmer unions in the forthcoming elections was also discussed in the meeting of 22 Kisan unions called by Balbir Singh Rajewal. “A majority of leaders reportedly gave a feedback that the unions should not support the traditional political parties, as people are fed up with their inability to keep promises and misgovernance,” one of the farmer union leaders present in the meeting told The Tribune, while requesting anonymity.Sources said the recent verbal public spat between Rajewal and Dallewal was also discussed. Efforts are on by some of the farmer leaders to soothe all “frayed nerves”, and ensure that the SKM does not split. A meeting of all 32 Kisan unions has now been called on December 18, at Mullanpur (Ludhiana) to resolve all issues and together take a joint decision on the political foray of the Kisan unions, Prem Singh Bhangu, president of All India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-skm-constituents-against-supporting-traditional-parties-want-farm-unions-to-try-luck-at-hustings-if-at-all-351080
16-12-2021||New Delhi||Advise eateries to mandatorily disclose whether meat served is ‘halal’ or ‘jhatka’: NCM to Punjab govt||The National Commission for Minorities on Thursday directed the Punjab government to advise hotels, restaurants and other eateries in the state to mandatorily disclose whether the meat they are serving is ‘halal’ or ‘jhatka’ so that people can make an informed choice.In a letter to Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari, NCM Chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura said it has come to the notice of the commission that hotels/restaurants in Punjab are serving halal meat only which is prohibited in Sikh religion. “Accordingly, all hotels/restaurants may be advised to mandatorily disclose the category of the meat whether it is ‘jhatka’ butchering meat or ‘halal’ butchering meat at all eating joints to allow the public to make an informed choice before consumption,” Lalpura said in his letter to the chief secretary.In the Halal form of slaughter, animals are killed with a cut to the jugular vein and are left till the blood drains out completely. In the jhatka method, the animal is killed instantaneously.An early action in the matter shall be highly appreciated, the NCM chief added. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/advise-eateries-to-mandatorily-disclose-whether-meat-served-is-halal-or-jhatka-ncm-to-punjab-govt-351076
16-12-2021||---||Stern action against perpetrators of sand mafia, sacrilege, irrigation scam soon: Punjab CM||Ludhiana, December 16Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said Congress government is duty bound to punish every person who has done any sin against the state and its people.Addressing a gathering after laying foundation stone of Ravidass Auditorium, East end club, Special park, Static compactor, Commercial and exhibition centre and others, the Chief Minister said those involved in sand mafia, sacrilege, irrigation scam or post matric scholarship scheme will face severest of severe action. He said that the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be punished as per the law or land. CM Channi also said the state government is committed for ensuring that sinners get appropriate punishment.The Chief Minister that any person, however affluent he may be, will be made accountable for these sins. He said that even the political persons involved in these crimes against humanity will not be spared at any cost. CM Channi that Punjab government is duty bound to put these culprits of state behind the bars.Lambasting the AAP supremo Mr Arvind Kejriwal for hypocrisy, the Chief Minister urged the people to remain cautious from his nefarious plans to grab power. He said that Kejriwal’s promises are bundle of lies which varies from state to state. Citing example, CM Channi said that in Punjab he is promising allowance worth Rs 1,000 to women every month but in Goa the same allowance promised by him is Rs 5,000.The Chief Minister said that as a fact of matter it is dubious character of Kejriwal and company and people must be cautious of this. He said that contrary to this the state government is making strenuous efforts for the well being of every starta of society. CM Channi said that no stone is being left unturned for well being of common man.The Chief Minister said he was fortunate that Congress leadership has bestowed him this service to serve the state. He said I am working to resolve the issues that are faced by every common man of the state. Listing the several pro-people initiatives taken by his government, he said that Power bill arrears worth Rs 1,500 crore have been waived, Power rates for domestic consumers have been reduced by Rs 3 per unit, Bills to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore have been waived off in respect of motors in rural areas, water charges brought down to Rs 50, Rates for sand have been reduced along with others. CM Channi said that not only this but several other path breaking decisions will be taken in coming days too.Earlier, MLA Sanjay Talwar welcomed the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stern-action-against-perpetrators-of-sand-mafia-sacrilege-irrigation-scam-soon-punjab-cm-351064
16-12-2021||---||Punjab to set up Punjabi Film Development Council, says CM Charanjit Channi||Mohali, December 16In order to promote Punjabi language and culture, the Punjab government will soon bring in a proposal in the forthcoming cabinet meeting for setting up Punjabi Film Development Council in the state.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced this during an award function organised at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, to honour Punjabi actors, singers and musicians for their contribution to Punjabi culture.Channi said a proposal in this regard would be cleared in the coming cabinet meeting. He said it is the need of the hour to promote the glorious cultural heritage of the state through films, which are the latest and most effective way of communication nowadays. He said it would go a long way in showcasing rich cultural heritage of Punjab across the globe.During the Shane-e-Punjab function organised by Punjabi Film, Music and Television Guild Society and Punjab Tourism Department, Channi honoured Punjabi singers, late Gurmeet Bawa and Sardool Sikander, with Shan-E-Punjab tribute award and music composer Charanjit Ahuja and actor Gaggu Gill with Shan--E-Punjab lifetime achievement awards. Prominent among those present were Sidhu Mooselwala, Gurpreet Ghuggi, Karamjit Anmol, Yograj Singh, Upasna Singh, Satinder Satti, Ranjit Bawa and Master Saleem.The CM also honoured Gippi Grewal, Sunanda Sharma, Ranjit Bawa, Dev Kharod, Gurlej Akhtar and Kulwinder Kaily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-set-up-punjabi-film-development-council-channi-351024
16-12-2021||---||3 injured as 2 cars collide with truck on Patiala-Rajpura road following dense fog||Patiala, December 16Three persons were injured as two cars collided with a truck on the Patiala-Rajpura road on Thursday.The accident took place near Dhareri Jatan toll plaza due to dense fog.The injured were taken to the nearby hospital.Further details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-injured-as-2-cars-collide-with-truck-on-patiala-rajpura-road-due-to-dense-fog-351015
16-12-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Thick blanket of fog affects normal life in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceMoga, December 16A thick blanket of fog affected normal life in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Bathinda and other districts of the Malwa belt in Punjab on Thursday morning.According to the details available from the meteorological department, the minimum temperature in the Malwa belt hovered below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius at almost all places.The maximum temperature recorded at 10 am on Thursday at Moga was 13 degrees Celsius, Ferozepur 12, Fazilka 12, Faridkot 13, Muktsar 12, , Bathinda 13, Mansa 14, Ludhiana 13, Barnala 13 and Sangrur 14 degrees Celsius.       The Met office has predicted severe cold and dry weather conditions at most places in the Malwa belt with minimum temperatures likely to fall by a few notches.The relative humidity in the morning at most places in the Malwa belt varied from 69 to 80 per cent.Agro-scientists said the chilly and foggy weather conditions will prove useful for rabi crops, especially wheat and barley. The farming community is upbeat owing to the beginning of the cold wave in the region.“It is the most conducive weather for the growth of wheat plants at this stage,” said Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a senior agro-scientist of the state agriculture department. He said that further fall in temperature by a few notches would be beneficial to the wheat crop.Dr Brar said the foggy weather would also help in natural irrigation of wheat and other rabi crops. Though the weather is foggy, it is free from frost; therefore, the farmers should do light irrigation in the wheat fields, he added.Interestingly, the difference between the maximum and minimum temperature is shortening, which means the region will witness chilly days ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thick-blanket-of-fog-affects-normal-life-in-moga-ferozepur-fazilka-faridkot-bathinda-351013
16-12-2021||Archit Watts||Kinnow crop production falls, prices increase||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 15The kinnow crop is expected to remain almost half as compared to the production last year, but the growers are happy as the prices are good. They say the prices are almost double this year and traders are entering into agreements for January at Rs 25 per kg.Mohit Setia, a kinnow grower, said, “The coloured fruit has started arriving in the market. The production is less this year due to weather vagaries. However, the growers are getting a good price. The traders are paying between Rs 20-25 per kg kinnow of average quality. The prices are expected to go up.”Avneet Brar, a horticulturist, said, “The growers are having a good season and the consumers will have to pay more money. The prices are likely to shoot up in the coming days.”Meanwhile, Rajinder Kumar, a trader said, “The kinnow crop is 50 per cent less than the production last year. The hot weather in February-March affected the crop in its flowering stage. In Delhi, a box of kinnow weighing about 10 kg is fetching Rs 300-450. The orange crop is also expected to be less this year, thus the demand of kinnow will remain in the market.”Balwinder Singh Tikka, state-awardee kinnow grower, said, “As per majority of growers, the yield has decreased due to weather, but I think the plant has heavy bearing. So, it gives bumper fruit one year and the next year, the fruit decreases. The state government with the help of the Horticulture Department and the Punjab Agricultural University should develop some more varieties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-crop-production-falls-prices-increase-351002
16-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Immigration processing delays leave many Canadian Punjabis in limbo||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 15The immigration process for Canada has been hampered by the Covid pandemic and has left many Canadian Punjabis in limbo.Parminder Kaur is tired of waiting for her permanent residency (PR) application to make its way through Canada’s immigration system. Parminder, who is living in Canada, said: “It’s been three years that I haven’t met my family. I applied for PR in 2019 but my file is still under processing.”Similarly, Deepak Talwar left his well-established business, sold his house in India, and immigrated to Saskatoon in Canada in 2017. Talwar submitted PR applications for his family and himself, but no progress has been made on it since January 29 last year. He now regrets immersing his family in uncertainty.Canadian MP Jasraj Singh Hallan had raised the issue in the Canadian Parliament and tweeted: “Immigration backlogs are at 1.8 million. These aren’t just numbers; these are families that remain separated.”Appreciating Hallan for raising the issue, Anchal tweeted: “I had applied for PR in July 2020 and so far, eligibility review has not been done. There is no response to any messages, tweets or calls.”Another immigrant, Kanwaljeet Singh, had tweeted on Hallan’s wall: “My wife is alone in Canada and is going under depression. She is emotionally weak. I request Canadian immigration authorities to look into spouse visas and clear all backlog as many spouses are waiting to meet their loved ones for long time.” Similarly, Ravneet Kaur tweeted: “I am waiting for spousal visa since last 2.5 years and have not got any response even after medical and biometrics have been done.”Amanpreet Singh of Charlottetown said he had applied for PR in November last year but had yet not received it. Singh had come to Canada on study permit on August 14, 2017. When his father died soon after, Singh was not in a position to return home and now his grandfather is ill and wants Singh to visit home. “The thought of not being able to do so is heart breaking,” he said, adding that he knew some 25 other applicants in Charlottetown stuck in similar situation.A large number of Punjabis, living in Canada or India, have been separated from their families due to this delay in immigration system. Before the pandemic, processing time for PR applications averaged six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/immigration-processing-delays-leave-many-canadian-punjabis-in-limbo-351001
16-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||First day of Poh marks arrival of foggy season||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15Residents woke up to a dense fog cover, first of the season, on Wednesday morning, which resulted in huge inconvenience for commuters.While the city areas had a relatively better visibility, in rural areas the fog remained till 12:30 pm.As it was the first day of the month of Poh, as per the Punjabi calendar, a large numbers of people were out on roads to visit religious places to observe ‘sangrand’.The month of ‘Poh’ is considered the coldest month of the year.With the visibility constrained to only a few metres, the commuters had a hard time reaching their destination.A bank employee posted in Tarn Taran said: “Usually it takes me around 45 minutes to reach my workplace, but today it took one-and-a-half hours.”Commuters said the absence of proper road infrastructure in rural areas to guide drivers through fog is the biggest threat to the safety of commuters. The absence of proper fog lights and tail lights on private vehicles is another major cause of accidents as the other drivers fail to spot such vehicles on time.Rajinder Singh, a retired Roadways driver, said: “Never switch on the music system in your car if there is fog. It is a major distraction for the driver, as he cannot listen to the sound of vehicles which do not have fog lights.” He said drivers should avoid overtaking vehicles going ahead.The white markings on the side of the road which help drivers stay on the road during fog are not available on most of the link roads connecting rural areas with the city.“Many people travel on these link roads from villages for work. Others travel from city to villages daily. If the roads have proper markings and signs, it would help daily commuters,” said Charanjit Kaur, a government employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-day-of-poh-marks-arrival-of-foggy-season-350969
16-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Voter awareness van flagged off in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 15To educate voters to cast their vote without any pressure, fear, lust, greed or influence, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Poonamdeep Kaur today flagged off a special van fitted with audio-visual devices to create awareness on importance of voting.The van will cover all the three Assembly constituencies falling in the district — Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana — and spread the message of the Election Commission of India that people should exercise their franchise.The DC said the Constitution gave the right to vote, and it became the duty of every citizen to cast vote to strengthen the democracy. She said as per the directions of the Election Commission, anyone who attained the age of 18 could enrol as a voter by filling Form No. 6. One could also call on helpline ‘1950,’ she added.Poonamdeep said the awareness campaign would be taken to the grassroots level, even in remote rural areas, and the SDMs were directed to supervise the drive in their respective areas. She said the awareness van would provide information about the Election Commission’s c-VIGIL app and Voter Helpline ‘1950’. People would also be made aware about the importance of voting. She said signboards, hoardings and banners were also being put up in public places to spread awareness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/voter-awareness-van-flagged-off-350929
16-12-2021||---||A Singhu-like site outside residence of Pargat Singh in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 15It is evening time and there is hectic activity outside the residence of Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh. A tent stands erected by the ETT-TET Pass Teachers’ Union for the past nearly 10 days. Inside the tent, mattresses have been laid and some men and women unionists are seen taking rest while some of their counterparts are busy preparing dinner.There are some women cooking lentils in a huge pot kept on fire. There are women chopping onions and garlic for the tadka and still others preparing dough out of the stock of wheat flour that they have collected from the people of surrounding villages. The teachers say that they will not go till the minister orders that their salaries, which have been reduced from Rs 44,000 to Rs 25,000 are restored.Says Kamal Thakur, a unionist: “We are 180 teachers and we won’t go from here till our salary is restored. It has been reduced haphazardly without assigning any reason. We have met Education Minister Pargat Singh but nothing has happened. The minister himself has committed that it is a departmental error, but he has not given us a solution to our problem.” The teachers have been sitting like this for the past 10 days and have also brought in their kids, who sleep with them through the nights in the tents. There are about five-six kids of the age as low as one year who are accompanying their mothers. Gurvir, another unionist, said: “Since it gets foggy early morning, the tent start seeping due to mist and dew. We still do not have any tarpaulin sheets to cover our tents. The poor kids are bearing it all with us and learning lessons of life the hard way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-singhu-like-site-in-jalandhar-350816
16-12-2021||---||e Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC contract staff protest chokes Kharar-Chandigarh road||Mohali, December 15Commuters and residents had a tough time as members of the Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC Contract Workers Union staged a protest against the state government on roads and staged a sit-in near Kharar bus stand today.A massive turnout of 7,000 contract employees of 27 depots from all over Punjab were demanding regularisation of the employees’ services.The protests led to a massive traffic jam on the Kharar-Chandigarh road. The protesters had gathered at the spots since morning and continued the protest till around 7 pm. The police tried to negotiate with the protesters by giving them an alternative protest site, but the employees did not agree.The police had put up barricades at several junctions which further inconvenienced commuters. Residents of TDI City, Shivalik City, SBP Homes and other colonies on the Nijjher road were also inconvenienced as their entry and exits were clogged with vehicles stuck in traffic jams. Commuters vented their ire against the police for stopping the traffic near Cheema Boilers Ltd before the traffic lights on Airport Road and TDI.The union leader, Resham Singh, said: “It is ninth day of the strike but no one in the Punjab Government is hearing us. Employees are being outsourced temporarily. I have had five meetings with the newly appointed Chief Minister and also with the newly appointed Transport Minister, but nothing has come out. I apologise to the people of Kharar for the inconvenience caused to them but our protest will continue till the Punjab Government comes up with a solution. The farmer organisations are also coming out in out support.”‘Take strict action against agitators’A resident of Kharar, Akashdeep Singh, who was caught up in the traffic jam for close to two hours in the morning, said, “The police should take strict action against the protesters and remove the barricades immediately. The protesters should not harass residents here and protest at designated sites.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadways-staff-protest-chokes-kharar-chandigarh-road-350914
16-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sunam: In back gear due to traffic jams||With elections nearing, Sunam constituency is getting ready for a keen contest. From the ruling Congress, Sunam halqa incharge Daman Thind Bajwa and her husband Harman Bajwa are ready with a list of achievements while AAP MLA Aman Arora is confident of increasing his past winning margin this time.The list of Bajwa couple’s works includes construction of martyr Udham Singh’s memorial and Sunam-Longowal main bridge. “Since the formation of the Congress government, Sunam has witnessed unprecedented corruption. All claims are only on paper as Sunam has not seen any improvement in health and education facilities,” said MLA Aman Arora.Shortage of Health Department staff, traffic jams and lack of parks are issues which the ruling party leaders will face in the elections. After landing in Sunam in 2017, the Bajwa couple has succeeded in appointing their close aides on key positions in Sunam, Cheema and Longowal. But still some area Congress leaders, who are vying with the Bajwas to get a ticket and the factionalism within the party, may create problems.“We have fulfilled majority of poll promises as we got full support from the Congress government. MLA Aman Arora has lost base in the area,” said Daman Thind Bajwa.Past trendIn the last seven Assembly elections, the Congress has won twice while the Shiromani Akali Dal four times and AAP once. The constituency has 65 villages and three towns, namely Sunam, Longowal and Cheema.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,83,712Male 97,714Female 85,994Third gender 4||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-back-gear-due-to-traffic-jams-350854
16-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Amritsar conjoined twins Sohna, Mohna excited to vote for first time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Will they vote for the same candidate or different ones? That is the obvious query when one comes to know that Amritsar-based famous conjoined twins Sohna Singh and Mohna Singh will cast their votes for the first time.Sohna Singh smiles to the query, but Mohna Singh does not react. They are in Chandigarh to attend a function where along with four others they will be declared as icons by the Election Commission. Sohna said that they were excited to vote for the first time.Born on June 13, 2003, in Delhi, they were abandoned by their parents and adopted by an orphanage in Amritsar.In June, when they had filled separate Form-6 to claim their right to vote, there were doubts whether both will get separate voting rights or will be considered as one. Even the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner had written to the State Election Commission for clarification on the issue.A senior state election functionary said the issue had cropped up before them. But since both of them speak and have separate cognitive functions, they qualified for separate voting rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asr-conjoined-twins-excited-to-vote-for-first-time-350856
16-12-2021||---||Review police postings in Punjab, Oppn urges EC||Chandigarh, December 15In a meeting with the Election Commission of India, the Opposition parties today expressed concern over the recent postings of senior police officers and on the law and order situation, which can hamper free and fair elections in the state. The parties demanded the review of the SSPs’ postings.Dr Daljit Singh Cheema and Mahesinder Singh Grewal, who represented the Shiromani Akali Dal, demanded review of all postings and transfers of all SSPs, DSPs and other senior officers allegedly done with the “ulterior motive of influencing” the outcome of the elections. They also expressed concern over a Cabinet Minister levelling serious allegations of corruption in the postings and transfers of SSPs and DSPs.The SAD also raised the issue how the state could not appoint a regular DGP and demanded that a regular DGP may be brought in so as to build confidence among the people of the state.Anil Sarin, chief spokesperson of the Punjab BJP, said they asked the Election Commission to review the recent postings of SSPs and other police officials that had been made as per the convenience of local MLAs and ministers. They expressed fear over the misuse of government machinery by the ruling Congress in the elections. Apart from that, they apprised the commission regarding prevailing law and order situation in the state. They along with the SAD also demanded deployment of central forces at all polling booths.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which was represented by its general secretary Gagandeep Singh Chadha, expressed concern over the law and order situation in the state. It alleged the bureaucracy was biased and could favour the Congress in the elections. It also demanded videography at each booth and requested for making the nomination process smooth.Mohinderpal Singh, office secretary of the Communist Party of India, demanded that voting should take place on ballot paper instead of EVMs. Apart from this, he demanded that election manifestos of the political parties should be made binding on the parties. The party also demanded a close watch on use of liquor and money to garner votes.Probe corruption charges: CaptFormer Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi why he had not ordered an investigation into the allegations of corruption in postings of the SSPs and DSPs in Punjab, as alleged by one of his Cabinet colleagues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/review-police-postings-oppn-urges-ec-350858
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will address problems of industry: Punjab CM||Reiterating his government’s commitment to ensure a congenial atmosphere for investors and industrialists, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday assured the representatives of various industrial associations that their genuine grievances would be addressed in the fast-track mode.Addressing the members of various industrial associations who called on him in the presence of Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, the Chief Minister said most of their demands had already been met as promised by him during the Punjab Investors’ Summit and the remaining would also be resolved amicably soon after getting these thoroughly examined from the quarters concerned.He said since the issues flagged by the representatives of the industry at this platform were of diverse nature such as GST, pollution and power, they needed to be tackled after due diligence by taking the views of respective administrative secretaries.Meanwhile, Channi today announced setting up a Punjabi Film Development Council to promote the language and culture. He said a proposal in this regard would be cleared in the coming Cabinet meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-address-problems-of-industry-cm-350860
16-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Vindicated after court order in land case: Ex-minister Sunder Sham Arora||The Court of Justice Vinod K Sharma, Lokpal, Punjab, has dismissed a complaint filed against former Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora.In the complaint filed by former Deputy Speaker of Punjab Assembly Bir Devinder Singh, it was prayed to get the role of Arora scanned and scrutinised by the CBI or from any other agency for his alleged involvement in the wrongful auctioning of 32 acres of prime land of liquidator (JCT Electronics in Mohali), alleging it resulted in huge loss to the public exchequer.Arora said his opponents had tried to tarnish his image to achieve their own political motives. Arora addressed a press conference here today and shared the copies of the orders with the media. “From the beginning, I was confident that truth will prevail,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vindicated-after-court-order-in-land-case-ex-minister-350862
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri killings: Sack MoS Ajay Mishra, demands Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has demanded that Union State Minister for Home Ajay Mishra be immediately arrested and sacked as the report submitted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Kheri, has clearly stated that the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was planned and premeditated.The conspiracy of this inhuman and dastardly act, in which four farmers and one journalist were murdered, was hatched by Mishra and was perpetrated by his son Ashish and his companions, it said.Prem Singh Bhangu, Raminder Singh Patiala and Dharminder Malik, all members of legal panel of the SKM, said in a joint statement that the addition of Sections 307 and 326, IPC, in the FIR and deletion of Sections 279 and 304A (which pertain to accident) by the CJM, had clearly vindicated their stand. They further said the FIR registered against the farmers must be immediately cancelled and the arrested farmers be released as the finding of the SIT and the order of CJM now made it clear that Ashish and others were aggressors whose vehicles mowed down the peaceful protesters.They said if Ajay Mishra was not arrested and dismissed, the SKM in its January 15 meeting would decide the future course of action. Meanwhile, the Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan, Bathinda unit, today organised a ‘victory rally’ at the toll plazas at Lehra Bega and Jeeda. A large number of farmers and labourers participated in it. — TNSSidhana, deep sidhu at golden templeAmritsar: Film actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Wednesday. They have been booked by the Delhi Police in the case pertaining to the ruckus on Republic Day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sack-mos-mishra-skm-350863
16-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can allow regular bail in commercial quantity cases: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the benefit of suspension of sentence or concession of regular bail can be granted in cases involving recovery of commercial quantity of narcotic drugs and substances. Justice Vikas Bahl made it clear that the ruling was applicable in cases where reasonable grounds were raised by the applicant-appellant to show that he was not guilty and also where the custody period was substantial.The ruling is significant as the NCB in the case had referred to Supreme Court judgments to contend that suspension of sentence in a case of commercial recovery could not be granted and only the appeal could be heard on merits.The matter was brought to Justice Bahl’s notice after a convict in a drugs case, sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years, sought suspension of remaining sentence during the pendency of his appeal by filing a plea through senior counsel GK Mann with advocates Gursewak Singh and Maan Akashdeep Singh.Justice Bahl added perusal of a judgment referred to by the NCB revealed it did not even remotely further the counsel’s argument that suspension of sentence could not be granted in a case of commercial quantity’s recovery. It was observed by the Supreme Court in the judgment that the sentence could be suspended after the due satisfaction of the court.Justice Bahl asserted: “It was further observed that the satisfaction to be contemplated is to be based on reasonable grounds and the reasonable grounds are something more than prima facie grounds.” It was also observed that giving a finding of “not guilty” was not necessary while deciding the application for bail/suspension of sentence. Required to be seen was whether reasonable grounds existed for believing that the accused was not guilty of the offences he was charged with and further that he was not likely to commit the offence under the Act while on bail.“Even the judgment of the Supreme Court in ‘Lokesh Chadha case’ cited by the counsel for the respondent-NCB fails to support the proposition sought to be raised by the counsel for the NCB…. It is apparent that the benefit of suspension of sentence/concession of regular bail can be granted in cases involving recovery of commercial quantity of narcotic drugs/substances, where there are reasonable grounds raised by the applicant-appellant to show that he is not guilty and also where the period of custody is substantial,” Justice Bahl added.Allowing the plea, Justice Bahl added it was not in dispute that the applicant-appellant had been in custody for more than four years and was not involved in any other case under the NDPS Act. Besides, there were several arguable points in the appeal.Convict sought suspension of imprisonmentThe matter was brought to Justice Vikas Bahl’s notice after a convict in a drugs case, sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years, sought suspension of remaining sentence during the pendency of his appeal by filing a plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-can-allow-regular-bail-in-commercial-quantity-cases-350865
16-12-2021||---||Patiala's private lab violates norms||Patiala, December 15Showing scant regard for norms, a private lab in Patiala claims to provide negative Covid test report. To do this, the lab deliberately takes samples erroneously.The Tribune discovered that the technician there had takes the sample from beneath the tongue instead of oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal swabs. The Health Department, in its guidelines, has said the technique of taking samples from beneath the tongue was not accredited because it was highly unlikely that it would be accurate.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “This is not the right technique. If there is any written complaint, we will look into it.” It has been learnt the practice is being done with international travellers, who have already booked flight tickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-lab-violates-norms-350866
16-12-2021||---||400 rice millers in Punjab up the ante, seek Rs 277 cr aid||Chandigarh, December 15As many as 400 rice mill owners in Punjab, whose mills have been lying shut for the past 11 years due to their inability to return prescribed rice from substandard paddy variety given to them for milling by the government, have decided to launch an ‘agitation’.Most of these owners going through financial crisis have been forced to either undertake some odd jobs or take to other trades, after selling off the land and machinery. Since many of them claim to have availed loans from financial institutions to start their rice mills, they said they were still repaying loans from their meagre earnings.‘Will consider issue’The matter was brought to my notice recently. I will look into it. —Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, Food & Supplies department secretary“We are at the receiving end due to the government policy, which declared us as the defaulters. The government promoted the cultivation of a substandard variety of paddy (Paddy 201) between 2007-08 to 2009-10,” said the aggrieved millers. They said, “As the government did not want to upset the powerful farmer lobby, this paddy was procured and sent to our rice mills for milling in 2008 and in 2009. We realised that this had high breakage and the milled rice had a reddish tinge. The outturn ratio (recovery of rice) was much less than 67 per cent specified by the government. It was just around 55 per cent.”The millers were here recently to meet officials in the Food Department and urged them to compensate them for losses incurred by them during the past 11 years.Davinder Bansal, who had started a rice mill in Malerkotla, just before this paddy was assigned to him, said he suffered huge losses. He said he was accused of not being able to meet the outturn ratio of rice. “My mill, like other mills, was blacklisted and no paddy was assigned to my mill thereafter. I am now forced to move to Delhi and take up a job to make both ends meet and repay the loan,” he said.Vijay Jindal, a rice miller from Dhuri, said the government should compensate them for their losses and allow them to restart their milling operations. “An 11-member committee of the IAS officers was constituted by the Government of India in 2010, which had declared that the paddy variety was of poor quality. This variety was subsequently banned by the government. A compensation of Rs 277 crore was also announced for the millers by the Centre, but state government has not released it,” Jindal lamented.Interestingly, an FIR was registered against officials of two state procurement agencies in 2019. Manpreet Singh Dhillon, a rice mill owner from Nabha, who was the complainant in this case, said there’s no headway in the investigations even after two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400-rice-millers-up-the-ante-seek-rs-277-cr-aid-350869
16-12-2021||---||Over 2,000 cases of illicit liquor seized in Amritsar||Chandigarh, December 15The Punjab Excise Department on Wednesday busted an organised module selling smuggled imported scotch without holograms in Amritsar district and seized 2,150 cases of liquor.Giving the details, Punjab Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal said the Excise Department had once again tightened the noose on persons involved in smuggling and selling non-duty paid liquor in the state. A tip-off was received that a few persons were involved in selling smuggled and non-duty paid expensive imported brands of scotches and imported beer in Amritsar and adjoining areas evading the excise duties and levies, causing a huge loss to state exchequer.Acting on the tip-off immediately, a team of Special Operation Group of the Excise Department swung into action and kept tab of the suspected persons involved in the trade. It came to notice that the accused had set up two illegal godowns in Amritsar where huge quantity of expensive imported liquor brands were illegally stored. The accused have stake in liquor business in some groups in Amritsar.On the intervening night of December 9/10, the teams identified the location of two illegal godowns and raided them at Bhagtanwala and Khairabad. A sizeable quantity of liquor was found without holograms. Some cases of liquor had the holograms of Punjab pasted over the Chandigarh holograms, which showed that the accused even smuggled the liquor from Chandigarh. This liquor was allegedly being sold through a network of bootleggers or to marriage palaces and bars thereby causing loss to the state exchequer. Multiple teams were called in from other districts to take stock of godowns and thorough checking o recovered stock was done by teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-000-cases-of-illicit-liquor-seized-350870
16-12-2021||Our Correspondent||2 held in Mandi Gobindgarh in Rs 2.5-cr GST scam||Fatehgarh Sahib, Dec 15A team of the Cyber Crime Cell of the Gujarat Police has arrested two persons from the industrial town Mandi Gobindgarh for allegedly being involved in a GST scam worth crores.Mandi Gobindgarh SHO Gurdev Singh said the Gujarat Police had conducted a raid on Subhash Nagar and Shashtri Nagar area of Mandi Gobindgarh town and arrested Ahmad Ali and Jatin Verma. A case had been registered at the PS Cyber Crime, Badodra Range, IG Office, Gujarat, under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and 66C and 66D of the IT Act for Rs 2.5-crore GST scam.Sources said both of the accused had hacked the billing account of a business house of Gujarat and issued bills worth crores from the account of that firm. A Gujarat businessman had lodged a complaint with the Gujarat Police Cyber Crime. During investigation, the police chased the accused and reached local Subhash Nagar and arrested the accused. The sources said the police recovered a large number of mobile SIMs, documents and other goods during the search of their hideouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-in-rs-2-5-cr-gst-scam-350872
16-12-2021||Moga||Man 'murders' wife in Moga village||A 38-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by her husband at Chupkiti village in Moga district, police officials revealed here today.The deceased woman has been identified as Karamjit Kaur, who was hit with a brick on her head by her husband, the police officials said, adding that she died on the spot.Manjit Singh, brother of the deceased woman, told the police that he came to meet his sister, but, was surprised to see that Basant Singh husband of his sister was thrashing her with bricks. “On seeing me, Basant Singh ran away from the spot,” he said, adding that his sister died on the spot.The police said the exact reason behind the murder could not be ascertained immediately, but as per the statement of her brother there could be a minor dispute within the family.After taking the body into custody, the police got the post-mortem examination done from the District Hospital here. The doctors confirmed that she died of a fatal head injury.A case under Section 302, IPC, has been registered against the accused at the City-II police station in Moga city. The police is yet to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-murders-wife-in-moga-village-350873
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Youth throws 'gutka sahib' in Golden Temple sarovar, held||A youth has been apprehended at the Golden Temple complex allegedly for throwing ‘gutka sahib’ (small Sikh holy book) in the shrine sarovar.He has been identified as Ranbir Singh, who was caught on the spot by SGPC employees and later handed over to the police.SGPC officials said the youth, with shorn hair, was spotted taking out the ‘gutka sahib’ from his pocket and before he could be intercepted, he threw the holy book into the sarovar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-throws-gutka-sahib-in-sarovar-held-350874
16-12-2021||Bathinda||Nurses seek pay parity, hold march in Bathinda||Staff nurses under the banner of Nursing Association of Bathinda carried out a protest march in the city as their indefinite strike entered the 10th day on Wednesday.Swaranjit Kaur, union president, said, “As per the 6th pay commission report, many of our allowances were either curtailed or discontinued completely. The government must restore all these allowances immediately.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-seek-pay-parity-hold-march-350875
16-12-2021||Sangrur||Mahinderpal Singh Bhola is Sangrur DCC president||In a move that has surprised all, Mahinderpal Singh Bhola has been appointed as the Sangrur District Congress Committee (DCC) president. Bhola is an old Congress man but allegedly faced harassment from officers and his own party leaders since the formation of Congress government in Punjab. Bhola is former block president and former state secretary of the Punjab Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhola-is-sangrur-dcc-president-350876
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder's party appoints six more district presidents||Parties misleading people with fake promises: DhindsaChandigarh: Senior leader of the SAD (Sanyukt) and ex-Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa Wednesday said the Congress, SAD (B) and other political parties were trying to mislead people by making fake promises instead of making them self-reliant. He said parties were well aware of the fact that the state’s financial condition was in dire straits and not ready for such moves. TNSAkali Dal alleges scam in LED purchase agreementChandigarh: SAD’s trade and industry wing on Wednesday alleged scam in Rs1,500-crore LED purchase agreement. The project involved installing 74,944 LED lights across the state. Addressing a press conference, wing head NK Sharma said the party had complained to the state Vigilance Department and demanded a thorough probe. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capts-party-appoints-six-more-district-presidents-350879
16-12-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu objects to CM Channi's hoardings||Chandigarh, December 15 Difference of opinion among the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) top brass on the campaign strategy for the 2022 Assembly elections came to the fore in the first meeting of the campaign committee chaired by former PCC president Sunil Jakhar here today.The meeting was attended by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh and poll screening committee member Krishna Allavaru.Sunil Jakhar also held a separate meeting with Sidhu. Jakhar, who has twice refused to meet CM Channi at his residence, is said to be upset over his name being floated as the CM face before Channi was appointed to the post.Palpable differences between CM Channi and Sidhu were visible in the meeting. The PCC chief took a dig at CM Channi over hoardings and posters across the state eulogising him. The issue was raised after the campaign committee chairman sought to know whether it would be a personality-based or ideology-based or performance-based campaign, whether the party would bank on the three-month performance of the CM Channi-led government or question the performance of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.After the Chaudhary stressed the election would be fought collectively with CM Channi as the Dalit face, Sidhu as Jat face and Jakhar as the Hindu face, the PCC chief pointed out scores of hoardings and posters with CM Channi put up on roadsides.Sidhu is also learnt to have also pointed out that instead of party workers, relatives of ministers and MLAs were being appointed in boards and corporations. Harish Choudhary and Krishna Allavaru have been working at the backend to iron the differences among the top leaders. A 21-member campaign committee would be announced in the coming days. It was also stressed the election would be fought on the party’s ideology to keep leaders under control.PCC chief says workers ignoredDuring the meeting, Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu is learnt to have pointed out that instead of party workers, relatives of ministers and MLAs were being appointed in boards and corporations....Meets DCC presidentsSidhu on Wednesday called upon newly-appointed DCC presidents to appoint their office-bearers in a week and start the enrolment drive in their respective districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-objects-to-cms-hoardings-350841
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu, Bhajji pic creates buzz||Amid reports of the BJP trying to rope in former cricketers Yuvraj Singh and spinner Harbhajan Singh, the latter was seen with Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh, giving rise to speculation that Bhajji was joining the Congress.In a tweet, the PCC chief said, “Picture loaded with possibilities….With Bhajji the shining star”. There were also reports that the Congress was trying rope in singer Harbhajan Mann. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-bhajji-pic-creates-buzz-350843
16-12-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar will have India's biggest sports university and international airport, vows Kejriwal||In keeping with his dole-disbursal spree ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised two major projects for Jalandhar city during the party’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ here today.He announced that Jalandhar will get India’s biggest sports university and an international airport to facilitate NRI-rich Doaba region, if AAP comes to power in the state.Also read: AAP's Tiranga Yatra pulls mammoth crowd, causes immense traffic snarls in JalandharAddressing the crowd atop an open vehicle, Kejriwal evoked nationalist symbolism in his speech. Surrounded by a sea of Indian flags from all sides, he said, “All through my way, people atop roofs and on windows and chanted ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’… terrorism days were bad for the border state. We have to make Punjab ‘khushhaal’ (happy). We have to maintain brotherhood.”Invoking ‘kisan andolan’ and Dr BR Ambedkar, he began the yatra by garlanding portraits of Maharishi Valmiki, Guru Ravidas and Sant Kabir. The yatra started from Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk and ended at Ambedkar Chowk.“We are giving two guarantees here today. Many Doaba youths have gone abroad. It is a very old demand that Jalandhar should have an airport. If AAP forms the next government, we will make an international airport in Jalandhar.”He added: “Jalandhar has a sports industry and those who play cricket and hockey have to use Jalandhar (sports) goods. Sachin Tendulkar used to hit sixes with bats made in Jalandhar. When our hockey team brought a medal in Olympics, their ball and stick had the city stamp on them. We will make the country’s biggest sports university here.” Atop the vehicle, Kejriwal was joined by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, party’s co-affairs incharge Raghav Chadha and other leaders. Some district AAP units brought in workers in buses to lend support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-will-have-indias-biggest-sports-varsity-vows-kejriwal-350844
16-12-2021||Gurdaspur||Why cops proceeding  on leave, asks Sukhbir Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today dared Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to come out with the truth about why senior police officers were proceeding on leave and also urged him to spell out his achievements as Home Minister.Sukhbir arrived in Randhawa’s Assembly seat to a motorcycle rally taken out by SAD youth activists. He was accompanied by party candidate Ravi Karan Kahlon, Gurdaspur district unit chief Gurbachan Singh Babbehali and former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon.Sukhbir had alleged Randhawa had association with gangsters. Randhawa said he would resign if the SAD chief proved the allegations. “I ask Randhawa why police officers are proceeding on leave. Are they being asked to book SAD leaders in fake cases?” questioned Sukhbir. To this, the Dy CM said, “I am not answerable to Sukhbir.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-cops-proceeding-on-leave-asks-sukhbir-350845
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Trouble in Punjab Youth Congress||A day after AICC appointed Ashwani Sharma as the Ropar District Congress Committee president, Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon removed Ropar District Youth Congress president Surinder Singh, attracting protest from Youth Congress leaders.Sharma, an opponent of Dhillon, has been appointed DCC president at the instance of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Speaker Rana KP Singh. Dhillon fought the 2017 polls from Ropar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trouble-in-punjab-youth-congress-350847
16-12-2021||Archit Watts||Elections approaching, officers 'unwilling' to work in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 15As the Assembly polls are approaching nearer, officials are showing their unwillingness to get posted in the Badals’ home district Muktsar. The district has presently just one tehsildar, who is posted at Muktsar.In the past eight months, four tehsildars have been transferred out of Malout. Gidderbaha has no regular tehsildar for the past few months. Sources in the district administration said tehsildars in Malout and Gidderbaha had to perform the duty of assistant returning officer (ARO). “The officers fear of the pressure in the Badals’ home district. Therefore, they are unwilling to get posted here,” said sources.In Malout, tehsildar Sukhbir Kaur was transferred in May. Thereafter, Harbans Singh assumed the charge, but he served here for three months. He was transferred out in August-end. Thereafter, the post remained vacant for over two months. Karun Gupta was sent to Malout in November, but was transferred within two days and that too before assuming the charge. Thereafter, Beant Singh was posted as tehsildar in November, but he assumed the charge in December and was transferred within two days.Balkaran Singh, District Revenue Officer, Muktsar, said, “Senior officers are well aware of the situation.”Four tehsildars in eight monthsFour tehsildars have been transferred in past eight months in Malout. The post has been lying vacant in Gidderbaha, too, for some time. A tehsildar has to perform the duty of assistant returning officer in polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elections-approaching-officers-unwilling-to-work-in-muktsar-350849
16-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Atam Nagar: In a state of complete neglect||A railway overbridge on the Ludhiana-Dhuri railway track near Dana Mandi remains a distant dream, even though residents have been demanding it for a decade. Commuters continue to face inconvenience whenever the railway gates are closed.Residents rue that no new major projects, such as a government hospital or college, have been initiated in the constituency. Besides, the issues of waterlogging, choked sewers, encroachments, illegal constructions, waste management and traffic snarl-ups remain unresolved. Roads in several parts of the constituency have been crying for attention for long.Deepak Nagpal, a resident of Model Town extension, said: “There is no check on rapid commercialisation of residential areas. We have not seen any major development here at all.”Accusing MLA Simarjit Singh Bains of ignoring the issues of the constituency, opposition leaders said no major development had taken place in the past 10 years. Bains however said he always remained available for people and ensured their problems were addressed.Past trendLok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains is serving the second successive term as an MLA from the constituency. In 2012 polls, Bains won as an Independent. Later, he formed LIP and joined hands with AAP for the 2017 polls. The alliance ended in 2018.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,67,666Male 88,407Female 79,250Third gender 9||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-state-of-complete-neglect-350851
16-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna & Vishav Bharti||In Punjab, farmers stay put at toll plazas, want fee hike rolled back||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15After over 400 days, farm unions today lifted their “pucca dharnas” organised in various parts of Punjab by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and the 32 other farm outfits that comprise the SKM.However, dharnas haven’t been lifted from 24 toll plazas across the state as the protesters have been demanding rollback of the hike in toll prices. Jagmohan Singh Patiala of BKU (Dakaunda) said though the fee had been hiked by a mere 1 or 2 per cent, they were hopeful it too would be rolled back in a day or two.The dharnas outside the outlets, including shopping malls, petrol pumps and parking lots at railway stations, owned or operated by multi-national companies have also been lifted.Demanding repeal of the three central farm laws, farm unions had, in October last year, started dharnas at about 200 locations in Punjab. Their count was subsequently revised to 108. Of these, 39 were organised by BKU (Ugrahan) and the remaining 69 by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and the 32 farmer unions that formed the SKM.At the “pucca dharnas” sites, huge crowds gathered today to celebrate the “success” that the protesters had achieved by getting the contentious laws repealed. Sweets were distributed and people sang and danced. They also paid respects to the over 700 “martyrs” — the farmers who had died during the course of the agitation.The unions protesting since September last outside the houses of BJP leaders at seven places — Kotkapura, Nabha, Moga, Sangrur, Sunam, Budhlada and Barnala — also called off their stir. The BKU (Ugrahan) was the first to launch these dharnas, but was later joined by other unions.Meeting deferred, Channi draws flak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-farmers-stay-put-at-toll-plazas-want-fee-hike-rolled-back-350852
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer bodies refuse to lift sit-ins from toll plazas in Punjab||Several farmer bodies in Punjab on Wednesday refused to lift sit-ins at toll plazas in protest against “unreasonable” hike in toll fee. Farmer bodies had earlier announced to lift the 'dharnas' at various places, including toll plazas, petrol pumps, shopping malls, and residences of BJP leaders, from December 15.However, except toll plazas, the farmers' outfits on Wednesday lifted their protests going on at other places for more than a year.Meanwhile, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) regional officer R P Singh (Chandigarh) said out of total 30 toll plazas in Punjab, five opened till Wednesday evening.Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan claimed that the toll rates had almost been “doubled”.He accused the government of making "unreasonable" hike in the toll fee and by doing so, it was trying to recover losses from people.Ugrahan further said the 'dharnas' would continue until the toll fee is brought to the previous level.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh and BKU (Dakunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill Lakhowal said they would not lift sit-ins in protest against the hike in toll fee.The farmer bodies also held several programmes at various places in the state for their “victory”.Farmers, including women, danced to the beats of 'dhol', sang songs, and distributed sweets, among themselves.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana started returning from the Delhi borders from December 11 after the suspension of the agitation against the three farm laws which had been repealed.--- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-bodies-refuse-to-lift-sit-ins-from-toll-plazas-in-punjab-350736
