18-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Samyukt Kisan Morcha agrees to meet Punjab govt||Mullanpur Dakha (Ludhiana), December 17Taking a U-turn on the issue of meeting Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to discuss an 18-point agenda, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has resolved to accept any invitation from the government in lieu of the earlier scheduled meeting on December 20.The issue of the contesting 2022 Assembly elections will also be taken up after considering the outcome of the proposed meeting between the Morcha with the Punjab government.These decisions were taken unanimously after setting aside difference between Jagjit Singh Dallewal and Balbir Singh Rajjewal, at a state-level meeting held here on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-agrees-to-meet-punjab-govt-351798
18-12-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Kejriwal ‘political tourist’, challenges him to debate on employment||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu Saturday called AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal a political tourist and a “liar” who surfaced with “fake promises” just ahead of assembly elections in the state.Addressing a public meeting here, Sidhu challenged Kejriwal to a debate on the issue of employment, claiming he had promised eight lakh jobs in Delhi but gave only 440.“Come and sit (with me), wherever in Punjab. Even call me in Delhi. Will sit at your home, bring TV channels also. If Sidhu gets defeated, then (I) will leave politics,” said Sidhu.He also targeted Kejriwal over his promise of providing Rs 1,000 per month to women, asking him whether he was giving this amount to women in the national capital where he heads the AAP government.Earlier this month, Kejriwal had claimed that illegal sand mining worth an estimated Rs 20,000 crore was taking place in Punjab and if the AAP formed a government, it would stop this and the money would be used to fund his party’s polls promise of Rs 1,000 per month for women.Sidhu said on Saturday that it wasn't possible.“He (Kejriwal) says that Rs 20,000 crore will come from the sand mining sector in Punjab. The last government (Akali-BJP) deposited Rs 40 crore every year. We (Congress government) are depositing Rs 300 crore. How could you (Kejriwal) get Rs 20,000 crore?” he said.“Show me any state which generates more than Rs 3,000 crore from the sand mining.”             “I tell you, Kejriwal! You know nothing about Punjab,” he said. “You are a political tourist and liar who comes here after four and half years with fake promises. Why did you not come in the last four and half years?” he asked.He accused Kejriwal of privatising liquor in the national capital. Sidhu said that funds to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore could be generated from the liquor business in Punjab, Rs 2,000-3000 crore from sand mining and from cable and other sectors.The Punjab Congress chief called Kejriwal a “fraud” and said even a garden lizard (kod kirla) does not change as many colours as the AAP leader does.Targeting the AAP leader for his poll time “lollipops”, he told people to ask Kejriwal why there was no woman in his cabinet.Sidhu also targeted the Shiromani Akali Dal and its first family, the Badals, for allegedly “looting” the state during their previous regime.Batting for his “Punjab model” of governance, Sidhu promised to give the minimum support price on pulses and oilseeds if his party returns to power in the state after the upcoming elections.“If the Centre does not pay MSP, does not give legal guarantee to it, the Punjab government will give MSP on ‘daal’ (pulses) and oilseeds. I promise it,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-calls-kejriwal-political-tourist-challenges-him-to-debate-on-employment-351797
18-12-2021||New Delhi||261 Rohingya Muslims residing in Punjab: State government to SC||The Punjab government has told the Supreme Court that 261 Rohingya Muslims are residing in the state currently and their biometric details have been uploaded on the website of the Government of India for registration.In an affidavit filed in the top court, the Punjab government said that it does not share international borders with Bangladesh or Myanmar.“However, as per the record of this office, there are 261 Rohingya Muslims who have been residing in Dera Bassi and Handesra areas of district SAS Nagar in Punjab.“Out of these 261 Rohingya Muslims, 191 are residing in Dera Bassi and 70 in village Handesra. Further, out of 261, 227 are in possession of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) certificates. The same in the case of 34 Rohingyas could not be secured due to Covid-19 pandemic,” the affidavit stated.The affidavit was filed in response to a PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, seeking a direction to the Centre and the states to “identify, detain and deport” illegal migrants, including Bangladeshis and Rohingyas, from the country.The plea has sought a direction to the Centre and the states to “amend the respective laws to make illegal immigration and infiltration a cognizable, non-bailable and con-compoundable offence”.The Punjab government has further said Rohingyas residing in the state have been serving in slaughterhouses and meat plants on daily wages.“As per the record of the district police, nothing adverse has come to notice against them except one person namely Mohd Hussain who has been arrested at police station Dera Bassi and is presently lodged in Sangrur jail,” the affidavit said.Similarly, according to the record, five Bangladeshi nationals and 74 Pakistani nationals are currently residing in the state, it added.“It is worthwhile to mention here that sincere efforts are being made by Government of Punjab to repatriate these Bangladeshi and Pakistani nationals to their respective countries.“During the last 10 years, 94 Pakistani nationals and 115 Bangladeshi nationals (including 11 children) have been deported back to their respective countries from Punjab after following due procedure and law of the land,” the affidavit said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/261-rohingya-muslims-residing-in-punjab-state-government-to-sc-351772
18-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Stop doing bhangra all day, Capt Amarinder tells Punjab CM Charanjit Channi after BSF intercepts drone in Ferozepur||Former chief minister Amarinder Singh criticised his successor Charanjit Singh Channi for remaining in denial about security issues in the state—a development that comes after press reports said that the Border Security Force had intercepted a drone from Pakistan in Punjab’s Ferozepur.  BSF shoots down drone along Pakistan border in Punjab's Ferozepur“Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice (sic) his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode," Capt Amarinder Singh said in the tweet while also taking a dig at his arch political rival Navjot Singh Sidhu. "Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab,” the tweet said.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was spotted doing some Bhangra steps at an event earlier this week. He was also seen dancing in Kapurthala in September.Reports said BSF shot down a drone that was caught on the Indian side of the international border with Pakistan on Friday night. The drone, a China-made hexacopter with four power batteries that weighed around 23 kgs and could carry a payload of around 10 kg according to reports, was suspected to have come from Pakistan’s side of the border.The drone was carrying no payload, the reports said. Sidhu, an international cricketer-turned-politician just like Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan, called the latter 'bada bhai' while on a visit to Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan. His remarks in praise of Kham, a former world-cup winning captain of Pakistan and Sidhu's contemporary, kicked up a storm and drew condemnation from the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal.Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down as chief minister of Punjab in September—the culmination of a long-running internal feud he had with Sidhu, who had been a minister in his own cabinet four years ago. Capt Amarinder resigned from the Congress—a party he'd been associated with for most of his political career except for a period of 14 years between 1984 and 1998—just over a month later and announced his own party, the Punjab Lok Congress. He formally announced an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday for Punjab assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-doing-bhangra-all-day-dont-be-in-denial-capt-amarinder-tells-cm-charanjit-channi-after-bsf-intercepts-drone-in-ferozepur-351769
18-12-2021||---||Captain Amarinder Singh stabbed Punjab in the back by having alliance with BJP: Charanjit Channi||Ropar, December 18Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said Captain Amarinder Singh had stabbed Punjab in the back by having an alliance with the BJP.He was reacting to the Punjab Lok Congress having an alliance with the saffron party.Channi, who was here to lay the foundation stone of a bridge on Haripur nullah near Putkhali village, said the BJP introducing three controversial farm laws forced farmers to stay on roads for more than a year. “How can one go with such a party in Punjab,” he wondered.Earlier, giving a relief to the people of nearly 40 villages, the CM laid the foundation stone of a high-level bridge on Haripur nullah and approach road up to three kilometres.During monsoon the direct approach to Chandigarh for people of 40 villages used to be cut due to water in the seasonal nullah and the locals had to cover nearly 15 km extra. Channi said that the 82-metre-long and 12-metre-wide bridge costing Rs 8.24 crore would be completed n nine months. He said tenders had been allotted and the work started on the project.Interestingly, it was for the second time that the foundation stone of the bridge was laid. In December 2016, the then local MLA Daljit Singh Cheema had laid the foundation stone.Cheema, however, terming today's foundation stone laying ceremony a drama said the chief minister was liable to answer why work on the project was delayed by the Congress government for five years despite the fact that the SAD-BJP government had already sanctioned Rs 6.5 crore and floated tenders for it.He alleged that the Congress government in its first cabinet meeting had cancelled the approval of Rs 6.5 crore fund allocated for the bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-singh-stabbed-punjab-in-the-back-by-forging-alliance-with-bjp-charanjit-channi-351751
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leader Gurnam Charuni floats political party to fight Punjab polls||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Saturday floated his political party and said it will contest the Punjab Assembly polls next year as their aim is to “purify” politics and bring good people forward.Charuni was a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions that led an over a year-long farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, which have now been repealed. “We are launching the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party,” he told the media here, adding that it will contest the Punjab Assembly polls.                     “Our objective will be to purify politics and bring good people forward,” said Charuni, who is also the president of the Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union.Replying to a query, Charuni said he will not contest the polls in Punjab.On entering into an alliance with any party, he said there is no decision yet in this regard but his party will try to contest all 117 Assembly seats in the state.                         On the occasion, he slammed political leaders, saying they frame policies in “favour of capitalists while ignoring interests of the poor”.Politics is responsible for the “capturing of the country by capitalists” and also for making it difficult for a common man to fulfil his basic needs, the farmer leader asserted.He said there is a need to bring a change and to oust those people who are “looting” the country.The Sanyukt Sangharsh Party will be a secular one, he said, adding that it will work for the welfare of all sections of society.He stressed bringing changes in the farming sector in the state for creating more employment opportunities and sowing such crops that have demand in the international market. Farming business starting from sowing till the produce reaches consumers should be in farmers’ hands, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leader-gurnam-chaduni-floats-political-party-to-fight-punjab-polls-351746
18-12-2021||New Delhi||BSF shoots down drone along Pakistan border in Punjab's Ferozepur||The Border Security Force (BSF) has shot down a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, the force said on Saturday.The Chinese-made drone was "detected and downed" on Friday around 11.10 pm near the Wan border post in Ferozepur sector, it said in a statement.The black-colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, the BSF said.It said the drone, a hexa-copter with four power batteries, weighed around 23 kg and could carry a payload of around 10 kg.It was, however, not carrying any payload like drugs, arms or ammunition.The BSF said that a search operation is being carried out in the incident area. The border guarding force, in the past, has shot down two such drones that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition.Both the incidents took place in the Punjab frontier area.BSF Director General (DG) Pankaj Kumar Singh had told reporters on November 30 that there had been a total of 67 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year."Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our country is fairly small and these are by and large Chinese-made drones...they are very good...and carry small payloads, and in 95 per cent cases they carry drugs," the DG had said on the eve of the 57th Raising Day of the force. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-down-drone-along-pakistan-border-in-punjabs-ferozepur-351728
18-12-2021||---||Batala’s (Miss) Universe Harnaaz Sandhu||When a thing ceases to be a subject of controversy, it ceases to be a subject of interest. Conversely, it is only an interesting thing that attracts controversy. And, yes, by all means the crowning of Harnaaz Sandhu as Miss Universe was surely an interesting development by any measure. And that is the reason why it courted controversy. The moment the Batala born girl was catapulted into a position of eminence and fame, social media was abuzz that she was a product of Chandigarh. That she was born and brought up in the city. Now, this could not be any further than the truth. Minutes after the first social media post hit her senses, and nearly pulverized them into submission by the sheer fallacy it carried, Dr Satinder Kaur Nijjar rushed to put things into a proper perspective. She and her husband Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar own Nijjar Hospital in Batala. And that was where the (Miss) Universe came into being.The Nijjars took time off their busy schedules and started digging out the truth from the hospital records. Finally, after hours of effort, they finally struck gold. They had found the copy of the birth certificate of Harnaaz. Now, it was the turn of this document to start doing rounds of social media. Dr Satinder vividly remembers the day Harnaaz was born. The birth certificate is now one of the couples most prized possessions. “Harnaaz has achieved an exalted status. She will have to work hard to maintain the desired standards. After all, nowhere has it been written on her birth certificate that life would be easy!” said Dr Kaur. And, by the way, Dr Kaur, nowhere has it been written on the birth certificate that life would indeed be fair! Are you listening, Miss Universe?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batalas-miss-universe-harnaaz-sandhu-351720
18-12-2021||---||Make environment agenda for Punjab elections, says Seechewal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 17Exerting pressure on political parties to include environment as the main agenda for the forthcoming poll, Punjab Lok Chetna Lehar is set to organise a debate with leaders of all parties at Ramgarhia College, Ludhiana, on December 20.Led by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, former-IAS officer Kahn Singh Pannu and various representatives from the Sant Samaj aims to put up the issue of right to live in a clean environment having clean air, water and nutrition as the most significant demand of the masses. The members of the movement said they had invited political leaders by name — Navjot Sidhu from the Congress, Bhagwant Mann from Aam Aadmi Party, Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema from SAD and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa from SAD (Sanyukt). Seechewal said they would specifically ask parties that have ruled the state as to what they have done for saving environment during their tenure. “We will also ask parties such as AAP which have not yet come to power as to what magic wand they will use to change the face of the environment for the betterment of Punjabis,” he said.He made his point: “Certainly, inflation, crisis farming and unemployment are issues. But owing to deteriorating environment, lives and health of people are at stake. The mounds of solid waste are on a rise. The untreated water is straightaway being mixed with river waters leading to cancer among residents of the villages falling along the banks of the river.”Pannu said: “My idea of joining the movement is to simply awaken voters to rise to the problems and question the authorities and politicians as to what good work they have done to protect the environment. Listing out various alarming facts, he said the groundwater in the state would exhaust in the next 17 years. There is a need to treat 2,200 MLD of sewer water but we have systems to treat only 1,600 MLD and the rest 600 MLD in being directly discharged into the drains or river bodies. The permissible BOD is of 10 ppm, whereas this value tested at Buddha Nullah came out to be 1,610 ppm. The AGI should ideally not be beyond 50, but this value comes only in rainy days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-environment-agenda-for-elections-says-seechewal-351679
18-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Shorter route to airport from Chandigarh: Take up issue with Punjab on priority, panel to MHA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17For a shorter route to the international airport from Chandigarh, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs has asked the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to take up the issue on a priority basis with the stakeholders.In its report tabled in the Lok Sabha, the committee mentioned that the existing route from Tribune Chowk to the Chandigarh international airport is causing unnecessary inconvenience to the residents of Chandigarh as they have to cover more distance and spend more time to reach the airport.The committee recommended that the MHA may take up this matter with the Ministries of Civil Aviation and Defence on a priority basis to connect the old and new terminal through an underpass below the existing runway to make it convenient for people travelling to the airport.Alternatively, the committee further recommended that the MHA may coordinate with the Government of Punjab for making provision of approximately 4.7-km road through Jagatpura village for the airport, which will reduce the distance to the airport by about 10 km and will save the time of a large number of people travelling to the airport from Chandigarh.UT Adviser Dharam Pal had recently directed the Deputy Commissioner (DC) and the UT Chief Engineer to prepare a report on alternative shorter routes to the international airport from Chandigarh.The Adviser asked the officials to submit the report on the options available for the shorter routes to the airport after studying the ground situation.Earlier, the road distance from Tribune Chowk to the airport was 2.71 km, but people have to now cover an extra distance of 14.5 km to reach the airport through Mohali.People have been demanding an alternative route, which will make it easier and shorter for residents of Chandigarh and Haryana to reach the airport.The recommendationThe committee recommended that the MHA may take up the matter with the Ministries of Civil Aviation and Defence on a priority basis to connect the old and new terminal through an underpass below the existing runway to make it convenient for people travelling to the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-up-issue-with-punjab-on-priority-panel-to-mha-351601
18-12-2021||GS Paul||Row erupts over cigarette cartons at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17In what could be an act of sacrilege and an insult to the Sikh faith, allegations have surfaced of “parshad” being offered to pilgrims at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan, in disposable paper plates made of cigarette packaging material.The plates purportedly carry pictures of the Kartarpur shrine on one side and images of ‘Gold Street’ cigarette brand on the other. It is learnt the issue was raised by some pilgrims who visited the shrine. Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Ameer Singh said the issue was brought to his notice three days ago. He, however, dismissed it as a mischief carried out by miscreants, who probably never wanted the Kartarpur corridor to be reopened.“We have never used any such packaging material to distribute parshad. We have investigated the matter. Some anti-social elements probably never wanted the Kartarpur corridor to be operational. In fact, the pinni-parshad is packed and distributed in plain bags by the PSGPC,” he said.On the other hand, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said it was a shocking development, if true. “We will take up the matter with the PSGPC and the Pakistan authorities. We will ask them to investigate it and nab the culprits,” Dhami said.Former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president, now BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, also took strong note of the reports. He claimed that a pilgrim had captured this “unpardonable sacrilege” on his mobile phone after getting parshad in such a plate. “This has exposed the nefarious designs of the Pakistan authorities that are bent upon suppressing and insulting the minorities. It was shocking to see how cigarette packaging material is being used to make plates for parshad at such a pious Sikh shrine.Earlier, attempts were made to defame the sanctity of the Kartarpur shrine by a Pakistani model, who clicked an obnoxious photoshoot at the shrine complex,” he said.Also read: Pakistani model apologises after her barehead photoshoot at Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara triggers row||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-erupts-over-cigarette-cartons-at-kartarpur-shrine-351546
18-12-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu vows assured job plan for urban poor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said under his ‘Punjab Model’, an urban employment guarantee mission, on the lines of the MGNREGA for rural areas, will focus on skilled and unskilled labour.At a press briefing, the PCC president said his mission envisaged right to employment for all individuals in the urban areas. The benefits of social security must reach the poorest of the poor in the urban areas and not only those who were already getting it, said Sidhu.Pointing towards the “precarious position” of unorganised workers in Punjab, he said due to lack of registration, labourers could not receive benefits of targeted schemes.“Unorganised workers are far from getting social security benefits such as casual and sick leave, and labour welfare programmes run by the government,” said Sidhu, as he promised to bring out a roadmap where unorganised workers could easily get themselves registered and avail of government benefits.The PCC chief raised concern over the construction cess collected by the government not reaching the beneficiaries due to non-registration of most of the labourers.Asked about the party leadership incorporating his ‘Punjab Model’ in the manifesto, the PCC chief said the state affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary had talked about the model. “It has to be approved by Rahul Gandhi and the party manifesto committee,” he said, adding if not approved, there will be “course of action”.“Agendas can’t go unfulfilled this time. Not like the 5,000 made in the last elections. There has to be a mechanism. I have been raising voice against those in power and outside,” he said.The PCC chief said as per the Food Security Act, 2013, 67 per cent of the population should be covered under the public distribution system. While all labourers fell under the category, most did not have BPL cards, he added.Ducks queries on DGP; uses cuss wordNavjot Singh Sidhu on Friday seemed upbeat but refused to reply to queries on sand mining and replacement of the DGP. He also deflected queries against the government. Meanwhile, a video of Sidhu using a cuss word during the press conference went viral on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-vows-assured-job-plan-for-urban-poor-351510
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Navjot Sidhu skips Pargat Singh's function, Sunil Jakhar takes swipe||Alluding to the 32 farm organisations that took on the Centre over the farm laws by shunning differences to achieve a common goal, Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar today took a jibe at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for not sharing the stage with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at a rally organised in the constituency of his aide and minister Pargat Singh.Also read: Punjab CM gives a miss to Dr BR Ambedkar Government College opening eventPunjab CM Channi praises Eklavya School, Jalandhar, for its infraAddressing the gathering in the presence of state affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, Jakhar said: “A second meeting of the farm unions ahead of their Delhi protest was underway with then CM Capt Amarinder Singh. All leaders, including Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal, took time for a discussion among themselves and went outside, but Joginder Singh Ugrahan stayed there. I asked him why he did not join them, to which he replied he had differences with them but was together on the big common issue.”“While 32 unions having differences of opinion could come together for a big cause, we cannot handle only two,” he said, indicating towards the tussle between Sidhu and Channi. Jakhar congratulated Pargat for having made an effort to bring the two together. “You talk of team work. You have tried to bring us all here. Maybe for some reason it did not materialise.”“I hope the top leadership realises the Congress will be able to form the government in Delhi only if we are first able to form a government in Punjab,” he added. Earlier, Pargat had announced Sidhu could not turn up owing to prior engagements.Meanwhile, attacking the BSP leadership in the Dalit hub of Doaba, CM Channi said the party had “backstabbed” the SC community by selling the party to the SAD. Addressing a rally at the Partapura grain market, the CM said the BSP no longer represented the ideology of Kanshi Ram, which aimed at empowering the SCs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-president-skips-pargats-function-jakhar-takes-swipe-351511
18-12-2021||---||Stay away from politics, Sukhbir Badal tells officers||Tanda, December 17SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the Congress government had frequently changed the top police brass to coerce the new incumbents to implicate top Akali leaders in false cases.Talking to newsmen here, the SAD president said: “A lie is a lie, that’s why top police officers are refusing to toe the Congress government’s directions to register false cases against top Akali workers. The government affected two changes in the top leadership of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) by first changing ADGP Arpit Shukla and then ADGP Varinder Kumar. Now, ADGP SK Asthana, the third incharge of BoI, has exposed the government by writing to the DGP and seeking directions as to how he can register any illegal case at the directions of the government.”Will be hauled upThe law is same for everyone. Anyone who breaks it will be hauled up once the new SAD-BSP government is formed. —Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefAsserting that seniormost officers were not ready to become a party to political vendetta, Sukhbir requested all bureaucrats to keep in mind that they should not get embroiled in this drive. “The law is same for everyone. Anyone who breaks it will be hauled up once the new SAD-BSP alliance government is formed.”He said the same fate would befall bureaucrats who were acting as “political agents” of the Congress.When asked about the dismissal of Punjab’s Special Leave Petition challenging the HC order giving relief to the Orbit transport company, he said, “Now the court has said what we were claiming earlier. That the Punjab Government is playing politics on the issue.”For the Kandi belt, the SAD president announced that besides creation of a special ministry for the area’s development, the next SAD-BSP alliance government would also create guaranteed job opportunities for the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stay-away-from-politics-sukhbir-tells-officers-351512
18-12-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat chalk out strategy||New Delhi, December 17BJP’s Punjab election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat today met former CM Capt Amarinder Singh to chalk out the future course of action ahead of the Assembly elections next year.Exuding confidence of a victory and reconfirming the saffron party’s alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress, Shekhawat said: “Capt Amarinder Singh, founder of the PLC, visited the Delhi residence today. Discussions with him reflected his long political experience. He has the interest of the people of Punjab in his heart. We had a pleasant exchange in this regard.”BJP inclined to form alliance with Ex-cmI have a special regard for Captain. BJP’s top leadership has already indicated we will fight the elections together. —Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP leaderHe further said: “I have a special regard for Captain. BJP’s top leadership has already indicated we will fight the elections together.”Stating that the alliance would emerge victorious, Capt Amarinder said: “Met Union Minister and BJP incharge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to chalk out the future course of action ahead of the elections. We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the elections.”After resigning as the CM, Capt Amarinder Singh had quit the Congress and formed the Punjab Lok Congress for the elections early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-shekhawat-chalk-out-strategy-351513
18-12-2021||---||Will end corruption in Punjab, AAP's Satyendar Jain tells traders||Anandpur Sahib, December 17Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Health, Public Works and Power Minister Satyendar Jain held discussions with local traders, merchants, shopkeepers and transporters under the party’s ‘Meeting with Businessmen and Traders’ programme here today.“Once the AAP government is formed in Punjab, all truck unions will be formed and trade will be made corruption-free and easy,” said Jain in his address. He also promised setting up of four astro turf stadia at Anandpur Sahib. Jain was accompanied by constituency incharge Harjot Singh Bains. He said the AAP government would strive to end corruption and there would be no MLA interference in truck unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-end-corruption-aaps-jain-tells-traders-351514
18-12-2021||---||Won't interfere in HC stay order on Orbit Aviation bus permits, says Supreme Court||New Delhi, December 17The Supreme Court on Friday refused to interfere with an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court staying the cancellation of bus permits of Orbit Aviation Private Limited, a company believed to be owned by former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal’s family.“Don’t fight political battles in courts,” a Bench led by Justice Hemant Gupta said.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had earlier stayed the Punjab Government’s decision to cancel bus permits of Orbit Aviation Pvt Ltd. The High Court had directed Punjab, the state Transport Commissioner and the Regional Transport Authority to forthwith release the buses of Orbit Aviation.It had also asked the state transport authorities to permit the petitioner company to provisionally ply the buses.The HC’s order had come on a petition seeking quashing of 31 orders of cancellation of permits issued by the Regional Transport Authority. The petitioners hadcontended before the HC that the orders were arbitrary, went against the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act and violated the principles ofnatural justice.On behalf of the Punjab Government, Advocate General DS Patwalia contended the state had the right to cancel the bus permits over non-payment of road tax dues despite several notices.“Now that they have paid...why do you want to cancel permits?” the Bench asked the government.Court told govt to Allow plying of vehiclesThe Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the state transport authorities to permit petitioner company Orbit Aviation Pvt Ltd to provisionally ply the buses||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-interfere-in-hc-stay-order-on-orbit-bus-permits-says-sc-351515
18-12-2021||---||High Court raps Punjab Police for 'high-handedness'||Chandigarh, December 17Taking cognizance of a “strange case” in which a divorced woman and her three minor children were left on the roads “in these extreme cold conditions and fog” after their “landlord” sought police help for their eviction, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Jalandhar Range Deputy Inspector General of Police to step in.Coming to the rescue of the hapless family, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri directed him to take “prompt action” and ensure shelter for them immediately. He was also directed to consider looking into the role of the police official involved in the matter.The matter was brought to Justice Puri’s notice after the woman, through counsel Vivek K Thakur, filed a petition alleging that the purported owner and “many unknown persons” forcibly got the house’s possession by throwing out all household articles and utensils with active aid of the police on December 1.Justice Puri was also informed that the action of throwing away the articles was video-graphed. But the police, instead of taking action, connived with the other side and aided them. The respondents also enjoyed active political influence in the locality, it was added.Appearing before the Bench, Thakur submitted that the Kapurthala Civil Judge (Junior Division) had restrained the defendants from interfering in peaceful possession of the plaintiff-woman over the suit property except in due course of law. The order was still in force.The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the petitioner’s husband was a tenant. The owner went to the police station for getting the petitioner evicted on the ground that the last date of the rent deed had expired. Thereafter, some compromise was struck but not honoured by the petitioner. As such, the police could not do anything.Rapping the police for being mute spectators and apparent high-handedness, Justice Puri asserted the house was an urban property and the purported landlord sought police help for eviction. Instead of taking action against the persons, who allegedly trespassed into the house and violated the Civil Court orders, the police did nothing.“Prima facie, it appears to be a case of high-handedness by the police officials inasmuch as the police interfered in a purely civil dispute and that too regarding a rent matter. Even though remedy might be available with the petitioner under Order 39 Rule 2A CPC for violation of the injunction order passed by the court, this court deems it fit and appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the present case to invoke the extra ordinary jurisdiction of this court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Article 21…,” Justice Puri added.Cop told to arrange shelter for womanJalandhar Range Deputy Inspector General of Police has been directed to step in and ensure shelter for a woman and her three minor children, who were left on the road after their landlord sought police help for their eviction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-raps-police-for-high-handedness-351516
18-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Court: Maintain status quo on demolition in century-old school in Kairon village||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17More than a century after one of the first all girls’ boarding school in North India was established in Kairon village, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the maintenance of status quo “regarding demolition of already existing girls’ school complex”.The direction by Justice Raj Mohan Singh came on a petition filed by former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon through counsel Sangram S Saron and Shubhreet Kaur. Among other things, they contended that the respondents had started demolition work in the newly constructed girls’ hostel by removing intervening walls just to widen space to create classrooms for students of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law being established there.Appearing before the Bench, Saron and Shubhreet Kaur contended that the petitioner’s great grandfather was a prominent figure, who established the school in Kairon village in Tarn Taran district. Its foundation stone was laid way back on February 12, 1916. The petitioner’s family donated the ancestral land for the noble cause. The womenfolk belonging to the family participated and taught in the school initially known as Bhujangan Ashram, but rechristened as Government Girls Senior Secondary School after the government took over. As such, his “great sentiments” were attached to the institute.“The cause of petitioner’s concern is that the very purpose of donating the land and establishing the school may not be misused by the government for some unauthorised act,” they added. Elaborating, they submitted about 800 students were studying there. The building was constructed afresh after it became dilapidated with the passage of time. The new building included girls’ hostel and other infrastructure such as IT, computer laboratory, kitchen and mess.The University of Law was proposed to be established in the village last year at a site situated about a few kilometres away from the girls’ school complex. A decision was taken to use five rooms and a hall on temporary basis in the students’ hostel building of government high school (boys). Its hostel was situated at some distance from the girls’ hostel in the same village. “But the fact remains that the respondents have started demolition work in the newly constructed girls’ hostel…,” it was added. Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh also issued notice of motion for December 23 to the Union of India and other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-maintain-status-quo-on-demolition-in-century-old-school-351517
18-12-2021||Ropar||Give life term for sacrilege: SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami today demanded a minimum sentence of life imprisonment for committing sacrilege in the state. Dhami said the desecration at gurdwaras had been unabated because the accused were not taken to task.Dhami said those arrested for sacrilege incidents were let off by terming them as mentally ill or drug addicts.Meanwhile, SGPC chief has urged the Prime Minister to announce a national holiday on the martyrdom day of Sahibzadas. He appealed to the CM to order closer of all wine shops on December 27, the martyrdom day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-life-term-for-sacrilege-sgpc-351518
18-12-2021||---||Met issues warning of severe cold wave conditions in Punjab||Moga, December 17The ongoing cold wave conditions, sweeping the Malwa belt and border areas in Punjab for the past couple of days, continued unabated on Friday with Bathinda and Fatehgarh Sahib recording the lowest minimum temperature of 3.4 degree Celsius, 2 degree Celsius below normal, the Chandigarh office of the Meteorological Department said.The Meteorological Department has issued a warning of severe cold wave conditions across the state in the coming days. According to details, the biting cold wave conditions have extended to all districts in the state, including Chandigarh, the state capital.On the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur also reeled under an intense chill, recording a low of 3.8 degree Celsius, 4 degree Celsius, 3.8 degree Celsius and 3.8 degree Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperature in Chandigarh was 5.4 degree Celsius, Amritsar 7.3, Ludhiana 5, Pathankot 5.1, Faridkot 5, SBS Nagar 5.8, Barnala 5, Ferozepur 6.2, Moga 4.7, Muktsar 5.6, Ropar 5.3 and Mohali 8 degree Celsius.It is estimated that the minimum temperature will drop from 2 to 5 degree Celsius in most parts of the state.The Met department has also predicted moderate to dense fog at isolated places in Punjab in the next few days. However, the weather will remain mostly dry in the next couple of days in Malwa, Majha and Doaba belts.Education Department changes school exam timingsDense fog during morning hours engulfed Abohar and adjoining areas in Fazilka district for the second day. Taking cognizance of a representation made by some social activists on Thursday, the Education Department has announced to change the time for first-semester exams for middle standard from 9 am to 10 am. No change in school hours has however been made||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/met-issues-warning-of-severe-cold-wave-conditions-351519
18-12-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||4 die in road mishaps as dense fog engulfs Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh||At least four persons died in accidents as dense fog engulfed Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh near Abohar on Friday.Two bike-borne youths died after a collision with an unknown vehicle this morning. The accident took place near Dhani Lalsingh on Ratan Nagar road at 8.30 am. The deceased have been identified as Sohail (22) and Khanu (23) of Ramgarh village. ASI Kailash said a case had been registered against the unknown driver.A Rajasthan Roadways bus collided with a motorcycle near Dhani Saharan on Nohar-Sahawa road. Mahavir Jat (40) of Raisinghpura village, who was riding the bike, died on the spot.A pickup and a truck collided on Nohar-Hisar bypass. Truck driver Pawan (30) died in the mishap. A mini truck collided with Rajasthan Roadways bus outside Chak 73-NP village in Sriganganagar. After hitting the bus, the vehicle rammed into a tree on the roadside, its driver Ram Singh suffered injuries and was admitted to a hospital in Raisinghnagar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-die-in-road-mishaps-351520
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Consensus' on 60 seats, Punjab Congress list of candidates by Dec-end||With his two key demands of replacing the DGP and AG having been addressed, an upbeat Navjot Singh Sidhu interacted with former PCC chiefs and ministers on the sidelines of the Ajay Maken-headed screening committee meeting here today.Sources in the party said as consensus had been reached on at least 60 seats, mostly sitting MLAs, the first list of the candidates could be out by December-end.Deputy Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa along with ministers Brahm Mohindra, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Aruna Chaudhary and OP Soni met Maken at the Congress Bhavan. Former PCC chief Shamsher Singh Dullo and HS Hanspal, besides Lal Singh, Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and other leaders also called on him. Maken will be meeting party leaders till December 19. Though Randhawa deflected questions on the replacement of the DGP, the political buzz was that Sahota was replaced as there was political pressure from different quarters to act against the Badals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/consensus-on-60-seats-cong-list-by-dec-end-351521
18-12-2021||Bathinda||Simranjit Singh Mann announces 43 candidates for Punjab Assembly elections||The SAD (Amritsar) today announced its first list of 43 candidates for the Assembly elections. The announcement was made by party president Simranjit Singh Mann.The list includes Iman Singh Mann (Fatehgarh Sahib), Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala (Kotkapura), Gursewak Singh Jawaharke (Mansa) and Prof Mahinderpal Singh (Patiala Rural).Talking to mediapersons, Mann lashed out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying he had not yet passed a resolution in the state Assembly over the 1984 riots and had not inducted a single Sikh face into his Cabinet so far. Kejriwal was trying to mislead Sikhs in Punjab, he claimed. He said the main agenda of the party would be to ensure justice in the sacrilege cases, carry out probe into the case of theft of 328 ‘saroops’, hold free and fair SGPC elections and launch a movement against drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sada-names-43-candidates-351522
18-12-2021||Anirudh Gupta||ZIRA: Industry missing, youth disillusioned||One of the oldest subdivisions of Ferozepur district, Zira still gives an impression of being an ‘urbanised ‘village’ owing to poor infrastructural growth along with lack of basic civic amenities and employment opportunities.Locals feel over the last few decades, nothing much has been done by successive governments which could catalyse economic growth and prosperity. Considered an Akali bastion, the Congress wrested power in the constituency in the last poll when Kulbir Singh defeated Akali heavyweight Hari Singh in 2017.Kulbir claims to have spearheaded a lot of developmental works, including setting up of gyms in villages besides getting a clock tower constructed at entrance of the town. However, his opponents are vocal about the “deteriorating” law and order issues besides poor hygienic conditions. Gurpreet Singh, a local youth, said youngsters were moving abroad in search of greener pastures due to lack of job avenues here.Past trendFrom 1977 to 2002, the seat was won six consecutive times by the SAD. However, in 2007, Naresh Kataria halted the winning streak of SAD’s old war horse Hari Singh who bounced back to defeat Kataria in 2012. However, in 2017, the Congress won the seat.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,82,938Male 96,732Female 86,203Third gender 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industry-missing-youth-disillusioned-351523
18-12-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Guruharsahai: Waterlogging sinks growth claims||Once a waste tract of land between the territories occupied by Brars and Dogars, Guruharsahai is often referred as ‘mandi’ which is surrounded by villages on all sides.Though it was made a subdivision in 2011, the area has not seen matching development despite being a hub of rice trade.MLA Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who was earlier considered a close aide of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, has been holding the fort here since 2002 when he first won from the constituency.Sodhi claims to have fulfilled a lot of pending demands, including construction of an elevated road, a garden along the railway stretch, sports stadium and bus stand. However, people are upset over waterlogging during the rains and poor law and order situation. “The new bus stand, constructed almost five years ago, is non-functional and the buses still enter the city, creating traffic chaos,” said Sandeep, a local. “Besides encroachments along the roads, lack of parking space is a common grouse among people,” said Harbhajan Singh, a small industrialist. This time, it will likely be the third bout between Rana Sodhi and his arch-rival Vardev Mann.Past trendSince 1952, the Congress has won the seat nine times. While Independent candidates emerged winners four times, the BJP and SAD grabbed it once each. The sitting MLA, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, has returned victorious four times in a row from 2002 onwards.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,64,533Male 85,542Female 78,987Third gender 4||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waterlogging-sinks-growth-claims-351524
18-12-2021||Barnala||Now, Punjab farmers to protest outside offices of DCs||Amid discussions by various farm groups on taking a political plunge, the BKU Ugrahan — the largest farmer union of Punjab — on Friday announced its decision to stage protests in front of deputy commissioners’ offices from December 20 to 24 in support of their demands.The announcement comes as a surprise for many as union members had returned home only a few days ago from the Tikri border, where the BKU Ugrahan protested for more than a year.Labourers to hold ‘black flag’ stirBathinda: The Punjab Farm Workers’ Union on Friday said it would protest against the CM and MLAs in villages and towns holding black flags from December 17 to 27 over unfulfilled promises. Besides, dharnas will be staged from December 28 to 30 in front of SDM offices. TNS“We have decided to protest for five days in front of DCs’ offices as despite repeated claims, the Punjab Government has not fulfilled many of our demands. We have already clarified we are here to fight for farmers’ rights and not for politics,” said union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan after a state-level meeting at Bhotna village here.Their main demands include Rs 17,000 per acre aid to farmers hit by crop loss and its 10 per cent payment to labourers, guarantee on Rs 360 per quintal sugarcane, Rs 3 lakh aid to families of labourers/farmers who died by suicide besides debt waiver and a government job, cancellation of FIRs registered against protesting farmers, Rs 5 lakh aid to farmers/labourers who died during the Delhi agitation and a government job to kin and prompt release of tubewell connections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-farmers-to-protest-outside-offices-of-dcs-351525
18-12-2021||---||Punjab Cabinet approves regular jobs for 1,925 assistant professors||Chandigarh, December 17In a bid to improve the quality of higher education, the Punjab Cabinet on Friday approved regularisation of services of 1,925 assistant professors appointed against vacant posts in various subjects and non-teaching staff in government-aided colleges of the state.A decision to this effect was taken during a Cabinet meeting chaired by CM Charanjit Singh Channi. A spokesman said the Cabinet had approved filling of 1,925 posts of assistant professors in grant-in-aid colleges of the state in a phased manner at a salary of basic pay plus grade pay (Rs 15,600+6,000=Rs 21,600) on contract for three years.Subsequently, their cases were considered for regularisation based on the evaluation of their work by the evaluation committees. On completion of three years of service, these assistant professors and their work had been evaluated by the notified committees and their services had been recommended to be regularised.The Cabinet also gave approval for setting up two government degree colleges in Jalandhar and SBS Nagar districts. A new degree college, namely Kanshi Ram Government College, would be opened at Adampur (Jalandhar) with effect from next academic session ie July 1, 2022, and the second government degree college would come up at Sarhala Ranuwan village in Banga.Meanwhile, the School Education Department today advertised 12,772 posts of different cadres as part of the ongoing process to recruit 20,166 teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-approves-regular-jobs-for-1-925-asst-professors-351526
18-12-2021||---||Siddharth Chattopadhyaya takes addl charge of Punjab DGP||Chandigarh, December 17A 1986-batch IPS officer, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, on Friday assumed the additional charge of the Director General of Police (Head of Police Force), Punjab.According to the orders issued by the state government, Chattopadhyaya would continue to hold the charge of the DGP, PSPCL, Patiala, besides the additional charge as Chief Director, State Vigilance Bureau. After assuming office, the DGP held a meeting with the top brass of Punjab Police. Chattopadhyaya said besides maintaining law and order in view of the upcoming Assembly elections, his focus would be on the fight against drug and human trafficking and on improving the road safety environment in the state.Several SP-rank officers transferredIn the first round of transfers after new DGP took charge, Sachin Gupta was posted as Fazilka SSP in place of Harmanbir Singh. Several SP-rank officers were also shifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chattopadhyaya-takes-addl-charge-of-dgp-351527
18-12-2021||Bathinda||Bank services hit for second day||Bank employees today continued with their protest against privatisation for the second day in Bathinda. A call for the strike was given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions.The strike crippled all financial transactions and business in the Bathinda region, as customers faced problems in cash withdrawal, deposit, cheque clearance and remittance service. Bank workers raised slogans against the Centre and opposed the government’s proposal to privatise some state-owned banks.A two-day nationwide strike was announced by the UFBU, after a reconciliation meeting with the Additional Chief Labour Commissioner failed on Wednesday. The unions had been protesting since the Centre showed its intention to privatise two public sector banks, in its 2021-22 Budget.“We have reiterated our position that the Bank Privatisation Bill (Banking Law Amendment Bill, 2021) will not be introduced during this session of the Parliament,” said UFBU convener Sanjeev Kumar. The strike could have been avoided had the government given us any assurance.Ramandeep Singh, Deputy General Secretary, Bathinda SBISA, said privatisation of PSBs would close bank branches in rural and backward areas. This will affect the implementation of all government schemes designed for the welfare of the socially and economically weaker sections.Pankaj Kumar, Regional Secretary, Bathinda SBISA, said the government was knocking on the door of PSU banks (like SBI) to save private sector banks through investment. The strike was successful on both the days. Prior to the strike, several state-owned banks had informed their customers to use internet/mobile banking for transactions during the strike.A dharna was also staged outside a Union Bank branch in Bathinda on Friday. Around 600 bank employees from across the district, gathered and raised slogans against the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bank-services-hit-for-second-day-351528
18-12-2021||Patiala||Nurses on strike, woman loses 36-week-old foetus at Govt Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||A pregnant woman lost her 36-week-old foetus at the Government Rajindra Hospital here on Friday as a procedure could not be performed allegedly due to staff shortage. The authorities claimed that the woman had been apprised of the staff shortage and urged to take treatment at some other medical facility. Notably, staff nurses are on a strike here.It is learnt that the patient was admitted to the Gynaecology Department. On December 15, the patient reportedly had some problem. Then the doctors had to plan for induction of labour to deliver, but the procedure couldn’t be performed because the staff nurses had gone on strike.As the woman’s condition worsened, she lost the foetus. The relatives, thereafter, took her to some other hospital.Jasvir Singh, a relative of the woman, said, “It unfortunate that the woman lost the foetus due to the lack of staff. Police action should be initiated against hospital staff.”When asked about it, Dr Parmod, acting MS, said, “The work at the department had been hit by the strike. Moreover, the attendants were informed in time about shifting the patient.”He said though the procedure was to be performed by a consultant, he/she needed support staff to carry it out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-on-strike-woman-loses-36-week-old-foetus-351529
18-12-2021||---||Poster drive by protesting NHM contract employees against Punjab Government||Barnala, December 17With no action over their demand for regularisation of service, employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) on Friday launched a ‘poster war’ against the Punjab Government.They have started distributing posters among residents and are pasting these on government hoardings. The NHM employees alleged neither the state government had provided ‘ghar ghar naukri’ nor regularised the services of contract employees, who fulfilled all criteria.“The Congress government has been trying to fool residents by making false promises while the fact is that it has failed to fulfil its poll promises. The contract NHM employees have started a campaign to expose the false promises of the government,” said Kamaljit Kaur Patti, a union leader of NHM employees.Various teams of NHM employees have been visiting the local Civil Hospital, bus stand, shops and colleges, and distributing the posters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poster-drive-by-protesting-nhm-contract-employees-351530
18-12-2021||Amritsar||87 Hindu pilgrims leave for Pakistan to visit Katas Raj Dham, other shrines||As many as 87 Hindu pilgrims left for Pakistan today through the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post to visit Katas Raj Dham and other religious places in Lahore.They have been given visas for a duration of seven days — from December 17 to 23. There are several Hindu temples connected to one another by walkways at Qila Katas, commonly known as Katas Raj temples, located in Chakwal district of Pakistan.A ceremony has been scheduled at the Katas Raj temples complex on December 19, in which various political and religious leaders of Pakistan will participate.Officials said of 112 pilgrims, 107 visas were granted, yet only 87 crossed over the border by the evening.Before leaving from Durgiana Mandir in Amritsar, Dr Ved Kaur Punia, a retired associate professor from Jat College, Hisar, said it was for the first time that she was visiting Katas Raj temples. “I will pray to God that both the governments should initiate steps for communal harmony and peace on either side of the border,” she said.Dharam Raj from Delhi viewed that this pilgrimage holds significance as the temples find a place in the epic Mahabharata. It is believed that the Pandava brothers spent a significant portion of their exile at the temple complex. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/87-pilgrims-leave-for-pakistan-351531
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-born German poet laureate Rajvinder Singh dies||Punjab-born German writer and poet laureate Rajvinder Singh passed away after a brief illness at a Berlin hospital, his family said. He was 66. He is survived by his wife and a daughter.Based in Berlin since January 1981, Rajvinder’s latest project was to make literature in modern Indian languages accessible to the wider world through translations. To this end, he was translating Punjabi novel ‘Parsa’, by Jnanpith Award-winning novelist Gurdial Singh, into German. And, to get the hang of the Malwai Punjabi culture and the dialect, Rajvinder was visiting the places around which the novel revolves. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/german-poet-laureate-rajvinder-dies-351532
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege plot hatched at Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa, claims Punjab||The state has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that a conspiracy to carry out scurrilous acts was hatched at the Dera Sacha Sauda’s administrative block in Sirsa. The matter was placed before Justice Amol Rattan Singh and will now come up on December 22.Responding to a petition filed by the dera head, SIT member Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar submitted that the confessional statements of the accused clearly indicated that the conspiracy was hatched at a common place — the administrative block. The “common accused” directed the actual perpetrators of the crime to commit acts of sacrilege in a particular area of Punjab, the reply said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-plot-hatched-at-sirsa-dera-claims-punjab-351533
18-12-2021||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs 133 cr seized in Fazilka||The BSF thwarted an attempt of some Pakistan smugglers who allegedly tried to push a big haul of heroin into the Indian territory. The forces seized 25 packets of Rs 133-crore contraband, weighing about 26.7 kg, in the wee hours here today.According to official sources, the sleuths of 66 Battalion of the BSF, during patrolling, observed some suspicious movement near border fencing in the area of Border Outpost Mauzam in Fazilka sub-division. Leaving behind the consignment, two of the accused allegedly fled the spot when the BSF sleuths approached them.The BSF searched the area and recovered 26.7 kg heroin, one PVC pipe, two shawls and a cloth from the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-133-cr-seized-351534
18-12-2021||Fazilka||Kin of martyrs honoured at Asafwala War Memorial||An NGO, Shaheedon Ki Samadhi Committee, organised a programme to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of India’s victory over Pakistan, at Asafwala War Memorial. War veterans and family members of the martyrs in 1971 Indo-Pak war were honoured.The programme was organised in cooperation with the Indian Army and Civil Administration at Asafwala War Memorial. Committee chief Sandeep Gilhotra said a large number of family members of those from 4 Jat Regiment, 15 Rajput Regiment, 3 Assam Regiment, 70 Armed Force, and other regiments participated in the programme.Notably, 209 jawans and JCOs made their supreme sacrifices during the war in Fazilka sector alone in 1971. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-martyrs-honoured-351535
18-12-2021||Abohar||100-kg poppy husk seized||42 health camps heldMoga: Under the “Mukh Mantri Punjab Motia Mukt Abhiyan”, 42 eye camps were organised to provide better health care facilities to people. Deputy Commissioner Harish Nayar said under the campaign, teams of Ophthalmologists checked at least 3,185 patients. TNs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-kg-poppy-husk-seized-351537
18-12-2021||Jalandhar||Sunil Jakhar takes a jibe at Navjot Singh Sidhu for giving Pargat Singh's rally a miss||In his subtle yet crisp style, chairman of the Congress Campaign Committee Sunil Jakhar on Friday took a jibe at PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for not attending a rally and sharing the stage with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, especially when it was held in the Cantonment constituency of Sidhu’s close aide and minister Pargat Singh.Jakhar said all this citing the example of how the 32 farmer organisations taking part in the agitation against the Centre over farm laws shunned their differences to achieve a common goal.He took a long pause after reaching the dais and said he would start his speech only after Pargat Singh and AICC Punjab incharge Harish Chaudhary, who had then been felicitating some BSP workers downstage, would come up.He then began saying, “A second meeting of the farmer unions ahead of their Delhi protest was underway with the then CM Capt Amarinder Singh which I too attended. All the leaders, including Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal, took time for a discussion among themselves and went outside but Joginder Singh Ugrahan kept sitting in. I asked him why he did not join them. He said that he had differences with them but was together on the big common issue.”Jakhar said, “My point of telling you the long story was that when 32 unions having differences of opinion could come together for a big cause, we cannot handle only two.”Jakhar clearly indicated towards the ongoing tussle between Sidhu and Channi and the difficulty that the party is facing in bringing them together.At this, Jakhar went on to congratulate Pargat for at least having made an effort to bring the duo together.“You talk of team work. You have tried to bring us all here. May be for some reason it did not materialise.”He then made another point, “I hope that the top leadership realises that the Congress will be able to form the government in Delhi only if we are first able to form a government in Punjab.”Little before Jakhar’s speech, host of the rally Pargat Singh had announced that Sidhu could not turn up owing to some engagements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jakhar-takes-a-jibe-at-sidhu-for-missing-pargat-singhs-rally-351479
18-12-2021||New Delhi||Punjab Assembly polls: Capt Amarinder Singh announces alliance with BJP||Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress announced an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party for the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab.“Met union minister & @BJP4India incharge for Punjab, Shri @gssjodhpur in New Delhi today to chalk out future course of action ahead of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections,” former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said in a tweet on Friday after a meeting with BJP’s Punjab election in charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Gajendra Shekhawat also confirmed the alliance. Exuding confidence of a definite win and reconfirming the saffron party’s alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress, Shekhawat said: “Capt Amarinder Singh, former Chief Minister of Punjab and founder of Punjab Lok Congress, visited Delhi residence today”.“Discussions with him reflected his long political experience. He has the interest of the people of Punjab in his heart. We had a pleasant exchange in this regard.”“I have a special regard for Captain. BJP’s top leadership has already indicated that we will fight the elections together,” he said.Shekhawat said details of seat-sharing will be announced at an "appropriate time"."The alliance will definitely, 101 per cent win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats," Capt Amarinder Singh said.Elections for Punjab's 117 assembly seats are due early next year.Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down as chief minister of Punjab in September after a long-running feud with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, formerly a minister of his own cabinet. Capt Amarinder Singh has since resigned from the Congress and announced his own party. A press conference he held at the launch of his party in November, Capt Amarinder Singh said he'd be open to an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party for the 2022 assembly elections provided that the BJP-led central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi resolved the crisis over the controversial agriculture laws that farmers primarily from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh had been protesting against since last year.The three laws had led to a falling out between BJP and its old alliance partner in Punjab, the Shiromani Akali Dal.India's Parliament has since passed legislation repealing the three laws. Met union minister & @BJP4India incharge for Punjab, Shri @gssjodhpur in New Delhi today to chalk out future course of action ahead of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. pic.twitter.com/cgqAcpW2MW  पंजाब के पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री और पंजाब लोक कांग्रेस के स्थापक आदरणीय कैप्टन अमरिंदर सिंह जी आज दिल्ली निवास पर पधारे। उनसे चर्चा में उनका दीर्घ राजनीतिक अनुभव झलकता है। वे पंजाब की जनता का हित चाहते हैं। इस संदर्भ में हमारे बीच विचारों का सुखद आदान - प्रदान हुआ। pic.twitter.com/ULuC8251cp||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-capt-amarinder-singh-announces-alliance-with-bjp-351462
18-12-2021||---||Supreme Court refuses to interfere with High Court order staying cancellation of bus permits of Badals' company||New Delhi, December 17The Supreme Court on Friday refused to interfere in a Punjab and Haryana High Court order staying the cancellation of bus permits of Orbit Aviation Private Limited, a company believed to be owned by former Punjab chief minister Prakash Singh Badal's family.“Don’t fight political battles in courts," a Bench led by Justice Hemant Gupta said.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had earlier stayed the Punjab government's decision to cancel bus permits of Orbit Aviation Pvt Ltd.The high court had directed the State of Punjab, the State Transport Commissioner and the Regional Transport Authority to forthwith release the buses of Orbit Aviation.It had also asked the state transport authorities to permit the petitioner company to provisionally ply the buses.The high court's order had come on a petition seeking quashing of 31 orders of cancellation of permits issued by the Regional Transport Authority.The petitioners before the high court had contended that the orders were arbitrary, went against the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act and violated the principles of natural justice.On behalf of the Punjab government, Advocate General DS Patwalia contended the state had the right to cancel the bus permits over non-payment of road tax dues despite several notices."Now that they have paid...why do you want to cancel permits?" the Bench asked.The company was represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-high-court-order-staying-cancellation-of-bus-permits-of-badals-company-351439
18-12-2021||Raj Sadosh||Meet Shree Saini; first Indian-American woman from Punjab to win Miss World America||Abohar, December 17Miss World 2021 has temporarily postponed the global broadcast finale that was to be held Friday at 4.15 am IST in Puerto Rico due to health and safety interests of contestants, staff, crew and general public.Earlier, Shree Saini, the first Asian to be crowned Miss World America, was selected as Top 6 “Beauty with a Purpose” service project volunteer and Top 30 @missworld official semi-finals.Inspite of having many challenges in her life, including a debilitating incident that gave her severe burns and forced her to get a pacemaker, she excelled.Saini was born on January 6, 1996 in Ludhiana and has lived in the United States since the age of five. For the first 12 years of her life, while growing up her heartbeat had an average of just 20 beats per minute.“At Miss World, I believe I am not only representing myself but I am also representing 333 million Americans and 3.5 billion Indians, including Indians outside of India,” she said.The finale will be rescheduled at Puerto Rico Coliseum Jose Miguel Agrelot within the next 90 days. Manasa Varanasi will represent India at the 70th Miss World pageant.Toni-Ann Singh of Jamaica, the current Miss Universe, will crown the new winner.After meeting with the virologists and medical experts hired to oversee the Miss World 2021 event and discussing with the Puerto Rico Health Department, the decision has been made by the organisers of the event to postpone the globally broadcast finale at the Puerto Rico Coliseum Jose Miguel Agrelot to be held within the next 90 days.As of yesterday, additional safety measures were implemented in the best interest of the contestants, production team and spectators, understanding the event increased risks on the stage and in the dressing room. However, after additional positive cases were confirmed this morning after consulting with health officials and experts, the postponement decision was made.The next step according to the medical experts is immediate quarantine, pending observation and further testing according to best practices in situations like this. Once and only when contestants and staff are cleared by health officials and advisors, will contestants and related staff return to their home countries.“We are very much looking forward to the return of our contestants, (who we have grown to know and love), to compete for the Miss World crown” said Julia Morley, CEO of Miss World Ltd. Puerto Rico offers a safe environment and a spectacular backdrop for filming the Miss World Festival.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/meet-shree-saini-first-indian-american-woman-from-punjab-to-win-miss-world-america-351430
