19-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Recurrence of painful acts of sacrilege point to deep-rooted conspiracy: Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceBathinda/Mansa, December 19 Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said the recurrence and frequency of the most painful acts of sacrilege against Sikh religion clearly point towards a deep-rooted conspiracy.Sukhbir Badal addressed gatherings in favour of SAD candidate Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu here and later for Prem Kumar Arora in Mansa.The SAD president called upon the Union and the State governments “to demonstrate sincerity and sense of urgency in their conduct and actions to identify, expose and punish those behind this conspiracy”.“Their attitude so far has left much to be desired as there is more politics on the present rulers’ minds than the pursuit of real culprits.”Sukhbir Badal said those carrying out these unforgivablenefarious deeds had been emboldened as the Congress leadership and government in Punjab had wasted nearly five years in playing dirty and dangerous politics over the most sensitive issue of sacrilege.Addressing the gatherings the SAD president said the next SAD-BSP government would construct a 500-bed medical college and hospital in Mansa. In another major decision, Badal said all irrigation related problems at tail ends of canals would be solved by construction of underground water pipes. He also announced that all farmers who did not have a tubewell connection would be given one on a priority basis.He also announced the alliance stood for ensuring an insurance cover of Rs 50,000 per acre to farmers for their crops. He said the old age pension scheme, which was ended in 2004, would be revived, sand and liquor mafia will be wiped out, the electricity bills of religious places would be waived off and the villages having Muslim and Christian population would be provided with land for graveyards.He also announced that traders would be given life insurance, medical insurance and fire insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recurrence-of-painful-acts-of-sacrilege-point-to-deep-rooted-conspiracy-sukhbir%C2%A0badal-352141
19-12-2021||Amritsar||Punjab CM Channi visits Golden Temple after 'sacrilege' attempt, killing||A day after a man was beaten to death over an alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple here, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited the shrine on Sunday and said some “inimical” forces may be involved in it in view of the upcoming Assembly polls.But they will be exposed, said the CM as he urged people to maintain calm. The state government has constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the incident. Channi told reporters that in view of the upcoming Assembly polls in the state, some “inimical” forces or agencies may be involved in the incident. “I appeal to the Sangat that they should pay special attention to take care of religious places—temples and gurdwaras—and institutions of all religions. People should maintain peace and mutual brotherhood,” said Channi.The CM said he was deeply hurt by the alleged sacrilege attempt, which was unfortunate and needed to be condemned.If anyone has come with wrong intention, our intelligence agencies will try to nab and expose them, he said. “We will go to the bottom of the incident,” he added.The chief minister was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and senior officials.Earlier in the day, Randhawa held a meeting in Amritsar with the police commissioner and other officials.He said an SIT has been constituted under the deputy commissioner of police (law and order), which would submit its report in two days.The accused spent a few hours at the “Parikarma” of the holiest shrine of Sikhs, Randhawa said, adding that he was “here with an aim”.A case was registered against the unidentified man late on Saturday night under IPC Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 307 (attempt to murder), Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said.He said a footage obtained from cameras at the Golden Temple is being examined to collect information about the accused. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-visits-golden-temple-after-sacrilege-attempt-lynching-352140
19-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||No poll plunge, will set agenda: SKM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) should act as a pressure group, and set the agenda for other political parties. This was the consensus among the 32 farmer unions that met in Mullanpur this afternoon to discuss if they can use their success in the year-long morcha to take a political plunge.A majority of unions also said if an individual farmer leader decided to take a political plunge and contest the upcoming Assembly elections on a particular party’s ticket, it would be his individual foray and the SKM would not be seen as supporters of that particular party. This comes amid speculation of Balbir Singh Rajewal being the chief ministerial face of the Aam Aadmi Party and talks of Harmeet Singh Kadian having met the AAP top brass.No invitation yet from CM channiRepresentatives of all 32 unions attended the meeting today, which lasted almost three hours. The morcha, which had started showing signs of fragmenting earlier this week, with seven unions initially going astray, also resolved that their significance as a formidable pressure group was only till the time they remained united.Though no reference was made to the public spat between leaders — Rajewal and Jagjit Singh Dallewal — the SKM unanimously resolved that no statement against any leader would be made public, and differences (if any) would be resolved internally. Dallewal was not present at the meeting, though his union — BKU Sidhupur — was represented by Kaka Singh Kotda. The leaders did not take kindly to his group individually approaching the Punjab Government and getting the meeting of the SKM postponed.Sources said though the meeting began by holding discussions on the issues to be raised at the SKM’s meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, it ultimately gravitated towards focussing on public expectation from the SKM in the elections.While some farmer leaders were reportedly in favour of collectively forming a political front, a majority opposed it, and felt their role as a pressure group would yield better results, several leaders present at the meeting told The Tribune. Examples were given regarding the earlier success of the SKM in calling all political parties of Punjab earlier this year and barring them from holding political rallies. The leaders also said they would allow toll plazas to reopen in Punjab if they were willing to operate at the same rates as prior to their closure.“We won’t allow the toll plazas to charge even Re 1 more than what they were charging last year. Those who accept this can start operating the toll plazas,” unions said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-poll-plunge-will-set-agenda-skm-351903
19-12-2021||---||End of the road for Rajas, Ranas: Sidhu||Sultanpur Lodhi, December 18Amidst the ongoing tussle between Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu today chose to attack both former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Rana Gurjeet.In the backdrop of the issue that Cheema has been facing opposition from within the party with Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh seeking ticket from Sultanpur Lodhi, Sidhu did not just hold a rally in his support, but also urged the people to continue to retain Cheema as their “sardar for the next five to 10 years”.Capt wanted to remove meDid anyone think Captain could have been removed? He wanted the doors to be shut on me... the Guru has ended the tenure of Rajas and Ranas. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefChoosing to attack Captain Amarinder and Rana, he said, “I was made to sit at home. Who did that? It was Captain. Did anyone think that Captain could have been removed? He wanted the doors to be shut on me. Captain, just watch me. I am standing on the land of Guru Nanak. The Guru has ended the tenure of Rajas and Ranas.”Pointing towards himself, he said, “The Guru has created sewaks like me. It was with His blessings that Capt is sitting at home. He is now after PM Narendra Modi. He made you all puppets.”Cheema also promised farmers that the state government would offer them MSP on pulses, maize and oilseeds in a legal way. “For instance, if the farmers get Rs 800 per quintal of maize in the market, the state government would give them the remaining Rs 800,” promised Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/end-of-the-road-for-rajas-ranas-sidhu-351904
19-12-2021||Aman Sood||Sukhbir to govt: What was the need to change DGP at night?||Tribune News ServiceSamana, December 18SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today warned “officers trying to implicate SAD leaders at the behest of the Congress government to be ready to face the music once SAD-BSP forms the government”. He claimed he would not suspend but dismiss such officers.Talking to The Tribune, Sukhbir said the Congress government was effecting transfers in the top police set up on a daily basis and had even changed the acting DGP in a hope that the new incumbent would obey its illegal orders to implicate top Akali leaders in false cases. “What was the need to change a DGP at midnight without any reason. It is a border state and such decisions show only the inexperience of the government and its leaders”, he said.After holding rallies in support of SAD candidates Surjit Singh Rakhra at Samana and Varinder Kaur Loomba at Patran (Shutrana), he said the SAD had written to the Election Commission to device ways and means to get the manifesto enforced. He said the manifesto should be given the status of a legal document to ensure parties were made liable for promises they made.“We will also move court if need be to ensure no party fools people by making wild promises. This clause should be included in the Representation of the People Act”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-to-govt-what-was-the-need-to-change-dgp-at-night-351906
19-12-2021||Hoshiarpur||Outsiders will not succeed in state, says CM||Terming the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as the ‘modern East India Company’, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said those dreaming of forming the government in Punjab by coming from outside will not succeed in their endeavour.They were trying to mislead the people of Punjab by making false promises, he said while addressing a rally organised by MLA Sunder Sham Arora here. Earlier, addressing the rally, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar alleged conspiracies were being hatched by the Centre against the state. During the farm stir, they were at times referred to as “Khalistanis and terrorists”, he claimed.Batting for MLA Arora, Jakhar said he was a victim of a conspiracy as he was removed from the Cabinet. The Lokpal gave him a clean chit, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/outsiders-will-not-succeed-in-state-says-cm-351907
19-12-2021||Ropar||AAP 'inspects' dispensary in Channi's constituency||Challenging Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni’s claims that Punjab was better placed than Delhi in the health sector, AAP leader and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain today visited a government dispensary at Surtapur village to ‘expose’ the poor health infrastructure in the state.When Jain reached the dispensary, the renovation work was in progress and no staff member was present. He claimed he was scheduled to visit the dispensary in Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency yesterday. His programme was leaked following which the dispensary was locked. Jain alleged the dispensary was locked to cover up the shortcomings in the health sector.Ropar Civil Surgeon Paraminder Singh said due to a strike of health workers, there was shortage of staff at the Chamkaur Sahib hospital. So the dispensary staff was shifted to Chamkaur Sahib to run emergency services a few days ago and the renovation work had been started. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-inspects-dispensary-in-channis-constituency-351908
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Govt biased in allocating funds to MLAs: Cheema||Accusing the ruling Congress of being biased in allocating funds to MLAs, AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today said if AAP came to power in 2022, the MLA constituency development fund would be introduced for every legislator along the lines of the facility available to MPs.Cheema also demanded a judicial inquiry, under the supervision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, into the funds released by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to Congress MLAs. “If AAP legislators had received half as much funds as Congress MLAs, they would have changed the face of their respective constituencies and accounted to the public for the funds spent on development works in each village and locality, as party president Bhagwant Mann does,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-biased-in-allocating-funds-to-mlas-cheema-351910
19-12-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Rice millers, youth feel let down||ThE then Jalalabad MLA and Deputy Chief Minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, had promised to set up a rice hub in the town, which is dotted with as many as 30 rice mills.Sukhbir, the SAD president now, had represented Jalalabad thrice before he got elected from the Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 General Election. Ever since he vacated the Assembly seat, the project hasn’t got the due attention and is on the backburner. A large number of rice mill owners have been incurring huge financial losses due to fluctuation in prices of basmati in the international market.The newly elected MLA, Raminder Singh Awla, announced a big private industry to create employment opportunities for the border belt’s youth. However, both the representatives failed to honour their promise. A large number of unemployed youth have allegedly indulged in drugs and illicit liquor trade. In some of the villages, distilling of illicit liquor popularly known as “lahan” has virtually acquired the status of cottage industry in the absence of jobs.Besides, Sukhbir had gotten constructed 100-bed civil hospital in Jalalabad during his tenure, but neither he and nor his successor was able to arrange adequate number of doctors for it. Apart from it, the demand for a railway over-bridge over Mannewala road rail track remains unfulfilled.Past trendSAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was elected MLA from here in 2009, 2012 and 2017. He had to vacate the seat after getting elected to the Lok Sabha from Ferozepur in 2019. Congress’ Raminder Singh Awla won the bypoll by defeating SAD’s Raj Singh Dibbipura.Electorate strengthTotal voters 2,06,823Male 1,07,896Female 98,923Third gender 4||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rice-millers-youth-feel-let-down-351912
19-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Overflowing river washes away claims||Residents in Shutrana are faced with a number of issues like overflow of water from ‘Chhoti Nadi’ and lack of education and health facilities. Asheen Khan, an advocate, said, “Villages, including Khanewal, Chanagra among 20 others of Patran, are affected due to overflowing waters of ‘Chhoti Nadi’. People have request for facilities, but to no avail. Traffic woes are regular in city areas.”The government hospital in Shutrana also lacks proper facilities. People are forced to go 60 km away to Patiala city for treatment. “Even accident victims are shifted as the hospital lacks facilities,” said Sardeep Singh of Ghagga.Jatinder Mattoo, who announced contesting the upcoming Assembly elections, said, “The area has been left out on the education front. The primary school of Bhund Theh village, adjacent to Dera Jattan, Dera Jheel and Dera Bikanerian villages has been in a shambles for many years. Also, only arts courses are taught at the lone government college at Nyal village here. Those interested in studying BCom or science courses are forced to go to Patiala.”Past trendThe constituency has witnessed a tussle between the SAD and Congress since Independence. The entry of the AAP in 2017 turned it into a triangular contest. Nirmal Singh of the Congress, a three-time winner since 2002, is the sitting MLA.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1.78 lakhMale 93,401Female 85,558Third gender 6||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overflowing-river-washes-away-claims-351913
19-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||SAD (Sanyukt) top leader revolts over truck with BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) is on the verge of a split with party leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura raising the banner of revolt over a possible alliance or seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the upcoming Assembly elections. Sources say a large section of the party is against an alliance with the saffron outfit or Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress. This sentiment was shared by party workers during a seminar held earlier this week.Talking to The Tribune, former MP Brahmpura said he was against any formal or informal electoral alliance with the saffron party. A majority of the party workers has already expressed their view regarding this, he said, claiming there was a strong opposition to the BJP among people of the state.Final call on Dec 21The final call will be taken at Dec 21 meeting. Even if party decides to go with the BJP, we will not be part of the party. —Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, SAD (sanyukt)He questioned party leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa meeting the BJP top brass, including Amit Shah, to discuss the seat-sharing arrangement at a time when workers and leadership were against it. He said the final decision would be taken at a meeting on December 21. “Even if the party decides to go with the BJP, we will not be part of the party.”Despite having announced over 90 candidates, the SAD has not fielded any candidate from the Khadoor Sahib constituency, from where Brahmpura and his son have remained MLAs.Asked about any prospects of retunring to the SAD fold, Brahmpura said he had no such plan for now.Both Dhindsa and Brahmpura were the senior-most leaders of SAD, after Parkash Singh Badal, before they revolted separately against the Badals and formed the SAD (Sanyukt).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-top-leader-revolts-over-truck-with-bjp-351914
19-12-2021||Sangrur||2 Cong leaders oppose Singla||Two Congress leaders along with their supporters have raised a banner of revolt against Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla. They have announced opposition to the candidature of Singla, who has accused his political opponents of inciting party men against him.“Singla is acting in a biased manner in Bhawanigarh. Many areas are being ignored for no reason. We have now decided to oppose Singla,” said Congress leader Kapil Dev Garg, who is Director, PRTC. Another leader Bipan Sharma also accused Singla of bias. Singla however alleged both Sharma and Garg had been levelling baseless allegations against him. “Each penny of the government is being used with transparency,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-cong-leaders-oppose-singla-351915
19-12-2021||Our Correspondent||BSF shoots down drone in Ferozepur||Ferozepur, December 18The Border Security Force (BSF) today intercepted and shot down a Pakistan drone flying at low altitude near Waan village along the International Border in this sector.As per information, personnel belonging to the 103 Battalion on routine patrol detected a drone coming from the Pakistan side and hovering at low altitude in the area in the wee hours. As per the standard operating procedure, the personnel opened fire at the drone and brought it down. The BSF officials said the propellers of the drone were damaged in the firing.Spotted 300m inside Indian territoryLater, senior officials from the sector headquarters visited the site to take stock of the situation. Sources said the China-made drone was being operated from the Pakistan side. It had reportedly entered 300 metres inside the Indian territory from the zero line. The BSF officials said the hexacopter (having six propellers) had four batteries and weighed around 23 kg with the payload capacity of 10 kg. After the operation and coordinated drill, other security agencies were informed and the area was cordoned off for a search operation.The BSF has in the past foiled such attempts by trans-border elements backed by Pakistan’s ISI and other agencies to smuggle arms and drugs into India.BSF Director General (DG) Pankaj Kumar Singh had told reporters on November 30 that there had been a total of 67 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year.“Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our side is fairly low and these are by and large Chinese drones...they are very good...and carry small payloads. In 95 per cent cases, they are carrying drugs,” the DG had said onthe eve of the 57th Raising Day of the force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-down-drone-in-ferozepur-351916
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt has a dig  at CM Channi||Former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday took a swipe at incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu after a Pakistani drone was shot down by the BSF. He asked Channi to tell his Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to “get active”.“Instead of doing Bhangra all day, the CM of Punjab should advice his Home Minister to get active and come out of denial mode,” Capt Amarinder said in tweet, also tagging a media report on the issue. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-has-a-dig-at-cm-channi-351917
19-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Spell out how accused failed to cooperate with probe, HC tells state||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that mere assertion on non-cooperation with the investigating agency was not enough for the state to oppose the grant of bail to an accused. The state was required to spell out the manner in which an accused failed to cooperate with the investigating agency.“No doubt in case the accused does not cooperate with the investigating agency, an adverse inference can be drawn against him. However, the state must spell out as to in what manner the accused has failed to cooperate with the investigating agency,” Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul asserted.In her detailed order, Justice Kaul added mere non-recovery of some disputed dowry items could by itself not be a ground for denial of bail to the accused. The ruling came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and another respondent by an accused seeking the grant of anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on November 22, 2019, for subjecting a married woman to cruelty and criminal breach of trust under Sections 406 and 498A of the IPC at the Women Cell police station in Amritsar district.His counsel submitted that the FIR was registered against the petitioner on account of a matrimonial dispute between the parties. Allegations of physical and mental harassment were levelled against him for not satisfying his dowry demands.The counsel added the parties, unfortunately, failed to amicably settle their dispute before the High Court’s mediation and conciliation centre. Pursuant to an order passed by the court, the petitioner joined the investigation and handed over all the dowry articles in his possession, including a car given at the time of marriage.The state counsel did not dispute the fact regarding the petitioner joining the investigation. He, however, submitted that the petitioner did not cooperate with the investigation as approximately 220 gram of gold ornaments were yet to be recovered. After hearing rival contentions, Justice Kaul allowed the plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spell-out-how-accused-failed-to-cooperate-with-probe-hc-tells-state-351918
19-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Man attempts 'sacrilege' at Golden Temple, inquiry on||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18An unidentified man allegedly tried to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple here on Saturday evening. Sources said the man entered the sanctum sanctorum and tried to place a ‘kirpan’ (sword) near Rumala Sahib. He was nabbed by SGPC employees and whisked away. His body was later found near the SGPC office within the temple complex.Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC chief, termed it as a conspiracy to bring a bad name to the Sikh faith. “The incident requires a thorough probe to expose the forces behind it,” he said. The incident was captured by a private satellite TV channel. A video clip went viral on social media following which members of various Sikh organisations, including Nihangs, rushed to the site.Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said: “When a police team reached there, the man was already dead. The body was found near the entrance gate of the SGPC office. Efforts are underway to identify the deceased and appropriate action will be taken on the basis of eyewitness accounts.”Earlier on Wednesday, SGPC employees had handed over to the police a man identified as Ranbir Singh for allegedly throwing ‘gutka’ into the Golden Temple sarovar. Paramjit Singh Sarna, former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, and Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad of the SAD-Sanyukt denounced the incident.Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said the crime was “deeply shocking and exceedingly painful”. It had caused “deep anguish and outrage in the minds of the Sikh masses all over the world”, he said.Bhagwant Mann, president of Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab unit, said, “The incident is very unfortunate and I am deeply hurt by it. May God bless Punjab and Punjabis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-attempts-sacrilege-at-golden-temple-inquiry-on-351919
19-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindgarh will be made industrial hub, says Union Minister||The growth of the manufacturing sector is crucial to country’s development and with Centre’s initiatives for the industrial sector, the GDP has reached over 8 per cnt even during the pandemic, said Union Minister for Steel RCP Singh while interacting with mediapersons at the National Institute of Secondary Steel Technology (NISST), Mandi Gobindgarh, today.He was here to interact with industrialists of Asia’s biggest steel town and redress the problems being faced by the industry.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-dependence) initiative was aimed at growth of the industry and manufacturing sector. He said Mandi Gobindgarh would be developed as an industrial hub by setting up big industrial units so that more employment was generated for the state youth. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandi-gobindgarh-will-be-made-industrial-hub-says-union-minister-351920
19-12-2021||---||Novel protest by staff nurses in Bathinda||Bathinda, December 18Members of the Nursing Association, Bathinda unit, carried out a protest march and banged tin containers here today. Staff nurses are on strike for the past week, demanding pay parity and status of nursing officers.Staff nurses gathered at the Civil Hospital and later carried out a march by holding black flags and beating tin containers.Swaranjit Kaur, president of the association, said, “In today’s protest, we banged containers to wake up the state government from its slumber so that it can take note of our demands and fulfil them. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal keeps saying that government’s coffers are empty but imposing cuts on our allowances is not going to fill these coffers. We demand that the government must revive our allowances at the earliest. We also demand that it must remove anomalies in pay parity and provide us grade pay benefits as per the revised pay scale in 2006.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/novel-protest-by-staff-nurses-in-bathinda-351921
19-12-2021||---||Bus owner to sue govt, Warring||Bathinda, December 18Shiromani Akali Dal leader Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon, owner of New Deep Bus Service, today said they would take legal action against the Punjab Government and Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for allegedly causing financial loss and tarnishing their reputation by illegally impounding the company’s buses.Dhillon claimed Warring had misused his position for vendetta by impounding their buses without a valid reason. The decision to cancel permits was revoked on the directions of the High Court and the Supreme Court further refused to interfere in the lower court’s order. “This proved there was no wrongdoing on our part and Warring took action against us out of personal resentment,” he claimed.He would file a lawsuit against the Punjab Government and the minister for causing damage to his reputation and financial losses, claimed Dhillon.Surprise check of bus to airportFatehgarh: During a surprise check at Sirhind, Transport Minister Raja Warring accompanied by officials of the Transport Department on Saturday evening found an Indo-Canadian bus belonging to the Badals carrying passengers destined for different locations en route to the airport. Terming it a violation of the contract carriage permit, which bars ferrying of passengers en route, Warring directed officials to impound the bus. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bus-owner-to-sue-govt-warring-351925
19-12-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to meet Amit Shah over prisoners' release||The SGPC has urged the Centre to release Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted of assassinating former CM Beant Singh, and other Sikh prisoners languishing in various jails.A delegation would soon meet Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard, said SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami after a meeting of the Dharam Prachar Committee here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-meet-amit-shah-over-prisoners-release-351926
19-12-2021||---||To fight Punjab poll, Gurnam Singh Charuni floats party||Chandigarh, December 18The first political party to emerge from the year-long farmers’ struggle, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, was launched here today by Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni.He said the party was formed to “cleanse politics and make lives better through good governance”.Addressing the media here, Charuni said though he would not be contesting, his party would field candidates on all 117 Assembly seats in Punjab.On alliance with any party, he said there was no decision yet in that regard. He stressed on bringing change in the farming sector for creating more employment opportunities. He also batted for opium farming in Punjab. “If opium farming is allowed, Punjab can progress a lot,” he said. “Leaders have turned politics into a business. During the pandemic, the income of 97 per cent population declined and the remaining 3 per cent saw a phenomenal growth. We want to represent the former,” he said.Charuni claimed capitalists were trying to control the country. “Our aim is to purify politics by bringing right people ahead,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-fight-punjab-poll-gurnam-singh-charuni-floats-party-351897
19-12-2021||New Delhi||Home Minister has promised action: Manjinder Singh Sirsa on attempt of sacrilege at Sri Darbar Sahib||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Saturday condemned the attempt of sacrilege at Sri Darbar Saheb and said home minister Amit Shah had assured action to expose the conspiracy.Alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple, suspect killedBJP spokesperson RP Singh meanwhile demanded a CBI probe into the matter.Sirsa in a statement issued here said the incident has sent shock waves throughout the world as never in history of Sri Darbar Sahib such attempt has been made.He said the failure of the Congress government to solve sacrilege cases has resulted in a repeat of such incidents.“It should also be probed why such incidents occur at the time when elections are around the corner,” said Sirsa.He said the history of Congress has forced Sikhs to point a finger towards it.Meanwhile, Sirsa also apprised Home Minister Shah of the incident and urged him that this matter should be thoroughly probed.“HM expressed shock at the incident and said that he has never heard of such incident in his life and he assured that every step will be taken to expose this conspiracy. HM said he would talk to Punjab CM in this regard,” Sirsa added.Sirsa also asked SGPC to probe this incident at its own behalf.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-minister-has-promised-action-manjinder-singh-sirsa-on-attempt-of-sacrilege-at-sri-darbar-sahib-351802
19-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga  ||Alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple, suspect killed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18Angry ‘sangat’ killed a man after he allegedly attempted to commit sacrilege in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple on Saturday.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has directed state police authorities to thoroughly probe into entire matter to zero in on the underlying motive and real conspirators behind this dastardly act.CM directed state police authorities to thoroughly probe into entire matter to zero in at the underlying motive and real conspirators behind this dastardly act.(2/3)  The alleged sacrilege incident occurred at 5.45 pm when Rehras path (routine evening prayer) was in progress. The man, with shorn hair, all of a sudden jumped over the metal fence around the place where ‘parkash’ of Guru Granth Sahib is there.Before he could get successful in his attempt he was nabbed by on-duty SGPC employees. According to reports, he caught hold of Sri Sahib (Kirpan, a Sikh religious symbol) and placed feet over Rumala Sahib. During the melee the Granthi Singh continued with the recitation of the ‘path’.Sources said SGPC employees took him to a room situated along the Parkarma, where he was beaten up during interrogation.SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said the person was killed by angry devotees. “It appeared to be a deep-rooted conspiracy to vitiate the atmosphere and bring disgrace to the Sikh faith. The incident required a probe to expose the forces behind it,” he said.Meanwhile, the alleged attempt to commit blasphemy was seen on live TV as the ‘path’ was being telecast on a channel. The clip was soon widely circulated on social media and people, including Nihang Singhs and members of various Sikh organisations, rushed to the Golden Temple.Later, more video clips emerged showing the body lying on the floor of the Golden Temple complex and people gathered around it raising religious slogans.It was the second such incident in the Golden Temple in the past two days. On Wednesday, the SGPC employees handed over one Ranbir Singh for allegedly throwing holy gutka (a handbook of Gurbani) into the sarovar (holy tank) of the Golden Temple.Strongly condemning the “most unfortunate and heinous act to attempt sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib in the sanctum sanctorum of Harimandir Sahib during the path of Sri Rehras Sahib”, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh has directed state police authorities to thoroughly probe into entire matter to zero in on the underlying motive and real conspirators behind this dastardly act.The CM also called up SGPC president and assured his government’s full support and cooperation to get into the bottom of the case.Paramjit Singh Sarna, former president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Committee; Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, a leader of Akali Dal Sanyukt, and other Sikh leaders denounced the incident. They said it was an attempt to vitiate the harmonious and peaceful environment of Punjab.Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the preliminary probe revealed that the accused had attempted to commit blasphemy and an aroused Sangat beat him to death. When the police team reached the spot he had already been done to death by the crowd. “We took possession of the body outside Teja Singh Samundari Hall’s entrance gate. The body was taken to Civil Hospital for post mortem. Efforts were on to identify him and appropriate action would be taken on the basis of the statements of the eyewitnesses and SGPC employees,” Gill said.Too shocking and painful for words: BadalChandigarh: Five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal described the heinous attempt to commit sacrilege at Sachkhand Shri Harmandar Sahib as “deeply shocking and exceedingly painful”.Badal said the crime was too reprehensible for words and it has caused “deep anguish and outrage in the minds of the Sikh masses all over the world”.He added that it was unbelievable that “such a painful and brazen crime could be committed at the holiest shrine of humanity” by a single individual, adding that the possibility of a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it cannot be ruled out. He said that the whole conspiracy needs to be probed, exposed and those behind it be given exemplary punishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alleged-sacrilege-attempt-at-golden-temple-suspect-killed-351790
