20-12-2021||Hoshiarpur/Ferozepur||Farmers block rail tracks at several places in Punjab, seek complete loan waiver||Farmers on Monday blocked rail tracks at several places in Punjab, demanding complete loan waiver and compensation to families whose members died during the course of the stir against the Centre’s farm laws.They also demanded the cancellation of police cases registered against farmers who protested the laws.The train movement was affected in the state due to their “rail roko” agitation, which started under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.According to railway officials, over 55 trains were affected following the protest by farmers at Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.They said 27 trains were cancelled, 11 were short-terminated while 17 were halted.The cancelled trains included the Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express (14650), Amritsar-Nanded Superfast (12422), Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express (12412), Amritsar-Howrah Express (13006), Amritsar-Mumbai Golden Temple Express (12904), Amritsar-Darbhanga Jannayak Express ( 15212) and Amritsar-Dehradun Express ( 14632). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-rail-tracks-at-several-places-in-punjab-seek-complete-loan-waiver-352555
20-12-2021||Ravi S Singh||AAP MP flays Congress govt, preceding SAD-BJP regime in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 20AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta on Monday lashed out at the incumbent government of the Congress, and the preceding SAD-BJP regime in Punjab for allegedly doing nothing against the rampant abuse of narcotic drugs and substance in the State.Taking part in the discussion on Narcotics Drug and Substance Abuse (Amendment) Bill in Rajya Sabha, Gupta expressed concern that the youth of the Punjab have been pushed towards drug abuse.He said influential people during both the regimes in the State promoted this social malady. “They were allegedly part of the drug trade’s nexus.”Punjab goes to Assembly polls early next year. AAP has emerged as an important political player in the State.With Punjab Congress allegedly in disarray, and the Akali politics in fragmentation, AAP smells an opportunity to strike gold in the elections, and form a government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mp-flays-congress-govt-preceding-sad-bjp-regime-in-punjab-352552
20-12-2021||---||Sonia names 4 Punjab MPs, Pratibha Singh, Deepender Hooda as CPP office-bearers||New Delhi, December 20Several MPs from the region and the maximum from election-bound Punjab found place among office-bearers Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed to the parliamentary party on Monday.Four MPs from Punjab are part of the list. While Jalandhar reserved segment MP Sanokh Singh Chaudhary has been appointed one of the only three secretaries of the Congress Parliamentary Party, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla, Faridkot MP JS Gill and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo have been included in the 22-member executive committee of the CPP.The other two secretaries of the CPP are Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Amee Yagnik.Newly-elected Mandi MP Pratibha Singh and Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda are in the executive committee which also has among members MPs Karti Chidambaram, Neeraj Dangi (RS member from Rajasthan) and Pradeep Tamta (RS member from Uttrakhand).Sonia Gandhi has also included Phulo Devi Netam, one of the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, in the CPP executive panel.Netam is a Rajya Sabha MP from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sonia-names-4-punjab-mps-pratibha-singh-deepender-hooda-as-cpp-office-bearers-352549
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Deputy CM Randhawa demands nod to Bills for ensuring stringent punishment to sacrilege perpetrators||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, has urged the Union government to give nod to The Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and The Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 in order to ensure stringent punishment to those perpetrating the heinous crime of sacrilege of holy books.In his letter written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the deputy chief minister wrote, “I want to bring to your notice that sacrilege of holy books is becoming a major issue in Punjab.  Shri Guru Granth Sahib is considered a living Guru and not an object by the Sikhs and it is accorded respect according to Sikh maryada.   In this context, it was felt that the existing provisions of Section 295 and 295-A of the Indian Penal Code-1860 which provide for a punishment of up to three years are inadequate to deal with this situation. So, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed ‘The Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and The Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill 2018’ which provide for punishment up to life imprisonment for whoever causing injury, damage or sacrilege to Shri Guru Granth Sahib, Srimad Bhagwat Gita, Holy Quran and Holy Bible with the intention to hurt the religious feelings of the people.” The letter further states, “These Bills were given assent by the Governor of Punjab on 12-09-2018. However, these Bills are pending for assent of the President of India since October 2018. Punjab being a border state, it is extremely necessary to maintain communal harmony here. For this, deterrent punishment is a must for those trying to disturb communal harmony by indulging in the sacrileges. So, I again request that the presidential assent for the said Bills may kindly be obtained and conveyed to the state government, at the earliest possible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-deputy-cm-randhawa-demands-nod-to-bills-for-ensuring-stringent-punishment-to-sacrilege-perpetrators-352542
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab scraps 40,000 pending VAT cases||Giving a much-needed relief to trade and industry in the state, the Punjab Government has exempted around 40,000 statutory form related outstanding cases under Central Sales Tax / Value Added Tax (VAT), out of over 48,000 cases related to each of the financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17. Notably, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced the decision at the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit in Ludhiana.An official spokesperson said that the tax department has completed the assessment in remaining around 8500 cases for FY 2014-15 and initiated the process to settle these cases by asking the traders to deposit just 30 per cent of the tax liability. Giving further relief to them, they will only have to deposit 20 per cent of the aforesaid tax liability during the current fiscal and the balance 80 per cent by the end of next financial year, the spokesperson said.The state government is fully committed to create a conductive ecosystem for ease of doing business in the state. The fullsome support to trade and industry will help the Punjab to emerge as the front runner state across the country. This industry-friendly initiative would go a long way to instil confidence and boost morale to invest in the state, he added.The spokesperson further informed that the taxation department has also initiated a process for faceless administration of GST and VAT, under which traders and industrialists have not to be physically present before taxation officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-scraps-40-000-pending-vat-cases-352512
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu visits site of dharna by families of Behbal Kalan firing victims; demands early justice||Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu visited Faridkor district on Monday to join a protest to demand justice in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing. Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, one of two people who was killed when police fired at protesters in October of 2015, sat on an indefinite protest on December 16 to demand justice.“For the last over six years, the political parties are using Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents and sacrilege cases in the state shamelessly as a political tool to exploit religious sentiments and wrest power,” he said. “I will continue my dharna on the spot where innocent people were killed. This is to expose Congress and Akalis. How dare they make a fool of people and ride to power on the wave of these sentiments but make effort to bring the guilty to the book."Also read: Behbal Kalan police firing victim's son sits on dharnaIn October 14, 2015, two people---Krishna Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh---were killed after the police allegedly fired at people protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib near Behbal Kalan village.Two Sikh protesters Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjeet Singh were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan in 2015. File photo Sidhu has taken on his own government over the “delay of justice” to the families of those killed in police firing. By visiting the site on Monday, Sidhu reiterated his demand for early justice in the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-visits-site-of-dharna-by-families-of-behbal-kalan-firing-victims-demands-early-justice-352501
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Biting cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 0.2 degrees Celsius||Punjab and Haryana were in the grip of a severe cold wave on Monday, with Hisar recording a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius.According to the Meteorological Department, the night temperature continued to hover well below the season's normal at most places in the two states.In Haryana, Hisar was the coldest place recording eight notches below normal minimum temperature.Cold wave in northwest India to continue till Wednesday: IMDAmbala (5.1 deg C), Narnaul (1.3 deg C), Rohtak (2.6 deg C), Karnal (3.4 deg C), Sirsa (3.2 deg C), Fatehabad (3.1 deg C), Bhiwani (2.5 deg C) also reeled under biting cold while Gurugram recorded a low of 7 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Moga recorded a low of 0.4 degrees Celsius.Amritsar also experienced the cold weather recording a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab which reeled under piercing cold weather conditions included Faridkot (1.1 deg C) Ludhiana (4.4 deg C), Patiala (3.9 deg C), Barnala (0.9 deg C), Jalandhar (2.6 deg C) and Mohali (4.4 deg C).Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 3.3 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/biting-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-352479
20-12-2021||---||Parshad distribution in 'donas' at Kartarpur Sahib: Avinash Rai Khanna writes to External Affairs Minister||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 19Taking a serious view of the matter of distribution of ‘parshad’ in ‘dona’ (paper bowls) made of advertisement material and wrappers of tobacco products in the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara located in Pakistan, Himachal BJP in-charge and former Rajya Sabha MP Avinash Rai Khanna has written to Union External Affairs Minister Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar in this regard.Through the letter, Khanna has demanded strict action against the culprits. According to a release issued in this regard from Khanna’s office on Sunday, Khanna has termed it as a lousy handiwork of the Government of Pakistan. Khanna said Pakistan had been targeting religious places of minorities over the decades due to its poor mentality. He said distributing ‘prashad’ in ‘donas’ made of paper with tobacco advertisements on it in the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is sacrilegious and such ‘donas’ should be banned.Khanna urged the Ministry of External Affairs that the security of religious places of minorities should be ensured by putting appropriate pressure on the Government of Pakistan. He said the ministry should ensure that the management of the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara was given to the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/avinash-writes-to-moef-352357
20-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Punish Golden Temple incident conspirators: Shahi Imam||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 19Shocked over an unsuccessful attempt by an unidentified man to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple on Saturday evening, Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Mohammad Usman Ludhianvi has urged all concerned to probe the incident so that hidden forces and conspirators are identified and dealt with firmly.“I believe that it is the worst news on the sacred land of Punjab that a sinner tried to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple when evening prayer (Rehras Path) was going on at nightfall on Saturday,” said the Shahi Imam, while talking to The Tribune. He said no words are adequate to condemn the incident.Apprehending that the incident was the outcome of sinister designs of some hidden forces, Malauna Mohammad Usman Ludhianvi urged the authorities in the Punjab Government and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee to get the sequence of events leading to the sinful act probed and reach conspirators by all means. “Those who argue that the matter is closed with the death of the sinner should not forget that there are conspirators yet to be identified who deliberately chose the period when the whole world was paying tributes to Sahibzadas for their supreme sacrifice as it would hurt sentiments of Sikhs across the world in severest manner,” said Ludhianavi petitioning that the authorities concerned in the government and SGPC should not try to wash their hands of the responsibility to bring the case to a conclusive end.The Shahi Imam said it was too worrying that sacrilege incidents are occurring repeatedly and the successive governments and authorities concerned have failed to nail the real sinners trying to disrupt harmony of the region. “As sacrilege incidents in any religion cause deep anguish and outrage in minds of members of all religions, these are not tolerable at any cost,” said the Shahi Imam apprehending that inaction and leniency with conspirators would result in reoccurrence of such incidents and disruption of communal harmony in already disturbed state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punish-golden-temple-incident-conspirators-shahi-imam-352250
20-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||After sacrilege attempts, Punjab Police on high alert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19Back-to-back instances of alleged sacrilege attempts – first at Golden Temple on Saturday and then at Kapurthala on Sunday, in which two unidentified persons were lynched by the unruly crowd, has put the Punjab Police on high alert.The police have been approaching the management of various religious shrines and requesting them to take appropriate security measures to avoid such incidents. They were also checking the CCTV cameras there ensuring that they were operational.The IG, Border Range, has passed instructions to the SSPs of the police districts to take appropriate measures so that nobody vitiates the atmosphere in the region in view of the two incidents.SSP, Amritsar Rural, Rakesh Kaushal also held a meeting with Station House Officers of all police stations in his jurisdiction besides other gazetted officers. They were asked to remain present in the field and patrol areas in their jurisdictions to ensure peace.“Patrolling has been increased in villages and every precaution is being taken in order to avoid recurrence of such incidents,” the SSP said. He pointed out that it was practically not possible to deploy cops in every religious shrine. Therefore, SHO and officials were directed to meet managements of religious shrines in their areas and ask them to make security arrangements.“We are taking precautionary measures so that nothing goes wrong. We are taking every step to maintain the law and order,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-sacrilege-attempts-police-on-high-alert-352296
20-12-2021||---||Golden Temple Sacrilege: Amritsar hoteliers face the brunt as bookings cancelled||Amritsar, December 19The alleged killing of a man who was held for trying to commit blasphemy in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple led to panic among tourists. Many of those who had booked rooms in advance, cancelled their visit or put off their plans.Surinder Singh, president of the Federation of Hotels, Guest Houses Association, said hoteliers were receiving panic calls from tourists and trying to convince them that it was a single incident of its kind. “Largely, the city is peaceful and there is no need to panic,” he said. Even then he anticipated that there would be 5 to 10 per cent shortfall in room occupancy this week.Piyush Kapoor, manager of a hotel, said at present, the tourist season was at its peak and room occupancy was 100 per cent this weekend. He ruled out that there would be any significant impact on room occupancy in city hotels.Meanwhile, leaders of various political parties and Sikh organisations condemned the attempt of sacrilege inside the holiest shrine of the Sikhs. Harnam Singh Khalsa, head of Damdami Taksal, condemning the sacrilege attempt in the Golden Temple held governments responsible for not giving punishment to those committing blasphemy.The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) strongly condemned the attempt to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib. CKD president Nirmal Singh lamented that the perpetrator tried to commit blasphemy in Sri Darbar Sahib, which was a shameful and unforgivable act. It caused outrage among members of the Sikh community all over the world. He said there was a big conspiracy behind this unfortunate incident which needed to be exposed.Sikh Students’ Federation and Shiromani Committee members Bhai Gurcharan Singh Grewal and Bhai Gurbakhsh Singh Khalsa while praising the vigilant role played by the Shiromani Committee, termed the action of sangat and the committee as a matter of urgency. They also met SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami in this regard.The Jathedar Hawara Committee stated that the unfortunate incident drew the attention of the sangat to the useless management of the SGPC. Its leaders stated that it did not learn any lesson from the smoking incident at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, throwing of Gutka Sahib in the Amrit Sarovar of Sri Darbar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-face-the-brunt-as-bookings-cancelled-352318
20-12-2021||GS Paul||SIT report on Golden Temple sacrilege bid in 2 days: Deputy CM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19A day after a man was allegedly beaten to death for trying to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple, the Punjab Government on Sunday set up a special investigation team that will file a report within two days.Dead Suspect booked for murder attemptSecurity beefed up at Golden TemplePlot to create unrestIt’s a deep-rooted conspiracy by central agencies to vitiate atmosphere in Punjab by creating communal conflict. — SS Randhawa, Deputy CMDeputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the SIT would be headed by DCP (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal. “The suspect is yet to be identified,” Randhawa, who holds the Home portfolio, said.The Deputy Chief Minister met senior officers, including IG (Border Range) Mohnish Chawla, Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira and SSP (Rural) Rakesh Kaushal, as well as SGPC officials Rajinder Singh Mehta, Harjap Singh and Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona to discuss additional security measures in the vicinity of the Golden Temple.The police have, meanwhile, filed a case under Section 307 for murder bid (Guru Granth Sahib is considered a living entity) and Section 295-A for hurting religious sentiments. Randhawa pitched for severe punishment for acts of sacrilege, pointing out that the Punjab Assembly had passed Bills in 2018 proposing amendments to the IPC and CrPC to make desecration of religious texts punishable with life imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-report-on-sacrilege-bid-in-2-days-deputy-cm-352271
20-12-2021||---||Severe cold in Northwest, no relief likely for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are in the grip of a severe cold wave, the Meteorological Department said on Sunday. People in Punjab and Haryana reeled under biting cold conditions with the holy city of Amritsar on Sunday recording a minimum temperature of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.Moderate fog was reported in Amritsar and Ludhiana. In Haryana, Sirsa was the coldest at 0.6 degrees Celsius. Churu in Rajasthan reported the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India, followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degrees Celsius). Delhi recorded a minimum of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold to severe cold wave conditions are highly likely to continue over the next three days. Dense fog is predicted in Uttarakhand over the next two days and in Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-in-northwest-no-relief-likely-for-3-days-352273
20-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda railway station bags safety award for train ops||Bathinda railway station has bagged safety award for zero tolerance in maintaining safety in train operations and team operations for the years 2019-20 and 2020-21.The award was given to Bathinda Station Superintendent Pardeep Sharma by Ambala Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Gurvinder Mohan Singh, ADRM Infra Karan Singh and Sr Divisional Safety Officer Anil Sharma at a function organised during the 66th Railway Week celebrations at the DRM office in Ambala, where the division felicitated some of its railway stations for their outstanding work.While talking to The Tribune, Pardeep Sharma said: “Bathinda railway station has been given the shield award in safety and team operations.”Further, he said: “We are paying special focus on safety and sanitation at the railway station as these two services are directly linked with the passengers.”Sharma said: “Our railway employees in Bathinda have done a commendable job as they remain alert 24x7 for safer working and the shield will further motivate them and they would work more sincerely towards the safety of passengers.”Talking about the station, Sharma said: “About 76 per cent of the trains have restarted post-Covid and many new trains will start in the coming days. An X-ray scanner machine has also been installed and work to install escalators will begin soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-railway-station-bags-safety-award-for-train-ops-352190
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Crop Residue Management: Agriculture Department gets national award||The Agriculture Department has been awarded national award for better crop residue management. Sushil Kumar, Joint Director, Agriculture Department, on Sunday received the award on behalf of Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha.The government has provided more than 86,000 straw management machines to cooperatives (PACS), gram panchayats, FPO’s, registered farmer groups and individual farmers. Efforts of the state government have been recognised for sustainable agriculture development through stubble management during Progressive Agri Leadership Summit 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-residue-management-agriculture-department-gets-award-352189
20-12-2021||Raj Sadosh||Punjab Agro outdoes Mexico in red chilli paste||Abohar, December 19Punjab Agro has snatched red chilli paste market from Mexico this year. The tunraround came after Punjab Agro modernised its plant, which was set up in 2004 at Alamgarh village near Abohar.A target to export 100 containers of red chilli paste was set. Of these, 81 containers have already been shipped to the Middle East and Gulf nations in the last five years after procuring chilies directly from farmers.The government has set up a Centre of Excellence for Vegetable Production with an outlay of Rs 8 crore. The centre produces around 40 lakh seedlings per year.The vachinery has been imported from Italy and Poland. Moreover, a designated carrot mandi has been opened at the plant to provide better market access to farmers.Punjab Agro has increased facilitating/ marketing of Kinnow from 3,706 MT in 2018-19 to around 25,000 MT this year. Kinnow waxing and grading centres have been set up in six villages at a cost of Rs 15 crore.Manjit Singh Brar, managing director, Punjab Agro, said, “A research agreement has been inked with Punjabi University for Limopan- a nutraceutical from kinnow biomass. As the nutraceutical industry will grow to Rs 70 crore in the coming years, it will benefit kinnow farmers.” “Non-marketable Kinnow will be purchased directly from farmers and processed for manufacturing fruit and allied drinks. The quantity of juice required for different liquid beverages will be scaled to 25 lakh litres,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-agro-outdoes-mexico-in-red-chilli-paste-352191
20-12-2021||---||Punjab Govt: Merit sole criterion for selection of assistant professors||Patiala, December 19Merit in the written test for selection to 1,158 posts of assistant professors and librarians will be the sole criterion for the selection process.The annoucement came after the state government decided to withdraw the benefit of up to five additional marks for teachers working in state government colleges for their recruitment as professors.The information was released by the state government on December 18. The government said, “It is intimated that the government, after reconsideration, has to withdraw the benefit of weightage of up to five additional marks for experience, given to teachers working in the government colleges of Punjab, by withdrawing clause 4 (3) of the advertisement. This decision has been taken in view of certain writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, challenging this provision of weightage. Hence, the entire selection would be based upon merit of the written test only.”Earlier, the state government had decided to give weightage of one mark (up to five marks) per completed academic year of teaching experience to part time, guest faculty and contract teachers of government colleges.No additional marks for govt teachers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-merit-sole-criterion-for-selection-of-assistant-professors-352192
20-12-2021||Faridkot||11K candidates appear against 962 vacancies in Baba Farid University||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Sunday conducted a written test for the recruitment on 922 posts of staff nurse, 16 medical lab technician and 24 posts of operation theatre assistant.A total of 11,467 candidates appeared in the test. While the total number of applicants were 12,731, but 1,264 candidates remained absent. “The medical university will announce the result by lat Sunday evening,” said the authorities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11k-candidates-appear-against-962-vacancies-352193
20-12-2021||Muktsar||Punjab Diary: Arvind Kejriwal's slip of tongue||Token of remembranceMuktsar: The excitement among the farming community after “winning” the battle against the three farm laws has reached such a level that some young farmers of Kotli Devan village here while returning from the Delhi border reportedly brought back a road barricade. They have placed it at a gurdwara in the village, saying it will be a reminder for the future generations of the historic protest by the farmers.Rs 1.1-cr ‘welfare tax’Muktsar: Maghi Mela is organised annually in Muktsar town on the occasion of Maghi and the district administration has made it a source of revenue generation. The administration through the District Red Cross Society invites tenders to hold the fair and charges a hefty amount in lieu of giving permission to install swings and food stalls. The proceeds, it claims, are to use for welfare works. This year, a tender for Rs 1.01 crore has been granted, against last year’s Rs 63 lakh. A majority of the locals has opposed this tradition, saying the mela organisers increase the charges of swings to make profit, which puts an extra burden on them.Glass half full for CMGurdaspur: Last week, CM Charanjit Singh Channi was to address a gathering of Christian community at the grain market here. The moment he disembarked from his helicopter, a minister told him 7,000 chairs had been placed at the venue but only a handful of people had turned up. Suddenly, he asked district administration officials to drive him to the Civil Hospital. He had opined that if he spent 45 minutes there, chances of the venue filling up would increase. Upon return, he found half of the chairs occupied. For him the glass was not half empty, but half full.Early bird catches wormSujanpur: Three-time Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu is probably the only BJP politician to have pushed his election campaign into the top gear even as there are no signs of his party announcing its candidates. He has already toured all villages of his Assembly thrice and is ready for the fourth visit. Ex-MP and film star Vinod Khanna used to give examples of the man’s modesty to his senior colleagues in Delhi and, at times, even at Nagpur where all strings of the party are controlled. The legislator and his family often walk on foot to meet sarpanches and panches. Right now, it seems, he is the only politician who knows that it is the early bird that catches the worm!No holds barred for ticketFatehgarh Sahib: The battle ground for a new tug of war between CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu is fast emerging at Bassi Pathana. While sitting MLA Gurpreet Singh GP is being supported by Sidhu, who will inaugurate his office and hold a rally on December 23, CM’s brother Dr Manohar Singh is leaving no stone unturned to grab the party ticket. Dr Singh has put up a large number of hoardings with the CM’s photo to mobilise support for his candidature from the constituency. In this interesting battle, there are no holds barred in slinging mud at each other. It’s like a proxy war between the CM and Sidhu and one of them may meet his Waterloo in the constituency.Contributed by Archit Watts, Ravi Dhaliwal & Surinder Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slip-of-tongue-352194
20-12-2021||Faridkot||Seechewal, Giani Kewal Singh, Baba Sewa Singh, Bibi Inderjit Kaur join hands on eco matters||To make a pressure group of young voters and the middle class to force the political parties to clarify their stand on ecological issues, many environmentalists, including Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, Giani Kewal Singh, Sant Baba Sewa Singh Khadoor Sahib, Bibi Inderjit Kaur and others, have joined hands under the banner of ‘Punjab Vatavaran Chetna Lehar’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activists-join-hands-on-eco-matters-352195
20-12-2021||Muktsar||Hisar road mishap: Another Tikri returnee dies||Eight days after two farmers of Assa Buttar village died in a road accident in Hisar district while heading back home from the farmers’ protest (Tikri border), another critically injured farmer from the same village died on Saturday night. He was undergoing treatment at a private multispecialty hospital in Mohali.The deceased has been identified as Raghbir Singh (55), who had suffered spinal injury in the mishap. He was an activist of the Bharti Kisan Union (Kadian). Earlier, two farmers Sukhdev Singh (40) and Ajaypreet Singh (32) had died. A total of nine farmers were coming to the village in two trailers attached to a tractor. A canter hit a trailer from rear around 5 am on December 11. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hisar-road-mishap-another-tikri-returnee-dies-352196
20-12-2021||Fazilka||Rs 65-cr heroin seized||The Fazilka State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) police station claimed to have seized 13-kg heroin worth Rs 65 crore.The consignment has been recovered from four persons who have been arrested under the NDPS Act by the police. According to an FIR registered in the SSOC police station, on a tip-off, a police party led by Sumitpal Singh conducted a raid at the house of Fauza Singh in Chhota Gulaba village in Fazilka district.The police have arrested Amrik Singh, Rajinder Singh, Kulwant Singh, all residents of Ferozepur district, and Fauza Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-65-cr-heroin-seized-352197
20-12-2021||Ropar||Ropar Improvement Trust chairman in soup over using abusive language while holding picture of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib||Congress leader and Ropar Improvement Trust chairman Sukhwinder Singh Whiskey has run into trouble with a video clip purportedly showing him using abusive language while holding a picture of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib going viral.The incident happened after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stone of a bridge over the Haripur Nullah, near Purkhali village, here yesterday. Takth Jathedar Giani Raghubir Singh has demanded strict legal as well as disciplinary action from the Chief Minister against the Congress leader.According to information, after Channi left the venue yesterday, local Congress leaders, holding a gurdwara picture, posed for a photograph. In the video clip, Whiskey is purportedly heard using foul language.Giani Raghubir Singh asked the CM to register a case under Section 295 A of IPC against the Congress leader and remove him from all posts. Whisky claimed he had utmost regard for Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib and that it was a slip of tongue aimed at a fellow party man who had pushed him while getting the picture clicked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-leader-in-soup-over-foul-language-352199
20-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Akal Takht: Investigate, expose forces behind sacrilege||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has condemned the “sacrilege” attempt at the Golden Temple and sought a thorough investigation to expose the forces responsible for these acts.After paying obeisance at the Fatehgarh Sahib Gurdwara, he said such incidents were being perpetrated during the election period to tarnish the image of Punjab.The jathedar said if the government failed to investigate, expose and punish the culprits, it could lead to a law and order problem. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general secretary Karnail Singh Panjoli also condemned the incidents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/takht-investigate-expose-forces-352200
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Badals destroyed Punjab, says AAP leader Bhagwant Mann||AAP state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann today targeted the Badals saying the Akalis raised the Panthic issues only when they were out of power.In a statement, Mann said the Badals remembered Panth, its federal structure and the Anandpur Sahib resolution as soon as they were rejected by the people. In 1996, Parkash Singh Badal had abandoned the Panth in Moga and turned SAD into “Badal & Company”, he claimed.Mann said the Akalis were in power with the BJP for 15 years, between 1997 and 2020, and for 12 years at the Centre. During this period, they never raised issues related to Panth, Punjab and its federal structure, let alone the Anandpur Sahib resolution.“Will the entire ‘Badal & Company’ explain to the people of Punjab this lack of concern during their years in power,” asked Mann.Even the Mughal invaders such as Ahmed Shah Abdali had not done as much damage to Punjab as they have, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-destroyed-punjab-says-aap-352201
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Resolve pending issues, SAD (Sanyukt) tells BJP||Laying pitch for the pre-poll alliance, the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) has given a list of demands to the BJP’s central leadership. The demands include a special economic package for farmers, release of Sikh prisoners from jails and Chandigarh to be given to Punjab.Party’s chief spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said party president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa during a meeting with BJP’s campaign committee incharge for Punjab Gajendra Shekhawat had put forward the demands.He said party workers’ were of the view that the BJP government at the Centre should address the long-pending issues of Sikhs and Punjabis before a tie-up is considered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resolve-pending-issues-sad-sanyukt-tells-bjp-352202
20-12-2021||---||Sacrilege: It's a deep-rooted plot, claim Akalis||Bathinda/Mansa, December 19The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said the recurrence and frequency of the “most painful acts of sacrilege” clearly point towards a deep-rooted conspiracy.Addressing gatherings in favour of SAD candidate Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu here and later in favour of Prem Kumar Arora in Mansa, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal called upon the Centre and the state government “to demonstrate sincerity and sense of urgency in their conduct and actions to identify, expose and punish those behind this conspiracy. Their attitude so far has left much to be desired.”Punish culpritsThe Centre and the state government should identify, expose and punish those behind the unpardonable acts of sacrilege. Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD presidentSukhbir said those carrying out these unpardonable deeds had been emboldened as the Congress leadership and government in Punjab had wasted nearly five years in playing dirty and dangerous politics over the most sensitive issue of sacrilege.Meanwhile, he said the SAD-BSP combine would construct a 500-bed medical college and hospital in Mansa. He said all irrigation-related problems at tailends of canals would be solved by construction of underground water pipes. He also announced that all farmers who did not have a tubewell connection would be given one on a priority basis.He also promised an insurance cover of Rs 50,000 per acre to farmers for their crops. He said the old pension scheme, which was ended in 2004, would be revived, sand and liquor mafia would be wiped out, the electricity bills of religious places would be waived and villages having Muslim and Christian population would be provided with land for graveyards. He also announced traders would be given life and medical cover and fire insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-a-deep-rooted-plot-claim-akalis-352203
20-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Congress under scanner for delay in probing past sacrilege incidents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Ahead of the Assembly polls, the “sacrilege” attempt at Amritsar has left the Congress worried. Already being targeted by opponents within the party and outside, the CM Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government is under pressure to fulfil its promise of bringing to book those behind the 2015 sacrilege incidents.No deterrentSome forces are plotting to spoil the peace of Punjab. If the culprits of the previous sacrilege incidents had been punished, nobody would have dared to commit such a crime. Arvind Kejriwal, AAP convenerHang the guiltyDivisive forces are trying to create tension in the state as elections are approaching. The sacrilege of any holy book is intolerable and persons involved in it must be hanged. Navjot Sidhu, PCC ChiefYesterday’s incident has brought the party under the scanner once again for delay in giving justice in the past sacrilege incidents. Condemning the Amritsar incident as “unpardonable and done with vote politics in mind”, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, during a public rally at Malerkotla, said the perpetrators of sacrilege should be given strict punishment as per the Constitution.Former PCC chief Sunil Jakha said it was a provocative act with malicious intent. “I request the state government to investigate the matter with utmost urgency,” he said.Political analysts feel yesterday’s incident could prove detrimental to the prospects of the Congress and Akalis. “Had the Congress been proactive in bringing to book those behind the sacrilege incidents, the anger would have remained against the Akalis. With little time left for the government and reservation among Malwa MLAs to act against the Dera Sacha Sauda, the situation could not be convenient this time,” he said.CM Channi vows thorough investigationCM Charanjit Singh Channi has promised a thorough probe to “unmask the real conspirators” behind the incident. He urged the people to extend support to the government in foiling the “nefarious designs” of anti-social elements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-under-scanner-for-delay-in-probe-352204
20-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||'Sacrilege' suspect done to death at gurdwara in Kapurthala; FIR against 100||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19Day after the death of a suspect following a “sacrilege” bid at the Golden Temple, a man was done to death for allegedly disrespecting Nishan Sahib at the gurdwara of Nizampur village in Kapurthala in the wee hours here. The Kapurthala police claimed as per preliminary investigations, it seemed to be a case of theft and the police were further verifying the allegations of sacrilege.Sacrilege not established; 3 cops hurtSacrilege has not been established as the motive. It seems to be a theft case. Further probe is on.... Three of our men were hurt in assault. Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, SSPAn FIR has been lodged against four persons by name and 100 others at the Subhanpur police station under Section 295A (outrage religious feelings) of the IPC.The gurdwara management, however, claimed the youth had attempted sacrilege. “Around 4 am, the man unfurled the Nishan Sahib and fiddled with it before entering the gurdwara store. He was noticed by granthi Amarjit Singh. He along with local sewadars caught hold of the suspect and tied him up in the store, where he was beaten up,” claimed sarpanch Surinder Singh.The police arrived around 6 am and heated exchanges followed with villagers and religious groups. As the police tried to take the man into custody, the mob resisted their attempts. Irate residents broke open the store’s door and allegedly assaulted the suspect. Three police personnel were injured in the melee.A video of the assault later went viral on the social media. Religious groups held a dharna outside the police station after some villagers were apprehended by the police, before being let off.Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said: “Around 200 people were present when the police arrived at the scene around 6.30 am. While we tried to get the man out for questioning, locals opposed it. The suspect had already been beaten up before the police arrived. The mob broke open the door of the room and assaulted him again. Policemen were also manhandled and three of our men sustained injuries.”“As per the investigation so far, sacrilege has not been established as the motive. It seems theft was his intent. Further probe is on. A case under Section 295 A of the IPC has been registered,” said the SSP. IG (Jalandhar Range) Gurinder Singh Dhillon said it was not a case of sacrilege. The police had not included Section 302 (murder) in the FIR till the filing of the report. They maintained more sections would be added after a detailed investigation.The police haven’t disclosed the names of the four named in the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-done-to-death-at-gurdwara-in-kapurthala-fir-against-100-352205
20-12-2021||Amritsar||Security up at Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has bolstered security in and around the Golden Temple, a development following the “sacrilege” attempt at the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine.It is learnt that the SGPC was considering to form an intelligence wing of its own.Meanwhile, the SGPC has also initiated an ‘akhand path’ for remorse of the incident that took place during the evening prayers on Saturday evening. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa categorically directed the police to have active liaison with the SGPC and all gurdwaras committees and ensure that the saroops of Guru Granth Sahib are not left unattended at any time. He also issued directions to the DGP, all Commissioners of Police and SSPs to strengthen round-the-clock security around all religious places.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the committee relied more on their own men for security than the police. He said the committee had a “dedicated and efficient staff that knows how to take care of the sanctity of the shrine”.He lauded the alertness of sangat and SGPC employees in apprehending the accused, who came to commit sacrilege, and said the staff posted inside the sanctum sanctorum performed their duty with vigilance.“Had there been an exemplary punishment by the police in sacrilege incidents in the past, nobody could have dared to attempt any such incident,” he said, condemning the attempt to commit sacrilege at a gurdwara in Kapurthala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-up-at-golden-temple-352206
20-12-2021||---||Golden Temple sacrilege suspect's photo released, booked for murder bid||Amritsar, December 19Day after a man was beaten to death at the Golden Temple after an alleged sacrilege attempt in the sanctum sanctorum, the police have booked the suspect under Section 307 (attempted murder) — as Guru Granth Sahib is believed to be a living entity — and 295 A (outraging religious feelings) of the IPC.Also read: SIT report on Golden Temple sacrilege bid in 2 days: Deputy CM'Sacrilege' suspect done to death at gurdwara in Kapurthala; FIR against 100Security up at Golden TempleCongress under scanner for delay in probing past sacrilege incidentsAkal Takht: Investigate, expose forces behind sacrilegeThe suspect remains unidentified as he didn’t carry any ID. The police said they were reviewing the security footage of the shrine. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the suspect wore his hair short, and had blue jeans on besides a jacket. He entered the complex alone around 11.30 am on Saturday and spent seven hours inside the complex, even taking a nap near the Akal Takht.“We’re in touch with the SGPC officials and the on-duty staffers in connection with the case,” said the minister. Police Commissioner Gill said his department had secured the security footage of the Inter State Bus Terminus, railway station and nearby markets besides roads to the shrine to ascertain the possible route taken by the suspect.“We are trying to zero in on the sequence of events. Our prime focus is to know about the suspect. We have circulated his photographs,” said Gill. “Reports about his UP connection are unconfirmed,” he said. The body has been kept for autopsy and investigators are trying to see if he was under the influence of any substance.The DeceasedThe police have released the picture of the Golden Temple sacrilege bid suspect on Saturday. DCP (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said: “We have released the photo to get leads about his background.”Spent 7 hours in shrine complex||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-slain-suspect-booked-for-murder-bid-352207
20-12-2021||Raj Sadosh||Abohar: 5 years on, railway underpass on paper||ON June 4, 2015, railway engineers asked Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board officials to shift the main sewerage line at the earliest to facilitate the construction of an underpass on Abohar-Sriganganagar Road. Also, a road was to be constructed near the goods yard to divert heavy vehicle traffic to the city bypass. A sum of Rs 5.58 crore was also allocated for the work at the rail crossing where at least 26 trains pass through it.Cut to 2021, the underpass remains on paper. People blame sitting BJP MLA Arun Narang and SAD MP Sukhbir Singh Badal for not taking up the matter with the Centre.The Abohar-Fazilka rail link was inaugurated on July 16, 2012, with limited run of trains till afternoon only. Post lockdowns, passenger train services were made normal in other segments but the Abohar-Fazilka rail link, where only Ferozepur-Hanumangarh express train passes through. People rue that elected representatives haven’t done anything for the resumption of normal operations.The present government claims to have fulfilled the promise to open a government college, besides providing Rs 250 crore for urban and rural development each. However, Abha Square project promises to bring a sea change to the sub-divisional town. Abohar has shed the tag of one of the dirtiest cities in the latest Swachh Survekshan by securing 105th rank. Farmers say reconstruction of six minors (sub-canals) had by and large redressed their grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-5-years-on-railway-underpass-on-paper-352208
20-12-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala Urban: Major projects far from complete||DESPITE being the home turf of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, this seat has suffered on account of the sitting legislator’s absence for over four-and-a-half years. Though the city received two new state universities during the Congress regime, major projects launched over the last five years have remained incomplete.These include the Rs 503-crore canal-based clean drinking water project, Heritage Street, shifting of dairies outside the city and construction of the new bus stand. Residents complain of regular blockage of the sewerage system and flooding of the internal city roads during rains. Kundan Gogia, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, said: “Every rainy season, water enters houses and cars get damaged. It also affects businesses.”Traffic snarl-ups are commonplace in the city owing to regular protests by unions. The clearance of the garbage dump at Sanauri Adda also remains pending. The only silver lining remains the rejuvenation of the iconic Rajindra tank lake after a gap of 15 years. With Capt Amarinder forming the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), the constituency is likely to witness a keen contest among the Congress, AAP, PLC and Shiromani Akali Dal candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-urban-major-projects-far-from-complete-352209
20-12-2021||Morinda||Morinda: Teachers protest near Punjab CM's house||A large number of temporary teachers demanding regular jobs staged a protest with the body of their colleague Gurpreet Singh (35), near the Chief Minister’s residence, on Sunday. The protesters claimed that Gurpreet, who went back to his home after participating in the ongoing dharna in Morinda, suffered a heart attack as he was under stress of not having a regular job.The agitators also demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for a kin of Gurpreet.Gagan Abohar, convener, Temporary Teachers’ Union, said, “Around 13,000 teachers have been teaching in government schools for the past 18 years on a meager salary of Rs 5,500- 6,000.”She said they were holding a dharna since November 21. The union leader said a meeting was held with the district administration in the morning, but after getting no assurance, they decided not to cremate the body of their colleague and continue with the stir. — TNSSeek Rs50L aid, job for colleague’s kin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-protest-near-punjab-cms-house-352210
20-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee mulls pitting top leaders against Opposition heavyweights||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, December 19The proposal floated by a section of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) to make the party heavyweights contest against top Opposition leaders in their Assembly seats is slowly gaining ground. A top party leader, known for his proximity to AICC big wigs, confirmed “that the high command was not at all averse to the suggestion.”Facing infighting and anti-incumbency, observers claimed pitting a heavyweight against a heavyweight was the only way to keep the party afloat in the 2022 elections. “We need to do some out-of-the-box thinking as far as devising our electoral strategy is concerned as survey reports do not paint a rosy picture for the party. Top names pinning down bigwigs like Sukhbir Badal in Jalalabad or Bikram Majithia in Majitha is not at all a bad idea. In this way, these leaders will be confined to their respective seats and will not be able to campaign in other segments,” he said.The precedence being cited pertains to the 2014 General Election when four senior politicians — Capt Amarinder Singh, Partap Singh Bajwa, Sunil Jakhar and Ambika Soni — were virtually forced to contest.“All these leaders were reluctant. Amarinder had even told Sonia Gandhi that he was more interested in state politics. However, his plea did not cut much ice as Sonia asked him to reach Amritsar and file his nomination papers. Likewise, Partap Bajwa told his seniors that he had no chance of winning because of the pro-Modi wave sweeping the country. His assertions were overruled and he was asked to contest against BJP heavyweight Vinod Khanna from Gurdaspur. Similarly, former union minister Ambika Soni and ex-PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar were made to fight from Anandpur Sahib and Ferozepur respectively,” said an MLA.Despite the fact that the move had boomeranged with just Capt Amarinder winning his seat, the AICC may go ahead with the proposal this time. “We cannot compare 2014 with 2022. The conditions then were different from what they are now. In 2014, the Congress was still well entrenched in national politics. The party had many options available to it and it was in a position to experiment. This time, with a fast eroding base taking such a gamble has become more of a necessity rather than an option,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pradesh-congress-committee-mulls-pitting-top-leaders-against-opposition-heavyweights-352211
20-12-2021||Archit Watts||Farmers’ agitation over, BJP ticket aspirants put up posters||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 19As the farmers’ protest over the recently scrapped three farm laws has ended, the BJP leadership has become publicly active again. The party on Sunday held a meeting in Muktsar town, wherein its state general secretary Dayal Singh Sodhi appealed to people to bring the BJP to power so that maximum development works can be carried out with the help of the Centre.Sodhi said Congress leaders were caught in infighting and unable to think of the welfare of the state. Meanwhile some local BJP leaders, in an attempt to stake claim to the party ticket, have even put up their posters and hoardings in the town.In the past one year, the BJP leadership had hardly put up any posters. Especially, after the Malout incident on March 27 this year, in which MLA Abohar Arun Narang was allegedly thrashed, inked and stripped by some farmers, the BJP leadership had gone almost silent.The party leadership has however claimed that it was publicly active and involved in some social activities as well. “We remained active during the protest period as well. We even celebrated some occasions in the past. The elections are due early next year and we have now increased the political activities as well. I have been working for the party for the past 35 years and have staked claim for the ticket from Muktsar constituency,” said Rajesh Pathela ‘Gora’, president, Muktsar BJP.Some miscreants blackened Gora’s posters. On this, he said: “Narrow-minded people can only do such things. However, I have no problem with such people.”Meanwhile, a former District Transport Officer, Gurcharan Singh Sandhu, has joined the BJP. He, too, has put up his posters in the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agitation-over-bjp-ticket-aspirants-put-up-posters-352212
20-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Zira sub-division gets projects worth Rs 87 crore||Ferozepur, December 19In a major boost to Zira and surrounding border areas, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 87 crore in Zira sub-division today.The projects included construction of a civil hospital (Rs 50 crore), administrative complex ( Rs 12 crore), new bus stand at Makhu (Rs 6.50 crore) and an ITI in the name of Late Jathedar Inderjit Singh Zira, the father of Zira MLA Kulbir Singh.The CM also announced the upgrade of Mallanwala block as sub-tehsil and Rs 1 crore for the construction of new stadium at Zira, besides he further announced Rs 10 crore for the cleaning of drainage system in the Makhu area.Addressing the gathering, he also lashed out at the Opposition, saying the political system had come out of the royal households. “Now we are looking for the creation of new Punjab,” he said, stressing the SAD was being ruined by the combination of Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikramjit Singh Majithia, and AAP had no vision for the border state.The CM was accompanied by Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MP Khadoor Sahib; Parminder Singh Pinki, MLA Ferozepur (Urban); Satkar Kaur Gehri, MLA Ferozepur (Rural); Kulbir Singh, MLA Zira; Barindermeet Singh Pahra, MLA Gurdaspur; Dr Harjot Kamal, MLA Moga; Dharambir Agnihotri, MLA Tarn Taran; and Darshan Singh Brar, MLA Baghapurana; among others.Krishna Balram Rath Yatra declared state festLudhiana: Flagging off the 25th Shri Krishna Balram Rath Yatra here on Sunday, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said as a mark of respect towards Lord Krishna, the yatra would be celebrated as a “state festival” every year by the Punjab Government. He exhorted the youth to imbibe the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita to succeed in life. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zira-gets-projects-worth-rs-87-cr-352213
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh takes on Navjot Singh Sidhu||Congress leader and Minister for Technical Education Rana Gurjeet Singh, in a statement today, lashed out at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for trying to create divisions within the party and questioning the loyalty of the “true and traditional” Congress men.“Beware and mind your language while talking about a true Congress man,” said Rana. Responding to Sidhu’s remarks made at Sultanpur Lodhi on Saturday that it was the end of the road for him (Rana), he said: “You are like a mercenary having joined the party just with the sole purpose of becoming the CM, while I have been in the party right from my birth”. “Unlike Sidhu, I am a born Congress man and have not joined the party for the sole purpose of becoming CM,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-takes-on-pcc-chief-352214
20-12-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu: 2 CMs plotted in past, 3rd trying||Malerkotla, December 19In a veiled attack on his detractors within the party, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday, without naming anyone, said he had faced conspiracies from two former Chief Ministers in the past and now another was trying to plot against him.“There are many who are hatching conspiracies against me. Two CMs in the past tried to finish me, but they ended up losing power, and now another is doing the same. But he too will vanish,” Sidhu announced amid cheer from area residents.He supported the severest punishment to those involved in the sacrilege incidents. “Divisive forces are trying to create tension in the state as elections are approaching fast. I request all to be cautious. Elect only those who really want to serve the state. The sacrilege of any holy book is intolerable and persons involved in it must be hanged,” said Sidhu.He too will vanishThere are many who are hatching conspiracies against me. Two CMs did it in the past, and now another is doing the same. But he, too, will vanish. Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pradesh Congress Committee PresidentHe reiterated that labourers would get at least Rs 350 a day under the urban labour employment mission in Punjab after the formation of the Congress government in 2022. Sidhu asked cops not to use any force to remove protesters, who disrupted his speech repeatedly. The protesters included unemployed and members of Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee.Meanwhile, former Director General of Police Mohammad Mustafa, who is principal strategic adviser to the PCC chief, said Sidhu did not need the chair of PCC chief, but the Congress needed Sidhu.“When Sidhu is contesting elections, I do not need to contest. I would gain the powers of Chief Minister next year after elections. But Sidhu needs your blessings. I request all to please pray for him. My wife Razia would contest and win with a bigger margin as we have fulfilled all poll promises,” said Mustafa. Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana said Malerkotla has got district status with the support of Sidhu.Will consider allowing poppy husk farmingAfter some party men asked the government to allow the farming of poppy husk in the state to prevent the spread of drugs, Sidhu said they would look into the demand and accept it, if possible.Kejriwal ready for debate with SidhuChandigarh: AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has accepted the challenge of a debate thrown by PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Asking Sidhu to fix the time and place for the debate, Kejriwal named state AAP president Bhagwant Mann for the same. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-cms-plotted-in-past-3rd-trying-sidhu-352215
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu 'political mercenary', divided Congress: Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh||In a no-holds-barred attack, Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday called state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu a “political mercenary” and alleged that he has divided the party. The minister also accused Sidhu of questioning the loyalty of the “true and traditional Congressmen” and said he joined the party just to become the chief minister.“But sooner you leave better it will be for the party as you have divided and damaged the party from within as if you were pursuing some hidden agenda of your real political masters who are still pulling your strings,” Rana said in a statement.“You are just like a mercenary having joined the party just with the sole purpose of becoming the chief minister, while I have been in the party right from my birth,” the minister added, calling himself a “born Congressman”.Sidhu had joined the Congress after quitting the BJP ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls.The minister said Sidhu is just a “political mercenary bereft of any principles or ideology”. “It is an irony that someone who is basically a political party hopper and has not even spent five years in the party, is preaching and pontificating to people like us who have spent an entire lifetime in the service of the party,” he said. Rana said keeping in mind Sidhu’s “unstable and eccentric behaviour”, nobody is sure whether he would stay in the Congress or quit the party before the Assembly polls.The senior Congress leader also questioned intentions of Sidhu in opposing his own government and the CM, saying he has now been “exposed”. “You have been openly criticising our chief minister as you have started feeling jealous and insecure about his popularity among the masses,” Rana said.“As party president, your key responsibility is to keep the party united but you did not leave any stone unturned to create fissures in the campaign committee, manifesto committee and screening committee, which were constituted by the party high command,” said Rana. The minister’s statement came a day after the Punjab Congress chief in a dig at a rally suggested that it is the “end of road for Rajas and Ranas”.Sidhu had also backed the candidature of MLA Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, a seat Rana’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh is eyeing to contest. Earlier this year, Sidhu had become the state Congress chief amid a power tussle with Amarinder Singh, who had quit the party following his unceremonious exit as the chief minister. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-political-mercenary-divided-congress-rana-gurjeet-singh-352162
20-12-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala: Man beaten to death over sacrilege allegations; preliminary probe suggests theft, say police||A day after the death of a youth after an attempt at sacrilege at the Darbar Sahib last evening, a man was lynched by the villagers of Nizmapur village at Kapurthala in the wee hours of Sunday after he allegedly caused disrespect to local Nishan Sahib at the village Gurdwara Sahib.The Kapurthala police claim as per investigations so far it appears to be a case of theft and the police is further verifying into the allegations of sacrilege.An FIR has been lodged against four to five named persons and about a 100 unidentified people at the Subhanpur police station under Section 295A of the IPC.Gurdwara management has alleged the youth was attempting sacrilege at the gurdwara.As per witness reports and the police, at 4 am this morning the gurdwara members of the local Gurdwara Sahib at Nizampur village saw a man allegedly disrespecting the Nishan Sahib of the gurdwara.On being seen, the man fled and the sewadars began looking for him. He was found by one of the sewadars wearing their jacket in an attempt to hide.Caught by them he was taken to a room of the gurdwara where he was beaten up by a mob and a live video of the event was also shot which was shared on the internet.It was at 6.30 am that the police reached the spot and heated exchanges with local villagers and religious groups ensued.While the police tried to take the man into custody, the police said the mob was adamant on “teaching a lesson” to him.Alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple: Police register case; suspect's identity still unknownThe police officials said repeated attempts to get the man in custody failed as the villagers were adamant at not letting him go.In the heated exchanges and scuffle which ensued, three police personnel were injured and the turbans of some also came off.Irate residents once again broke doors of the room where the man was locked and continued beating him until he died.Notably, after the youth was caught and taken to the room, gurdwara members thrashed him while making a live video of the same.As per police officials as well, by the time the police reached, at least 200 people had already reached the spot. In the viral video of the incident, a Sikh man is seen thrashing the man.SSP Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said, “We reached at 6.30 am and there were at least 150 to 200 people already present. While we tried our best to get the man out and to at least know the motives of his act, the villagers and locals did not relent. While he had been beaten up since morning, 80 per cent of the injuries had already been sustained. In our presence, members of the mob again broken open the window of the room where he was kept and began beating him. The police personnel were also manhandled by the crowds and three of our men were also injured.”The SSP added, “At 4 am the gurdwara functionaries saw a man touching the Nishan Sahib. As per the investigation so far, sacrilege has not been established as a motive and it seems theft was the intent of the incident. Further probe is on. An FIR under Sections 305 and 295A of the IPC has been lodged against four to five named and 100 unidentified persons.”While IG Jalandhar Range Gurinder Singh Dhillon also addressed a press conference on the issue, he maintained that it was not a case of sacrilege.Interestingly, the IG first said two FIRs (number 206 and 305 had been lodged) but later maintained only one FIR had been lodged.Additionally, the police also did not include Section 302 of the IPC in the sections of the FIR until the filing of the report.Key police personnel maintained sections will be added after detailed investigation. Despite repeated questions by the media, the police haven’t disclosed the names of the four persons who have been named in the FIR.Sarpanch of the Nizampur village, Surinder Singh said, “The man had absolutely come to conduct sacrilege. His intention was not theft. He unfurled the Nishan Sahib and fiddled with it and then entered the gurdwara store. He was seen by Gurdwara Granthi Amarjit Singh when he got up. After that Amarjit Singh, along with local sewadars caught and tied him up in the gurdwara store where he was beaten up. We tried asking him where he came from, from but he only said he had come from Delhi. No further disclosures were made by him. We cannot tolerate someone playing with our religious feelings, we have had six years of people getting away with sacrilege. Unless caught by the granthi, we have no idea what more damages the man would have done.”   Religious groups and villagers also held a dharna outside the police station after some Nizampur villagers were apprehended by police. But they were later let off. I have taken serious note of the unfortunate incidents in Amritsar and Kapurthala. Any attempt to violate the communal harmony in the state will be dealt with a firm hand. Stern action will be taken against all those disturbing the law and order in Punjab. #PunjabStandsTogether||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-beaten-to-death-in-punjabs-kapurthala-over-sacrilege-allegations-352130
20-12-2021||Amritsar||Alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple: Police register case; suspect's identity still unknown||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill on Sunday held a meeting with the office-bearers of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee to discuss additional security measures—a development that comes a day after a man was beaten to death at the Golden Temple after an alleged sacrilege attempt at the sanctum sanctorum.Man beaten to death in Punjab's Kapurthala over sacrilege allegationsAmritsar Police meanwhile have booked the man for attempted murder under Section 307 —because Guru Granth Sahib is believed to be a living entity—and outraging religious feelings (Section 295-A) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspect remains unidentified.Police said they were reviewing security footage inside the shrine. A video from the sanctum sanctorum showed the deceased jump over a barrier and sprint toward a ‘saroop’ (copy or edition) of Guru Grath Sahib before he’s caught hold of. He had allegedly picked up the 'siri sahib' (kirpan, a religious symbol), placed aside the saroop but was caught by SGPC’s staffers before he did anything else.Meanwhile, the SGPC said it had bolstered security around the shrine. Sources said that the SGPC was considering an intelligence wing of its own.The suspect, Randhawa said, wore his hair short, and had on blue jeans and a jacket. He’d entered the complex alone around 11: 40 am on Saturday and spent seven hours inside the complex, even taking a nap near the Akal Takth.He carried no ID proof, the minister, who also handles the home portfolio for Punjab, said.“We’re constantly in touch with the SGPC officials and the on-duty staffers in connection with the case,” he said.Randhawa said the government has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident. The SIT will give its report on the incident in two days, he added.Police Commissioner Gill said his department had got security images from cameras at the Inter State Bus Terminus, the Amritsar Railway Station and nearby markets and road routes to learn more about how the suspect came to the shrine. “We are trying to zero in on the sequence of the events. Our prime focus is to know about his whereabouts. We have circulated his photographs that we could get to all possible agencies to learn more about him,” Gill said.“Reports about Uttar Pradesh connections are unconfirmed and we have no evidence for it,” he said, also saying that his appearance showed he could be from outside Punjab.The body has been kept for autopsy, and investigators are trying to see if he was under the influence of any substance.Meanwhile, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said that the committee relied more on their own men for security than the police and that it had a “dedicated and efficient staff that knows how to take care of the sanctity of the shrine”.“We have reorganised our security at the complex,” he said, but accused both the state government and the police for the security lapse. “Had there been an exemplary punishment by the police, nobody could have dared to attempt any such incident? It was the failure on the part of the intelligence agencies that it had happened at the most secure place. I believe that it was a deep-rooted conspiracy by central agencies to vitiate the atmosphere of Punjab by creating communal conflict,” he said.It’s significant that the incident comes a few months before state Assembly elections early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-attempt-at-golden-temple-police-register-case-suspects-identity-still-unknown-352124
