21-12-2021||---||Baldev Sran appointed Punjab power corporation CMD||Patiala, December 21The Punjab government on Tuesday appointed Baldev Singh Sran as the chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), for the second time after he completed his two-year tenure in 2020.The retired PSPCL chief engineer has a 35-year experience of working in different positions in the power corporation.He was the president of PSEB Engineers Association for five years.A Venu Prasad, an IAS officer, was holding the post ever since a regular appointment was not made.He was instrumental in reducing expenditures as chief engineer at the Bathinda thermal plant. Later, he ensured record hydro generation as chief engineer, Hydro, which was his last posting before he retired earlier in 2018.Later was appointed as CMD for a two-year tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baldev-sran-appointed-punjab-power-corporation-cmd-352971
21-12-2021||---||Case against Bikram Singh Majithia won’t stand legal scrutiny, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Aman SoodTribune News ServiceRajpura, December 21The case registered Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia won’t stand legal scrutiny, Capt Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday.Capt Amarinder Singh, who was speaking at a public meeting held to welcome senior Congress leader Jagdish Kumar Jagga into his own party, the Punjab Lok Congress, wondered how the FIR could be filed given that a probe report on drug trafficking was still with Punjab and Haryana High Court in a sealed cover.“After all, there is a law in the country and I am sure it will not stand in the court of law,” he said. “Just because you don’t like someone, you can’t put him behind bars.”Capt Amarinder Singh’s remarks came over Punjab Police’s action of booking former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Amarinder Singh, whose government had instituted investigations into drug allegations in the state, previously resisted calls from his former party MLAs to have Majithia booked when he was still chief minister. Amarinder Singh had maintained then that he could not act with concrete evidence.Condemning lynchingCapt Amarinder Singh, a former Congressman who stepped down as chief minister in September and since launched his own political party, also condemned recent killings in Durbar Sahib and Kapurthala over sacrilege allegations. The accused should have been handed over to the police, he said.He also said national security and the welfare of Punjab if his government got elected.He recently announced his alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party for Punjab’s assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-against-bikram-singh-majithia-wont-stand-legal-scrutiny-says-capt-amarinder-singh-352949
21-12-2021||---||'Vendetta politics', Parkash Singh Badal says on FIR against Bikram Majithia||Lambi (Muktsar), December 21After an FIR was registered against former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia, former CM Parkash Singh Badal today said that they were already anticipating it.Also read: Akali leader Bikram Majithia booked in drugs caseWhile visiting a village in his Lambi Assembly segment, Badal today said, "In the past few days, the Congress government changed three DGPs in the state. In the history, the DGP is never replaced like this. The only agenda of the Congress government is to put Badals and Majithia behind the bars. Earlier, no DGP agreed on this and now they have brought a new DGP. I don't want to comment on him. They can come and take me anywhere. I am ready."He added, "The government always has to face the result of vendetta politics. My opponents registered hundreds of cases against me, but it did not bother me. In the past, a case was registered against my wife as well. However, during my tenure as CM, no Congress man had any problem. The government is just to serve public and not to indulge into vendetta politics. A CM should forget that he is affiliated to which political party. The CM is actually common man of all the parties."Speaking further, Badal said, "We will now fight all the battle against this move of the state government. This is not a new thing for us."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vendetta-politics-former-cm-parkash-singh-badal-on-fir-against-bikram-majithia-352916
21-12-2021||London||British Sikh MP Preet Kaur Gill under fire for deleted tweet on Golden Temple death||Britain's first Sikh female member of Parliament and member of the shadow cabinet, Preet Kaur Gill, came under fire on social media over a tweet she later deleted that referred to a “Hindu terrorist” behind the act of violence at Golden Temple in Amritsar.The man, reportedly beaten to death on Saturday for "sacrilege", had allegedly barged into the inner sanctum where the Guru Granth Sahib is kept and grabbed a ceremonial sword placed next to the book before being overpowered by guards and worshippers.Responding to a video related to the incident posted on Twitter by UK immigration lawyer Harjap Bhangal, Labour MP Gill went on to agree with his message that it was a “clear act of terrorism”.The shadow international development secretary's now deleted Twitter post read: “Hindu terrorist prevented from an act of violence at the Sikh Holy shrine of Harminder Sahib (Golden Temple) against Sikhs.”It attracted outrage on social media, with some questioning if the politician was “trying to make this communal”.The High Commission of India in London also condemned the tweet and raised concerns over its impact on the Indian diaspora communities in the UK.“High Commission of India is constrained to unequivocally repudiate the public comment by a Member of the British Parliament regarding a crime that occurred in India even before the Indian law enforcement authority could investigate or comment or declare their finding,” an Indian High Commission spokesperson said.“The High Commission of India is concerned at the effect that such commentary by a foreign MP may have on inter-communal harmony and peace in the British Indian community,” the spokesperson said.The tweet, from Saturday, seems to have been deleted soon after by the MP for Birmingham Edgbaston to be replaced with a more general comment about places of worship.“No place of worship or community should be targeted in this way. Awful scenes from Harmandir Sahib,” reads her new tweet.Local police in Amritsar say the man was found dead when officers arrived at the scene and an investigation is under way. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/british-sikh-mp-under-fire-for-deleted-tweet-on-golden-temple-death-352904
21-12-2021||GS Paul||SGPC to constitute six-member SIT to scrutinise Golden Temple sacrilege attempt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20The SGPC has announced constitution of its own special investigation team (SIT) to scrutinise the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple and revealed the movement of the suspect.Suspect stopped twiceThe suspect tried multiple times to enter the shine and was stopped twice by staff. — Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC ChiefFive priests to meet on Dec 25, says TakhtAkal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday slammed the Centre and state for showing leniency in punishing perpetrators of sacrilege incidents. On a tweet by Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi, who condemned ‘lynching’, he said if the rule of law failed to give justice, what should the Sikhs do. He said a meeting of Five High Priests had been called for December 25. TNSSGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the SIT would comprise two members each from the SGPC, Sikh organisations and Panthic scholars. He said the SIT would coordinate with the police to investigate the matter. He asked both the Centre and state government to bring in provisions for at least life imprisonment by amending Section 295-A.The CCTV footage revealed the accused had attempted multiple times to enter the shrine. Dhami said though he was intercepted by the SGPC staffers at the main entrance from the Ghanta Ghar side, apparently due to his suspicious activities, he used another access from Sri Guru Ram Dass Langar Hall to gain entry. “Our ‘sewadar’ (SGPC task force) at the main entrance had intercepted him. He returned from another entry point,” he said.Questions were being raised as to why he was not handed over to the police when his suspicious activities were already noticed by the SGPC.The CCTV footage suggested the suspect reached the entrance plaza at 8.30 am on December 18 through Heritage Street. He was captured in the CCTV cameras at 9.38 am near the Langar Hall where he partook of langar. He entered the shrine premises at 10.19 am and came out at 11.45 am.After some time, he again entered through the same route and remained in the parikrama for quite some time. “He was again spotted at 2.42 pm near the ‘Darshani Deodi’. Incidentally, he was again questioned by a ‘sewadar’. When he could not produce a satisfactory reply about his ID, the sewadar made him exit the premises. He re-entered around 5 pm after sewadars’ shift got over and stood in the queue. After 45 minutes, he entered the sanctum sanctorum and jumped over the metal grill,” the SPGC president said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-constitute-six-member-sit-352669
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, Sukhpal Khaira targets Rana Gurjeet Singh||Day after senior Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh lashed out Navjot Singh Sidhu for allegedly trying to create divisions within the party and questioning the loyalty of the “traditional” party men, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema and party leader Sukhpal Khaira have come out in the PCC chief’s support.Yesterday, Kapurthala MLA Rana had alleged: “Sidhu was like a mercenary, having joined the party with the sole purpose of becoming the CM, while I have been in the party right from my birth.” Though Sidhu did not react to Rana’s statement, Cheema accused Rana of interfering in other Assembly segments.Cheema and Rana Gurjeet have recently been hitting out at one another as the latter wants to field his son from Sultanpur Lodhi. Cheema has suggested that Rana should field his son from Kapurthala.Navjot Sidhu plays Good SamaritanPatiala: PPC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu helped a road accident victim on the Patiala-Sirhind road on Monday. Sidhu stopped his convoy and sent one of his cars to take the victim, a cart puller, to the hospital. The victim was hit by a car in a rear-end collision.Cheema is being supported by Sidhu. On the other hand, Rana is supporting CM Charanjit Singh Channi by questioning Sidhu for openly criticising him. In Bassi Pathana, MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, supported by Sidhu, is facing challenge from Channi’s brother Manohar Singh. In Qadian, MLA Fateh Bajwa, supported by Sidhu, is facing heat from his elder brother Partap Bajwa. A senior party leader said: “The PCC chief by supporting different candidates during rallies was creating confusion.”Meanwhile, Sidhu has refused to have a debate with state AAP president Bhagwant Mann and instead challenged party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal to face him.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sultanpur-lodhi-mla-targets-rana-352670
21-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Sangat took matter into own hands, says Kapurthala granthi who live streamed lynching of sacrilege suspect||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 20Amarjit Singh (55), the mukh parbandhak (granthi), has been doing sewa at Kapurthala’s Nizampur gurdwara for the past 15 years. Originally from Morinda, he came to the village around 15 years ago. His family lives on the ground floor, while the holy book is housed on the first floor of the gurdwara.Went live to avoid finger of suspicionThe sangat decided if we spared him (suspect), people would question us. Hence, we shared the video.  — Amarjit Singh, Granthi, Nizampur GurdwaraOne of Amarjit’s three sons, Zorawar Singh (10), performs kirtan along with his father. As Amarjit made the announcement from the gurdwara asking the ‘sangat’ to assemble yesterday, he went live on Facebook. It was after the incident was streamed live that crowds swelled, leading to the lynching of the suspect.Speaking to The Tribune, Amarjit said: “The suspect came with the intention of sacrilege. We found the ‘rumalas’ scattered and the Nishan Sahib unfurled. We began thrashing him as he didn’t disclose his identity.” Asked why the suspect was killed, he said: “Many organisations had come here yesterday and the matter was placed before the sangat. All felt since sacrilege cases had been taking place since 2007 and there was no outcome, the suspect be handed him over to them.”“The sangat took the matter into their own hands and started beating him up. I did not see the man die,” claimed Amarjit. Speaking about the Facebook live video, which went viral after the incident, he claimed his children had created the handle, but he uploaded the video.Asked for how long he had been active on Facebook, he said: “My children made the account. Initially, only my family was present here. Later, a large number of people assembled. I went live and uploaded the video. The sangat then decided if we spared him, people would question us. Hence, we shared the video.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangat-took-matter-into-own-hands-352671
21-12-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu joins protest by families of Behbal Kalan firing victims||Faridkot, December 20With the Congress government under pressure over the recent alleged sacrilege attempts, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu today visited Behbal Kalan village and joined a protest by the son of one of those killed in the 2015 police firing incident.Also read: Navjot Sidhu's Behbal Kalan visit reminder to CM Channi for prompt action in sacrilege casesOn December 16, Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, had started an indefinite dharna over government’s failure to deliver justice, saying he would expose political parties in the state. For the past six years, parties had been using Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents and sacrilege cases as a political tool to exploit the religious sentiments of the people and grab power, he had alleged.Sidhu has taken on his own government over the “delay in justice” to the families of those killed in police firing. By visiting the site, Sidhu reiterated his demand for early justice in the cases.Speaking at the dharna site, the PCC president said lynching incidents, the one at Golden Temple in Amritsar and the second at Kapurthala gurdwara, were the outcome of people’s disenchantment with the justice system in the state as the culprits of the sacrilege and police firing incidents of 2015 had not been punished even after six years.Speaking to a youth who had suffered bullet injuries in the October 2015 firing, Sidhu said while many victims of circumstances and atrocities were denied jobs on compassionate grounds despite the state government making claims about it, many powerful and influential people secured jobs without any solid reason to back their case. Krishna Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh were killed after the police allegedly opened fire at a crowd protesting the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib near Behbal Kalan village on October 14, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-joins-protest-at-behbal-kalan-village-352663
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu's Behbal Kalan visit reminder to CM Channi for prompt action in sacrilege cases||Amid chorus over the delay in acting against the perpetrators of the 2015 sacrilege incidents and two back-to-back sacrilege bids, Sidhu’s visit is being seen as a reminder to the Channi government to act swiftly in the sacrilege and police firing probes.Also read: Navjot Sidhu joins protest by families of Behbal Kalan firing victimsIt has been pointed out that the Amritsar and Kapurthala incidents had brought the sacrilege issue to the centre stage ahead of the Assembly polls. In the past, Sidhu has been taking on his own government over the “delay in justice” to the families of those killed in police firing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reminder-to-cm-for-prompt-action-352664
21-12-2021||---||President's nod sought to Bills allowing life term for sacrilege||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, today urged the Union Government to give nod to The Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018, and The Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018, in order to ensure stringent punishment to those perpetrating the heinous crime of sacrilege of holy books.In a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, the Deputy Chief Minister wrote: “I want to bring to your notice that sacrilege of holy books is becoming a major issue in Punjab. Guru Granth Sahib is considered a living Guru and not an object by the Sikhs and it is accorded respect according to Sikh maryada. In this context, it was felt that the existing provisions of Section 295 and 295-A of the Indian Penal Code-1860 which provide for a punishment of up to three years are inadequate to deal with this situation. So, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed “The Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and The Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill 2018”, which provide for punishment up to life imprisonment for whoever causing injury, damage or sacrilege to Guru Granth Sahib, Srimad Bhagavad Gita, Holy Quran and Holy Bible with the intention to hurt the religious feelings of the people.”The letter further states: “These Bills were given assent of by the Governor of Punjab on October 12, 2018. However these Bills are pending for assent of the President of India since October, 2018. Punjab being a border state, it is extremely necessary to maintain communal harmony here. For this, deterrent punishment is a must for those trying to disturb communal harmony by indulging in the sacrileges. So, I again request that the presidential assent for the said Bills may kindly be obtained and conveyed to the state government at the earliest possible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/presidents-nod-sought-to-bills-allowing-life-term-352665
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab state on high alert to prevent further sacrilege incidents: Police||Punjab Police have sounded high alert to prevent further sacrilege incidents while asking the managements of religious places to hand over any suspect to the police for proper investigation.The police have increased presence of personnel at religious places and asked their managements to explore installing sensor lights and alarms besides CCTV cameras. “Any incident of sacrilege provokes strong emotions. We have appealed to managements of shrines to hand over the suspects to the police. Many mystery cases have been solved only because the accused was caught alive,” said an officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-on-high-alert-police-352666
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Man handed over to cops in Amritsar||Residents today handed over a man to cops who was allegedly trying to enter a gurdwara in Sudarshan Nagar. SGPC interim member Harjap Singh said the suspect was repeatedly knocking on the shrine’s gate. People in the area got suspicious and handed him over to cops. SHO Prabhjot Singh said the man was mentally unstable and no complaint was filed against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-handed-over-to-cops-in-amritsar-352667
21-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Lehra: No relief from Ghaggar's misery||Being located near the Haryana border, the Lehra constituency lacks basic amenities despite its former MLA Rajinder Kaur Bhattal once having become Chief Minister.Past trendIn the past seven Assembly elections, voters have elected Congress candidates five times, while they have chosen SAD candidates twice. Congress’ Rajinder Kaur Bhattal won five times from 1992 to 2012. She lost to the SAD nominee in 2017.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,62,114Male - 86,982Female - 75,129Third gender - 3Locals’ key demands“A majority of the areas are still without basic amenities. The pathetic state of affairs of our area can be gauged from the fact that even in Lehra town, we are not getting proper drinking water supply. Our repeated requests in this regard have fallen on deaf ears. Things are worse in the rural areas,” said Barinder Goyal, patron of the Lehra Vikas Manch.There are 73 villages and three towns, including Lehra, Khanauri and Moonak, in the constituency. A majority of the areas are without proper roads, sewerage system, water supply and health facilities. Most residents prefer to go to towns in Haryana for their basic needs as Sangrur and Patiala are far away.The seasonal rivulet Ghaggar and rainwater have also been causing repeated losses in low-lying areas of the constituency. In August 2021, rains damaged standing crops on over 5,400 acres in 43 villages. Earlier a breach in the Ghaggar had caused losses to farmers who alleged that neither they got any government aid nor any action was taken to prevent losses in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-relief-from-ghaggars-misery-352676
21-12-2021||Neha Walia||Amritsar Central: Encroachers have free run||The Assembly segment is considered Deputy Chief Minister and Congress senior leader OP Soni’s stronghold as he has been elected to the Vidhan Sabha five times from here.Past trendCongress’ OP Soni won the seat twice in 2012 and 2017. In 2017, he bagged 53.86 per cent of the total votes polled. In 2007, BJP’s Laxmi Kanta Chawla successfully contested from the segment. In the 2002 polls, Congress’ Darbari Lal registered victory.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,39,353Male - 74,588Female - 64,752Third gender - 13Locals’ key demandsThe Deputy CM credits himself for ushering in a wave of development and changing the face of the constituency in his long stint as the Member of the Legislative Assembly. No doubt the seasoned politician carried out several development works in the segment, the ground reality is far from satisfactory. There’s a lot of work to be done. There are several slums areas in the constituency that have become eyesores. Most of them are crying for basic amenities. For instance, Anngarh and Bhrariwal have been facing many development problems, including the laying of sewerage pipes and the availability of clean drinking water.The drug abuse and addiction too has raised its ugly head in the constituency, with some areas becoming hubs. Residents have been demanding for long proper rehabilitation of drug addicts for their better assimilation in society and helping them lead a normal life. Sprouting illegal construction and encroachments in commercial as well as residential areas have become a big issue in this constituency. Concerned residents want authorities to take immediate action in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/encroachers-have-free-run-352678
21-12-2021||Lambi||At Lambi rally, Akali Dal mum on candidate||The SAD today sounded poll bugle in party patron-cum-former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s home turf Lambi, but kept mum on his candidature from the seat.AAP leader in akali dal foldMuktsar: AAP senior leader Karaj Singh Midda, who had last week left the party, joined the SAD in the presence of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal at the latter’s residence on Monday.Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal urged party workers to convince the former CM to contest the elections, but the latter left the decision to the leadership.As part of a three-day tour of the segment, Harsimrat accompanied by Badal visited eight villages. Addressing workers at Bhitiwala village, Harsimrat said: “I request you to convince him (Badal) to contest the elections. He has worked for the welfare of every community. Once Sukhbir becomes the CM, the control will be in your hands. You don’t have to seek votes. We need your blessings, experience and vision.”She added: “I will request the party leadership to field him from Lambi.” In his address, the 94-year-old Akali veteran said the decision on the ticket had to be taken by the party leadership. “I will perform whatever duty the party assigns me,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-lambi-rally-sad-mum-on-candidate-352679
21-12-2021||---||Farm unions begin five-day protest in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSangrur/Bathinda, Dec 20Under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), farmers on Monday started protests in front of Deputy Commissioners’ offices in several districts of the state to press for their long-pending demands. The protests will continue till December 24.Key demands“Despite repeated promises and meetings with various unions, the Punjab Government has failed to fulfill the long-pending demands of farmers. We would intensify our agitation in coming days,” said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan).Their main demands include Rs 17,000 per acre financial assistance to farmers, who have suffered crop losses, and its 10 per cent payment to labourers, guarantee for Rs 360 a quintal of sugarcane from each sugar mill, Rs 3 lakh aid to families of labourers and farmers, who have committed suicides, complete debt waiver to them and a government job, cancellation of FIRs registered against protesting farmers, Rs 5 lakh financial aid to farmers and labourers who died during the Delhi stir and a government job to their families and immediate tubewell connections to farmers.The other demands include registration of FIR against cops who “canecharged” protesting teachers during rally of the CM some days back, the rollback of hike in toll plaza charges and adequate supply of Urea.In Bathinda, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) launched a morcha near the DC office. Farmers brought trolleys and tents from villages for the morcha.Addressing the dharna, BKU district president Singara Singh Mann said farmers and labourers, who were in dire straits due to bad debts and economic hardships, had been hit hard by bollworm and other natural calamities. “The government is suspending the compensation demanded by the farmers’ organisation which was to be paid to the farmers before sowing the next crop,” he said. District leaders Harjinder Singh Buggi and Paramjit Kaur Pitho said the struggle would continue till all the demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-begin-five-day-protest-352680
21-12-2021||---||55 trains hit in Punjab due to farmers' dharna||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, December 20Around 55 trains were adversely affected following the protest by the farmers belonging to Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) at Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur. As many as 27 trains were cancelled, 11 short-terminated and 17 halted due to the agitation.Trains which were cancelled included Amritsar-Jayanagar Saryu Yamuna Express, Amritsar-Howrah Covid-19 Special, Amritsar-Nanded Superfast, Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express, Amritsar-Howrah Express, Amritsar-Mumbai Golden Temple Express, Amritsar-Darbhanga Jannayak Express, Amritsar-Dehradun Express and many others.DRM Seema Sharma said proper security arrangements were made in advance and additional RPF guards had been deployed to prevent any untoward incident. “The timetable of few trains was also changed”, she said.Meanwhile, addressing the congregation at Basti Tankan Wali railway crossing, Satnam Singh Pannu, president, KMSC, said the state government had failed to fulfil its poll promises. The Congress had promised debt waiver to all farmers, employment to the youth, end to illegal sand mining and drug cartel.“Even the promises made by the state government to the family members of the farmers who attained martyrdom have not been fulfilled. We will not lift the dharna until these promises are fulfilled”, said leaders of a farmer union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/55-trains-hit-due-to-dharna-352681
21-12-2021||Aman Sood||Ahead of Punjab Assembly polls, spurt in power thefts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 20Power theft in the election-bound Punjab has gone up this year as compared to the previous year as per the data of 12 divisions where losses have been over 50 per cent.Powercom employees threaten mass leaveThe state has already seen Rs 1,200-crore power theft per annum and the amount is expected to increase further.“Local MLAs allow this loot to their chosen few who propagate that if the incumbent MLAs are re-elected there would be no raids for next five years as well,” said senior field officials. “You conduct a raid and face wrath of local politicians, who see such raids against their vote banks. Recently, an MLA threatened our official for raids in some villages, but no action was taken,” they alleged.The data collected from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) suggested that in the Tarn Taran circle, Bhikhiwind, Patti and city divisions had recorded losses of 81.54 per cent, 74.66 per cent, 51.70 per cent, respectively, whereas the figures were 79.14 per cent, 67.36 per cent and 45.64 per cent, respectively, last year.Similarly, in the Amritsar suburban circle, three divisions of West, Ajnala, and Sub-urban had losses of 62.76 per cent, 64.03 per cent and 49.10 per cent, respectively, against the last year’s figures of 55.32, 55.37 and 44.34 per cent, respectively.As per the data collected by The Tribune, there are nine feeders in the Border zone where losses were more than 90 per cent while at 34 feeders, the losses were between 80 to 90 per cent.Even the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission in its tariff order, dated November 30, for the 2022-23 financial year, said: “The PSPCL has failed to bring down losses to the desired level despite huge capital investments allowed by the commission”.In Sangrur district, Patran and Lehragaga had losses of 31.55 per cent and 54.20 per cent, respectively, while in Malout it was 45.19.“Had power theft been controlled, the tariff could have been brought down by 30 paise per unit every year,” VK Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers’ Federation.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad confirmed that the power theft losses had shot up marginally due to Covid-19, as the overall consumption had come down. “However, we are working on it and ensuring steps to check the menace,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-polls-spurt-in-power-thefts-352683
21-12-2021||---||Asthana letter leak: Cyber Cell lodges FIR||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Five days after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi ordered police action into the Asthana letter leak case, the Cyber Cell of the state police today registered an FIR regarding the leakage of an official letter by ADGP-cum-Director, Bureau of Investigation, SK Asthana to then DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.Also read: Police finalise fresh probe against former SAD minister in drugs caseThe over 40-page letter written by Asthana to the DGP listed legal hurdles in the way of opening a fresh probe of drugs smuggling against a senior Akali leader. However, four pages of the letter, containing relevant points supporting the Akali leader, were leaked. The FIR has been registered under Section 72, IPC, and Section 72, Information Technology Act, 2000, against unknown persons.The complainant is listed as an AIG-rank officer with the Bureau of Investigation. The FIR said the letter, regarding the notes in an important drugs case, was leaked on social media sites. It further said it was a criminal conspiracy with malicious intention to leak selective contents from the letter to derail action against drugs mafia.The probe will be carried out by the Cyber Cell police station, Mohali, as the Bureau of Investigation cannot carry out investigation against its own officials, clarified a senior official.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, also told The Tribune that he had asked the Punjab DGP to supervise the investigation. “The letter was between two top officers of the department and hence the head of the state force should supervise the investigation,” said Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asthana-letter-leak-cyber-cell-lodges-fir-352684
21-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Over 37 lakh yet to get first dose in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 20While there has been talk of booster dose in other countries for the Omicron strain of Covid virus, over 37 lakh beneficiaries of the target-population in the state are yet to be administered the first dose of the vaccine. Of the 2.07 crore target-population, around 1.70 crore have received only the first dose while 88 lakh beneficiaries received both doses in the state.The Health Department is now saying that it had already directed the district headquarters to hunt for the beneficiaries who are yet to be administered the first dose. “We will identify the left-out beneficiaries and motivate them for vaccination,” said Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer.The department’s campaign “Har Ghar Dastak” in November — to cover the entire target population with the first dose — was affected by protests of ASHA and ANM workers. Bhasker claimed that there was no let-up in vaccination, and above1 lakh beneficiaries were being vaccinated daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-37-lakh-yet-to-get-first-dose-in-state-352685
21-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Focus back on unconditional farmers' debt waiver in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 20For many farmers, things have not changed much after the last Assembly elections as despite making repeated rounds of various offices, they have not received any debt waiver, which was a major poll promise made by the Punjab Congress.Family members of the deceased debt-ridden farmers have demanded complete debt waiver. “My husband committed suicide in 2015. Since then, my mother-in-law and I visited almost all offices, but have not received any debt waiver as our case got rejected for one or the other reason. In the forthcoming elections, we won’t allow any Congressmen enter our street,” said Balwinder Kaur at a protest.Majority of families are feeling cheated as they alleged that the Congress promised them complete debt waiver before polls but after coming to power they put unnecessary conditions on availing the benefit. “Had the government any plans to put any conditions, they should have informed us during the campaign,” said Jagir Kaur, another widow. All families have come prepared to launch another protest against the government, like they did against the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/focus-back-on-unconditional-debt-waiver-352686
21-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Crucial UPSC meeting over Punjab DGP panel today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Ahead of the crucial meeting of the UPSC tomorrow to shortlist three officers for the post of the Punjab DGP, the state government today again urged the UPSC to take September 30, 2021, as the cut-off date for eligibility of the officers against their date of superannuation.Sahota likely to head Vigilance BureauWhile the UPSC will take a decision on Tuesday, the state is preparing to post IPS Sahota, who had the DGP charge, as Vigilance Bureau head. Sahota has the backing of CM Charanjit Channi and Home Minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa.Punjab is insisting on the September 30 so that incumbent DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya becomes eligible. Under the rules, the officer should have at least six months of service left for consideration to the minimum two-year tenure as the DGP.Chattopadhyaya superannuates on March 31, 2022. If the UPSC agrees to the September 30 cut-off date, then the short-listed panel of three officers as per the seniority may include Chattopadhyaya followed by Dinkar Gupta and VK Bhawra. If the UPSC takes October 5 as the cut-off date, then the likely panel may include Gupta, Bhawra and Prabodh Kumar.Both Gupta and Kumar have sought postings with the central government. If they decline the post, then IPS Sahota, who was backed by CM Charanjit Singh Channi earlier but was replaced with Chattopadhyaya on the insistence of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, may find his name on the panel. However, other junior officers may get a chance if the UPSC considers merit and range of experience of the candidate officer also.In its letter, the government also cites the law and order situation, especially after the latest sacrilege incidents in Amritsar and Kapurthala, for continuing with Chattopadhyaya as the DGP.It says the state may see the third DGP in two months if the UPSC takes October 5 as the cut-off date. The fresh communication follows the UPSC’s earlier decision taking October 5 as the cut-off date. Sources said the UPSC had reasoned that Gupta had not vacated DGP charge till October 4 thus the post fell vacant on October 5 only. However, the state argued that it sent a list of 10 officers to the UPSC on September 30 thus it should be the cut-off date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crucial-upsc-meeting-over-dgp-panel-today-352687
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||VAT: Exemption for 40,000 pending cases in Punjab||The Punjab Government has exempted around 40,000 of the 48,000 statutory form-related outstanding cases under the central sales tax/VAT. The cases related to financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, a press release said today.CM Charanjit Singh Channi had made an announcement regarding this at the investors’ summit. A spokesperson said the department had completed the assessment of the remaining 8,500 cases for the FY 2014-15 and initiated the process to settle the cases by asking the traders to deposit 30pc of tax liability. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vat-exemption-for-40-000-pending-cases-352688
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC admits Gurmeet Ram Rahim's appeal in Ranjit Singh murder case||Admitting an appeal filed by Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the Ranjit Singh murder case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the recovery of 50 per cent fine during the pendency of the appeal.As the appeal filed by the dera chief came up for hearing, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil asserted: “The recovery of 50 per cent fine shall remain suspended during the pendency of appeal as the remaining 50 per cent is to be paid as compensation to the legal representatives/dependants of victim/deceased Ranjit Singh.” The dera chief had moved the HC against the CBI through counsel Kanika Ahuja.A special CBI court in Panchkula had in October awarded life sentence to Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and four others after they were convicted of the murder of former dera manager Ranjit Singh in 2002. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-admits-dera-chiefs-appeal-in-murder-case-352689
21-12-2021||Patiala||Govt suspends civic body  resolution against Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu||Nearly 25 days after the Patiala Municipal Corporation deemed Sanjeev Sharma Bittu suspended as Patiala Mayor, the Punjab Government has suspended the resolution to this effect.‘Patiala MC erred’The office of Advocate General opined the MC while passing the resolution had ‘erred in suspending the Mayor as the agenda of removal failed for not meeting the conditions of Section 39 of the MC Act’The Under Secretary, Department of Local Government, in a speaking order, today said the execution of the resolution of Sharma’s suspension would be in contravention of powers conferred by the MC Act and declared it suspended.Meanwhile, the petition filed by Sharma before the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the state of Punjab and other respondents over his ‘suspension’ was today disposed of by the Division Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma.The office of the Under Secretary, Department of Local Government, pointed out it had taken legal advice of the office of Advocate General, which had opined that the MC while passing the resolution had “erred in suspending the Mayor as the agenda of the removal of the Mayor failed for not meeting the conditions of Section 39 of the MC Act”.The Under Secretary’s orders further said: “The House of Patiala MC is further directed to take up the supplementary agenda regarding no confidence motion, if again pressed in writing by the councillors who made the requisition under Section 39 of the MC Act.”Insiders said per the Punjab MC Act, Section 39, which deals with the Mayor’s removal, the opposing councillors needed two-thirds of total members to vote against Sharma for his removal. But only 36 voted against him.Sharma today said: “The decision of the House of November 25 was taken for personal interests. Now, it has been suspended. The public works have already been delayed for long. But we have taken a number of decisions during a meeting of the Finance and Contracts Committee today, proceedings of which will be sent to the department.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-suspends-civic-body-resolution-against-mayor-352690
21-12-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||No funds given to Punjab since National Culture Fund inception: Union Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Punjab has not received even a single sponsorship of the National Culture Fund (NCF), a charitable trust focused on conservation, preservation and restoration of cultural heritage (tangible and intangible) through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).Bhagwant Mann raises matter in LSA reply on a question pertaining to the fund for endowments and sponsorship for heritage projects, all over the country, came from Minister of Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region G Kishan Reddy, to a question by Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann which was tabled during the ongoing Lok Sabha session today.The fund was established for the trust under the Endowment Act-1890 in November 1996 to establish a funding mechanism for promotion of art and culture in the country, directly in partnership with the government.Reddy in his written reply said: “No such sponsorship has been received for Punjab since the inception.” A list of projects completed under the NCF during the last three years was presented. These included: Jaisalmer Fort (Rajasthan); Purana Qila, New Delhi; Museum of Swatantrata Sangram Sangrahalaya (Red Fort); Treasures of Indian Museum Series; Allahabad Museum; national monuments: Group at Mandu and the Lalitgiri/Dhauli (Odisha); the India Infrastructure Finance Company Ltd. (IIFCL); Ashokan Pillar( Kolhua) in Bihar; Kanheri Caves (Mumbai); Brihadeshwara Temple, (Thanjavur) Tamil Nadu; Khajuraho Temples (Madhya Pradesh); Sarnath Museum (Sarnath) in Uttar Pradesh; and Sri Bhuleshwar Temple (Maharashtra).MP Bhagwant Mann had asked the questions on the “quantum of funds spent in Punjab since the inception of the NCF scheme and the quantum of funds allocated to various institutions/departments during the last three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-funds-given-to-state-since-ncf-inception-union-minister-352692
21-12-2021||---||Punjab Congress going Centre's way: AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Expressing grief over the death of Gurpreet Singh (40), a temporary teacher staging dharna near Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Morinda, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the Channi government was following in the footsteps of the Modi government.Probe corruption in PuncomAAP criticised the government for doing nothing against the alleged rampant corruption in Puncom, the only surviving public sector entity in the state. It demanded an inquiry into the irregularities disclosed by the CAG auditYouth forced to take drugs: MPAAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta lashed out at the Cong government and the preceding SAD-BJP regime for allegedly doing nothing against drug abuse. Gupta said the state youth have been pushed towards drug abuse over the yearsSenior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said just as the Modi government’s arrogance cost 750 farmer lives in the farmers’ movement, the Channi government’s indifference to protesting teachers was proving dear. He said: “Chief Minister Channi should tell that how many more lives of teachers will be taken before regularisation of their jobs?”He said for the past 15-20 years, the educated youth had been protesting for employment and were constantly facing government atrocities. Lakhs of youth had crossed the age limit too waiting for the jobs, forcing them to either go abroad or get trapped in the quagmire of drug addiction. Many have even committed suicide in despair, he added. But neither the Badal-BJP government nor the Congress government paid any attention to the problem. “First an ETT teacher lost his life while protesting in Mohali, now this young teacher, Gurpreet Singh, has lost his life staging a sit-in near Channi’s house,” Cheema said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-going-centres-way-aap-352694
21-12-2021||Morinda||Govt job, Rs 5 lakh aid for deceased Faridkot teacher's kin||Members of the Temporary Teachers’ Union took the body of their colleague Gurpreet Singh to Faridkot for cremation from the dharna spot after the government assurance of a job and Rs 5 lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased, here today.Gurpreet, also a temporary teacher, had died of cardiac arrest at his home in Faridkot on Saturday after he returned from the dharna of teachers laid here on November 21.Claiming that Gurpreet suffered a cardiac arrest due to stress of not getting regular job, the protesters had brought his body to Morinda and sat on a dharna near the Chief Minister’s residence.Following a compromise over the issue between the government and the protesters, Morinda SDM Ravinder Singh said Rs 5 lakh compensation and a government job would be given to a family member of Gurpreet. Besides, a panel meeting between the protesters and the CM has also been promised for December 27 to discuss other demands.Convener of Temporary Teachers' Union Gagan Abohar said the body of Gurpreet had been taken to Faridkot for cremation. The dharna, however, would continue, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-job-5-lakh-aid-for-deceased-teachers-kin-352695
21-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||After 29 yrs in Pakistan jail, Kathua man returns||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Kathua resident Kuldeep Singh, claiming to be a spy, is happy to return after 29 years of imprisonment, but he also feels dejected. “I was languishing in Pakistan jail for the past 29 years. What the Indian Government did for us? It simply abandoned me,” he rues.Kuldeep Singh (53) was among two prisoners released by Pakistan on Monday. After repatriation, they reached Red Cross Bhavan at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here late in the evening. He said he suffered torture for three years at the hands of Pakistan agencies before he was produced in a court for espionage which ultimately sent him to 25 years of imprisonment.He was arrested in 1992, but his family came to know about his whereabouts when he was shifted to jail after four years and he posted a letter to his family members informing them that he was in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat Jail.“For the past eight years, I am not in touch with my family due to restriction in Pakistan jail following the killing of Sarabjit Singh,” he said while adding that they were kept in separate barracks.He said he would fight for justice in the court as the government and the Army did nothing for him or for his family in these 29 years. The government should compensate the spies who risk their lives for the country, he said.According to him, 20 Indians were languishing in Pakistan jails waiting for their release and some of them had lost their mental balance.The other prisoner was Mohammad Gufran of Aurangabad, who had inadvertently crossed into Pakistan from Kargil three years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-29-yrs-in-pakistan-jail-kathua-man-returns-352697
21-12-2021||Muktsar||2 govt colleges inaugurated  in Muktsar district||Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh today inaugurated two government colleges at Husnar and Danewala villages in the district. Meanwhile, some contract employees, teachers and unemployed youngsters showed black flags to the minister’s cavalcade at Danewala chowk in Malout town.Later, Pargat Singh met some protesters, but they said the meeting failed to bring any result.The minister said the newly inaugurated colleges would help youth in attaining higher education to get top positions in the government and private sectors. “A total of Rs 12.49 crore are spent on the construction of a college in Husnar village in Gidderbaha block. Similarly, an amount of Rs 12.82 crore is spent on the construction of a college at Danewala village in Malout block,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-govt-colleges-inaugurated-in-muktsar-dist-352699
21-12-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela starts at Chamkaur Sahib in memory of elder Sahibzadas||The three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela, held in the memory of two elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh and other Sikhs, started with a nagar kirtan here today.The Jor Mela is organised every year to commemorate the martyrdom of Sahibzada Ajit Singh, Sahibzada Jujhar Singh and other Sikh warriors, who sacrificed their lives fighting Mughal forces. Several devotees were seen proceeding towards the historical gurdwaras barefoot, on buses, trucks and bicycles. Langar is organised on all roads leading to Chamkaur Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jor-mela-starts-at-chamkaur-sahib-352700
21-12-2021||Faridkot||Norms for appointment of medical  college teaching faculty relaxed||In view of the ongoing Covid pandemic, the National Medical Commission (NMC) on Monday announced provisional relaxation to the appointment of teaching faculty and their promotion in the medical colleges.According to a letter, released by the NMC secretary today, it was brought into its notice that inconvenience was being faced by the teaching faculty of various medical institutes in attending the mandatory Medical Education Technology (MET) and Biomedical Research (BBMR) workshops due to Covid.The NMC has decided to extend the period for acquiring the requisite MET and BMR qualifications for the purpose of appointment, confirmation and promotion by one year, said the secretary. The relaxation is applicable for the posts of professors, additional professors and associate professors in the medical colleges.The appointment of faculty and promotion norms in the medical colleges are governed under the Teachers Eligibility Qualifications (TEQ) Regulations, 2021. These rules, while aiming at standardising recruitment of teachers in all medical institutions, specify the number of patterns, starting with who can be classified as a medical teacher, while also specifying number of courses that doctors will have to clear to be eligible for various faculty posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-for-appointment-of-medical-college-teaching-faculty-relaxed-352701
21-12-2021||---||HC notice to Punjab, Centre on breeders' body plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the Union of India and the State of Punjab on a petition seeking directions to strike down the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017.In the petition placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, petitioner Breeders Welfare Association through counsel Vikas Chatrath contended that the rules were ultra vires to the Constitution of India, being violative of Articles 14 and 19.Chatrath contended it was clearly evident that the government, under the garb of regulation, was trying to impose unreasonable and arbitrary restrictions on the rights of the breeders to carry on their business. Besides, it was arbitrary and liable to be struck down.He added the requirement of renewal of registration imposed upon the breeders under Rule 5 of the Dog Breeding and Marketing Rules, 2017, was arbitrary. “It is apparent that the solitary motive of renewal clause and re-registration process is primarily aimed at extorting Rs 5,000 from the breeders for every renewal/re-registration process,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-notice-to-punjab-centre-on-breeders-body-plea-352702
21-12-2021||---||Veteran feted on 100th birthday||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veteran-feted-on-100th-birthday-352703
21-12-2021||---||4 MPs from Punjab, Pratibha Singh, Deepender Hooda on Congress Parliamentary panel||New Delhi, December 20Several MPs from the region and maximum from election-bound Punjab have found place among office-bearers Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed today to the parliamentary party.Four MPs from Punjab are part of the list. While Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary has been appointed one of the only three secretaries of the Congress Parliamentary Party, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla, Khadoor Sahib MP JS Gill and Rajya Sabha MP SS Dullo have been included in the 22-member executive committee.The other two secretaries of the CPP are Kozhikode MP MK Raghavan and the party’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Amee Yagnik.Newly elected Mandi MP Pratibha Singh and Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda are in the executive committee, which also has among members MPs Karti Chidambaram, Neeraj Dangi (RS member from Rajasthan) and Pradeep Tamta (RS member from Uttarakhand). Sonia has also included Phulo Devi Netam (RS MP from Chhattisgarh), who is one of the 12 suspended MPs, on the panel.Making the cut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/4-mps-from-punjab-pratibha-singh-deepender-hooda-on-congress-parliamentary-panel-352675
21-12-2021||New Delhi||IMD: Cold wave expected to continue for next two days in northwest India||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the IMD said today. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours,” the weather office said.Cold wave conditions are likely over parts of Uttarakhand, UP, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, HP and Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon.Meanwhile under the influence of two western disturbances in quick succession, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/imd-cold-wave-expected-to-continue-for-next-two-days-352668
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Police finalise fresh probe against former SAD minister in drugs case||The Punjab Police are learnt to have finalised a fresh investigation against an Akali ex-minister earlier acquitted of drug smuggling charges. Police officials were incommunicado. However, sources said the Bureau of Investigation had finalised the probe and recommended that a criminal case be filed after it conducted an investigation into an old Banur drug smuggling case.This comes on a day when the police filed a case against unknown persons for leaking a letter by Bureau of Investigation chief SK Asthana, in which he cited legal hurdles in holding a fresh probe against the Akali leader.Also read: Asthana letter leak: Cyber Cell lodges FIRThere were reports that an FIR had been lodged with the state crime police station, but a copy of the same was not available with The Tribune till the filing of the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-finalise-fresh-probe-against-former-sad-minister-352652
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Biometrics fail to identify Golden Temple sacrilege suspect||Two days after the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple, the police are clueless about the identity of the deceased suspect. In a setback for the special investigation team probing the incident, the fingerprints of the deceased didn’t match with any biometric record on the Aadhaar database or the police record.Also read: Golden Temple sacrilege suspect's photo released, booked for murder bidThe police are now tracking the route taken by the suspect to reach the shrine by scanning CCTV footage from the ISBT, railway station and other places. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill confirmed that the deceased’s identity was still a mystery. He said it was difficult to track the suspect’s movement since multiple narrow lanes led to the shrine. “The biometric methodology failed to yield any result. We have appealed to the public to share any information they have about the man whose photograph has been circulated. The identity of the informer will not be revealed,” he said. Sources said the suspect, who was in his mid-twenties, seemed to be from outside Punjab, possibly from Uttar Pradesh, but there was no confirmation yet. Questions unansweredSGPC claims suspect was intercepted by staff multiple times. Why then was the matter not taken seriously?Suspect was taken into custody by staff for questioning minutes after the ‘sacrilege’. Why were cops not called?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biometrics-fail-to-identify-amritsar-sacrilege-suspect-352650
21-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala: Day after man beaten to death, no murder charge||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 20A day after a man was lynched at a gurdwara in Nizampur, Kapurthala, following an alleged sacrilege attempt, no FIR was lodged under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.While the incident was live-streamed, the police maintained they were waiting for the autopsy report before taking further action.The Kotwali police station where an FIR under Section 295-A (insult to religion) has been lodged was found bolted from inside. While the SHO wasn’t present, cops said they had kept the gate shut for their own “safety”. HPS Khakh, SSP, Kapurthala, said, “Section 302 has not been added yet. No family member of the deceased could be traced either.” On the locked gate, the SSP said, “It is a temporary measure. The cops are being constantly approached by someone or other.”Dr Sandeep Dhawan, SMO, Kapurthala Civil Hospital, said, “The autopsy is yet to be conducted. Any statement regarding the nature of the wounds can be made after formal investigation.”Complainant Amarjit Singh, a granthi of the gurdwara, alleged when he spotted the accused, he tried to flee. “I went upstairs and found the holy book intact, but the Nishan Sahib was unfurled. We nabbed the accused. He did not disclose his name or other details.”He said, “Soon after the incident, besides making some calls, I made an announcement from the gurdwara loudspeaker asking people to gather. I also went live on Facebook following which the crowd swelled and the situation went out of control. I did not see the man die.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-man-beaten-to-death-no-murder-charge-352647
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Big conspiracy, commando training behind sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple: SGPC chief||SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami on Monday expressed apprehension of a “big conspiracy” behind the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple and said the man involved in it seemed to have received “commando training”.Also read: Biometrics fail to identify Golden Temple sacrilege suspectGolden Temple sacrilege suspect's photo released, booked for murder bidHe also claimed that the law allows a person to kill in self-defence, suggesting that this is what happened at the Golden Temple when the man was lynched after the alleged sacrilege attempt.He told reporters that suspecting foul play, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force had stopped the man from entering the Golden Temple but he managed to gain entry inside the sanctum sanctorum after the shift of task force members changed in the evening.“I feel that he had undergone commando training from the way he jumped the railing and did it (made a sacrilege attempt) in just six seconds. There is a big conspiracy behind it,” Dhami said.On being asked that the man was lynched when caught by the SGPC task force, Dhami said “devotees were angry over this incident”.The man had picked a sword and was going to attack the holy Guru Granth Sahib, which is considered a living entity by Sikhs, Dhami said.He said one can kill a person in self-defence if somebody attacks with an intention of murder and the law does not consider it as an offence.Before the task force members could do anything, the man was beaten up by the angry crowd that led to his death, he said.Dhami said the SGPC will set up its own special investigation team to “bring out the truth”.The incident had taken place on Saturday evening when the man jumped golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum, picked a sword and reached near the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.Less than 24 hours after the incident, another man was lynched for allegedly “disrespecting” the Sikh religious flag at a gurdwara in a Kapurthala village on Sunday morning.Police have registered complaints over the alleged sacrilege attempts in both cases but no FIR appears to have been registered in connection with the deaths. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/big-conspiracy-commando-training-behind-sacrilege-attempt-at-golden-temple-sgpc-chief-352551
21-12-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala: Man killed for alleged sacrilege had '8 deep cuts on body'; police try to identify him||The neck and other body parts of the man killed for alleged sacrilege bid at a local gurdwara here had over eight “deep sharp cuts” that were likely to have been inflicted by swords, a senior medical officer of the local civil hospital, where his body has been kept, said on Monday.The police said no murder case has been registered in this case as yet and their priority is to establish the identity of the man for which they have shared his pictures in media and with the police in other states.The unidentified man, who appeared to be a migrant labourer, was killed by a mob after being accused of “disrespecting” the Sikh religious flag at a gurdwara in Nizampur village here on Sunday morning.The police released gurdwara manager Amarjit Singh, who was detained for questioning, on Sunday night. He had claimed that he saw the man trying to disrespect the ‘Nishan Sahib’ (religious flag) early morning after he came out for daily prayers.However, the police had on Sunday said there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege having taken place at the gurdwara, which is located on the Kapurthala-Subhnapur road here.Civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Sandip Dhawan said there were more than eight deep sharp cuts on the neck, hips and legs that were likely to have been inflicted by swords, besides blunt injuries.The exact number of injuries will be known after the post-mortem, he said.Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the post-mortem of the body will be conducted after the lapse of 72 hours in case no claimant came forward.The unclaimed body would be cremated by the municipal authorities, he said.The body of the victim has been kept in the mortuary of the local civil hospital.A police team is contacting police officials of other states on phone and has also asked the health authorities to conduct a DNA test to establish his identity, he said.Khakh said the police have shared a photo of the man in newspapers.The SSP has deputed Kotwali station house officer Prabhdeep Singh to investigate the case.No murder case has been registered in this case as yet, he said.A case under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) has so far been registered on the complaint of the manager of the gurdwara. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-man-lynched-for-alleged-sacrilege-had-eight-deep-cuts-on-body-police-try-to-identify-him-352522
