22-12-2021||---||‘Suicide bid’ by teachers protesting outside education minister Pargat Singh’s residence||Jalandhar, December 22Several protesting unemployed teachers of the B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union on Wednesday allegedly attempted suicide in front of the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh.While the Cabinet minister's home has turned into a cantonment as regular protests have been taking place outside his residence for the past over a month, teachers today took it a step further as several of them poured oil on their body in a bid to attempt suicide.While chaotic scenes were witnessed as unemployed teachers' raised slogans against the state government, things got heated up when several of them tried to attempt suicide. Cops apprehended several teachers as they poured oil on themselves while being apprehended by the police.Teachers Sandeep Gill, Amandeep Sekha and Jagsir Singh poured oil on themselves and tried to light matches before being prevented by cops and colleagues.Two teachers who have been protesting atop a tank in Jalandhar-- Jaswant Ghubaya and Munish Fazilka -- had also threatened suicide.While the state government recently released notification for the recruitment of 4,185 teachers, in response to three-month protest by B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union, teachers have in turn complained that there is no clarity yet whether these recruitments also include posts of SST, Hindi and Punjabi teachers.Their three-month long protests have been on the prime demand of advertisements of posts of 9,000 teachers specifically in the aforementioned subjects.Union leader Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said, "Teachers are fed up with the government’s doublespeak that's why they had to take this step today.“Government has released notification but teachers can't apply yet. Also there is no clarity whether these include the three subjects in which we need maximum recruitments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suicide-bid-by-teachers-protesting-outside-education-minister-pargat-singhs-residence-353337
22-12-2021||---||Former Punjab MLA Sant Ajit Singh passes away at 82||Ropar, December 22Former Punjab MLA Sant Ajit Singh died at Max Hospital in Mohali on Tuesday following a brief illness.He was 82.He was admitted to the hospital last week following a cardiac disease.Sant Ajit Singh was elected from Anandpur Sahib-Ropar Assembly constituency on a Shiromani Akali Dal ticket in 2007.His cremation will be held at Nehol ka village near Kurali on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-mla-sant-ajit-singh-passes-away-at-82-353252
22-12-2021||---||People can't be divided along communal lines, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Amritsar, December 21Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu visited ward No.43 to review development works here on Tuesday. In his address, he asked the residents not to distract from the core issues of Punjab and vote wisely.“People don’t have faith in the justice system. People have got fed up with sacrilege cases. Similarly, in the case of drug trade in Punjab. I have nothing to do with Majithia’s FIR issue, but the law will take its own course,” said Sidhu.Navjot Singh Sidhu advocated strong punishment in the sacrilege cases. “The person who is found guilty of desecration, he should not be released from the jail till his death. Stricter punishment should be given to stop sacrilege cases in Punjab.”He said those who were trying to divide the people of the state on communal lines, they would be defeated. The people of the state could not be divided with such efforts as despite being from different religions they believed in unity and brotherhood.Targeting Kejriwal, Navjot Singh Sidhu said the AAP supremo was unaware of the issues of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-cant-be-divided-along-communal-lines-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-353084
22-12-2021||Amritsar||Two doctors get 10-year jail in kidney scam||Voter enrolment driveChandigarh: The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Dr S Karuna Raju, constituted a three-member committee to identify new voters in the state, an official press release said here on Tuesday. An attempt is being made to enroll maximum possible voters, who were above the age of 18. TNS22 food joint owners honouredChandigarh: Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni on Tuesday conferred a special award to 22 owners of restaurants and food joint owners, an official press release said here on Tuesday. On the occasion, Soni said these restaurants and food joints had played a vital role in boosting tourism sector in the state. TNSEnergy Conservation DayChandigarh: The Punjab Energy Development Agency on Tuesday observed state-level Energy Conservation Day in association with the PSPCL. DPS Grewal, PSPCL Director Distribution, highlighted the work being done by the state in various sectors on the theme of energy conservation and efficiency. TNSJE among 2 held taking bribeChandigarh: The Vigilance Bureau on Tuesday nabbed a junior engineer (JE) of the PSPCL and another person red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 90,000, a press release said here on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as JE Malkit Singh and Pradeep Kumar, alias Mintu. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-doctors-get-10-year-jail-in-kidney-scam-353025
22-12-2021||Batala||Pak intruder shot in Batala||A Pakistani intruder was shot by the BSF near the Basanter Border Outpost early today.“The man has not been identified till yet. He was near the Indian side of the International Border and was shot dead just as he was about to enter our territory,” said a police officer. In another incident, a Pakistani drone entered the area at night. SSP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the drone had entered Indian airspace around 1 am. “I received a call from my men that they had spotted a drone. However, its flight lasted less than two minutes. It hovered around the Kassowal BSF Border Outpost before flying back. Nevertheless, I immediately ordered a search which is still going on,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-shot-in-batala-353026
22-12-2021||Faridkot||Behbal Kalan case: SIT seeks Sumedh Saini's virtual presence||In the Behbal Kalan police firing case, the public prosecutor on behalf of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) today argued for the framing of charges against the accused.On the other hand, HS Saini, counsel for former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, urged the court to defer the proceedings till February 2020 in view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order of granting exemption from personal appearance to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. As all accused must be charged and tried jointly, so the framing of charges was legally not tenable in absence of Saini, he argued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-case-sit-seeks-ex-dgps-virtual-presence-353027
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC postpones meet to choose Punjab DGP panel||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) today postponed its crucial meeting for empanelment of officers for the post of Punjab DGP.The UPSC said the meeting was being postponed due to the Punjab Government’s insistence on taking September 30, 2021, as the cut-off date for eligibility of officers. The UPSC said it needed time to deliberate on the issue. The next date of meeting would be conveyed later.Today’s meeting would have discussed officers who were eligible as per the October 5 cut-off date as decided by the UPSC earlier. The meeting scheduled today would have deliberated on names of three officers from the list of 10 recommended by the state government. With the postponement, the incumbent officiating DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya gets more days in office. Punjab is insisting on the September 30 cut-off so that incumbent DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya becomes eligible. Under the rules, the officer should have at least six months of service left for consideration to the minimum two-year tenure as the DGP of a state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upsc-postpones-meet-to-choose-dgp-panel-353028
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege cases: Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to state on plea for finalising probe||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab and other respondents on a petition seeking directions for finalising the investigation regarding the alleged role of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and three “national committee members” pertaining to the conspiracy in the matter of sacrilege. Directions were also sought to conclude the probe within a time frame.The notice by Justice Raj Mohan Singh’s Bench came on the petition filed by Sukhwinder Singh through counsel Mohinder Singh Joshi, Simranjeet Singh Saini and Ravneet Singh Joshi. Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh also fixed the case for further hearing on January 21. On the court’s asking, Punjab Additional Advocate General HS Grewal accepted the notice on behalf of the state before seeking time to file the status report.The petitioner, in his plea, added the action of the official respondents in not concluding the investigation for the past about seven years, not arresting the accused, and “not disclosing what was the conspiracy behind these crimes” was illegal, unjust, improper and unconstitutional. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-cases-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-state-on-plea-for-finalising-probe-353029
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) raises Punjab's claim over Chandigarh issue with BJP leaders||With election around the corner, the old issues like Punjab’s claim over Chandigarh are once again back in currency.This time leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) have claimed that the Centre has principally agreed to the long-pending demand of Punjabis to hand over Chandigarh to Punjab. Party chief spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said SAD (S) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had taken up the issue with top BJP leaders who agreed to the demand. Dhindsa accepted that he had discussed the issue with BJP leaders, but he refused to share information on the outcome of the meeting.Earlier, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal had also claimed that he had reliable information that the BJP could hand over the control of Chandigarh to Punjab.In a press release, MLA and former state FM Parminder Singh Dhindsa urged the BJP-led central government to resolve the long-pending issues of Sikh Panth and Punjab. Parminder said the BJP government at the Centre should announce a solution to these issues for the betterment of the Panth and Punjab.Parminder said the main objective of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) was not to seize power, but to resolve the issues of the Panth and Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-raises-ut-issue-with-bjp-leaders-353030
22-12-2021||Balwant Garg||Faridkot: Water woes remain cause of worry||WHILE political leaders are again promising the moon, the voters of this former princely state are struggling for basic amenities.“Politicians run after voters during election time but forget about us later.” This sums up the general sentiment of the voters in the constituency who spoke to The Tribune.“Releasing a manifesto is just a formality. The copies of manifestoes are not even available in most of the main election offices of the parties,” said Mangat Arora, an advocate in Faridkot.Broken roads and unplanned development have made the centre of the town a low-lying area, making it a cesspool after even a mild downpour. In the absence of proper disposal of garbage, the heaps are visible on roadsides in the town.Stray animals are another problem, adding to the traffic flow which congests roads, bazaars and streets of the town. “Having no alternative to get drinking water supply when the groundwater contains high fluoride content, the residents of Faridkot have to solely rely on the water of Sirhind Feeder, the canal which has gained notoriety for its water being highly contaminated with heavy metals and industrial effluents,” said Paramjit Singh, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-water-woes-remain-cause-of-worry-353031
22-12-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala 'sacrilege' case: Cops to use Aadhaar data||The Kapurthala police will match the fingerprints of the deceased in the Nizampur incident with the Aadhaar database to ascertain his identity.Two days after the death of the youth, who allegedly attempted sacrilege at the Nizampur gurdwara, none of the relatives of the deceased have been traced so far.While a woman claiming to be a relative of the youth had contacted the police yesterday, they later said the youth’s details eventually did not match with the woman relative and her own original relative was later traced. Since then, no family members or relatives have come forward to claim the body. Two days after the incident, the police are also yet to file an FIR for attempt to murder under Section 302. Kapurthala SSP HPS Khakh said, “We will now match his fingerprints with the Aadhaar to ascertain his identity. His autopsy has not been carried out as per the 72-hour wait protocol. Once the autopsy is done, an additional FIR will be filed on the basis of the report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kthala-case-cops-to-use-aadhaar-data-353032
22-12-2021||Amritsar||Golden Temple 'sacrilege': Deadline over, suspect remains unidentified||Another video of the accused who attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18 has surfaced which shows that he was in Amritsar and visited the shrine a day earlier as well.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) could not get any lead to identify the slain accused despite the lapse of the two-day ultimatum given by the state government to submit its report.With 72 hours of the incident passing by the evening, the post-mortem will be done tomorrow. At present, the body has been kept at the dead house.Talking to The Tribune, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal, who heads the SIT, said the identification of the deceased was still a mystery but their teams were on the job to locate his whereabouts and movement.“A fresh CCTV footage has come to our notice which testifies that on December 17 morning, he visited the Golden Temple and remained inside the complex all day. The same evening, he was spotted at the Heritage Street. The next day he committed the sacrilege attempt at the shrine,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-deadline-over-suspect-remains-unidentified-353033
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Clear cases of jobs to kin of deceased farmers, Punjab minister tells DCs||Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister Randeep Singh Nabha today directed all Deputy Commissioners to immediately clear the pending cases related to providing government jobs to family members of the deceased farmers, who sacrificed their lives during the farmers’ struggle against the three ‘black’ laws on the Delhi borders.In a virtual meeting with the DCs, Nabha reiterated full support of the state government to the beleaguered family members of the farmers. He said appointment letters had already been given to the kin of 152 deceased farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clear-cases-of-jobs-dcs-told-353034
22-12-2021||Ferozepur||Farmers' agitation: Services of 156 trains affected on second day||For the second consecutive day, members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) continued their agitation and kept squatting on rail tracks at four locations following which 156 trains were affected today in the Ferozepur Division. Out of these, 84 were cancelled, 47 were short-terminated and 25 were short-originated.As per information, the Railways had to incur the loss of crores in these two days due to the agitation. Meanwhile, farmer union leaders said they would not lift the dharna from railway tracks until their demands were fulfilled. It is pertinent to mention here that 27 trains were cancelled due to the protest on Monday and thousands of passengers had to bear the brunt.Pawan Sharma, a businessman of Ferozepur, said he had to go to Delhi for some work on but due to the ongoing protest, he would have to opt for some other mode of transport. “I will have to either go by bus or hire a taxi, which is not as feasible as a train,” said Sharma.Satnam Singh Pannu, Jasbir Singh Piddi, Inderjit Singh Bath and other union leaders said they won’t lift the dharna till their demands were met. “During a meeting held on September 28, we were given an assurance by CM Charanjit Singh Channi but the state government later backed out,” said Pannu. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/services-of-156-trains-affected-on-second-day-353035
22-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Now, Tikri-like protest site comes up in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 21To participate in the five-day protest in front of DC offices, farmers under the banner of the BKU Ugrahan have come prepared for a long battle against the state government, as at Tikri and Singhu borders against the farm laws.They have equipped their tractor-trailers with all essential commodities and special committees of villages are again back to work to mobilise support and ensure supply of milk and other items at the protest site.“We will compel the state government to accept our long-pending demands. The year-long agitation against the central farm laws has taught us ways to survive in toughest circumstances. We have asked our union to start indefinite protests at all DC offices like we did in New Delhi,” said Narinder Singh, a farmer from Chhajli village, while sitting in his tractor-trailer at the Sangrur protest.Majority of farmers, who spoke to The Tribune, confirmed that they had requested their leaders to intensify the agitation to get some quick relief from the state government as elections were approaching.“We are hopeful that the state government will accept our long-pending demands as majority of farmers are already under huge debt and committing suicides,” said Ram Singh, another farmer from Namol.With the farmers parking their vehicles on both sides of the Sangrur DC office road from bus stand to PWD rest house, inside Ranbir Club and in front of residences of senior officers, the protest has taken a big shape.Members of various committees have been working hard to ensure the supply of milk and other essential commodities from villages. Langar of tea and food has stared while many farmers have also been preferring to cook their meal near their trailers.Their main demands include Rs 17,000 per acre financial aid to farmers who have suffered crop loss and its 10 per cent payment to labourers, guaranteed Rs 360 per quintal of sugarcane from each sugar mill, Rs 3 lakh financial aid to families of labourers and farmers who have committed suicide and complete debt waiver and a government job to their kin, cancellation of FIRs registered against protesting farmers, etc.Two officials ‘held hostage’Fatehgarh Sahib: Irked over urea shortage, farmers gheraoed the DC office here. The PA to the Agriculture Minister, who had come here for some work, was held hostage. When the minister came to know about the incident, he sent the Agriculture Director to the spot, who too was kept there for over five hours. Both of them were released on the DC’s intervention. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-tikri-like-protest-site-comes-up-in-sangrur-353036
22-12-2021||Archit Watts||Gidderbaha: Basic amenities a distant dream||FAMOUS for its ‘naswar’ (snuff) and kalakaar (artists), this constituency shares its boundary with the home turf of former CM Parkash Singh Badal. Despite giving some Cabinet ministers, it still lacks some basic amenities.The second-time Congress MLA-cum-Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring claims that he has carried out several development works in the area with not just the state’s funds but also by bringing MPLAD funds from MPs of other states.His list of development works includes establishing a government college, starting some government buses, developing parks and cleaning-cum-beautifying village ponds, extending sewerage area, construction of streets, village roads and courts complex, stadium and dharamshala, upgrading government schools and getting approvals for the railway-over-bridge in the town.“Major development works were done by Manpreet Singh Badal when he was the Finance Minister in the SAD-BJP government. All those works need proper maintenance. Warring, too, has carried out several development works. However, this constituency has always remained in news for vendetta politics. Many criminal cases have been registered at the behest of politicians, which should end now,” locals say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gidderbaha-basic-amenities-a-distant-dream-353037
22-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Bikram Majithia booked for drug smuggling, aiding mafia; FIR cites '18 STF report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll, the state police late on Monday night booked former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia for alleged drug smuggling. A case under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered on the basis of a 2018 report of a special task force (STF) probe into the drug racket.Akali leader under scanner since 2014‘Had links with international dealers for 10 yrs’Name first came up in Ex-DSP Bhola casePrevious govts didn’t actIt is a slap on the face of all powerful leaders who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab’s soul. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PPCC ChiefVendetta politics, cry AkalisGovt changed 3 DGPs to register a case. Any govt that indulges in vendetta will face consequences. Parkash Singh Badal, SAD PatronEx-minister incommunicado, DGP likely to form sitNearly 24 hours after he was booked, Majithia’s whereabouts remained a mystery. He was incommunicado. “He is preparing his legal defence against the false case,” said Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson. Sources said the DGP might constitute an SIT to take the case further.The probe report was filed by anti-drug STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018.The 49-page FIR, lodged at Punjab State Crime Branch Police Station, Mohali, states that Majithia has been booked under Sections 25, 27(a) and 29 (NDPS Act) for allegedly allowing drug smuggling through the use of his property or conveyance, financing the distribution or sale of drugs and hatching a criminal conspiracy for smuggling.While Majithia was not available for a comment, SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal termed the development as “the worst example of political vendetta”. “We have been airing our fears about acts of vendetta against us. The Akalis are used to fighting such false cases,” he told reporters in Muktsar.Party leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Daljit Cheema and Maheshinder Grewal said the case was registered by the Congress government out of frustration “as it failed to implicate Akali leaders in sacrilege cases”. Though the police did not issue any statement, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu took to Twitter to announce the registration of the case.He wrote, “An FIR has been registered with Punjab Police Crime Branch against the main culprits of drug trade on the basis of the 2018 STF report, wherein I demanded this 4 years ago. It is a slap on the face of all powerful leaders who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab's soul.”“Five years of fight against the corrupt system run by the Badal family and Captain, and delay of four years after ED and STF filed report against Majithia. Finally, after pushing for credible officers in positions of power, the first step has been taken,” he tweeted.In another tweet, the PPCC chief said, “Justice will not be served till main culprits behind the drug mafia are given exemplary punishment. We will fight till punishment is given which acts as deterrent for generations. We must choose the honest and righteous and shun drug traffickers and their protectors.”Sidhu's tweets followed a night full of suspense over the FIR. The Tribune was the first to report that the government had finalised its probe into the alleged drugs case involving the former minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-booked-for-drug-smuggling-aiding-mafia-fir-cites-18-stf-report-353121
22-12-2021||New Delhi||Capt Amarinder Singh loyalist Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi joins BJP||A loyalist of Captain Amarinder Singh and former minister, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, today joined the BJP after quitting the Congress. The Guruharsahai MLA joined the saffron party in the presence of Union Ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Bhupender Yadav.Accusing the Congress of putting the state’s “security and communal harmony at stake”, Sodhi said, “There is a grave danger to peace and communal harmony in the border state. Only PM Narendra Modi and the BJP can save Punjab.” The BJP has announced a tie-up with Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress. The sitting MLA was dropped from the Cabinet after the ouster of Amarinder Singh. He is expected to contest the Assembly election from Ferozepur, said sources.Earlier he tweeted, “I cannot accept Punjab’s suffocation and helplessness! The Congress has put state’s security and communal harmony at stake. With deep agony, I put forth my resignation from all posts and primary membership of the Congress with immediate effect.”In his resignation letter to AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, Sodhi said, “I was hand-picked by our illustrious leader late Rajiv Gandhi ji to contest my first election to the Punjab Assembly from Guruharsahai in Ferozepur district in 1985.“I have all through been a hardcore worker with unflinching loyalty... I feel suffocated in the present situation, especially when the party has put state’s security and communal harmony at stake,” he said. — TNSCongress denies ‘exodus’ reportsAmid speculation that the BJP was trying to poach Congress leaders, hectic efforts have begun to prevent ‘exodus’ in the coming days. Party’s Punjab affairs incharge Harish Choudhary denied the reports of several party leaders joining the BJP. However, sources said the BJP was in talks with two former ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-loyalist-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-joins-bjp-353038
22-12-2021||---||Give jobs to Behbal Kalan, Kotkapura police firing victims: Navjot Sidhu to Punjab CM Channi||Chandigarh, December 21PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu continues to keep the CM Charanjit Singh Channi-led government on tenterhooks.Hours after registration of an FIR under the NDPS Act against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, one of the key demands raised by him, the PPCC chief wrote a letter to the CM Channi, seeking jobs for the victims of the 2015 firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.“Who deserves a job on compassionate grounds more than Ajit Singh, who while fighting for Punjab’s soul — Guru Sahib’s honour — bore the brunt of the police on Badal’s order. He was shot by the police and then kicked by them. Such bravehearts and fighters deserve jobs, not some ministers/MLAs’ kin,” said Sidhu while taking a dig at the political appointments of the kith and kin of ministers and MLAs.Reacting to the registration of FIR against Majithia, Sidhu said, “Justice will not be served until the main culprits behind the drug mafia are given exemplary punishment. This is merely a first step, will fight till punishment is given which acts as a deterrent for generations. We must choose the honest and righteous and shun drug traffickers and their protectors,” Sidhu said in a tweet.Congress MLAs are upbeat as it was a step in the direction of the promise to arrest the big fish involved in drug trade. But they are waiting to see if the Akali leader is put behind bars ahead of the model code of conduct for the Assembly polls.Meets Radha Soami sect chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-jobs-to-police-firing-victims-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-353039
22-12-2021||Jalandhar||Case after 7 years, not enthused: ED ex-official Niranjan Singh||Retired Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate (ED) Niranjan Singh, who had summoned former SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia in the alleged money laundering case against drug lord Jagdish Bhola seven years ago, is not enthused over registration of an FIR in the drugs case.Niranjan Singh, who was an inquiry officer in the case, said, “There is no reason for me to feel vindicated today. A case has been lodged after seven years.” The officer had to face a lot of trouble owing to his tough stand. — TNSAlso read:ED threatened Niranjan with suspension, HC toldDrug case: ED officer Niranjan Singh, for the first time, blames Majithia for transferED Deputy Director Niranjan Singh who probed Rs 6,000-crore Bhola drug case puts in papers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-after-7-years-not-enthused-ed-ex-official-353040
22-12-2021||Majitha||Mixed response in Majitha town over drug case against Majithia||The FIR against Bikram Singh Majithia has evoked mixed response from the natives of Majitha town. Ranjit Singh (53), a farmer, said its impact would be visible in the Assembly polls. “I don’t know whether Bikram was involved in this trade or not, but those who are responsible for turning youth into addicts will not be spared,” he said.Gurpreet Singh, an engineer, said direct connection between Majithia and the natives of the town was so good that the leader never missed a chance to attend their personal engagements. Daljit Singh (48), a daily wage labourer, said: “I don’t know if this will affect the voting pattern, but he truly ensured overall development of the area.” Dhir Singh, a senior citizen, said the case would consolidate his position here. He won people’s hearts with his work and now it was time to stand behind him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mixed-response-in-majitha-town-353041
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Case against Bikram Majithia is an election stunt, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has termed the FIR against Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia as an election stunt of the ruling Congress.Addressing the media on Tuesday, AAP’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha alleged, “We had told on December 8 that the deal between CM Charanjit Channi and Sukhbir Badal has been struck at a farm house. The Channi government will register a case against Majithia on weak grounds for electoral gains. It’s an election stunt.”He said, “The outcome of Majithia case will be similar to that of the Raja Warring bus case, in which all seized buses were released the next day.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-an-election-stunt-says-aap-353042
22-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia case won't stand legal scrutiny: Capt Amarinder Singh||Rajpura, December 21Taking on the Congress government for registering cases against political rivals without following due process of law, Capt Amarinder Singh today said “national security and welfare of Punjab” were top agenda of the BJP-Punjab Lok Congress coalition.Taking on the Channi government, Captain Amarinder said the case against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia “will not stand legal scrutiny as the government had not followed due process of law”. Addressing his maiden public rally ever since he announced his party Punjab Lok Congress’s alliance with the BJP, he inducted local Congress leader Jagdish Kumar into the party.On fresh FIR in the drugs case naming Majithia, he said, “on what basis the government had registered the case against him since the report on drug trafficking is still lying with the Punjab and Haryana HC in a sealed cover. After all, there is law in the country and I am sure it will not stand the legal scrutiny,” he said, adding, “Just because you don’t like someone, you can’t put him behind bars”.On lynchings, he said the accused should have been handed over to the police. “No civilised society can and should approve of such killings,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-wont-stand-legal-scrutiny-capt-amarinder-singh-353043
22-12-2021||---||FIR against Bikram Majithia panic reaction of Congress before polls: Sukhbir Badal||Amritsar, December 21SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said registration of a case against SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia was a “panic reaction” of the Congress ahead of the polls. Harsimrat Badal, Bathinda MPIt was Cong’s last bet: HarsimratIt may have given relief to Navjot Sidhu. This was their last bet. They have registered an FIR under political vendetta and that too in the dark of night.Sukhbir, who was here to participate in the ‘pashchatap paath’ (prayers for remorse) following the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple on Saturday evening, also said a weak SIT had been set up to investigate the incident. Sukhbir also emphasised that the Congress had been playing politics on the sensitive issue of sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple and shying away from its responsibility of taking serious action to unveil the conspiracy behind it.Prem S Chandumajra, SAD Case fabricated: ChandumajraInstead of exposing sacrilege conspirators, the govt has chosen to file a fabricated case against Majithia after throwing law and justice to the wind. He said be it sacrilege or drug issues, the whole state administration and police machinery was pressed to target only Badals and Majithia, despite the fact that the High Court had already snubbed the state government over its political motives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panic-reaction-before-polls-sad-353044
22-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Bikram Singh Majithia had links with smugglers: FIR||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21The drugs case registered against ex-Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia carries direct imprints of investigation and analysis by incumbent DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, Special Task Force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu and Advocate General Deepinder Singh Patwalia.The onus of taking the case to conviction will be on these three officials, as the FIR mentions their viewpoint and findings repeatedly.The FIR is based on Sidhu’s status report on drugs charges against politicians and some cops submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in February 2018. Nearly 40 pages of the 49-page FIR include the STF report only. This is the first time the status report has gone public. Chattopadhyaya took the final decision to order the FIR despite opposition by the head of the state Bureau of Investigation (BoI) and police officials of Patiala. Besides, two of his predecessors had not agreed to issuing such orders. The decision may prove crucial for the ruling Congress government ahead of the Assembly polls.Chattopadhyaya, who is the officiating DGP, ordered the registration of the FIR just four days after he was given the charge of the head of the state police force. Also, the FIR was lodged on the eve of a crucial meeting of the Union Public Service Commission to decide on a panel of a regular DGP of the state.Weeks before the FIR, there were counter viewpoints on whether the government had legal power to proceed against Majithia. The registration of the case seems a political necessity as a group of Congress leaders led by Navjot Singh Sidhu had toppled the Capt Amarinder Singh government alleging that he was not acting against Majithia.Advocate General Deepinder Singh Patwalia has the legal sanction for the FIR. He states in the FIR that there was no embargo on law enforcement agencies to act on the prime facie findings regarding drugs smuggling as mentioned in the status report on drugs filed by the STF in February 2018.His stand is in contrast to report of BoI head SK Asthana, who said there were legal hurdles in the way.After raising the flag against the registration of the case, Asthana proceeded on medical leave. His deputy and officiating head of the BoI IG Gautam Cheema filed the FIR as per the orders of the DGP.Interestingly, Patwalia had submitted his legal opinion on December 1 when DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was heading the state police force, allowing the registration of the case. The government replaced Sahota with Chattopadhyaya.The FIR says the fresh case is lodged on analysis of various FIRs against international drug smugglers booked earlier in Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. The analysis was based on four points mentioned in the status report of the STF. This is the first time the status report on drugs is made public through the FIR.49-page FIR against akali leader says...Did Majithia have an association with drug smugglers Satpreet Singh alias Satta, Maninder Singh Aulakh alias Bittu Aulakh, Parminder Singh alias Pindi, Amrinder Singh alias Laddi and Jagjit Chahal?“Taking into account the entire statements of Majithia and others that he knew Satta well and Satta resided with him, indicates that the allegations of providing vehicles, security, etc. as well as involvement of Satta during elections of Majithia, are believable.Were Satta, Chahal, Aulakh, Pindi and Laddi involved in drug trade?The analysis of statements recorded by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Punjab Police reveal that Jagdish Singh alias Bhola was allegedly involved in the drug trade in association with Chahal, Aulakh, Laddi, Pindi and Satta.Majithia played a role in supplying pseudoephedrine to Satta and others?It emerges from the record of statements of the ED that Majithia directly asked Chahal to supply pseudoephedrine to Satta and Pindi. Majithia also made a similar arrangement with Chahal through Aulakh.Whether there are any links regarding monetary transaction of Majithia with the accused?Evaluation of the statements of Chahal before the ED reveals that Rs 35 lakh were allegedly paid to Majithia in 7-8 instalments between 2007 and 2012 as he needed funds for elections. At this time, Chahal was allegedly involved in manufacturing/ supply of illegal drugs/ substances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithia-had-links-with-smugglers-fir-353045
22-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia faces big challenge of proving allegations wrong||Chandigarh, December 21 Booked for alleged involvement in the drug racket, former minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia faces the challenge of proving wrong the findings of the Special Task Force (STF) under Harpreet Singh Sidhu that implicate him directly for his role in the supply chain. Read also:Akali leader Bikram Majithia booked in drugs caseBrother of former Union Cabinet Minister Harsimrat Badal and brother-in-law of former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal, Majithia forayed into the Punjab politics with his first election victory in 2007. He was subsequently also elected in 2012 and 2017. Bikram Majithia has always stayed in the coterie of the top managers of the SAD affairs during the recent past. He held the portfolio of the Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management, Information & Public Relations and Non Conventional Energy Minister during the previous SAD-BJP government in the state. Although Majithia has vehemently denied all charges, his name features in the STF report for having played the role of the ‘facilitator in supply of drug pseudoephedrine to two Canadian NRIs Satpreet Singh alias Satta and Parminder Singh alias Pindi in the infamous 2013 Jagdish Bhola drug scandal’. It is also worth mentioning that the Enforcement Directorate had also called Majithia for his alleged role in an international synthetic drug case in December 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-faces-big-challenge-of-proving-allegations-wrong-352943
22-12-2021||GS Paul||FIR against Majithia state govt's panic reaction ahead of polls, says Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 21SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said in the run-up to the Assembly polls, it was a panic reaction from the Congress that a case was registered against former SAD minister and Majitha MLA Bikram Singh Majithia and a weak SIT was formed to investigate the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple.Badal was here to participate at the ‘pashchatap paath’ (prayers for remorse) following the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple on Saturday evening.He emphasised that the Congress had been playing politics on the sensitive issue of sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple and shying away from its responsibility of taking serious action to unveil the conspiracy behind it.He said that, be it sacrilege or drug issue, the whole state administration and police machinery was pressed into service to target the Badals and Majithia, despite the fact that the High Court had already snubbed the state government over its political motives.Referring to the drug issue (with which Bikram Majithia was being linked), he said that the CM, the home minister and the DGP conspired against Majithia in a frivilous drug case. “When no SSP or police officer readied to adhere to the state government’s orders, one ‘thana’ (Bureau of Investigation, Mohali) under DGP (Sidharth) Chattopadhaya, was misused to conspire against us and an FIR was lodged on frivolous grounds. This was the second FIR that was lodged in this thana,” he said.He said the police officers and Congress leaders involved in registering fake FIRs would not be spared once the SAD-BSP government came to power.  "We will fight legal battle against it, reinvestigate and the 'guilty' police officials would be dismissed for registering a fake FIR,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-calls-fir-against-majithia-as-state-governments-panic-reaction-ahead-of-polls-352933
22-12-2021||---||Former Punjab minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi quits Congress, joins BJP||New Delhi, December 21Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former minister and a loyalist of Punjan ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday joined the BJP after quitting the Congress.The Guru Har Sahai MLA joined the saffron party in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Bhupender Yadav.Accusing the Congress of putting the state’s “security and communal harmony at stake”, Sodhi said “there is a grave danger to peace and communal harmony in the border state”.“Only Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP can save Punjab,” he said.I cannot accept Punjab’s suffocation and helplessness! Congress party has put state’s security & communal harmony at stake.With deep agony, I put forth my resignation from all posts & primary membership of Congress party with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/a53RhxLFk8  The BJP has announced a tie-up with Amarinder Singh’s party, the Punjab Lok Congress.The sitting MLA was dropped from the Cabinet after the ouster of Amarinder Singh.He is expected to contest the assembly election from Ferozepur, say sources.Earlier, he tweeted, “I cannot accept Punjab’s suffocation and helplessness! Congress party has put state’s security and communal harmony at stake. With deep agony, I put forth my resignation from all posts and primary membership of Congress party with immediate effect.”In his resignation letter to AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, Sodhi said, “I have been hand-picked by our illustrious leader late Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji to contest my first election to the Punjab State Assembly from Guru Har Sahai Assembly Constituency in Ferozepur district in 1985.“I have all through been a hardcore worker of the party with unflinching loyalty through the thick and thin. I have contested and won Punjab Assembly elections from Guru Har Sahai constituency consecutively four times from 2002 till date.“l am deeply hurt by the bickering and infighting within the Punjab Congress. This is damaging the party as well as causing serious problems for the state and the government.“I feel suffocated and helpless in the present situation, especially when the party has put state’s security and communal harmony at stake. Rather than taking action to restore peace in Punjab, the senior Congress leadership is hell bent on destroying the border state for their personal gains.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-sikander-maluka-and-congress-leader-rana-sodhi-likely-to-join-bjp-today-352917
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akali leader Bikram Majithia booked in drugs case||Punjab Police have booked former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Also read: 'Vendetta politics', former CM Parkash Singh Badal on FIR against Bikram MajithiaBikram Majithia faces big challenge of proving allegations wrongA copy of the FIR with The Tribune states that Majihtia has been booked for knowingly allowing drug smuggling through use of his property or conveyance, financing the distribution or sale of drugs and hatching a criminal conspiracy for smuggling.While Majithia is not available for comment, Shiromani Akali Dal patron Parkash Singh Badal termed the registration of the case as the worst example of political vendetta. “We have been airing our fears about such a vendetta. We will fight the injustice,” he said while talking to reporters in Muktsar.State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu announced on Twitter that a case had been registered at the crime branch police station.After 5.5 Years of fight against Corrupt System run by Badal Family & Captain and delay of 4 years without action taken on ED & STF Report against Majithia. Finally now, after pushing for credible officers in positions of power and influence first step has been taken !!  An FIR has been registered in Punjab Police Crime Branch against the main culprits of Drug Trade on basis of February 2018 STF report, wherein i demanded this 4 years ago - It is a slap on the face of all those powerful who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab’s soul  Justice will not be served until main culprits behind Drug Mafia are given exemplary punishment, this is merely a first step, Will fight till punishment is given which acts as deterrent for generations. We must choose honest & righteous & shun drug traffickers & their protectors.  Sidhu did not take Majithia’s name but referred to four years of inaction against him in a series of tweets.Sidhu wrote: “An FIR has been registered in Punjab Police Crime Branch against the main culprits of Drug Trade on basis of February 2018 STF report, wherein i demanded this 4 years ago - It is a slap on the face of all those powerful who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab’s soul.”He also tweeted, “After 5.5 Years of fight against Corrupt System run by Badal Family & Captain and delay of 4 years without action taken on ED & STF Report against Majithia. Finally now, after pushing for credible officers in positions of power and influence first step has been taken!”Claiming the FIR was just one of the steps against drug mafia, Siidhu followed with another tweet, “Justice will not be served until main culprits behind Drug Mafia are given exemplary punishment, this is merely a first step, Will fight till punishment is given which acts as deterrent for generations. We must choose honest & righteous & shun drug traffickers & their protectors.”Sidhu’s tweet follows a night full of suspense over the FIR. The Tribune had exclusively reported that the government had finalised a probe into an alleged drugs smuggling case involving an ex-Akali minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-case-against-majithia-sidhu-tweets-victory-352913
