23-12-2021||New Delhi||Sonia holds meeting with Congress MPs from poll-bound Punjab||Congress president Sonia Gandhi held deliberations with the party MPs from Punjab on Thursday on the current political situation in the poll-bound state.Though the details of what transpired at the meeting were not known, it was convened on a day when a blast took place in the Ludhiana district court complex, killing one person.The meeting also comes in the wake of incidents of alleged sacrilege attempts at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and in Kapurthala, and the subsequent lynching of two men.Sources said former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, who is the Congress MP from Patiala, did not attend the meeting.It is learnt that Gandhi sought the opinion of the MPs on the party’s prospects in the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.The meeting was held at the Congress chief’s 10, Janpath residence. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonia-holds-meeting-with-congress-mps-from-poll-bound-punjab-353697
23-12-2021||Mohali||NIA files chargesheet in case of targeted killing of Dera follower by Khalistan Tiger Force operatives||The NIA filed a chargesheet on Thursday against four men for their alleged involvement in the killing of Manohar Lal, a follower of Dera Sacha Sauda, by Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operatives, an official said on Thursday.The chargesheet was filed before a special court in Mohali under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Arms Act against Kamaljeet Sharma of Moga, Ram Singh of Ferozepur, Arshdeep Singh of Moga, who is presently living in Canada, and Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Jalandhar, who is also living in Canada, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) official said.The case regarding the targeted killing of Lal by Sharma and Ram Singh was registered in Punjab in November last year, the official added.Nijjar, a self-styled chief of the KTF and a designated terrorist, along with his associate Arshdeep Singh, had formed a terrorist gang and recruited gangsters Sharma, Ram Singh and others for extorting money from businessmen in Punjab and carry out targeted killings to disturb the communal harmony in the state, the official said, adding that further investigation in the case is on. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-chargesheet-in-case-of-targeted-killing-of-dera-follower-by-khalistan-tiger-force-operatives-353693
23-12-2021||Ludhiana||Channi’s laxity and Sidhu’s love for Pakistan responsible for Ludhiana attack: Sirsa||BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Thursday strongly condemned the Ludhiana terror attack and said laxity on part of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s love for Pakistan were directly responsible for this attack.In a strong worded statement released here, Sirsa said it was shocking to see that the CM is linking the attack with elections and claiming that blast took place to divert attention from the drugs case.He said this is highly irresponsible and shameful statement from a person who has responsibility of ensuring safety of people and state.He said Channi should tell people if this blast was a result of intelligence failure or he was pursuing Congress party agenda of 1980s to push Punjab in black era when Congress benefitted from black days and got power while thousands of innocent lives were lost in that era.Sirsa said people of Punjab were in shock due to the Ludhiana blast and were surprised to see their CM performing Bhangra on stage and Sidhu embracing Imran Khan.He said Channi should also tell people if he had prior information of such an attack and why no arrest was made and if not, was he sleeping.Sirsa further said that Punjab continues to suffer as the Congress government puts state’s security at risk. He also said that law and order situation was at its worst while Congress leaders and their CM were busy playing blame game.The BJP leader also shared deepest condolences with the families of those who lost their loved ones in the blast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channis-laxity-and-sidhus-love-for-pakistan-responsible-for-ludhiana-attack-sirsa-353692
23-12-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP aims for bigger role in Punjab, PM Modi expected to launch poll campaign with mega announcements||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 23The BJP is expected to launch its Punjab campaign at a mega joint rally led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi “soon”, perhaps the beginning of next year, sources say.The Prime Minister, who today addressed a gathering in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi in a headgear interestingly resembling a “turban”, is also likely to make “big announcements” at his rally in Punjab—the state where his party is trying to emerge from the shadows of estranged former ally Akali Dal and come into its own.The rally will mark the point that the BJP is no longer the second fiddle to any party.There will be big announcements, along with schemes/projects specific for the state and its people, they add.“The Prime Minister has already given the biggest gift to farmers by rolling back the three farm legislations,” they say, adding that the new alliance with former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress will give the border state a “new lease of life, a new direction it deserves”.“The next government in Punjab will include the BJP,” leaders, here claim, adding that the saffron party is looking to contest around 70-odd seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly and emerge as the bigger player in the alliance.With the Akalis, who had parted ways in the wake of the now-repealed farm laws, the BJP had remained limited to 23 seats with the senior leadership openly acknowledging them as the big brother in the NDA alliance in Punjab.  “The BJP is aiming for a bigger role in Punjab. Not only urban voters, farmers and rural Punjab will also support us,” they claim. Meanwhile, the BJP is scouting for and gathering “winnable candidates” to contest in the state.After the former SAD leader and president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa, recently a loyalist of Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, joined the saffron party after quitting the Congress, accusing it of putting the state’s “security and communal harmony at stake”.Sodhi said “only Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP can save Punjab”.Security and communal harmony in the border state are expected to be among the top leads of the BJP’s narrative for upcoming Punjab elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-aims-for-bigger-role-in-punjab-pm-modi-expected-to-launch-poll-campaign-with-mega-announcements-353677
23-12-2021||New Delhi||Centre seeks detailed report from Punjab govt on Ludhiana blast||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday sent a communication to the Punjab government seeking a detailed report on the blast inside the district court complex in Ludhiana in which one person died and five were injured, officials said.In the communication, the MHA has asked the state government to send the report as early as possible, giving details of the incident, they added.It is also learnt that the MHA has asked the state government to inform it about the findings of the initial investigation and who could be possibly involved in the explosion.Reportedly one of the walls in the court complex got damaged and the windows of some vehicles parked in the premises were shattered due to the blast that took place on the second floor of the building.Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar is reported to have said the area has been sealed and forensic teams have been collecting samples from the blast site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-seeks-detailed-report-from-punjab-govt-on-ludhiana-blast-353670
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Fanboy Ammy Virk poses with stars of 1983; special screening for Anurag Thakur||Punjabi actor-singer Ammy Virk, who essays the role of Balwinder Sandhu in '83', has posted pictures of him with the heroes of the 1983 World Cup-winning squad and the film's lead actor Ranveer Singh.Ammy took to his Instagram and shared joyful pictures with Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Balwinder Sandhu, Krishnamachari Srikkanth, Mohinder Amarnath, Roger Binny and of course, Ranveer Singh. In the caption, he wrote: "My journey of 83 @83thefilm swipe right." Meanwhile, Sajid Nadiadwala, one of the film's co-producers, missed the special screening in Mumbai as he had left for Delhi to show the film to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, and Sports and Youth Affairs, Anurag Thakur, and officials of the ministry.The exclusive screening was attended by Thakur and Union Minister for Commerce and Industry, and Textiles and Consumer Affairs, Piyush Goel, along with 10 MPs and MLAs.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/fanboy-ammy-virk-poses-with-stars-of-1983-special-screening-for-anurag-thakur-353643
23-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjabi singers continue to come up with songs on farmers' victory||Three farm laws have been repealed by the Union government, but Punjabi singers continue to come up with revolutionary songs. Kanwar Grewal (35), a singer from a farmer family in Mehma Sawai village in Bathinda, who has actively engaged in the protest, has come up with a new song along with Navdeep. The song is titled Ave kiwe kho launge zameenan saadiyan (How can you snatch away our lands). In the video, they have showcased the agitation as the farmers marched towards Delhi.Also read: As the farmers won a sweet victory, their struggles have been captured in songs, movies and web series. On Farmers’ Day, here’s a quick checkAnother song by Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema Jadon mudan ge Punjab nu is a tribute to the difficulties endured by farmers during their year-long protest on Delhi border. He urges people to remember the sacrifice of farmers during the movement.Non-violent meansFateh Morcha (Winning the Front) by Virasat Sandhu is another song on farmers’ victory. This song talks about how farmers won the battle by non-violent means while standing up for their rights. Even singer Resham Singh Anmol has also come up with a song Jitke Punjab Challeya, which goes Teri hik ute likh zindabad chalaya ni tenu Dilliye (Punjab returns after writing Zindabad on your chest Delhi).Says Shingara Singh Mann, BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader, “The role played by Punjabi singers in the movement was ‘remarkable’; they injected life into the farmers’ movement. They were the lifeline of this struggle. Not only did they mobilise the youth, they even took an interest in serious talks on how to save farming. The Punjabi music industry took their support to the next level. From participating as volunteers at the protest sites to releasing songs for the protest, they did it all. These songs will make you want to dance on the beats and at the same time encourage you to join the protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/punjabi-singers-continue-to-come-up-with-songs-on-farmers-victory-353599
23-12-2021||---||Congress panel for Punjab polls to give ticket to only one member per family||Chandigarh, December 23The AICC-appointed screening committee for Punjab has decided to give the party ticket to only one member from a family.This was stated by Punjab Affairs in-charge Harish Choudhary.Punjab goes to polls early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aicc-appointed-screening-committee-for-punjab-decides-to-give-party-ticket-to-only-one-member-from-a-family-353602
23-12-2021||---||41 positive, Dhilwan school declared containment zone||Jalandhar, December 22Three more cases of Covid positive persons reported from Kapurthala on Wednesday. All three are from Army Public School, Dhilwan.The Kapurthala distrsict tally reached 18,907 on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases reported from the school has reached 41. On Tuesday, nine persons tested positive in Kapurthala, seven of which were from the school.Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala on Wednesday. The Kapurthala district toll remains 556.Five test +ve in JalandharFive new Covid cases were reported in the district today. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached 63,564 cases. As many as 62,028 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has reached 35. Of the 18,79,050 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,41,791 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,167 samples is yet awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/41-ve-dhilwan-school-declared-containment-zone-353577
23-12-2021||---||Leopard gets entangled in wire in Nurpur Bedi||Ropar, December 22A leopard got entangled in chainlink fencing of a farm in the Nurpur Bedi area today.Wildlife Department Range Officer Mohan Singh said they got information in this regard around 6 pm. On reaching the spot, it was found that an adult leopard was trying to get itself free from a chainlink wire in which its legs had got entangled.Senior officials were informed and a team experts was requisitioned to rescue the wild cat, he said.District Forest Officer (Wildlife) Dharamveer Dairu said it was an adult leopard and was agitated as its legs had got entangled in the wire and also due to the presence of a large number of people.A team of experts from the Chhatbir zoo was expected to reach late at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-gets-entangled-in-wire-353489
23-12-2021||New Delhi||Sukhbir Badal, Sunny Deol, nine other MPs skipped Parliament sittings||In all, 11 Lok Sabha members did not attend a single sitting of the winter session of Parliament, while six attended two or fewer sittings. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and actor Sunny Deol are among the 11 MPs who skipped the session that concluded on Wednesday. The reason for their absence is unknown.Ravneet Singh Bittu, chairman, Committee on Absence of Members from the Sittings of the House, said the panel did not receiv applications of leave from three of 11 absentees — Sukhbir, Deol and DMK’s TRVS Ramesh. Of the 11 absentee MPs, five were from the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sukhbir-sunny-nine-other-mps-skipped-sittings-353517
23-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Specify if sentences are to run concurrently: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22In a significant judgment that will change the way multiple sentences are awarded to the convicts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the trial courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to specify whether these will run concurrently or consecutively.“The court of first instance, while awarding multiple sentences of imprisonment in a trial, must specify in clear terms as to whether the sentences would run concurrently or consecutively and in case they were to run consecutively the order or sequence in which the same would run,” Justice Vikas Bahl asserted. The High Court Registrar-Judicial was also asked to circulate the judgment to all trial court judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Justice Bahl asserted Section 31 of the CrPC provided that the court had the power to sentence a person convicted in one trial for two or more offences to several punishments. The punishments, when consisting of imprisonment to commence one after the expiration of other, would be inflicted in such order as the court may direct, unless the court directed such punishments to run concurrently.Referring to Supreme Court judgments, Justice Bahl asserted the sentences would run consecutively where a person was convicted for two or more offences in a trial. But the sentence did not include life imprisonment and it was not specified that the sentences were to run concurrently.Justice Bahl added life sentences could not be directed to run consecutively and had to necessarily run concurrently in case of multiple life imprisonment sentences. This was because life imprisonment meant full span of one’s life. Such sentences would, however, be superimposed so that remission or commutation in one did not result in remission of the sentence in others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/specify-if-sentences-are-to-run-concurrently-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-353396
23-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Dhuri: Endless wait for railway underbridge||LOCATED between Sangrur and Ludhiana, rail and road connectivity has always been an advantage for the residents of Dhuri constituency. Still, many complain about the lack of basic amenities and a railway underbridge (RUB) has been a long-pending demand of city residents.With a list of achievements, local Congress MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy is gearing up for the forthcoming Assembly elections.“Things have improved, but still there are many villages where healthcare facilities are not up to the mark. The government should appoint heart and other specialist doctors at hospitals here as treatment in private facilities is costly,” said Gurmukh Singh, a resident of Dhuri.He said lack of RUB had been leading to serious problems for local residents. “Whenever a train passes by, there is a long traffic jam in the main market. Besides, lack of bus services from rural areas is another major issue locals have been facing,” he said.“There is usually a long traffic jam in the heart of the city. Since we have to cross the railway line as our shops are on the other side of the track, much of our time is wasted while waiting here. If we go through the other side, it takes longer,” said a local shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhuri-endless-wait-for-railway-underbridge-353397
23-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda Urban: Fund flow unable to end waterlogging||THE Bathinda Urban constituency has Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal as its representative in the Assembly due to which it received funds to the tune of Rs 400 crore and witnessed development in the past five years.However, shifting of the solid waste management plant, waterlogging and traffic jams at Hanuman and Fauji Chowks are the pending issues which irk residents.Waterlogging in low-lying areas during rains is a major issue in the Assembly segment as a brief spell of rain is enough to turn the city roads into pools. Work to resolve the issue has been initiated as a pipeline has been laid from Power House Road to the sludge carrier but residents feel much more could have been done on the issue.Manpreet said, “I have brought all-round development in the city. The solid waste management plant could not be shifted as the company went to an arbitrator panel demanding a claim of Rs 754 crore. Various measures have been taken to address the waterlogging issue in the city.” The SAD has given ticket to its former MLA Sarup Chand Singla from here while the AAP is yet to announce its candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-urban-fund-flow-unable-to-end-waterlogging-353398
23-12-2021||---||Have had enough, party turning back on me, says Harish Rawat||New Delhi, December 22In what could spell trouble for the Congress, veteran leader Harish Rawat on Wednesday posted a series of cryptic tweets baring his anxiety at the state of affairs in the party organisation.Also read: 'You reap what you sow': Capt Amarinder Singh's savage response to Harish Rawat tweetsIn veiled references to the Gandhis, Rawat said he had had enough and sought divine guidance out of the situation. “I have to swim in the sea of elections and the party organisation instead of supporting me is turning its back on me and playing a negative role in most places,” said Rawat, former Uttarakhand CM and the current party campaign chairman for the election-bound state.Rawat said the powers that be (read the Gandhis) in the organisation had “unleashed crocodiles in the ocean he was expected to cross”.“Representatives of the people on whose orders I have to swim across this sea of elections have tied my hands and feet. A thought is repeatedly occurring to me—Harish Rawat, you have had enough, it is time to rest,” said Rawat, who as AICC general secretary in charge oversaw the ouster of Capt Amarinder Singh.The Congress has not assured Rawat of chief ministership should the party win state elections due early next year. Rahul Gandhi is experimenting with gradual change of guard in major states as he did in poll-bound Punjab by ousting Amarinder and installing Channi as CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/have-had-enough-party-turning-back-on-me-says-harish-353509
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Seat-sharing parleys with BJP next week: Capt Amarinder Singh||Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the Punjab Lok Congress and BJP will have a common election manifesto for the 2022 Assembly poll.In an informal interaction with mediapersons at his Siswan farmhouse, the former CM said he had sent his manifesto to the BJP leadership, so that it could be included in the joint manifesto. On seat sharing with the BJP, he said winning prospects would be the sole criteria. “BJP Punjab incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be coming to Chandigarh next week to discuss the seat sharing,” said the former CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seat-sharing-parleys-with-bjp-next-week-capt-amarinder-singh-353399
23-12-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Golden Temple sacrilege suspect cremated||The suspect, who was “beaten to death” allegedly for attempting sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18 evening, was cremated after the post-mortem was conducted at the Civil Hospital today.Nonetheless, the DNA of the suspect was preserved for matching if anyone from the deceased’s family approached the authorities. Similarly, the viscera has been collected and will be sent to the Kharar forensic lab. The hospital management had constituted a five-member board which conducted the autopsy. The report will be sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, and the Kharar lab for further investigation. The whole process was videographed.With no claimant of the body emerging within 72 hours and the biometric technique failing to provide any lead to the police, mystery still shrouds about the identity of the accused. The SIT that was entrusted the task to identify the accused has so far not succeeded to establish the whereabouts of the accused, despite the lapse of two days as assured by Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on December 19. — TNSK’thala case: three days on, no autopsyKapurthala: Three days after the incident of lynching, the autopsy of the body is yet to be conducted. Hence, an FIR on murder charge has not been registered yet as the cause of death is not known. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-sacrilege-suspect-cremated-353400
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders Sukhpal Singh Khaira's medical examination||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered re-examination of former MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira by a medical board to be constituted by the PGI Director. Justice Sureshwar Thakur also directed the Patiala Central Jail Superintendent to deploy escorts along with the bail applicant-petitioner.The directions by Justice Thakur came on a petition filed against Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement, by Khaira through senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri with Zaheen Kaur. Justice Thakur observed the medical report on ailment besetting the petitioner-bail applicant placed before the court was authored by Patiala Central Jail Superintendent Shivraj Singh.But it was deemed fit and appropriate in the larger interest of justice that his medical condition be re-examined by a medical board. It would, after the examination, form an opinion whether his health condition had deteriorated due to critical ailments besetting him inside the jail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-sukhpal-singh-khairas-medical-examination-353401
23-12-2021||---||Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu attend screening panel meeting, discuss first list||Chandigarh, December 22Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi landed in Delhi late Wednesday evening to attend the crucial screening committee meeting, chaired by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken.The screening committee is meeting for the second time to finalise candidates for the 2022 Assembly elections. Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Punjab Affairs incharge Harish Chaudhry were also present in the meeting. The central election committee meeting is scheduled in the coming days. The first list of the candidates (said to be nearly 50) could be released soon.Meanwhile, Congress MPs, during a meeting of the campaign committee chaired by Sunil Jakhar today in Delhi, stressed the need for the CM and Sidhu to bring them on board.CM Channi did not attend the meeting as he was busy in a rally at Gidderbaha. Sidhu, who left for Delhi in the morning, also did not attend the meeting. It was pointed out that all party leaders were needed to be taken on board if the campaign was to be taken forward. This was the second meeting of the campaign committee chaired by Jakhar, a former PCC Chief. Today’s meeting was called to elicit views of the MPs. The issue of reining in the mafia and taking to task those behind the SC scholarship scam was not addressed.Sources said it was pointed out that instead of focusing on three months of achievements during the Channi government, the good works done during the past five years also needed to be talked about.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-navjot-singh-sidhu-attend-screening-panel-meeting-discuss-first-list-353402
23-12-2021||---||Vijay Inder Singla: Won't quit Congress, warns rumour-mongers of legal action||Sangrur, December 22Sangrur Congress MLA and Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday announced to take legal action against those spreading rumours about him joining the BJP. He accused his political opponents of creating confusion among voters.“I am a Congressman by birth and I will never leave the party and join the BJP. My political opponents have been spreading false information to confuse the voters. Since I have brought massive development to Sangrur constituency, other political parties do not have any issues against me,” said Singla.He said his team had been trying to trace the origin of all messages against him on the social media. He has also asked local Congress leaders to keep a watch over persons, who were sharing baseless information against him on the Internet.“Initially, I did not care as the Opposition had been trying to scuttle the development of Sangrur since the formation of our government in Punjab. But for the last some days, some persons are spreading various messages on the social media and claiming that I will join the BJP. It’s intolerable and all such persons will face legal action in the coming some days,” he said.Singla also shared a video on the social media to share his thoughts with the residents of his constituency.Barring Singla, no other Congress leader has come forward to clarify. Sources said the BJP was in talks with two former ministers — one from Malwa and the other from Doaba. The two could take their loyalist MLAs along.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vijay-inder-singla-wont-quit-congress-warns-rumour-mongers-of-legal-action-353403
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lookout notice against Bikram Singh Majithia; FIR points to sand, drug trade link||A day after lodging an FIR against former Akali Dal minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case, the Punjab Police today got a lookout circular (LOC) issued against him, even as sources close to him said he was unlikely to surrender.Also read: Proving charges wrong a big challenge for Bikram MajithiaMajithia FIR: Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal hand in glove with SAD, alleges Navjot SidhuCharanjit Singh Channi targets Arvind Kejriwal over apology to Bikram Singh MajithiaBikram Majithia was 'tipped off' on FIR, Deputy CM Randhawa orders probeThe circular means Majithia will not be allowed to leave the country. He will be reported if he uses any domestic or international airport or any means of public transport. A source close to Majithia said, “Why should he surrender? He will contest the case. He will soon apply for bail and come clean as he has been falsely implicated.” The FIR against the SAD leader mentions alleged overlapping of sand mining business and illicit drug trade in the state.Also read: Smugglers named in FIR against Bikram Majithia already freed: Akali DalCongress MLAs slam Capt Amarinder Singh, Raghav Chadha for statement on Majithia FIR Bikram Majithia case: Niranjan Singh meets DGP, STF chiefBikram Majithia case: Matter sub judice, won't comment, says BJP leader Ashwini SharmaSIT takes over probeOn trail of drug moneyIt says the probe against Majithia should also look into financial transactions and assets owned by his relatives, family members, his friends and business partners. Sources said the SIT constituted to further carry out the investigation would look into all aspects mentioned in the FIR. AIG (Crime) Balraj Singh heads the SIT, with DSP Kulwant Singh and Inspector Rajesh Kumar as its members.The wider ambit of the probe was recommended by anti-drug Special Task Force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in his report.It has talked about connection between those involved in sand mining and international drug smugglers. It noted that Majithia was involved in sand mining business when he was a minister in the SAD government. A number of alleged drug smugglers were also involved in sand mining possibly to cover their financial dealings in the drug trade.The FIR says, “It is necessary to examine the link between funds generated from sand mining and funds allegedly received by Majithia, Bittu Aulakh and others from smugglers.”Quoting the probe by the ED in the money laundering case, the FIR says, “On questioning, Jagjit Singh Chahal claimed Majithia was involved in sand mining along with Bittu Aulakh and Amarpal Ajnala whereas Aulakh claimed Majithia was in partnership with Kanwarjit Singh alias Rozy Barkandi of Muktsar.” The FIR notes that the ED had not questioned Majithia about the sand mining business. “The legality of Majithia allegedly indulging in sand mining business while being a minister from 2007 onwards is a significant issue and needs to be probed,” it reads.The STF report, as cited in the FIR, says, “The investigation will involve examination of financial transactions of close associates and family members of all those involved in the case to uncover whether their assets were acquired from genuine sources or are linked with the drug money.”Rejecting the charge, Muktsar MLA Rozy Barkandi said he or Majithia were never involved in sand mining. “The FIR and the status report mentioned our names on hearsay. These are all fabricated lies. Bikram, Ajnala and I have nothing to do with sand or drug trade,” he said. Ajnala could not be contacted.All lies: Muktsar MLAMuktsar MLA Rozy Barkandi denied he or Majithia were involved in sand mining. “The names are mentioned on hearsay. These are fabricated lies.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lookout-notice-against-majithia-fir-points-to-sand-drug-trade-link-353504
23-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Ranjit Singh Brahmpura to return to Akali Dal fold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22After parting ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) three years ago, several Taksali leaders led by former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura will again join the SAD in the coming days.Confirming the development, Brahmpura said he had acted on an appeal issued by Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh who asked all Panthic forces to unite under a single banner. He said for the Sikhs, Akal Takht was supreme, so he could not ignore his appeal.The Brahmpura faction, including Ujjagar Singh Badali, Mohinder Singh Hussainpur, Gopal Singh Jania, Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad and others welcomed the appeal. “We are born Akali and will stay Akali till the last breath. We are here to keep the Panthic thinking alive,” said Peer Mohammad.The real trouble between two stalwarts of SAD (Sanyukt) Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Ranjit Singh Brahmpura had started over the issue of forming alliance with the BJP. Brahmpura was consistently opposing Dhindsa faction’s plan to form an alliance with the saffron party.In 2018, Brahmpura had levelled serious allegations against the SAD leadership, including its president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia. Following that, he was expelled from the party. Soon after, Brahmpura along with several other leaders floated the Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali), which was later merged with the SAD (Sanyukt).Sources revealed that Brahmpura was in talks with the SAD leadership for the past several weeks and even the SAD had not announced a candidate from Khadoor Sahib. The seat was first represented by Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and later by his son Ravinder Singh Brahmpura.Dhindsa snubs takht jathedarSAD (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said the Akal Takht Jathedar should avoid indulging in politics directly. He said the Panth could never unite under the present leadership of Badals. He claimed Brahmpura was always keen to be ‘rehabilitated’ in the Badal-led SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ranjit-singh-brahmpura-to-return-to-akali-dal-fold-353404
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt employees threaten protest||Government employees have threatened to call a “bandh” on December 28-29, if the state government does not accede to their demands, including release of dearness allowance, removing anomalies in the sixth pay panel, regularisation of services of temporary/ contract employees etc.Sukhchain Khera, leader of Sanjha Mulazam Manch, said no work would be done in any government office on these two days. In case the government still did not accede to their demands, a meeting of all unions would be held on December 30 at Ludhiana to decide on the future course of action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-employees-threaten-protest-353405
23-12-2021||Mansa||Women, youth join farmers' stir in Mansa||Scores of women and youth participated in the farmers’ protest outside the office of the Mansa Deputy Commissioner on the third day of the agitation on Wednesday.Farmers have been demanding compensation for damaged cotton crop and financial aid for family members of farmers who died during the agitation against agricultural laws at Delhi borders.Farmer unions had started a five-day long protest that entered the third day today. The protesting farmers raised slogans against the state government and threatened that if their demands were not fulfilled on priority basis, then they would be forced to intensify their stir in the coming days.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, a farm union leader, said: “The state government must give compensation to farmers who have suffered losses due to cotton crop damage. Their debt must be waived, kin of those who committed suicide and of those who died during the Delhi stir must be given compensation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-youth-join-farmers-stir-in-mansa-353406
23-12-2021||---||No vaccination certificate, no pay: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, December 22The state government today said the employees would have to give details of their vaccination against Covid for being paid their salary.In a letter issued today, by the state Finance Department, the government has asked its 3.50 lakh staff to produce their vaccination certificates and upload them on the Integrated Human Resource Management System portal for the employees.These certificates are to be uploaded on the iHRMS portal, which streamlines the release of salary to all employees. Instructions regarding the same have been issued to all heads of departments and senior officials in the state government. Employees have been asked to upload the certificate, even if they have received a single dose of the vaccine.“The vaccination certificate number has been linked to the salary module. In case the employees do not give their certificate number, their salary will not be calculated and accounted for,” say the directions.It may be noted that though there isn’t a huge spike in number of Covid cases, the number of active cases in the state has remained almost steady at around 300 for almost a month. Today, the number of active cases was 305, with 52 new cases. The positivity rate in Punjab is 0.21 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vaccination-certificate-no-pay-punjab-govt-353407
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs slam Capt Amarinder Singh, Raghav Chadha for statement on Majithia FIR||Congress MLAs today launched a scathing attack against former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and AAP leader Raghav Chadha for giving statements in favour of Bikram Majithia.PCC working president and MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLAs Darshan Singh Brar, Kulbir Singh Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra, Davinder Singh Ghubaya and Pritam Singh Kotbhai said the two seemed to be more eager than even Akalis to give clean chit to Majithia which clearly established the truck Capt Amarinder had with Akalis. They alleged the AAP was the ‘B’ team of the SAD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mlas-slam-capt-amarinder-singh-raghav-chadha-353408
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Smugglers named in FIR against Bikram Majithia already freed: Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal today said FIR against Bikram Majithia was false and wrong as most of the alleged smugglers mentioned as having links with him were already acquitted.Addressing a press conference here, SAD spokesman Parambans Singh Romana also accused the Congress government of using the “personal opinion” of a police officer who was related to Majithia and had an axe to grind with him to register an FIR against the latter.Romana demanded that inquiries done at the instance of the HC subsequent to the report submitted by STF head Harpreet Sidhu be made public.Sidhu had on earlier occasions denied this allegation. He said Majithia was a distant relative and this had no bearing on his professionalism. Romana also claimed that the trial in the case mentioned in the FIR — the Jagdish Bhola case — had ended in January 2019.“Even convictions were done in the case with Bhola and one Jagjit Chahal being convicted even as the third accused, Bittu Aulakh, was acquitted,” he said, adding: “Despite this factual position, Sidhu’s report stated that Aulakh was instrumental in making the accused persons meet Majithia.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-smugglers-named-in-fir-already-freed-353409
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia case: Niranjan Singh meets DGP, STF chief||Former Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate Niranjan Singh, who had inquired into financial aspects of drugs smuggling cases against former SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia, held a long meeting with Punjab DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and STF chief Harpreet Sidhu today.Also read: Case after 7 years, not enthused: ED ex-official Niranjan SinghThe meeting was held in the backdrop of a drugs smuggling case being registered against Majithia.Police sources said the meeting was informal. They said Niranjan was called by senior officers to get an update on the investigation and if there were any clues which could not be brought on record earlier for some reason. Niranjan reportedly discussed his findings in the case which he had started probing seven years ago at the time when summons were issued by him to Majithia on December 26, 2014.The sources said the DGP and the STF chief sought the former ED official’s support in strengthening the case against the Akali leader. They asked him about the contents of various reports that he had filed against Majithia and his accomplices, including Canadian NRIs Satpreet Sigh, alias Satta, Parminder Singh, alias Pindi, Amrinder Singh, alias Laddi and Jagjit Chahal.Niranjan is learnt to have told the officials that since he had retired, he was no longer in possession of the documents. However, he told Punjab Police officers about various reports on the related matters which he had submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and about those lying in the ED office in Jalandhar.The retired ED official has been maintaining that since the entire matter related to the allegations levelled by Jagdish Bhola could be built only upon questioning of the NRI trio, they should be extradited to India for proceeding in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/niranjan-singh-meets-dgp-stf-chief-353410
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Proving charges wrong a big challenge for Bikram Majithia||Booked for alleged involvement in the drug racket, senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Majithia faces the challenge of proving wrong the findings of the Special Task Force (STF) under Harpreet Singh Sidhu that implicated him directly for his role in the supply chain.Also read:Majithia FIR: Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal hand in glove with SAD, alleges Navjot SidhuCharanjit Singh Channi targets Arvind Kejriwal over apology to Bikram Singh MajithiaBikram Majithia was 'tipped off' on FIR, Deputy CM Randhawa orders probeBikram Majithia case: Niranjan Singh meets DGP, STF chiefBrother of former Union Cabinet Minister Harsimrat Badal and brother-in-law of ex-Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, Majithia forayed into the Punjab politics with his first election victory in 2007. He was subsequently elected in 2012 and 2017. His grandfather Surjit Singh was the Deputy Defence Minister in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. After he was elected the MLA for the first time in 2007, he took over reins of the youth brigade in the Majha region and made a special place for himself in controlling the party affairs. Sharing proximity with Sukhbir, he enjoyed major influence in the state administration, including the police.He emerged as the tallest SAD leader in his area taking over reins from the senior leaders Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Rattan Singh Ajnala, both of whom quit the party in 2018. — TNSBhola triggered trouble for sad leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proving-charges-wrong-a-big-challenge-353411
23-12-2021||Chandigarh/ Sultanpur Lodhi||Protests on agenda, meeting of SAD core committee today||The SAD is planning state-wide protests against the registration of a drugs smuggling case against the party's senior leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia.The party has called an emergency meeting of its core committee on Thursday to chalk out the strategy to deal with the case and plan systematic protests.Meanwhile, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the more the Congress tried to suppress them through vendetta politics, the more popular the Akali Dal would become. He claimed that people had seen through the Congress’ game and would never forgive it for wasting five years politicising the sensitive issue of sacrilege.Addressing a rally in support of Akali Dal candidate Capt Harminder Singh here, the SAD president said the party was not only fighting against the Congress in Punjab but also the central and AAP governments in Delhi. “Attempts are being made to weaken the party as well as Sikh institutions. This conspiracy won’t succeed. The people know that the Congress is raking up the issue of sacrilege as well as registering a false case against Bikram Singh Majithia to divert attention from its failures.”He said the Congress changed three DGPs and three Bureau of Investigation directors to implement its vendetta against the SAD. He said he would expose the false case both in the court as well as in front of the public. “We will take this corrupt and vengeful government to task,” he added. — TNSMajithia case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-on-agenda-meeting-of-sad-core-committee-today-353412
23-12-2021||Abohar||Bikram Majithia case: Matter sub judice, won't comment, says BJP leader Ashwini Sharma||State BJP president Ashwini Sharma today refused to comment on the case registered under the NDPS Act against former Cabinet Minister Bikram Majithia saying that the matter was sub judice. He said let the court take appropriate action as per the law.Talking to the media after presiding over party workers’ meeting here, Sharma said, “Due to the failure of the Punjab Government, incidents like sacrilege are increasing in the state.’’Claiming that an atmosphere was in favour of the saffron party across Punjab, he said in the upcoming Assembly elections BJP candidates would win. “Corruption-free governance will be given to Punjab by providing a strong government. The present dispensation has become just a government of pamphlets and threats, due to which there is an atmosphere of fear among the people of the state,” he said. Sharma said PM Narendra Modi had taken a big step for Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat by taking back the farm laws. “Such steps will give more strength to the Hindu-Sikh brotherhood in Punjab,” he said.ASHA workers, under the leadership of district president Santosh Rani and local president Anju Rani, submitted a memorandum to Sharma. The workers said they were getting only meagre honorarium for the past 14 years and it was difficult for them to survive with such a low income.“Even when 28,000 ASHA workers were on strike, none of the leaders had tried to give us justice. If this situation prevails, we will boycott Assembly polls,” they warned. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/matter-sub-judice-wont-comment-bjp-353413
23-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia was 'tipped off' on FIR, Deputy CM Randhawa orders probe||Chandigarh, December 22Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa has marked a probe into how Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia was tipped off about the FIR under the NDPS Act being lodged against him, thereby giving the investigating agency the slip. Raids are being conducted to arrest him.Also read: Lookout notice against Bikram Singh Majithia; FIR points to sand, drug trade linkAkali leader Bikram Majithia applies for bail before court of Mohali additional sessions judgeActed against akalisThere were hiccups, but we have acted against Akalis and are not defending them like Capt Amarinder, who seems to be speaking for Majithia more than the Akalis. SS Randhawa, Deputy CMTalking to The Tribune, the Home Minister said that as the menace of drugs was an important issue for the state, especially the cases of drug trafficking, he would go to the bottom of the case to know who was responsible for passing off information about the police action to the Akali leaders.“I have asked the DGP to probe the matter thoroughly,” he said, adding that action would be taken against former Bureau of Investigation chief SK Asthana in connection with the leakage of communication between him and the DGP. The department was studying the IPS conduct rules before initiating any further action.Crediting his government for registering the FIR against Majithia, the Deputy CM said the task would be completed once he was arrested and punished for his crime. “There were hiccups, but we have acted against Akalis and are not defending them like Capt Amarinder Singh, who seems to be speaking for Majithia more than the Akalis themselves,” he said.The Deputy Chief Minister said the party leaders had been saying for long that there was a friendly match between Capt Amarinder Singh and the Akalis and he did not act for four-and-a-half years on the STF drugs report. “Our intent was clear and we have acted despite having limited time. The cat is finally out of the bag. Facts are speaking for themselves,” he said, adding that the government was just acting on what the court had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-was-tipped-off-on-fir-deputy-cm-orders-probe-353414
23-12-2021||---||Charanjit Singh Channi targets Arvind Kejriwal over apology to Bikram Singh Majithia||Gidderbaha, December 22In the Congress rally at Doda village in Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s Gidderbaha Assembly segment today, the focus largely remained on two issues — drugs and sacrilege. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi warned the Badals that after drugs, he would act in sacrilege cases.Also read: Majithia FIR: Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal hand in glove with SAD, alleges Navjot SidhuAkali leader Bikram Majithia applies for bail before court of Mohali additional sessions judgeLookout notice against Bikram Singh Majithia; FIR points to sand, drug trade link“We have acted against drug trade and stepped towards solving the sacrilege cases too. During my tenure as the Leader of Opposition, I had said that sacrilege cases had a connection with Badals. Now, the probe is on and you will see the result. Akalis are now saying that the action against Majithia is taken under political vendetta. Even Capt Amarinder Singh is saying that it is a false case. It shows both are ‘chacha-bhatija’. We have acted on the orders of the High Court and the law is taking its own course,” said Channi in his public address.Taking a dig at AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said both Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann should apologise to Punjab for Kejriwal’s withdrawal of statement regarding Majithia’s involvement in the drug trade through a written apology. “Had Kejriwal not apologised to Majithia, Capt Amarinder Singh would have been forced to act against him. Now, Majithia is evading arrest but we have alerted all airports so that he can’t leave the country. I am surprised how Kejriwal comes to Punjab after apologising to Majithia,” said Channi.Earlier, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “I challenge Sukhbir Singh Badal to come to the stage to debate on issues. Sukhbir will now meet with same fate as his brother-in-law. Why is Majithia hiding now? He should come out if he is clean.”Later, Randhawa announced Rs 14.5 crore for the upgrade of the cattle feed factory at Gidderbaha. CM Channi announced Rs 5 crore for overall development of Gidderbaha and upgrade of the Doda hospital.Raja Warring asked the party leadership to give him a chance to take on the Badals in the poll fray. He also said his wife Amrita was also interested to contest the election. Warring said, “I challenge both Kejriwal and Sukhbir to make a common man CM this time, like the Congress.”Black flags shownA few contract employees, who had climbed atop a shed at the grain market in Doda village, showed black flags to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi during his public address on Wednesday. The CM asked police officials to bring them down and fix a meeting with them. He also appealed to the public to ignore them. National Health Mission employees and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union also lodged a protest near the rally venue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-targets-arvind-kejriwal-over-apology-to-bikram-singh-majithia-353415
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Developments show Navjot Singh Sidhu's clout growing||Recent developments suggest that the Congress is apparently positioning Navjot Sidhu as the CM face for the 2022 elections. Officially, the party high command has been stating that the election would be fought collectively under CM Channi as the Dalit face, PCC chief Sidhu as the Jat face and ex-PCC chief Sunil Jakhar as the Hindu face.Though the PCC chief has so far not issued any statement in this regard, his remarks that his earlier move to submit “resignation” had been justified also points that he was also positioning himself as the CM face. Sidhu has been speaking about his ‘Punjab model’ and saying that if given responsibility, he would steer Punjab out of crisis. The high command was desisting from declaring the CM face. Given the reports of the BJP and PLC trying to poach upon its leaders, the high command could be forced to re-strategise its strategy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/developments-show-navjot-singh-sidhus-clout-growing-353416
23-12-2021||---||Majithia FIR: Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal hand in glove with SAD, alleges Navjot Sidhu||Amritsar/Chandigarh, Dec 22PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today said his earlier move to submit his “resignation” against the appointment of former DGP, AG and for seeking action against Bikram Singh Majithia had been justified with the registration of a case under the NDPS Act against the Akali leader.Also read: Proving charges wrong a big challenge for Bikram MajithiaLookout notice against Bikram Singh Majithia; FIR points to sand, drug trade linkAkali leader Bikram Majithia applies for bail before court of Mohali additional sessions judgeCharanjit Singh Channi targets Arvind Kejriwal over apology to Bikram Singh MajithiaThe AG and the DGP have already been replaced.HC told Capt to actCapt befooled people by saying the drug report was with HC in a sealed cover. In 2018, the HC had handed it over to him and told him to take action, but in vain.Kejriwal exposedKejriwal had tendered an apology to Majithia in the defamation case filed by the latter. This has exposed his double standards. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefTaking on Capt Amarinder Singh, the PCC chief said: “Amarinder as CM, in connivance with the NDA government, shielded Majithia. He befooled the people of Punjab by wrongly saying that the drug investigation report was with the High Court in a sealed cover. In 2018, the High Court had handed over the report to him and had asked him to take action as per the law, but in vain.”He said Amarinder’s actions proved that he was in connivance with the NDA government (SAD was in alliance with the BJP then) while being the CM of Punjab and protected Majithia. This showed that he had taken a false oath to eradicate drug mafia just for political gains, Sidhu said.Hitting out at AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal for saying the FIR on the basis of the ED and STF report against Majithia was a political stunt indicating connivance with the SAD, Sidhu said: “Kejriwal had tendered an apology to Majithia in the defamation case filed by the latter. This has exposed his double standards.” He said it was a matter of investigation that owing to a deal between AAP and Akalis, Punjab Roadways buses were not being allowed to have lucrative routes between Punjab and the Delhi airport.He urged the people of Punjab to see through the smokescreen created by the AAP, Capt Amarinder and the NDA government, benefiting Majithia and with the intention of exploiting Punjab and its resources. He asked people to make an informed decision and help bring the change in the state that they wanted.He said he would stand by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi and had prioritised his stand for Punjab. He said his fight against the drug mafia, and for the economic, social, religious and core issues of Punjab would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-arvind-kejriwal-hand-in-glove-with-sad-navjot-sing-sidhu-353417
23-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala killing: 3 days on, no FIR, no autopsy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 22Three days after the incident of alleged lynching at the Nizampur village gurdwara, the FIR no. 305 under section 209-A registered at the police station Kotwali remains the only FIR filed in the case.The Kapurthala police await an autopsy report to ascertain the cause of the death. Hence, an FIR in the case of murder is yet to be registered.The victim, who appeared to be 21-22 year old, had entered the gurdwara in the wee hours of Sunday (December 19). He was apprehended by villagers and allegedly beaten to death after the gurdwara manager and workers suspected him of allegedly attempting sacrilege at the gurdwara. Villagers and representative of many Sikh organisations gathered on the spot after the video clips went viral.Ironically, even as the police have claimed that theft was the intention and sacrilege had not been established in the case, the formal FIR lodged on the issue is on the complaint of the villagers is on sections of sacrilege.While the police have been trying to trace the family of the youth, due to no leads received on the same today as well, the autopsy of the youth has been delayed for another day. His body has been lying in the mortuary of the civil hospital, Kapurthala, since the day of the incident.While couple of attempts have been made by people to claim the youth’s body, the boy’s connection with any of these families has not been established so far.Kapurthala SSP HPS Khakh said, “Another family from Ludhiana claimed the body of the youth today, but upon seeing his body they said he wasn’t their relative. The autopsy of the body hasn’t been conducted yet. The procedure will be conducted tomorrow. An new FIR can only be filed after ascertaining the cause of the death.”While the police had confirmed on Tuesday that biometric verification of the boy’s fingerprints was being conducted to ascertain his identity, there are no leads on that so far either.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-killing-3-days-on-no-fir-no-autopsy-353347
23-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'You reap what you sow': Capt Amarinder Singh's savage response to Harish Rawat tweets||Capt Amarinder Singh seems to be taking some satisfaction in his former party’s seemingly endless troubles.Hours after Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee general secretary formerly in charge of the party’s affairs in Punjab, tweeted his distress at the lack of support from the party’s high command, Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit Congress in November because of his differences with the party, said in a tweet: “You reap what you sow”.Harish Rawat alleges non-cooperation from Congress organisation, hints at quitting“All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any) @harishrawatcmuk ji,” Capt Amarinder Singh told his former party colleague.Rawat, the former chief minister of Uttarakhand, said in a series of tweets that he was unsatisfied with the going-ons in the party.“It is a strange predicament.  I have to swim in the sea of elections and the party organization instead of supporting me is turning it back on me and playing a negative role in most places,” said Rawat, the current party campaign chairman for the election-bound state, said in the first of his series of tweets."The powers that be have left crocodiles there. People on whose orders I have to swim, their nominees are tying up my hands and feet.”“Representatives of the people on whose orders I have to swim across this sea of elections have tied my hands and feet. A thought is repeatedly occurring to me – Harish Rawat, you have had enough, it is time to rest.”“Then again a voice in another corner of my heart says that I would neither beseech nor retreat. I am in a state of flux and confusion. Hopefully the New Year will show me direction. I am sure Lord Kedarnath will guide me out of this perplexity.”Constant turmoil within the Punjab Congress unit and an unending power tussle with his arch-rival Navjot Singh Sidhu, now the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, prompted Capt Amarinder Singh to step down as chief minister of Punjab in September. He followed this up by eventually pulling away with the Congress and launching his own party, the Punjab Lok Congress, which is now preparing to face next year’s Punjab assembly elections with once rivals Bharatiya Janata Party.Rawat was in charge of the Congress’s Punjab affairs at the time of Amarinder Singh's resignation and oversaw most of this year’s turmoil within the Punjab Congress. Rajasthan Congress leader Harish Chaudhary eventually replaced him. You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any) @harishrawatcmuk ji. https://t.co/6QfFkVt8ZO||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-reap-what-you-sow-capt-amarinder-singhs-savage-response-to-harish-rawat-tweets-353334
23-12-2021||GS Paul||'Unidentified' man who was 'beaten to death for sacrilege bid' at Golden Temple cremated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22The man who was ‘beaten to death’ allegedly for attempting sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18 evening was cremated after the post mortem was conducted at the Civil Hospital dead house here on Wednesday.Nonetheless, the DNA of the accused was preserved so that if anyone from the deceased’s family approaches, the genetic instructions could be matched. Similarly, the viscera has been collected which would be sent to the Kharar forensic lab.The hospital management had constituted a five-member doctors’ board which conducted the autopsy, the report of which would be sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar and Kharar lab for further investigation. The whole process was videographed.With no claimant of the body emerged within 72 hours and the biometric technique failed to provide any lead to the police, mystery still shrouds about the identity of the accused.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) that was entrusted the task to identify the accused has so far could not succeed to establish the whereabouts of the accused, despite the lapse of two days as assured by the Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on December 19.The accused never carried any ID proof, mobile phone or any relevant document that could establish his identity. The biometric methodology too failed to yield result as the finger prints never matched the Aadhaar Card database and police records.SIT Head DCP (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal had stated that the police teams were on the job to locate the movement of the accused who was present in and around the Golden Temple, a day prior to committing sacrilege.The CCTV footage procured from the shrine and the markets around it, apart from the Inter-State Bus Terminus and Railway Station, were being scrutinised minutely. He had entered the shrine complex multiple times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unidentified-man-who-was-beaten-to-death-for-sacrilege-bid-at-golden-temple-cremated-353329
23-12-2021||New Delhi||Sukhbir Badal, Sunny Deol among 11 MPs who skipped Winter Session of Parliament||Absenteeism remained in news throughout the Winter Session of Parliament with records now showing that 11 Lok Sabha MPs did not attend any sitting while six attended two or lesser number of sittings.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and actor Sunny Deol are among 11 Lok Sabha MPs who skipped the Winter Session that concluded on Wednesday a day ahead of schedule.The session had 18 sittings over 24 days and commenced on November 29.The Lok Sabha Secretariat said the 11 MPs were granted leave after they applied for absence to the committee concerned.Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal and Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol are among MPs allowed leave.  Nine others who absented with permission of the Chair are BJP’s Sanjay Dhotre (due to illness), BSP’s Atul Rai (jail detention), SP’s Azam Khan (jail detention), former education minister and BJP member Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (illness), BJP’s Vijay Baghel (election in constituency), TMC’s Shishir Adhikari (illness), BJP’s V Srinivas Prasad (illness) and SKM’s Indra Subba (marriage).Of the 11 MPs absent from the session, five are from the BJP.Six MPs who attended the session for two or lesser number of days are BJP’s Bangaon (West Bengal) MP and MoS Shipping Shantanu Thakur; Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher (illness); BJP’s Basti (UP) MP Harish Dwivedi, JDU’s Bhagalpur (Bihar) MP Ajay Kumar Mandal; TMC’s Kolkata Dakshin MP Mala Roy and JDS’ Hassan (Karnataka) MP Prajwal Revanna.On December 21, at least 15 MPs were absent when Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla called out their names to ask queries listed against their name during the Question Hour.Leaders come when they have listed items or questions: Speaker on PMOn the Opposition’s concern that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not attend many sittings of the Winter Session of Parliament, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla today said, “Leaders attend when they have items or questions listed.”Congress deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi said, “The PM did not come to the House for several days.” PM Modi, Sonia, Shah attend last day of sessionPM Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi were present in the Lok Sabha on the last day of the Winter Session today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/sukhbir-badal-sunny-deol-among-11-mps-who-skipped-winter-session-of-parliament-353323
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid vaccine certificate, no salary, Punjab government tells its employees||Punjab government said its employees must produce vaccine certificates to get their salaries—a development that comes sees a new rise across the country.The state government has asked the employees to register their full or provisional vaccination certificate number with the state government’s human resources portal iHRMS.If they fail to do so, they will not be able to get their salaries, the government said in an order.The move is being seen as the state government’s attempt to encourage more and more employees to get themselves vaccinated against Covid as concerns escalate over the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron.In the order issued on Tuesday, the state finance department asked all senior officers, head of the departments, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and others to ensure compliance. According to the order, an arrangement for entering the Covid vaccination certificate number on the Integrated Human Resource Management System (iHRMS) portal has been made.Government employees should be informed that they should register the Covid vaccination certificate number of both doses with the iHRMS, said the order, adding if any employee has got one dose administered, he/she should register the number of the  provisional certificate.It also asked to link the Covid vaccination certificate number with the salary module so that in case an employee does not furnish information regarding vaccination, his/her salary is not released. The order comes as the threat from the highly transmissible Omicron variant looms worldwide and experts fear a new third wave of Covid-19 cases in India. The Omicron threat hangs over at a time when the deadly delta variant, which devastated the country, including Punjab, last summer, hasn’t yet abated.Punjab has shown no significant rise in cases, but health experts have advised caution, particularly with upcoming Christmas and New Year holidays.---With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vaccine-certificate-no-salaries-says-punjab-government-353312
23-12-2021||GS Paul||My recent resignation over top appointments has been justified, Navjot Sidhu reacts to case against Majithia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said his earlier move to submit his ‘resignation’ against top judicial, police and bureaucratic appointments in the state had been justified.Sidhu was reacting to the case registered against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia under the NDPS Act.Launching an attack on former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, Sidhu said, “Amarinder as CM, in connivance with the NDA government, shielded Majithia. He befooled the people of Punjab by wrongly saying that the drug investigation report was with the high court in a sealed cover; whereas in 2018, the high court had handed over the report to him and asked him to take action as per the law, but in vain. His actions were evident of him being in connivance with the NDA government (the SAD was in alliance with the BJP then) while being the CM of Punjab and giving protection to Majithia. This showed that he had taken a false oath to eradicate drug mafia just for political gains.”He alleged that during Amarinder’s government, honest and sincere officers were removed and tainted ones acted as his puppets. “I believe that my resignation has been justified today. Let the law take its own course,” he said.Sidhu said Kejriwal’s statement over the FIR on the basis of the ED and STF report against Majithia as a political stunt indicated his connivance with the SAD. “Kejriwal had tendered an apology to Majithia in the defamation case filed by the latter. This has exposed his double standards,” he said.He said it is a matter of investigation that owing to a deal between AAP and Akalis, Punjab Roadways buses are not being allowed to have lucrative routes between Punjab and the Delhi airport. He urged the people of Punjab to see through the smokescreen created by the AAP, Amarinder and the NDA government, benefiting Majithia and with the intention of exploiting Punjab and its resources. He asked the people of Punjab to make an informed decision and help bring the change in the state that they wanted.He said he would stand by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi till his last breath, and had prioritised his stand for Punjab. He said his fight against the drug mafia, and for the economic, social, religious and core issues of Punjab would continue.“For this, a ‘Punjab Model’ has been prepared and if I am given the responsibility by the party high command, I will offer such a roadmap that would steer Punjab out of crisis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/my-recent-resignation-over-top-appointments-has-been-justified-navjot-sidhu-reacts-to-case-against-majithia-353282
23-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Punjab Police issue lookout notice against Akali leader Bikram Majithia||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Punjab Police have asked the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to issue a lookout notice against ex-Akali Minister and NDPS accused Bikram Singh Majithia.The lookout notice would prevent Majithia from fleeing abroad.ADGP, Internal Security and Counter-Intelligence, in the note, said the notice would be in place till the Punjab Bureau of Investigation withdrew the alert.Majithia has been booked under the NDPS Act, triggering allegations of “political vendetta” from his party.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against him on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state.The report was filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018.Majithia (46) is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him.Meanwhile, it is learnt that the police are looking for Majithia to arrest him. A special investigation team led by Deputy Inspector General (Crime) has been formed in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-issue-lookout-notice-against-bikram-singh-majithi-353255
