24-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Sacrilege’ bids, bomb blast aimed at disturbing Punjab’s peace: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the alleged sacrilege attempts and the Ludhiana bomb blast are the handiwork of a few people wanting to disturb the state’s peace and such incidents will continue unless a strong government takes over.The Delhi Chief Minister, who is on a Punjab visit, promised to set up a separate police unit to protect all religious places and prevent sacrilege incidents.He also called the drug case lodged against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia a “political stunt”.A bomb had exploded in the Ludhiana district courts complex on Thursday, killing one and injuring six, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state.Police suspect that the man killed in the blast may have been trying to assemble or plant the explosive device.“A few days ago, there were cases of sacrilege. Now, there is a blast in Ludhiana. Such incidents before polls are being done under a conspiracy to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state. It is the handiwork of a few people,” Kejriwal told reporters in Amritsar.After landing at the Amritsar airport, he went straight to Gurdaspur to address a public meeting.He told reporters there that he has full faith in the people of Punjab and that they will defeat the nefarious designs of those trying to foment tension.Hitting out at the Punjab government, he said, “There is a weak government in Punjab. They (ruling party leaders) are fighting amongst themselves. Punjab needs an honest strong government, which acts against those indulging in conspiracies.”He said the person who “attempted sacrilege” at the Golden Temple must have been sent by someone influential to foment tension and that there has been several cases of sacrilege over the past five years.“Such incidents will keep taking place until a strong government takes over,” he said.Addressing a public meeting at Hanuman Chowk in Gurdaspur, the AAP leader said a separate police unit will be formed to protect all religious places so that desecration cases don’t take place in future.The AAP chief also slammed the Congress on the drug menace in the state, saying the government, during the previous election campaign, had promised to wipe out the mafia within a month of forming the government.“During five years, one FIR has been registered and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu are boasting about it,” he said in an apparent reference to the case lodged against Majithia.Kejriwal said a well-entrenched drug network existed in Punjab and powerful dealers were involved.When asked about Majithia, he said, “Just 10 days before polls are to be announced, they are boasting. It is only a political stunt.”The former minister was on Monday booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket.Kejriwal while addressed the public meeting gave “five guarantees” to people of the poll-bound state.He said if voted to power, his party will ensure security, law and order, peace and brotherhood of Punjab.“First, we will completely eliminate the corruption in police recruitment and transfers. Good, qualified and honest police officers will be appointed on high posts and unnecessary pressure and interference of MLAs, MPs, ministers and political parties in police work will be completely stopped,” said Kejriwal.Kejriwal assured justice in all cases of sacrilege and strict punishment to the culprits.He also promised to crush nefarious designs of the anti-national forces from across the border. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-bids-bomb-blast-aimed-at-disturbing-punjabs-peace-kejriwal-354061
24-12-2021||Ludhiana||Police identify Ludhiana bomb suspect as former cop||Investigators have identified the person behind Thursday’s bomb blast in Ludhiana’s court complex as a former cop, police said on Friday.Gagandeep Singh, who died in the blast on Thursday, was a former constable posted at Sadar police station in Khanna who was arrested with two others in August 2019 on drug charges. Police sources said he was dismissed from service after he was caught with 785 grams of heroin.READPolice sources privy to the development said police had found a phone at the blast site that helped them identify the suspect. A tattoo of a 'khanda'(religious symbol) affirmed his identity.  Ludhiana Police are working with Khanna Police on the case. It’s unknown at this point what his motives and targets were, sources said.Incidentally, Singh's case was to be heard in a courtroom on the first floor earlier Friday.Six people were wounded in the blast that killed the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-identify-ludhiana-bomb-suspect-say-former-cop-354059
24-12-2021||---||Keep mobile location on, High Court tells UAPA accused while granting bail||Chandigarh, December 24A woman facing allegations of posting about ‘Sikhs for Justice 2020 Referendum’ on her Facebook page has been granted regular bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on the condition of keeping the location of her phone on till the trial’s conclusion.Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal made it clear that the SHO of Jalandhar women police station would be informed and the petitioner would furnish her mobile number to the officer. She would not indulge in any illegal activity and appear before the SHO on the first Monday of every month till the trial’s conclusion.Justice Grewal took into consideration the fact that the woman, Deep Kaur, was in custody for more than two years and there was no likelihood of the trial being concluded soon. Besides this, she had three minor children, one of whom was under two and lodged with her in jail.The woman was seeking regular bail through counsel Simranjit Singh and Arnav Sood in an FIR registered at Rangar Nangal police station in Batala district on May 31, 2018, for attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 307, 438, 427, 148, 149 of the IPC and other provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Arms Act. Her counsel contended that the petitioner was not named in the FIR, wherein it is alleged that a wine shop was set on fire. She was arraigned as an accused on the statement of a co-accused.Justice Grewal added an audio recording of the petitioner in conversation with co-accused was alleged to be there. Its authenticity and evidentiary value would be determined at the trial. There was no reference to any act of violence actually committed by any of the accused or that any individual was harmed.Justice Grewal added the Supreme Court had held that long custody would be an essential factor while granting bail under the UAPA. Article 21 of the Constitution provided right to speedy trial and long period of incarceration would be a good ground to grant bail to an under-trial for an offence punishable under the UAPA. “It has also been held that the embargo under Section 43-D of the UAPA would not negate the powers of the Court to give effect to Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” Justice Grewal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-mobile-location-on-high-court-tells-uapa-accused-while-granting-bail-354049
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions that were part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha to contest Punjab Assembly elections||In a move that was expected for long, farmer unions that led the struggle against the three farm laws will be contesting the forthcoming assembly elections in Punjab.The unions are likely to contest the polls in alliance with Aam Aadmi Party.Information gathered by The Tribune shows that seven unions that were part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have decided to abstain from throwing their hat in the state’s political arena. These include Kirti Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU Krantikari, Doaba Sangharsh Committee, BKU Sidhupur, Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Jai Kisan Andolan. The other 25 unions that were part of the SKM will be contesting the polls.BKU Ugrahan, the largest farmer union in Punjab, was not a part of SKM, and had already said that they would not contest the polls.Inderjit Singh Kot Buddha, president of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, told The Tribune that his union will not be contesting the polls as they did not want to deviate from the core issues concerning farmers. “I told the other leaders that politics could become our weakness, hence we would not want to be a part of the political forum,” he said, adding that they would also not oppose the other unions who contest polls. Senior Vice-President of Kirti Kisan Union, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, told The Tribune that their union will be holding a meeting of its members on December 31, and based on their feedback, will take a final call, though as of now they had decided to stay away.Decisions regarding tapping their clout in the year-long morcha for taking a political plunge were finalised during a meeting of all 32 Kisan unions, held at Mullanpur near Ludhiana on Friday. Since seven unions have decided not to contest, they have reportedly urged the others not to use the banner of SKM for this political adventure. A meeting of the remaining 25 unions is learnt to be scheduled at Chandigarh on Saturday, where the decision will be announced.Farmer Union leaders told The Tribune that of the 32 unions represented by their leaders in today’s meeting, at least 13 unions were keen on forming a truck with Aam Aadmi Party. “AAP, which is in power in Delhi, had facilitated the farmer struggle on borders of Delhi, which is the basis of the new “love between the farmer leaders and the party,” a leader, present in the meeting and favouring the alliance told The Tribune. It may be mentioned that there has been much speculation of union leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Harmeet Singh Kadian contesting the poll on AAP ticket.Among other things discussed in on Friday’s meeting were the offer made by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to set up a memorial for martyred farmers, which the Unions want to be near Ludhiana. The Unions also discussed the auditing of all funds of SKM.Interestingly, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who formed his own political party last week, was also approached by two leaders of SKM, to jointly form a common Farmers Forum. However, the two sides could not come to a conclusion to contest the polls together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-that-were-part-of-skm-to-contest-punjab-assembly-elections-in-2022-354048
24-12-2021||Ludhiana||Rijiju visits Ludhiana court blast site, says Centre and state working together for in-depth probe||Union Law and Justice Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the Ludhiana district court rocked by a bomb blast a day earlier and said the Centre and the state will work together to ensure strong action against the domestic and foreign elements trying to spoil peace and harmony in the state as well as the country.Rijiju said central and state agencies are already conducting an in-depth probe into the incident.A bomb went off in the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, killing one person and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state.The police suspect that the man killed in the blast on the second-floor toilet was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device.Talking to reporters, Rijiju said he had spoken to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and it was decided that the central and state agencies will jointly probe the matter in depth and strong action will be taken against those behind the dastardly act.He said the main purpose of his visit was to assure the people of Ludhiana as well as Punjab that by launching a coordinated effort with the state government, this incident will be thoroughly probed.He said he also conveyed the empathy and support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the victims of the explosion and the people of Punjab.“The Centre and the state will work together and take strong action against those elements within the country and outside trying to spoil the peace and harmony of Punjab and the country,” he said.This is a serious incident, a sensitive issue, and the central and state governments will work with full coordination, he assured.The Centre and the state should have one voice on such sensitive issues, Rijiju said.In reply to a question that some political leaders in Punjab were speaking in different voices on this incident, Rijiju said, “It is unfortunate, we are responsible persons. We should speak responsibly.”         Politics should be the last resort, he added.He said the safety and security of the judiciary and judicial complexes is on top priority of the central government.On this issue, the minister said, many review committees are already in place and he would also speak with the Chief Justice of India.Rijiju was accompanied by Union Minister of State Som Prakash and National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairperson Vijay Sampla. They also visited the hospital and met those injured in the blast.Rijiju also held an interaction with the District and Sessions Judge and lawyers.Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh earlier in the day, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his government has sought the Centre’s support to crack the blast case.Channi said he had spoken to Home Minister Amit Shah hours after the explosion and that the Centre has sent teams to Punjab to investigate the case.On Thursday, the chief minister had expressed his apprehension saying the explosion might have been an attempt to create “anarchy” in the state where assembly polls are due early next year. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rijiju-visits-ludhiana-court-blast-site-says-centre-and-state-working-together-for-in-depth-probe-354034
24-12-2021||---||Harbhajan Singh set for 'doosra' innings, may contest on Congress  ticket from Nakodar||Jalandhar, December 24As former India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh brings down the curtains on his 23-year career in cricket, political circles are abuzz that it could be the beginning of his next innings.Reports are that Bhajji, famous for his 'doosra' delivery, may contest on the Congress ticket from Nakodar in Jalandhar district in the coming Assembly elections.Also read: Harbhajan Singh announces retirement from cricket; says all good things come to an endThe news is doing the rounds ever since his recent meeting with PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu in Chandigarh.Harbhajan Singh announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Friday.  The feisty 41-year-old made his international debut in 1998 and played 103 tests, 236 one-day internationals and 28 Twenty20 internationals, taking 711 wickets across the three formats and winning the 2011 ODI World Cup and the 2007 T20I World Cup.He last played for India in a T20I in 2016, but has continued to play in the Indian Premier League, turning out for the Kolkata Knight Riders in three matches in the 2021 season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/harbhajan-singh-set-for-doosra-innings-may-contest-on-congress-ticket-from-nakodar-354014
24-12-2021||---||New PSPCL CMD vouches for cheap, uninterrupted power supply in Punjab||Patiala, December 24Soon after resuming charge as the chairman-cum-managing director of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Baldev Singh Sran said that he would work hard to provide cheaper and uninterrupted power to the people of the state.When Sran was reminded of the coal crisis, he said, “We have our own coal mine at the Pachhwara block in Jharkhand, and we can get cheaper and better-quality coal from there - to generate power. By operationalising this coal mine - which was not operating for long - Punjab can save around Rs 600 crore to Rs 700 crore annually. Consequently, the cost of power will be reduced and the consumers will get benefits thereof,” the new CMD said.The Supreme Court, in September this year had paved the way to re-operationalise the Pachhwara coal mine which can help save at least Rs 20p-30p per unit.He said that bringing in cheaper coal from Pachhwara was one of the priority areas he would work on. In the face of upcoming paddy season and the inability of Coal India Limited to meet the demand of the states, the re-operationalisation of the Pachhwara coal mines would be a boon to Punjab, say experts.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, who was present on the occasion, commenting on the cancellation of the power purchase agreements with the three IPPs, said the government had already made up its mind to take over one of the thermal plants, and passed a bill to renegotiate power tariffs with other two private thermal and several solar IPPs. The minister claimed that Punjab would once again be made power surplus.‘Disheartened over demand of choice postings’ Meanwhile, CMD Sran said that he was disheartened over the demands of the officers for choice postings. He said that many officers had already started to press him for postings of their choice even before he joined the office. “The same eagerness – as shown by some officers to get the postings of their choice – is not visible in the functioning of the department for solving issues of consumers. Our department is already notorious for corruption; therefore, we should work honestly to improve its image.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-pspcl-cmd-vouches-for-cheap-uninterrupted-power-supply-in-punjab-353996
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal slams Punjab's 'weak government' over sacrilege, drug cases||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday alleged a conspiracy behind the recent cases of sacrilege and explosion, and said the “weak government” ruling Punjab has failed to crack the whip.Also read: Centre's help sought in Ludhiana bomb blast case, says CM Charanjit ChanniPunjab Police arrest Kapurthala gurdwara manager for lynching incidentThe Delhi chief minister, who is on a visit to Punjab, also called the drug case against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia a “political stunt”.A bomb exploded in the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, killing one person and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state.Police suspect that the man killed in the blast may have been trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. “Few days ago, there were cases of sacrilege. Now, there is a blast in Ludhiana. Such incidents before polls are being done under a conspiracy to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state. It is the handiwork of a few people,” Kejriwal said during an interaction with reporters in Amritsar.He said he has full faith in the people of Punjab and that they will defeat the nefarious designs of those trying to foment tension.Hitting out at the Channni-led dispensation, he said, “There is a weak government in Punjab. They (ruling party leaders) are fighting amongst themselves. Punjab needs an honest strong government which can act against those indulging in conspiracies.”     He said the person who attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple must  must have been sent by someone influential to foment tension and that there were several cases of sacrilege over the last five years.    “Such incidents will keep taking place until a strong government takes over,” he said.He promised an honest, strong and stable government that will bring the culprits to book.The AAP chief also slammed the Congress on the drug menace in the state saying the government, during the previous poll campaign, had promised to wipe out the mafia within a month of forming the government."During five years, one FIR is registered and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu are boasting about it," he said.Kejriwal said a well entrenched drug network existed in Punjab powerful  dealers were involved. When asked about Majithia, he said, “Just 10 days before polls are to be announced, they are boasting. It is only a political stunt,” he said.The former minister was on Monday booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-slams-punjabs-weak-government-over-sacrilege-drugs-cases-353988
24-12-2021||New Delhi||Modi to address Gurpurab celebrations in Gujarat's Kutch on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak at Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara in Kutch, Gujarat, on Saturday via video-conferencing, his office said.Every year from December 23 to December 25, Sikhs in Gujarat celebrate the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak at Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara, it said, noting that the first Sikh guru had stayed at Lakhpat during the course of his travels.Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara has his relics, including wooden footwear and palki (cradle) as well as manuscripts and marking scripts of Gurmukhi.The PMO noted that the gurdwara had suffered damage during the 2001 earthquake, and Modi, the then chief minister, had undertaken urgent measures to ensure its repair."This step showed the deep reverence of the Prime Minister for the faith, as also reflected in multiple recent endeavours, including the celebrations of 550th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, 350th Parkash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, and 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Tegh Bahadur," the PMO said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modi-to-address-gurpurab-celebrations-in-gujarats-kutch-on-saturday-353987
24-12-2021||---||Centre's help sought in Ludhiana bomb blast case, says CM Charanjit Channi||Chandigarh, December 24Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said his government had sought the Centre's support to crack the bomb explosion case that rocked the Ludhiana court premises.Also read: Arvind Kejriwal slams Punjab's 'weak government' over sacrilege, drug casesChanni said he had spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah hours after the explosion and that the Centre had dispensed teams to Punjab to investigate the case.A bomb went off in the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, killing a man and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state.Police suspect that the man killed in the blast on the second-floor toilet was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device.The chief minister denied intelligence failure saying, “There is no such thing. We are alert.”On Thursday, the chief minister had expressed apprehension saying the explosion might have been an attempt to create “anarchy” in the poll-bound state.Later at a public meeting in Ludhiana's Mullanpur Dakha, he sought to draw a parallel between the registration of an FIR against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the blast and the alleged sacrilege bids in the last few days.On the desecration row, he said the government was mulling over registering a murder case after a man, charged with sacrilege attempt at a gurdwara in Kapurthala, was lynched."We did not find any sacrilege attempt or any evidence to back it. One person ran the gurdwara. This thing has moved to murder and an inquiry is on,” Channi said.“The FIR (already registered in the case) will be amended,” he said.About 30 injuries, mostly sharp cuts likely to have been inflicted by swords, were found on the man's body, according to the postmortem report.The lynching took place on Sunday, a day after a similar incident occurred at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, where a man was killed over an alleged desecration bid. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-speaks-to-amit-shah-says-man-who-died-in-ludhiana-blast-was-suspected-to-be-carrying-ied-353982
24-12-2021||GS Paul||Golden Temple sacrilege attempt: SIT on job to trace identity of accused||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 23The identity of the slain accused who attempted sacrilege in the Golden Temple on December 18 could not be ascertained yet.The SIT constituted by the state government under DCP (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal has regularly been scrutinising the movement of the accused through CCTV footage and interrogating local residents around the Golden Temple.A nightwatchman of Dharam Singh Market has recognised the accused and told the police that he slept in the varandah of the market on December 17 night with stray dogs and took an abandoned blanket over him.In one of the CCTV footage of December 17, he was spotted loitering in the streets near the Golden Temple and covered himself apparently with the same blanket.The same morning, he visited the Golden Temple and remained inside the complex all day long. The next day, he committed the sacrilege attempt at the shrine.Police officials said the CCTV footage of December 15 was also being procured from the ISBT and railway station to know the mode of transport he used to land here.The accused was cremated yesterday after the post-mortem was conducted under the supervision of a panel of doctors. Since his fingerprints did not match the biometric database, his DNA was procured to know about his genetic instructions, or any claimant approaches.He never carried any identification document, when he was caught and later was beaten to death allegedly by the sangat on the shrine complex. On the other hand, the SGPC has appealed the electronic media to refrain from the telecast of the video clip pertaining to the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple that occurred on December 18 evening.Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, additional secretary, SGPC, said the sentiments of the Sikh sangat (community) were being hurt every time after seeing the clips of the viral videos by the television channels during their debates related to the unfortunate incident of the sacrilege.“The repeat playing of clips by TV channels is hurting the minds of the Sikh community. The SGPC has no objection to the channels discussing this issue, but it is not appropriate to play the clips over and over again, as it is related to the sentiments of the sangat,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sit-on-job-to-trace-identity-of-accused-353930
24-12-2021||---||Conjoined twins Sohna-Mohna excited to get jobs in PSPCL||Amritsar, December 23Conjoined twins Sohna- Mohna have officially joined their jobs at Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). They have joined as Regular T Mate (RTM) and will be posted in city. The two today shared their excitement on working at PSPCL and finally achieving the dream of becoming self-reliant. “We are grateful to our family at Pingalwara that helped us live a life of dignity. We are looking forward to do well at our new job,” said Sohna. The twins are ward of Pingalwara and were approached by PSPCL officials, who wanted to recruit them given their qualifications. They have passed 10th from Bhagat Puran Singh Adarsh School and later did a diploma in electrician from ITI. They are currently also pursuing diploma from Government Polytechnic College. “Their job at PSPCL will further boost their confidence and hone their skills,” informed Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, Pingalwara. They will be getting a salary of Rs 20k initially.Recently, the two have also registered as separate voters by the Election Commission and also declared as an icon for young voters.Sohna and Mohna were brought to Pingalwara in 2003 after they were abandoned by their biological parents and the institution has ever since took care of their education and well-being. They thanked Pingalwara for everything that they have achieved together.Meanwhile, Dr Inderjit also shared that Pingalwara has raised the issue of orphaned children during pandemic and providing for them. “Many children have been orphaned in India due Covid 19, and they require care and education that must be arranged on priority by the respective governments. They should get admission in schools through special arrangement and reservation in job. The issue of providing for orphaned children was also raised by the Pingalwara in the last elections but no political leaders paid any attention to it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/twins-sohna-mohna-excited-to-get-jobs-353945
24-12-2021||Nitin Jain and Nikhil Bhardwaj||Man killed, 5 injured in blast at Ludhiana court; CM Channi orders high-level probe||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 23A man was killed and five others injured in a blast at the district courts complex here on Thursday.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said no one shall be allowed to disturb the hard earned peace of Punjab.He has announced free treatment for all five persons injured in a blast that took place in gents toilet on second floor of District Courts Complex. Besides, the CM has also ordered a high level probe to crack the case.The injured have been identified as: Sandeep Kaur (31), a resident of Raikot (Ludhiana), Sharanjit Kaur (25), resident of Jamalpur Ludhiana. Both are undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital Ludhiana.Manish Kumar (32), resident of Police Colony Jamalpur, Ludhiana, is undergoing treatment at CMC Ludhiana, Kuldeep Singh Mand (50) of Bindra Ban Road, Ludhiana, is undergoing treatment at DMC Ludhiana and Krishan Khanna (75) of Phase 1, Dugri, is also undergoing treatment at DMC Ludhiana.The blast took place in a toilet on the third floor in the old building around 12.25 pm. Two courtrooms are located near the toilet.The blast damaged the roof and walls of the toilet. Following the explosion, the bathroom grill fell on the vehicles parked on the ground floor.Hundreds of litigants with their attendants visit the court complex daily. Luckily, lawyers' chambers are located in the new building.While speaking to mediapersons, the CM said the intelligence agencies and Punjab Police is working on all theories and would soon crack this case.While terming it as an unfortunate incident, the CM said that prima facie, it seems that the deceased person was the perpetrator of this crime.He said that the body has not been removed from the site so that investigation and crime scene is not tempered with. He said a high-level probe has been ordered and all government agencies would unearth the truth in this case soon.He added that all five injured persons are out of danger and are undergoing treatment in different hospitals of the city. The CM has also announced free treatment of all the injured persons. Since lawyers were observing a strike on Thurday, there was not much footfall of litigants and their attendants at the court.Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured. @PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this.  The entire court complex was vacated, and the judges suspended their work.Channi, Sidhu, Amarinder, Kejriwal, Bittu condemn blast at Ludhiana court “I want to reiterate that we would not let any person disturb the hard earned peace and communal harmony of the state,” said the CM, while adding that they would soon unmask the agencies who want to disturb Punjab ahead of the Assembly elections.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar is leading the investigation as forensic experts and dog squads also reached the spot. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also reached the spot.A very horrific incident has happened in the Ludhiana district court complex. I request everyone to stay strong & safe while police investigates cause of the blast. It is very early to assess damage but i assure everyone we will do everything to get to the bottom of this incident  Commissioner Bhullar said the deceased was being identified to ascertain how and why he reached the blast spot.The use of IED in the blast is suspected.The District Administrative Complex was evacuated on directions of the Deputy Commissioner. All government offices in the district would be thoroughly checked, the DC said.After the CM and Deputy CM, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu also visited DMC and Civil Hospital in Ludhiana to meet those injured in the blast.All four adjoining six-storey buildings of the district courts complex have been cordoned off with heavy police force deployed there.The NIA has rushed a two-member team from Chandigarh to probe the incident.Channi said as the Assembly elections in the state were approaching, some anti-national elements were indulging in terror activities.“Since they failed to succeed in their nefarious designs while  committing the recent sacrilege incidents, they are now creating terror,” he said.Channi said stern action would be taken against those trying to disturb law and order in the state.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is a local MLA, suspected a suicide bomber behind the blast. He visited the spot.Meanwhile, a major security lapse has come to fore as entry and exit to district courts complex remained unchecked and free for all. Having multiple entrance points, around five, the old building of the district courts complex has no metal detectors working to check the entry of anti-social elements.Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa accompanied by DGP S Chattopadhyay visited the blast site and took stock of the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-in-blast-at-ludhiana-court-353636
24-12-2021||---||Ludhiana DC hands over Padma Shri to 'Gurmat Sangeet' legend Prof Kartar Singh||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 20On behalf of the President of India, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today handed over the prestigious Padma Shri to “Gurmat Sangeet” legend Prof Kartar Singh.Prof Kartar Singh was awarded Padma Shri for his immense contribution to the field of art. Owing to his health issues, he could not attend the function. Due to which, the Deputy Commissioner specially handed over the Padma Shri to Prof Kartar Singh, who is currently admitted to Hero DMC Heart Institute here.His family members — daughters Manjit Kaur and Sukhbir Kaur, sons Amarjit Singh and Amritpal Singh, daughter-in-law Amarjit Kaur and grandchildren — were also present on the occasion.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma specially congratulated Prof Kartar Singh and his family members for the award. He said Prof Kartar Singh has been awarded several prestigious honours for his contribution to Gurbani, which he has been practising since the age of 13 and has specialised in the popular classical music form of “tanti saaz”.Prof Kartar Singh is one of the “Gurmat Sangeet” legends, who pursued his career in teaching music.Expressing gratitude towards the government for recognising his services, his family members thanked the Deputy Commissioner for coming specially for handing over the prestigious Padma Shri.The Union Government had awarded him the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and Tagore Ratna Award for Music. He is also the recipient of the Punjab Government’s Shiromani Ragi Award and Punjabi University’s Gurmat Sangeet Senior fellowship. He was also conferred Sikh Lifetime Achievement Award in London (UK) on October 9, 2011, and was also nominated to the Top 100 Global Sikhs by the Sikh Directory in the UK.Prof Kartar Singh also has five books, with a total of over 40,000 copies, on “Gurmat Sangeet”, published by the SGPC, to his credit, while his two other books were under publication. Born at Ghummanke village in Lahore (Pakistan) on April 3, 1928, Prof Kartar Singh had done graduation and post-graduation in music (vocal and instrumental) from Panjab University, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-hands-over-padma-shri-to-gurmat-sangeet-legend-prof-kartar-singh-352837
24-12-2021||---||Ready to fight against Capt Amarinder Singh if party allows, says Raja Warring||Patiala, December 23Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today dared to fight against any of two former Chief Ministers—Capt Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal. Warring, who was in Samana town of the district to lay stone for beautification project of bus stand worth Rs 6.11 crore, said that he had earlier thought for fighting against SAD veteran Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi, however, he could also fight against Capt Amarinder Singh from his home turf Patiala. The minister, while addressing a public gathering, said, “Though, I was thinking of contesting against Parkash Singh Badal. But, if the party of mine asks me to fight against Capt, I am ready.”Slamming SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for threatening him (Warring) after he took action against his (Badal) private buses, Raja said: “Like CM, I also come from a simple family. After I impounded his buses, he (Sukhbir) started threatening me.”Warring said that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had been taking historical decisions that would benefit every member of the society. Samana Congress MLA Kaka Rajinder Singh was also present at the occasion.Visits NabhaEarlier in the day, Raja Warring visited Nabha town in Patiala district to lay the foundation stone of a new modern bus stand. Warring, who was accompanied by local Congress MLA Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, claimed that he had successfully been winding up the transport mafia in the state. Consequent upon that the daily income of the state transports buses— PRTC and Punbus— had already been seeing a rise, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ready-to-fight-against-capt-if-party-allows-says-warring-353892
24-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||One dead in Ludhiana court blast||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 23A high-intensity explosion in the district court complex here today left one person dead and six injured.CJI expresses shock, calls such attacks ‘worrisome trend’Read also:The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a detailed report from the state on the blast. In a communication to the Punjab Government, the MHA asked the state to send the report as early as possible, giving details of the initial investigation. That blast took place at 12.22 pm in the washroom of the second floor of the complex when the court was functioning.Big conspiracyAs Assembly polls are drawing near, some anti-national and anti-Punjab forces are trying to spread anarchy in state. — Charanjit Channi, CMEasy accessOld court complex has 12 entry points from where anyone can walk in without security check.2017 repeat?There was a blast at Maur Mandi days before the Punjab elections in 2017. Seven persons were killed.The incident occurred a few hours before the rally of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was scheduled at Mullanpur Dakha, 22 km from the city. The explosion was so powerful that the walls and the roof of the washroom collapsed and several windowpanes of the six-storeyed court building shattered. The record room adjoining the bathroom was also damaged while the staff working there had a miraculous escape.The explosion spread panic in the court complex where hundreds of people were present. The police evacuated and sealed the court complex as well as the nearby mini secretariat and Police Commissioner’s office. Besides Police Commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar, the anti-sabotage and forensic teams arrived at the spot. Later, NIA and NSG teams reached the spot to examine the site.ADGP (Intelligence) AS Rai said the deceased was yet to be identified. Terming the incident a major security lapse, he hinted at action against the persons looking after the security of the court complex. Asked if the deceased was carrying explosives or was a suicide bomber, Rai said the police were probing all angles. The injured have been identified as Sandeep Kaur (31), Gurpreet Kaur (35), Shranjit Kaur (25), Manish Kumar (32), Kuldeep Singh Mand (50) and Krishan Khanna (75), all from Ludhiana.Manish is a constable posted as naib court in the court complex, Kuldeep is an advocate and Sandeep Kaur runs a photostat counter in the complex. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was briefed about the blast later in the day, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-dead-in-ludhiana-court-blast-353805
24-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia moves court for anticipatory bail||Mohali, December 23Two days after Bikramjit Singh Majithia was booked in an NDPS case, the former Akali minister approached the Mohali district court for anticipatory bail on Thursday. Among other things, he claimed that “targeting” him was one of the major “election planks of the current government”.Also read: ED yet to quiz 18 NRIs in Jagdish Bhola drug case in which Bikram Majithia was also summonedNo word on Bikram Singh Majithia at SAD core panel meetBikram Majithia case: STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu appears before SITSIT records ADGP Sidhu’s statementSIT probing the drugs case against Majithia has recorded the statement of ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, on whose report the FIR was filed.Missing links in Bhola drug caseAfter hearing the arguments, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla called for the police record and adjourned the hearing for tomorrow. The bail application was filed by Majithia’s counsel Damanbir Singh Sobti, HS Dhanoa, Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Somnath Tayal. The State of Punjab was represented by district attorney Sanjeev Batra and Rakesh Goyal.Alleging vendetta, Majithia said the case against him was an election stunt as the Congress-led Punjab Government had been “day and night browbeating the officers” to register false cases against SAD’s senior leadership. “The government has changed three DGPs over the span of three months... Police officers have been coerced into falsely implicating the applicant/petitioner... Officers have been induced with promotions and plum postings,” the anticipatory bail application read.It was stated in the bail application that trials in certain cases registered under the NDPS Act had concluded with the acquittal of some accused and conviction of others. None of the accused in these cases had referred to Majithia in their statements before the court under Section 313 of the CrPC or in their defence. The only exception was Maninder Singh Aulakh, who took the defence that he was falsely implicated due to animosity with Majithia. Aulakh was acquitted by the trial court.The bail application raised questions about the acting DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyay, pointing out the latter had in 2003 registered a ‘false’ case against the Badal family. It further said he had been appointed acting DGP Chattopadhyay in place of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota to get Majithia booked in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-moves-court-for-anticipatory-bail-353806
24-12-2021||New Delhi||More trouble, Rahul Gandhi may meet Harish Rawat, Ganesh Godiyal||With Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal on Thursday saying like veteran Harish Rawat, he also felt neglected over the organisational matters, party leader Rahul Gandhi is expected to meet the dissident camp here on Friday.Sources said Rahul could meet Rawat and Godiyal to sort out problems riling the state unit with polls due in Uttarakhand early next year.After Rawat yesterday said he felt abandoned by the party leadership, Godiyal on Thursday said, “I have the same feelings as Rawat, but I hope my anxieties will be addressed by the party.” Rawat and Godiyal are learnt to be upset with the AICC state incharge Devendra Yadav. Further, Rawat is also looking for an assurance that he would be the CM face should the party win the 2022 elections. In a series of tweets yesterday, Rawat said he felt fatigued and wanted to rest but at the same time did not feel like retreating from the battlefield of elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/more-trouble-rahul-may-meet-rawat-godiyal-353807
24-12-2021||---||Punjab: Congress poll panel for one family, one ticket; first list of nominees soon||Chandigarh, December 23In a setback for Punjab Congress leaders who are planning to field their family members in the state Assembly elections, the AICC-appointed screening committee has decided to stick to “one family, one ticket” norm. Besides, there will be no swapping of seats between sitting legislators.Move may affect kin of many leadersA wider consensus on the matter was arrived at a meeting of the committee chaired by AICC general secretary Ajay Maken late last evening. PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu is learnt to have stressed upon the party top brass to stick to “one family, one ticket” norm.Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary told The Tribune that a decision in this regard had been taken.CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu were present in the meeting. Sources said clarity had been achieved on nearly 90 of the 117 seats.“The party conducted multiple surveys to work out the winnability of the aspirants. It is found that some ministers are in a comfortable winning position,” a leader said.The sources said after a meeting of the central election committee, expected next week, the first list of 30-35 candidates was likely to be announced. Another meeting of the screening panel will be held tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-poll-panel-for-one-family-one-ticket-first-list-of-nominees-soon-353811
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal on two-day Punjab visit from today||AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be on a two-day visit to Punjab from December 24. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today said during his visit, Kejriwal would attend party programmes in Gurdaspur on the first day, followed by an event in Amritsar the subsequent day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-on-two-day-punjab-visit-from-today-353727
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh Brahmpura back in Akali fold||As Taksali Akali leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura rejoined the SAD today, patriarch Parkash Singh Badal assumed prominence at the meetings of the crisis-ridden party.Badal, led the party in welcoming Brahmpura back into the fold. He also attended the party’s core committee meeting later. Party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said it was almost two years since ‘Badal Sahib’ had attended the core panel meeting. Badal’s health had remained an issue in the past.The Taksali leader and Badal had built their political career together. Brahmpura, who had left SAD alleging mishandling of sacrilege incidents and pardon to Dera Sacha Sauda, said: “I was on leave from my parent party for some time in the same manner in which a ‘fauji’ goes on leave for some time before rejoining his battalion.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ranjit-singh-brahmpura-back-in-akali-fold-353728
24-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Golden Temple sacrilege, Ludhiana blast plot to disturb peace: Navjot Singh Sidhu||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today said the sacrilege incidents and Ludhiana bomb blast were part of a conspiracy to disturb social fabric and terrorise and polarise one community. Addressing a public rally in support of sitting Congress MLA Gurpreet Singh GP here, he said the incidents had been carried out ahead of the Assembly elections to gain political mileage.He said the spirit of “Punjabiat” and communal harmony were so strong and well entrenched that the efforts of the agencies hostile to peace would fail.On party ticket, he clarified that one family would get one ticket in Punjab, as decided by the top brass. “All three MLAs from the district will recontest the elections,” he said, clearing all doubts about GP being the candidate again as the CM’s brother was also in the race.Lashing out at SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, he said if he was innocent, he should come forward and join the investigation. “He used to call himself “Jarnail of Majha” and now he has run away. None of the Congress leaders has run away like him as Sukhpal Khaira is facing trial and is in jail,” he said. — OCMeets Mohali MLA, discusses poll strategy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-blast-plot-to-disturb-peace-navjot-singh-sidhu-353729
24-12-2021||Jalandhar||ED yet to quiz 18 NRIs in Jagdish Bhola drug case in which Bikram Majithia was also summoned||Even as the Enforcement Directorate had chargesheeted five NRIs involved in the multi-crore Bhola drug case, in which it had also summoned SAD former minister Bikram Majithia, the investigation agency has been unable to question as many as 18 NRIs in the matter.Also read: No word on Bikram Singh Majithia at SAD core panel meetBikram Majithia case: STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu appears before SITOther than Canadian NRIs Satpreet Sigh, alias Satta; Parminder Singh, alias Pindi; and Amrinder Singh, alias Laddi, with whom Majithia’s links are being reported, there were 15 other NRIs as well against whom the ED officials had wanted to start investigation but they all had managed to flee to Canada.ED’s Deputy Director Niranjan Singh (now retired) had in 2018 even got initiated the process for extradition of these NRIs. The officer had reportedly got the details of these NRIs sent to the Canadian government seeking their deportation. The proceedings were moved through the ED headquarters in Delhi and then on via the Ministry of Home Affairs to the Ministry of External Affairs. The whole process took almost a year but nothing came out. Niranjan Singh had reportedly even sent direct summons to some NRIs after procuring their Canadian addresses. But this procedure too did not bring the desired results.Also read: Bikram Majithia case: Niranjan Singh meets DGP, STF chiefCase after 7 years, not enthused: ED ex-official Niranjan SinghThe chargesheets that the ED had submitted in the Bhola case had names of at least five NRIs, including Davinder Singh Nirwal, Money Gill, Anup Kahlon and Sukhraj. There were reports that 400 kg of ICE had been sent to Canada in a single consignment around 2013.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enforcement-directorate-yet-to-quiz-18-nris-in-jagdish-bhola-drug-case-353730
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia case: STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu appears before SIT||The special investigation team (SIT) into the drugs smuggling case against senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia has recorded the statement of ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, on whose report the FIR was lodged. Sidhu, who heads the STF against drugs, met the three-member team headed by AIG Balraj Singh and recorded his statement.He gave details of the preparation of the status report, the evidence and analysis of various drugs cases mentioned in his status report. — TNSAlso read: Bikram Majithia moves court for anticipatory bailNo word on Bikram Singh Majithia at SAD core panel meetED yet to quiz 18 NRIs in Jagdish Bhola drug case in which Bikram Majithia was also summoned||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stf-chief-harpreet-singh-sidhu-appears-before-sit-353731
24-12-2021||---||No word on Bikram Singh Majithia at SAD core panel meet||Chandigarh, December 23While SAD general secretary and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia is at the centre stage after being booked for alleged drugs smuggling, the party’s core-committee today did not discuss the case nor pass any resolution condemning it. The committee’s deliberations, decision and resolution establish the history of the party’s stand on any issue and its minutes are recorded. Today’s meeting was especially attended by party’s patriarch and five-time Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal after a long gap.Statement Already issuedThere was no need for the core committee to take up Majithia’s case, as party leaders have already issued statements regarding the false case registered against him. Daljeet Singh Cheema, Spokesperson, SADThe details given to the media about the meeting did not mention any discussion on Majithia. The press release said the core committee demanded a sitting judge of the High Court to monitor the probe into the recent cases of sacrilege.It said the party would hold a massive “Panthic Rosh Ikath” at Manji Sahib in the Sri Darbar Sahib complex in Amritsar on January 2 to protest police inaction in sacrilege cases. Party sources said till yesterday, the majority viewpoint was to stage massive protests in Chandigarh and Punjab against the registration of a drugs smuggling case against Majithia. However, the core committee did not deliberate on it. The press release said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal presided over the meeting, which was attended by party patron Parkash Singh Badal.Talking to mediapersons later, Sukhbir said the state government had failed to unravel the conspiracy behind such cases despite the fact that the SGPC handed over a person responsible for throwing the holy Gutka Sahib into the ‘sarovar’ at Sri Darbar Sahib on December 15 to the police.“Had this case been investigated properly, the ghastly event of December 18 in the sanctum sanctorum of Harmandar Sahib would have been averted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-word-on-bikram-singh-majithia-at-sad-core-panel-meet-353732
24-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala case: Multiple wounds, victim hit with sharp weapons: Autopsy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23At least 25 to 30 injuries, including deep wounds and cuts made by sharp-edged weapons, have been found on the body of the Kapurthala lynching victim. This was revealed after the autopsy of the youth was conducted today.A five-member medical board of doctors constituted by officiating SMO of the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, conducted the procedure. The body of the youth, who continues to remain unidentified, was later cremated in Kapurthala.Speaking to The Tribune, Dr Narinder Singh, officiating medical officer, Civil Hospital, said, “There are multiple wounds on the body of the deceased. A majority of the wounds were deep and caused by sharp-edged weapons. Some were also caused by blunt weapons. He had deep cuts on his head and neck and multiple stab wounds on his chest and limbs.”While a video of the youth surfacing after his death raised questions on whether he had any mental impairment, the doctor said this hadn’t been established in the autopsy.When questioned whether it had been established that it was a case of murder, the doctor said, “Yes, you can say that.” Dr Narinder Singh said the viscera reports of the youth had been sent to Kharar. Samples of his teeth, hair and blood had also been sent for DNA sampling. The doctor said the report would be submitted by the board to the Kapurthala police on Friday.SSP HPS Khakh said, “The body remains unidentified but we ensured that his DNA samples and fingerprints remain preserved. We await the autopsy report to file a formal FIR. The cause of the death will only be ascertained after the report arrives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-case-multiple-wounds-victim-hit-with-sharp-weapons-autopsy-353733
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||General Category Commission gets Punjab Cabinet approval||The Cabinet chaired by CM Charanjit Channi today approved setting up of Punjab State General Category Commission for unreserved classes.The commission would go a long way in safeguarding the interests of the unreserved classes, besides effective implementation of various welfare schemes for the benefit of the poor. The commission was a long-standing demand of employees belonging to general categories (unreserved classes) that their interests were not being protected and that the state government must constitute a commission on the pattern of Gujarat.Besides, the Cabinet gave a go-ahead for exemption of the Motor Vehicle Tax for Stage carriage buses (Big & Mini Buses) and Contract Carriage vehicles less than 16-seater vehicles, relieving the transport sector from financial loss. Various representations were received from private transporters through which they highlighted that rising diesel prices had further deteriorated their condition.The Cabinet also agreed to bring out OTS for chronic defaulters of dues of principal cost of industrial plots in different focal points developed by the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation/Punjab Infotech. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/general-category-commission-gets-cabinet-approval-353734
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM, Cabinet meet Governor, demand nod for 12 Bills||Faced with protests by contract staff and attack by the Opposition over delay in enactment of laws on important Bills passed by the Channi-led government, the Punjab Cabinet today met Governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking his consent to the Bills.Among the 12 Bills pending for clearance are ‘The Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill’ and another allowing the state government to terminate and re-determine power tariff paid to private power plants through power purchase agreements (PPAs).Contract employees have been on a warpath as time is running out with the model code of conduct expected soon. Also, the scrapping of PPAs with independent power producers is hanging fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-cabinet-meet-governor-demand-nod-for-12-bills-353735
24-12-2021||Amritsar||BJP's Punjab CM face 'only after polls'||The BJP will go into the polls solo without prior declaration of the chief ministerial face, but there will be ample scope for like-minded parties to join, said party’s poll incharge and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat while reviewing the organisational structure here today.He said after the repeal of the farm laws, the party’s prospects had brightened up in Punjab. He said they would follow the pattern of Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP had thrown the hat in the ring after 25 years without declaring the CM face.“It is a party tradition that whenever we contest for the first time or after an interval, we decide the CM face later. Who could have imagined before the 2017 polls that Yogi Adityanath could be the CM for UP? Similarly, in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis’ appointment as CM was declared post elections. It is the BJP’s parliamentary board that takes the final call on who would head the government. Same pattern will be adopted in Punjab,” he said.He said it was formally announced that the BJP would contest in collaboration with Capt Amarinder Singh’s party. “More such parties which would help contribute to the BJP’s vision to steer the state out of the drug menace, unemployment, mafia rule, etc. could join us soon,” he said. — TNSTo sound bugle with modi’s rally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-cm-face-only-after-polls-353736
24-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Seal assistant professors' hiring record: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23In a major embarrassment for the Punjab Government, the Punjab and Haryana HC today directed the sealing of entire record pertaining to the selection of assistant professors after directing the issuance of show-cause notices to the official respondents. They have been asked to explain why proceedings for committing contempt be not initiated against them.Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu asserted the official respondents had virtually gone on “a spree for public employment for the reasons best known to them”. The assertion came after senior counsel Gaurav Chopra contended the Bench had earlier restrained the respondents from proceeding with the matter. But the official respondents went on to issue posting orders in favour of candidates for assistant professor’s posts. To buttress his contentions, Chopra produced copy of an order dated December 22 passed by the Punjab Secretary, Department of Higher Education, for posting of 38 assistant professors in physical education. “A perusal of order dated December 22 reveals despite specific directions, the Secretary, Department of Higher Education, has issued the posting orders in favour of 38 candidates. Thus, prima facie, the action of official respondents seems to be in disregard of the directions issued by this court…,” Justice Sindhu asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seal-assistant-professors-hiring-record-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-353737
24-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||October 5 cut-off date for Punjab DGP, insists UPSC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23In trouble for officiating DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has in a communication to the Punjab Government, again insisted that October 5, 2021, was the cut-off date for setting the eligibility of officers as per the duration of service left.The UPSC communication dated December 22 to the government follows the postponement of the meeting scheduled for December 21 between officials of the commission and the government for shortlisting three officers for the post. The UPSC had postponed the meeting as the government insisted on taking September 30 as the cut-off date. For eligibility of empanelment, an officer should have minimum six months of service left. DGP Chattopadhyaya has exactly this duration of service left if September 30 date is finalised. He superannuates on March 31, 2022.UPSC undersecretary Ashok Prasad has in the latest letter to the Punjab Chief Secretary said the proposal submitted by the government to finalise September 30 as the cut-off date had again been examined in the Commission but this date was not justified. It said, “The state government vide their letter dated September 30 submitted the proposal for preparation of panel of officers for appointment of DGP. The proposal was examined and it was observed that ex-DGP Dinkar Gupta relinquished charge on October 5 and as such the vacancy had arisen on that date and not on September 30.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oct-5-cut-off-date-for-dgp-insists-upsc-353738
24-12-2021||---||Punjab CM's meeting with farm unions: No assurance on full debt waiver||Chandigarh, December 23The “incomplete” debt waiver and “tardy implementation” of the compensation policy to kin of farmers who die by suicide because of high indebtedness remained the sticking point between the government and leaders of 32 farmer unions today.Union leaders, upset with the government for holding a separate meeting with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) that delayed their own meeting, termed today’s meeting with the CM as “unsuccessful”. Though CM Charanjit Channi agreed to release Rs 1,200 crore funds to clear loans up to Rs 2 lakh under the existing debt waiver scheme for 1.09 lakh small and marginal farmers, having land up to 5 acres, union leaders were not impressed.“The total farm loan is Rs 1.40 lakh crore. The Congress had announced a complete debt waiver, from which they have back-tracked now. The issue of giving debt waiver to those who have availed loans (other than crop loans) from Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank too has not been touched upon,” Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda) told The Tribune. Harmeet Singh Kadian, president, BKU (Kadian), said they had come to meet the CM with hope of getting demands met, but the only thing they got were assurances.Buta Singh Burjgill, president, BKU (Dakaunda) raised the issue of job to kin of 700 farmers “martyred” during the stir, to which the government said they had received a list of 407 farmers, of which 152 had received job letters and another 17 were issued today.Meanwhile, AAP MLA and Kisan Wing state chief Kultar Sandhwan accused the CM of holding meetings as “mere formality”.Dharnas to continue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-union-meet-no-assurance-on-full-debt-waiver-353739
24-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Barnala: No major project in 5 years||BARNALA constituency voters believe that though their area has seen development of basic amenities, their preference to elect an Opposition party MLA delayed the pace of works.The area has received funds for laying of sewerage and water supply lines, construction of roads and other facilities, but has not seen any major project of the Punjab Government. In October, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni laid the foundation stone of a 300-bedded Government Superspeciality Hospital at Handiya here, but residents term it an election stunt.“Why didn’t the government lay the stone earlier? It is being done only to fool residents. The project will not be completed soon,” said Satnam Singh, an area resident from the Barnala bypass.Many areas of the city still face problems of drainage during rain while frequent traffic jams in various parts of the city is another major problem. Residents alleged despite the construction of a railway underbridge, there were many more areas where lack of traffic management caused long jams.“Barnala has big industry, which gives employment to thousands. The government should give attention to Barnala to help the industry flourish. But we have not seen any special initiative by the government,” said Jasmale Singh, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-no-major-project-in-5-years-353740
24-12-2021||Archit Watts||Lambi: VIP seat developed like no other||BEING the home turf of the Badals, this constituency is considered a VVIP constituency. It has given the Chief Minister to the state, some Cabinet ministers and some Union Ministers as well.This is a rural constituency, which shares its boundaries with neighbouring states of Rajasthan and Haryana. Locals say: “A large number of development works are carried out by Badal sahib, but no other village is developed like Badal village. Similarly, poor have become poorer and rich have become richer in this constituency. Earlier, Badal sahib regularly toured this constituency to get the ground report, but due to the Covid pandemic and his old age, he, too, has mostly remained indoors for the last about two years.”SAD activists claim that during the SAD government, no stone was left unturned for the development of this constituency. “A number of schools have been upgraded and infrastructure developed. Besides, some government-run educational and skill development institutes have been opened.” The leaders of other political parties, however, say a number of criminal cases were registered under vendetta politics during the previous Akali government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lambi-vip-seat-developed-like-no-other-353741
24-12-2021||Ludhiana||Have vital leads in Ludhiana blast case, says Police Commissioner||The Punjab Police late Thursday evening claimed laying hands on vital clues into the bomb blast incident in Ludhiana.Also read: 5 years on, no headway in Maur blast investigationLudhiana blast: Easy access from dozen entry pointsBid to destabilise Punjab, stay vigilant: Charanjit Singh ChanniAt courts across Punjab, security apparatus 'inadequate'“We have been able to trace vital clues after procuring technical evidence about the suspect(s) involved in the case,” Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar told The Tribune.He said the preliminary probe was suggesting that the lone person who was killed in the blast was suspected to be carrying or planting the explosive in the public toilet, when it exploded.The preliminary probe also hinted the use of passage meant for the lawyers by the suspect(s). “The lawyers’ entry and exit gates remain unmanned so that they may not face any inconvenience,” said the cops involved in the investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-vital-leads-in-case-says-police-commissioner-353742
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi jumping to conclusions: Capt Amarinder Singh||Reiterating his concern over challenges from across the border to peace, security and law and order in the state, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday hoped the police and other security agencies would closely coordinate with each other in investigating the Ludhiana blast.Condemning the blast, the former CM regretted the “diversionary tactics” used by the state government, particularly CM Charanjit Channi. “It is not only unfortunate but highly irresponsible on part of the CM to jump to conclusions by trying to construct a link between the blasts, sacrilege incidents and the FIR against an Akali leader without any investigations,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-jumping-to-conclusions-capt-amarinder-singh-353743
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: Law & order has collapsed in Punjab under Congress||The AAP condemned the blast in the Ludhiana court complex and questioned the Congress government on the “poor” law and order situation in the state.Also read:Bid to destabilise Punjab, stay vigilant: Charanjit Singh ChanniAt courts across Punjab, security apparatus 'inadequate'AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal expressed his condolences to the families of the deceased and said in a tweet, “First sacrilege, now blast. Some people want to disturb the peace in Punjab. 3 crore people of Punjab will not allow their plans to succeed. We have to hold each other’s hand.”Plan won’t succeedFirst sacrilege, now blast. Some people want to disturb the peace in Punjab. People of Punjab will not allow their plans to succeed. Arvind Kejriwal, AAP national convenerRaghav Chadha, co-incharge of Punjab affairs, said, “Incidents of sacrilege and bomb blast indicate a deep-rooted conspiracy. This is a complete failure of the state’s law and order under Chief Minsiter Channi. Praying for peace and harmony of Punjab.”AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann said, “There should be an investigation to catch the mastermind behind the attempts of sacrilege and blast.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-law-order-has-collapsed-under-cong-353744
24-12-2021||---||Ludhiana blast: Punjab and Haryana High Court calls for details of security measures||Chandigarh, December 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court — within hours of the blast in the Ludhiana courts complex — called for information from all district and sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on four counts.Also read: At courts across Punjab, security apparatus 'inadequate'The judges were asked to forward suggestions for “effective maintenance of security in the court complexes and residences.” In a communiqué, High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry asked all district and sessions judges to specify whether frisking of entrants to the court complex was carried out ‘regularly and at all times’, whether the CCTV cameras in the complexes were operational and if there were any shortcomings in the security arrangements. Justice Augustine George Masih, a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and inspecting Judge of the Ludhiana sessions division, also visited the Ludhiana courts complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-calls-for-details-of-security-measures-353745
24-12-2021||Muktsar/Patiala||At courts across Punjab, security apparatus 'inadequate'||After a bomb blast at the district courts complex in Ludhiana today, advocates in Muktsar have raised questions over the security arrangements and appealed to the authorities concerned to provide three-tier security.Also read: Ludhiana blast: Punjab and Haryana High Court calls for details of security measuresThey have also raised questions over the functioning of the police in controlling vehicle-lifting incidents at the courts complex. The advocates said though some metal detectors were installed at some places, their functioning was not satisfactory. A police vehicle is also stationed outside the courts complex, but the cops on duty hardly stop or frisk anyone, they claimed.Sarbjit Singh, SSP, Muktsar, said, “The Faridkot DIG today held a meeting to review the security arrangements and directed us to strengthen security arrangements at all public places.”In Patiala, officials at the court complex said a police party led by SP (City) visited the complex and took stock of the situation. The complex lacks CCTV cameras where hundreds of people visit for court hearings daily although cameras are installed in the corridors of the advocates’ chambers.Sukhjinder Singh, an advocate, said, “There is lack of proper checking at the complex. No security officials are deputed outside the courts as well.” He said a few incidents of thefts and damage to windows at the advocates’ chambers had also been reported in the past.In Gurdaspur, the police fortified security in and around the judicial complex which is located in the heart of the town. SSP Nanak Singh said a couple of quick response teams had been positioned at strategic points near the complex. — TNSSearch ops in Asr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-courts-across-punjab-security-apparatus-inadequate-353746
24-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||5 years on, no headway in Maur blast investigation||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 23Security at the court complex and district administration complex has been intensified in Bathinda after the court blast in Ludhiana today.A similar blast had occurred days before the 2017 Assembly elections at Maur Mandi, killing seven persons, but nearly five years have gone by and there is no headway in the probe. A special investigation team (SIT) headed by DIG Harjit Singh Kehra had claimed two persons had driven the explosive-laden car from Sirsa. An unexploded pressure cooker was found at the scene. Investigators later claimed they had found a possible link of the blast with the Dera Sacha Sauda and named three suspects — Gurtej Singh Kala, incharge of the workshop where the explosives were allegedly fitted into the car; Amrik Singh, a security guard of dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh; and Avtar Singh, a Kurukshetra electrician who allegedly helped fix the batteries used in the bomb.In May 2018, a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked for handing over the probe to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In October 2019, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked the state police to institute a new SIT for the investigation. The new team headed by ADGP Ishwar Singh began investigating dera’s alleged role in the incident. The SIT later named the three suspects in a chargesheet submitted in a Talwandi Sabo court.Naveen Singla, member of the Maur Bomb Blast Virodhi Sangharsh Committee, said: “The families that lost their loved ones in the car explosion on January 31, 2017, still await justice as the police are yet to arrest the three suspects involved in the case.”Two months ago, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, had levelled serious allegation against former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming the probe in the Maur case was hushed up during his tenure and had asked him to explain why the inquiry was halted.Dera role under lens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-years-on-no-headway-in-maur-blast-investigation-353747
24-12-2021||Chandigarh/Ludhiana||Bid to destabilise Punjab, stay vigilant: Charanjit Singh Channi||Terming the Ludhiana bomb blast incident as a shocking and dastardly act, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said forces inimical to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state would never succeed in their nefarious designs.Also read: Have vital leads in Ludhiana blast case, says Police CommissionerGolden Temple sacrilege, Ludhiana blast plot to disturb peace: Navjot Singh SidhuSunil Jakhar, Congress leaderReassure peoplePeople need to be assured of the government’s commitment to maintain peace. The CM cannot afford to be seen as floundering on this account.Condemning the unfortunate and tragic incident, Channi categorically said everybody knew it was the handiwork of those forces, as the Assembly polls were drawing nearer. He said, “It is the need of the hour to condemn such incidents in the harshest possible words by one and all.” Giving directions to police authorities to carry out a detailed investigation to get into the bottom of the “cowardly and inhuman act”, Channi reiterated his commitment to book the perpetrators of the heinous crime and give them an exemplary punishment.The CM also said prima facie, it seemed the deceased was the perpetrator of the crime. Meanwhile, addressing a rally in Ludhiana, the CM asked why sacrilege and blasts were happening just after Bikram Majithia was booked. “We are also probing this angle,” he said. In the evening, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also met the injured in various hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-destabilise-punjab-stay-vigilant-channi-353748
24-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana blast: 'Fearing building collapse, we rushed out'||Soon after the blast, judges attending courtrooms, lawyers present in chambers and visitors to the complex rushed out to save their lives.As the blast shook the building, it took time for many to realise the gravity of the situation. On hearing the sound, some felt it was an LPG cylinder explosion, while others suspected it to be a roof collapse.Loud noise shook everyoneA loud noise shook everyone, including the judge. Fearing the entire six-storey building would crumble, people ran out to save their lives. Davinder Sharma, eyewitnessDavinder Sharma, an eyewitness who was there for a hearing, said he was in the courtroom on the same floor when the blast occurred. “A loud noise shook everyone, including the judge,” he recalled.The judge and his staff vacated the courtroom and those present in the complex rushed out of the building. “Fearing the entire six-storey building would crumble, people ran out to save their lives,” he said.Advocate Harjot Singh, another eyewitness, said two women standing near the public toilet, where the blast occurred, were knocked off their feet and lost consciousness.“I was standing near chamber No. 209. The woman who owns a photocopy counter and another standing nearby fell to the ground. My colleague Kuldeep Singh was trapped under the debris of the washroom. We retrieved him and took him to hospital with head injuries,” he said. Smoke engulfed the floor for a few minutes, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-blast-fearing-building-collapse-we-rushed-out-353749
24-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana blast: Easy access from dozen entry points||The high-intensity blast on the second floor of the old court complex on Thursday has exposed chinks in security at the building.Also read: Have vital leads in Ludhiana blast case, says Police CommissionerLudhiana blast: 'Fearing building collapse, we rushed out'Bid to destabilise Punjab, stay vigilant: Charanjit Singh ChanniAt courts across Punjab, security apparatus 'inadequate'5 years on, no headway in Maur blast investigationAAP: Law & order has collapsed in Punjab under CongressPunjab CM Channi jumping to conclusions: Capt Amarinder SinghThis six-storey complex consists of courtrooms, restrooms for judges, cell for criminals, and around 1,500 lawyers’ chambers. Even the place where the blast took place had four courtrooms in the vicinity, two situated right next to the spot. The police have launched an investigation to fix the responsibility of the officials looking after the security of the complex.Staff were on StrikeThere was not much rush at the court due to a lawyers’ strike today. Around 30-40 people were present on the floor where the blast occurred. A lawyer at Ludhiana CourtThe complex had three main entrances where metal detectors were installed but no physical checking of anyone entering the complex is usually done. Apart from these gates, the complex has around a dozen entry points from where anyone can walk in without undergoing any security check. Lawyers even claimed these three metal detectors were non-functional most of the times.The lawyers said thousands of people visited the complex daily and the blast had exposed serious security lapse on part of the government. “There was not much rush at the court due to the lawyers’ strike today. Around 30-40 people were present on the floor where the blast occurred. Had there been fully functional courts, there would have been more casualties,” said a lawyer. Asked about the chinks in security, ADGP Intelligence AS Rai said a probe would be conducted on how the suspect entered the complex carrying explosives.Citing pending probe, he refused to comment about the kind of explosives used in the blast. “We will conduct a probe to find out how explosives reached the court premises. CCTV footage is also being scanned to get clues,” said Rai.Disturbing: GuvChandigarh: Expressing concern over the blast at the Ludhiana court, Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday called it “a very disturbing and unfortunate incident”. “I condemn this terrible act of violence,” he said, as he called upon people to maintain calm. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-blast-easy-access-from-dozen-entry-points-353750
24-12-2021||---||Probing Ludhiana blast and sacrilege incidents from angle of FIR against Majithia: Punjab CM Channi||Mullanpur Dakha (Ludhiana), December 23Drawing a parallel between the registration of an FIR against the SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and the bomb blast that rocked the Ludhiana city as well as the recent sacrilege incidents, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday questioned as to why such a horrendous incident took place only after Majithia was cornered by the law.Contending that there are some anti-Punjab forces who want to disrupt the peace of the state, he asked why all ‘beadbis’ (sacrilege) and blasts are happening just after Majithia was booked.“We are also probing this angle to the recent dastardly acts that have been perpetrated”, said the Chief Minister adding just a single case has forced Majithia to go incognito and if the Akali leader has done nothing wrong then he should come forward to face the law.Castigating Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia, CM Channi said both have destroyed the great legacy of a grand old party Shiromani Akali Dal and brought disrepute to SAD by indulging in drug trafficking and ‘bedadbi’ activities.Taking on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Chief Minister said Arvind Kejriwal apologised to Majithia in drug case whereas Kejriwal earlier sought votes during the last elections leveling charges of drug trafficking on the Akali leader. Now Bhagwant Mann and other AAP leaders should apologise to the people of the state for siding with alleged “drug smuggler” Majithia who has ruined the youth of Punjab by being the kingpin of drug trade, added the Chief Minister.After the rally, the Chief Minister inaugurated a bus stand at Mullanpur Dakha which has been named after Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha besides announcing Sub Division Status to Mullanpur Dakha, an ITI College for Latala, Rs 5 crore for the development works and Government Degree College for Sidhwan Bet.Appealing to the people to support Capt Sandeep Sandhu in the coming elections, Channi said that Capt Sandhu has made untiring efforts for the development of Dakha constituency despite losing byelection.Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu while addressing the gathering said the pro-people decisions taken and implemented by the Chief Minister in just three months were not taken during last four and half years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probing-ludhiana-blast-and-sacrilege-incidents-from-angle-of-fir-against-majithia-punjab-cm-channi-353664
24-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Man lynched in Kapurthala had about 30 cuts: Autopsy report; cops yet to register murder case||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23At least 25 to 30 injuries, including deep wounds and sharp cuts made by sharp-edged weapons, have been found on the body of the Kapurthala deceased. This was revealed after an autopsy of the youth was conducted. The officiating SMO also said it could be said murder had been established in the case.Four days after a youth was lynched to death by a mob following an alleged sacrilege attempt at the Nizampur Gurdwara on December 19, the autopsy of the youth was finally conducted today. A five-member medical board of doctors constituted by officiating SMO of the civil hospital, Kapurthala, conducted the procedure.The body of the youth, who continues to remain unidentified, was later cremated at Kapurthala.  Speaking to The Tribune, Dr Narinder Singh, officiating Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said, “There are multiple wounds on the body of the deceased in Nizampura Gurdwara incident. At least 25 to 30 injuries were there on the body. Majority of the wounds were deep and were caused by sharp-edged weapons. Some were also caused by blunt weapons. He had deepest cuts on his head and neck and multiple stab wounds on his chest and limbs.”When questioned whether it had been established that it was a case of murder, the doctor said, “Yes, you can say that.”  The doctor revealed there were key wounds in the neck. “The deep wound in the neck had also caused cuts in his windpipe, muscles and veins. He also had a deep cut on his right hip due to which the hip and the hip bone both were deeply cut. There was also a deep cut in his head which penetrated his brain. There were injuries in his lungs as well,” he said.While a video of the youth surfacing after his death also raised questions on whether he had any mental impairment, responding to queries regarding intellectual disabilty or mental retardation in the deceased, the doctor responded, that hadn’t been established in the autopsy.Dr Narinder Singh said the viscera samples of the youth had been sent to Kharar. Sample of his teeth, hair and blood have also been sent for DNA investigation.Dr Narinder added that the viscera report will ascertain if any toxins present in the body of the deceased at the time of death. The doctor added the report will be submitted by the board to the Kapurthala police on Friday.Kapurthala SSP HPS Khakh said, “The body of the youth remains unidentified but we had ensured that his DNA samples and his fingerprints will remain preserved with us in case a claimant turns up later. The autopsy was conducted today. We await the report of the autopsy to file a formal FIR. We expect the report by tomorrow. The cause of the death will only be ascertained after the report arrives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-lynched-in-kapurthala-had-about-30-cuts-autopsy-report-cops-yet-to-register-murder-case-353662
24-12-2021||---||Channi, Sidhu, Amarinder, Kejriwal, Bittu condemn blast at Ludhiana court||Chandigarh/Ludhiana, December 23CM Charanjit Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, former CM Captain Amarinder Singh, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leader Ravneet Bittu have condemned the blast in the Ludhiana court complex.Channi said as the Assembly elections in the state were approaching, some anti-national elements were indulging in terror activities.LIVE UPDATES: 2 killed, several hurt in blast at Ludhiana court“Since they failed to succeed in their nefarious designs while committing the recent sacrilege incidents, they are now creating terror,” he said.Channi said stern action would be taken against those trying to disturb law and order in the state.PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said there is a link between the sacrilege attempts and the bomb blast, intended to create polarisation of a specific community. Punjab stands united in this hour of crisis, he said.A very horrific incident has happened in the Ludhiana district court complex. I request everyone to stay strong & safe while police investigates cause of the blast. It is very early to assess damage but i assure everyone we will do everything to get to the bottom of this incident  Amarinder in a tweet said it was a disturbing news and he was saddened to know about the demise of two people in the blast.Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured. @PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this.  Kejriwal said some people wanted to destroy the peace in Punjab and the 3 crore people of Punjab would not let their nefarious designs succeed.पहले बेअदबी, अब ब्लास्ट। कुछ लोग पंजाब की शांति भंग करना चाहते हैं। पंजाब के 3 करोड़ लोग इनके मंसूबों को कामयाब नहीं होने देंगे। हमें एक दूसरे का हाथ पकड़ कर रखना हैख़बर सुनकर दुख हुआ, मृतकों के परिवार के साथ मेरी संवेदनाएँ एवं सभी घायलों के जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूँ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-sidhu-amarinder-kejriwal-bittu-condemn-blast-at-ludhiana-court-353651
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police question Kangana Ranaut on remarks about farmers' agitation||City police on Thursday recorded the statement of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for more than an hour in a case where she is accused of portraying the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as "Khalistani" movement.The actor arrived at the Khar police station around 11 am and left in the afternoon, an official said.Police recorded an over one-page-long statement, he added.Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said, "The next date before the High Court in our matter is January 25. We are confident that justice will be done."The members of a Sikh organisation had filed a complaint alleging that Ranaut, in an Instagram post, portrayed the farmers' protest against (now repealed) farm laws as a Khalistani movement.An FIR was registered against her for `deliberately hurting a community's religious sentiments' under IPC section 295-A.Ranaut has moved the HC seeking to quash the FIR. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/kangana-appears-before-mumbai-police-in-case-related-to-social-media-post-on-farmers-353629
24-12-2021||---||Akali leader Bikram Majithia's bail hearing on Friday||Chandigarh, December 23Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday applied for bail before the court of additional sessions judge, Mohali.The bail application hearing has been posted for Friday. Court of Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Singla has asked the Punjab Police to submit a record pertaining to the FIR against Majithia. Lawyers DS Sobti and HS Dhanoa are representing Majithia.Majithia in his bail plea said the ruling Congress in the state was indulging in witch-hunting.Praying for bail, he pleaded that the Congress had booked him in a false case to use it as an election plank.A lookout notice for Majithia was issued on Wednesday.Majithia was booked in a case under the NDPS Act.Majithia said, “In the run-up to the polls, witch-hunting of the political opponents has gone to its peak. The government has changed three DGPs over the span of three months. The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three departmental heads/directors change. Police officers have been forced and coerced to falsely implicate the applicant/petitioner or face transfers, charge-sheets and dire consequences. Officers have also been induced with promotions and plum postings if they toe the line of the government.”Also read: Lookout notice against Bikram Singh Majithia; FIR points to sand, drug trade linkProving charges wrong a big challenge for Bikram MajithiaMajithia FIR: Capt Amarinder, Arvind Kejriwal hand in glove with SAD, alleges Navjot SidhuCharanjit Singh Channi targets Arvind Kejriwal over apology to Bikram Singh MajithiaBikram Majithia was 'tipped off' on FIR, Deputy CM Randhawa orders probeBikram Majithia case: Niranjan Singh meets DGP, STF chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-bikram-majithia-applies-for-bail-before-court-of-mohali-additional-sessions-judge-353619
24-12-2021||---||Ranjit Singh Brahmpura rejoins Shiromani Akali Dal||Chandigarh, December 23Senior Akali leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura on Thursday rejoined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal visited Brahmpura’s residence in Sector 15, Chandigarh, in this context at noon.Big boost to Panthic jazba and force as experienced warhorse & stalwart Jathedar Ranjit Singh Ji Brahampura along with his entire team comes back to the Akali family. Panth and Punjab stand united today against devious religious and political onslaught against them.@Akali_Dal_ pic.twitter.com/qXItN7EqZS  Badal said the move by Brahmpura and his team would make the SAD strong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-akali-leader-ranjit-singh-brahmpura-to-rejoin-sad-353596
