25-12-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||Punjab govt to set up chair to undertake study on teachings of Lord Jesus||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said the state government will set up a chair to undertake extensive study and research on the teachings of Lord Jesus Christ and the holy Bible.He said this chair will be established in one of the universities in the state.Channi also extended warm greetings to people on the occasion of Christmas, according to a government statement.Addressing a function organised here to mark Christmas, Channi urged to people of all sections of the society for celebrating this pious occasion in unison.Channi said Christmas is a sacred occasion not only for Christians but for people of all religions and faiths.He said that Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated the path of peace, love, harmony and brotherhood a long time back, which is still relevant in contemporary times.Sacred occasions like Christmas further strengthen communal harmony and brotherhood, said Channi, adding that these religious celebrations also motivate society for the welfare of humanity.The Congress is a secular party, which always stands for the principle of equality, he said during the function organised by the Voice of Peace Ministry. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-set-up-chair-to-undertake-study-on-teachings-of-lord-jesus-354401
25-12-2021||New Delhi||BJP leader seeks Pak govt’s intervention against court order curbing sporting of ‘kirpans’||BJP’s national spokesperson R P Singh on Saturday sought the Pakistani government’s intervention to reverse a judicial order in that country which curbs Sikhs’ religious obligations to carry ‘kirpan’, on their persons.In a letter to the Pakistan high commissioner here, he said, “Peshawar High Court issued an order regarding the Kirpan Sahib and allowed possession of (Kirpan) Sri Sahib along with license under the 2012 Arms Policy which is hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community worldwide.”It would be appreciated that the Pakistan government immediately intervenes in this matter and have the order reversed so that the Sikh community in Pakistan enjoy similar religious freedom as they do worldwide, Singh, a Sikh, said.Kirpan is a mandatory Sikh article of faith to be kept on one’s person, he noted, saying it is a symbol of rebellion against oppression.“Your immediate intervention is sought towards this important matter of religious rights and faith of the diminishing, miniscule Sikh minority in your country Pakistan,” the BJP leader wrote to the high commissioner. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-seeks-pak-govts-intervention-against-court-order-curbing-sporting-of-kirpans-354400
25-12-2021||Amritsar (Punjab)||Why are you barring government buses from entering Delhi airport, Punjab Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring asks Kejriwal||Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Saturday sought to know from the Delhi chief minister why his government was not letting Punjab's state-owned buses travel up to the Delhi international airport.Meeting Arvind Kejriwal outside a hotel here, Warring alleged that private buses that charge almost thrice the fare were, however, being allowed to ply all the way to the Indira Gandhi International Airport.“Volvo buses of the State Transport Undertaking have been barred from plying to the Delhi airport despite charging only Rs 1,200 per passenger. Private buses on the other hand have been given all permissions and they are openly 'looting' Punjabis by charging Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 per passenger," Warring told Kejriwal. The Punjab minister was particularly referring to buses run by an influential family."By doing so, Kejriwal is supporting the transport mafia, which has been looting Punjab," an official communique to the media from Warring's office, read.Warring said 13 letters were written to the Delhi chief minister but he was pretending to be unaware of the issue."After assuming office as the transport minister, I wrote a letter to Kejriwal on October 7, 2021, asking for a suitable date and time for a meeting to resolve this long-pending issue. My predecessor Razia Sultana, too, had written several letters to Kejriwal but all in vain," he stated.According to Warring, Punjab's principal secretary for transport, too, raised the issue in writing with his Delhi counterpart four times from December 6, 2018, to August 21, 2019.Warring told Kejriwal that if he did not wish to allow Punjab government buses up to the Delhi airport, the Delhi government could introduce buses from the airport to Punjab and promised that the Congress government in the border state will facilitate the movement of those buses.The transport minister said he had raised the issue with Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, too, requesting him to issue necessary directions to the Delhi airport parking services, but in vain. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-are-you-barring-government-buses-from-entering-delhi-airport-punjab-minister-amarinder-singh-raja-warring-asks-kejriwal-354398
25-12-2021||Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs 55 crore seized along Indo-Pak border in Ferozepur||The BSF on Saturday said it has seized 11 packets of heroin worth Rs 55 crore in the international market from an area along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab.The seizure was made by Border Security Force troops near the Barreke border outpost, officials said.The consignment was found during a BSF search operation during the wee hours, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-55-crore-seized-along-indo-pak-border-in-ferozepur-354392
25-12-2021||Chandigarh December 25||Come clean on Randhawa’s reported meeting with Mukhtar Ansari||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to come clean on whether his Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has had a closed-door meeting with the family and close links of gangster Mukhtar Ansari.The reported development assumes significance in the wake bomb blasts and the recurrent acts of sacrilege in Punjab in recent weeks.In a statement, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal said that there have been reports on the Congress government resorting to sponsored acts of terrorism and sacrilege to distract public attention from “its failures”. He asked the chief minister to make a categorical statement as to why his home minister whose duty it is to be a guardian of peace and law and order found it necessary to meet a famed outlaw like Ansari.  The development gives credence to reports that the present rulers are out to vitiate the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony in Punjab and make political capital out of it, Grewal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/come-clean-on-randhawas-reported-meeting-with-mukhtar-ansari-354390
25-12-2021||---||Burlton Park was where Harbhajan Singh began his cricket career; a day after retirement, he revisits the ground and bows in reverence||Jalandhar, December 25A day after announcing retirement, cricketer Harbhajan Singh visited the cricket ground of Burlton Park from where he started his career. He bowed and touched the fields in reverence.While interacting with the media, he hinted at joining the politics, but did not specify the party.Harbhajan Singh called time on his career on Friday after an illustrious 23-year stint in international cricket.During his career, he won two World Cups -- the inaugural ICC World T20 in 2007 and then the ODI World Cup in 2011. He took 417 wickets in 103 Tests, 269 wickets in 236 ODIs and 25 scalps in 28 T20Is.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/burlton-park-was-where-harbhajan-singh-began-his-cricket-career-a-day-after-retirement-he-revisits-the-ground-and-bows-in-reverence-354361
25-12-2021||New Delhi||I need to think about a lot of factors before I decide on joining politics: Harbhajan Singh||After bringing the curtains down on his cricket career, veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday said he is not averse to joining politics but would like to put in a lot of thought before taking a final decision on such a move.Also read: Wife Geeta Basra shares picture with Harbhajan after his retirement, says 'celebrating you'Recently, chief of Congress' Punjab unit and Harbhajan's former India teammate Navjot Singh Sidhu posted a picture with him on Twitter and captioned it "picture loaded with possibilities". This led to speculation of him joining the party.The cricketer said that he hasn't yet taken a call on the matter."Frankly speaking, I don't know what's in store for me. I just want couple of days to figure out in which direction I would like to move. Yes, I want to give back to society," Harbhajan told PTI in an interview when asked about his future plans."If I join politics, how and in what form, I need to figure those things out as main aim is to help people if I at all take the plunge," he added.While he didn't want to speak about it openly, but people in the know said that there is very little chance that he will be fight the Punjab state assembly elections because of some cricketing and media commitments that would keep him busy.The feisty former player said he would not want his association with the game to end completely with retirement."As far as cricket is concerned, I will remain associated with the game. I am open to coaching, mentoring IPL sides, may be play a bit of veteran's cricket," he said.There is a high possibility that Harbhajan might work as a mentor with Kolkata Knight Riders or Mumbai Indians, where he had 10 eventful years as a cricketer.He is also working on his autobiography which will be hitting the stands in the next six months."Oh yes, I have nearly completed my autobiography. It would be out in next six months and it's my tell-all story as to how I have seen Indian cricket as an insider. Hope people love that book as much as they loved me." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/i-need-to-think-about-lot-of-factors-before-i-can-even-decide-on-joining-politics-harbhajan-singh-354335
25-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ready for next innings of life, says Turbanator - Harbhajan Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24As veteran spinner Harbhajan Singh (41) formally announced his retirement from all forms of cricket on Friday, political circles in Punjab were abuzz with what could be his next move.My 25-year-journey that started from the narrow lanes of Jalandhar to become the Turbanator for Team India has been a beautiful one. Donning the jersey of India and getting on the field gave me the biggest motivation of life. There are times when one has to move forward taking tough decisions. — Harbhajan Singh, Veteran Spinner, Indian cricket teamPost his recent meeting with PPCC chief and cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh, everyone’s guess is that he could be joining Congress and could be fielded from Nakodar seat in Jalandhar. But Bhajji denied any such plans, adding: “There isn’t anything to share at the moment.”However, in the last few lines of his six-minute video, which he posted on his official YouTube channel on Friday, he is heard saying: “A new chapter with new challenges is set to start in my life now. Believe me, your Turbanator is ready for this exam. Just continue pouring your love on me.” It is these last words in the video and his timing to retire just ahead of the Assembly poll that has made everyone speculate if his next innings could be politics.The country’s fourth-highest wicket taker started the video referring to his home in Jalandhar. He starts with salutation, “Sat Sri Akal, dosto” and then goes on in Hindi: “My 25-year-journey that started from the narrow lanes of Jalandhar to become the Turbanator for Team India has been a beautiful one. Donning the jersey of India and getting on the field gave me the biggest motivation of life. There are times when one has to move forward taking tough decisions.” Then he announces his retirement from all forms of cricket.He tweeted this video link with his words: “All good things come to an end and today as I bid adieu to the game that has given me everything in life, I would like to thank everyone who made this long journey beautiful and memorable.” He had a long list of people, including his family, to acknowledge, in which he even mentioned about the Punjab Cricket Association.Meanwhile, Bhajji is set to visit Burlton Park on Saturday afternoon. The park has a stadium, where from he had started his cricketing career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ready-for-next-innings-of-life-says-turbanator-354296
25-12-2021||The 146th edition of the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan — one of the oldest festivals of Hindustani classical music in the world — took off to a flying start at Devi Talab Mandir in the city on Friday. Tribune Correspondent Deepkamal Kaur and photojournalist Sarabjit Singh capture the myriad images on the first day of the three-day gala festival||Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan begins at Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar||Melodious sounds of musical instruments resonate through the freezing December nights at Devi Talab Mandir in the city. The audiences brave the cold weather, wrap themselves up in blankets and stay glued to watch the performances of the doyens of classical music till the wee hours of the morning. This is that time of the year for which music aficionados from the city and around wait the whole year. As the music exponents from across the country have already started descending in the hall of the temple, the atmosphere is already charged up and everyone is waiting to enjoy those raga-based rhythmic beats.The three-day-long Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan hosts 15-20 artistes every year. The sammelan is celebrated every year at the sacred seat of music, which is the Samadhi of the saint and exponent Baba Harivallabh. The traditional sammelan dates back to 1875, which was held at the same venue.The artistes who regaled the audiences on Friday were shehnai maestro Vikas Babu, dhrupad exponent Uday Bhawalkar, santoor artiste Dr Varsha Agrawal and renowned flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar. Some eminent artistes who are set to perform for the next two days include vocalists Kaushiki Chakraborty and Saniya Patankar, tabla player Sudhir Pandey and sitarist Purbayan Chatterjee.The mahasabha that organises the sammelan aims to encourage budding musicians and an open competition precedes the festival. But owing to the pandemic, the competition part of the festival has not been included this time again. Instead, a crafts mela was organised at the temple premises in association with the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, wherein 13 stalls of phulkari, jewellery and other traditional items were put on sale. Prior to the sammelan, a havan yagna, too, was performed on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sound-of-music-354297
25-12-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela begins in Fatehgarh Sahib today||The district police have issued traffic guidelines and the route plan for the traffic passing through Fatehgarh Sahib, especially on roads leading to the historical gurdwara at Fatehgarh Sahib, keeping in view the heavy rush of devotees during the ensuing three-day annual Shaheedi Jor Mela.Also read: Holiday in Fatehgarh Sahib for nagar kirtan to mark martyrdom of Sahibzadas on Dec 27It is commemorated from December 25 to 27 in memory of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh — Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh, who were bricked alive here for refusing to accept Islam by the then governor of Sirhind Nawab Wazir Khan.Addressing mediapersons here, SSP Sandeep Goel said, “The Jor Mela area has been divided into sectors and each sector will be headed by an SP-rank officer. No heavy traffic will be allowed to enter the mela area. To maintain the smooth flow of traffic, nine diversions and alternative routes have been identified and a traffic plan has been released.” No vehicle entry and VIP passes will be issued and the local residents who reside in the localities surrounding the historical gurdwara will be allowed to move in vehicles, he said. “Adequate security arrangements have been made, CCTV cameras have been installed to keep a close watch on anti-social elements, and 54 nakas, 13 observation posts and seven police help centres have been set up,” the SSP said.He said that 10 SPs and 2,700 police personnel and officers along with NSS, NCC volunteers had been put on duty. Twenty free parking sites and three temporary bus stands have been made. No beggar will be allowed in the mela, he further added.Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the major event of the district, annual Saheedi Jor Mela would be totally religious in nature. All wine shops, gambling stalls, dance pandals, circuses, swings and other sources of entertainment within the 3km radius of Gurdwara Sahib has been banned and there will be no political conferences, she said.The DC said that carrying of weapons, sharp-edged weapons and playing loud speakers had been banned. She said that medical facilities, 24-hour power supply, clean drinking water, 300 temporary toilets, 15 mobile toilets and temporary shelter facilities would be provided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jor-mela-begins-today-354201
25-12-2021||---||Mohali: Licences of 4 immigration firms cancelled||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 24The administration has cancelled the licences of four immigration firms and suspended the licences of another four firms found without valid documents recently.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia directed all Sub Divisional Magistrates and police officers to take strict action against fake travel agents.Officials said a list of 471 registered travel agents had been uploaded on the official website of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district.Under the Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act, 2012, passed by the Punjab Government, licences are issued to consultants, travel agencies, coaching institutes of IELTS, ticketing agents and general sales agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licences-of-4-immigration-firms-cancelled-354189
25-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia Case: No vendetta, action based on STF report, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, December 24Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the NDPS case against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia was not a creation of the Congress or the government, but the outcome of the STF report on the drugs case submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The report that has been made part of the FIR has enough evidence against the Akali leader, said the Chief Minister.Also read: Old probe links Bikram Majithia to gangster Jaggu BhagwanpuriaBikram Majithia faces big challenge of proving allegations wrongSeeking to counter the SAD’s charge of political vendetta, CM Channi, at a press briefing, said the Rs 6,000-crore drug trafficking case surfaced in 2013 and the police investigations revealed Majithia’s complicity.“This is not my report but the report submitted to the High Court. One of the accused in the case, Bhola, mentioned Majithia’s name and the ED’s probe also highlighted the role of the Akali leader,” said Channi.The case moved further as advocate Navkiran Singh moved the High Court seeking a probe into the matter. “The STF was asked by the High Court to file a report in the matter in 2017. The others named in the case are absconding. But neither the SAD-BJP government nor the previous Capt Amarinder Singh regime pursued the matter or opened the report to take action on it,” said Channi, adding when the change of guard happened, the report was opened and action taken on the basis of evidence.CM Channi said be it liquor mafia, sand mafia or other illegal trades, all those related to the drugs case would face action.He said acting against the drug mafia was a big challenge. “It is easy to say but difficult to act. Our previous governments did not act but those involved in drugs business have to be given exemplary punishment. No use of arresting the small players, unless you catch the big fish.”Hitting out at Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Keriwal for terming the government action against Majithia as drama, Channi said it was easy to term it drama but difficult to act against “well-rooted drug mafia”. “It requires grit and moral courage to act against the mighty. I know how the police officers have to be given courage to overcome threat and money allurement.”Reminding Kejriwal of the apology he had tendered to Majithia, the CM said: “BJP leader Manjinder Sirsa mediated between Kejriwal and Majithia. People of Punjab must know the character of the AAP leaders who talk of guarding the interests of Punjabis. Now , an FIR has been lodged against Majithia, Kejriwal must apologise to the people of Punjab. He must clarify where he stands now.”Meanwhile, in Hoshiarpur, Channi said families which had lost their sons due to the menace of drugs would never forgive Badals, Kejriwal and Captain for their “sins” against the state. Addressing a gathering after dedicating Maharana Pratap Government College to the public, the Chief Minister said the three leaders were “culprits” of Punjab as they had patronised the drug trade in the state.Meanwhile, the Cabinet has decided to extend the crop loan waiver scheme to remaining 1.50 lakh farmers, covering nearly two lakh families. Farmers having up to 5 acres, who have taken loans of up to Rs2 lakh, are covered under the scheme. The decision comes a day after a meeting between the CM and farmer unions.Sirsa denies helping aap draft apologyBJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Friday slammed CM Charanjit Singh Channi for his “baseless” claims about him drafting the apology tendered by Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia. He asked the CM to either tender a public apology or be ready to face legal consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vendetta-action-based-on-stf-report-cm-354090
25-12-2021||Bathinda||Cancel FIR against Bikram Majithia: Akalis||SAD district unit members staged a protest at Ambedkar Chowk here over the registration of an FIR against Akali leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia for his alleged involvement in drug smuggling. Party leaders and workers raised slogans against the state government and burnt an effigy to express resentment.Former Akali legislators Sarup Chand Singla, Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu, Darshan Singh Kotfatta, Parkash Singh Bhatti and party workers participated in the protest, demanding cancellation of the FIR.Charges fabricatedThe government is fabricating allegations against Akali leaders. The inquiry report was made by an officer who was biased against us. —Daljeet Cheema, SAD spokesperson“The government could not perform in the past five years and now it wants to divert people’s attention from real issues by getting false cases registered against Opposition leaders. It is an attempt to suppress the voice of the party leaders highlighting shortcomings of the government,” said Singla.“The FIR is the result of political vendetta to draw mileage ahead of the state Assembly elections. Police officers working at the behest of ruling party leaders who are registering cases without any grounds will have to face the consequences,” added Singla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancel-fir-akalis-354095
25-12-2021||Amritsar/Gurdaspur||Punjab's Channi govt weak, unstable: Arvind Kejriwal||AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal today said the Ludhiana bomb blast and the recent ‘sacrilege’ attempts at the Golden Temple and Kapurthala could be executed as the Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government was weak and unstable.Lashing out at the government, he said, “If the conspirators and masterminds of the 2015 sacrilege incident were brought to book, no one would have dared to do the same at one of the holiest places. Similarly, exemplary action in the Maur bomb blast would have averted incidents like the bomb blast in Ludhiana.”Taking a dig at CM Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on the Majithia issue, he said, “They’ve filed one FIR against one person in the last five years. But they are glorifying it like they have destroyed the whole drug network in Punjab. It is just an election stunt.” In Gurdaspur, Kejriwal said he would take out mediocrity that at present was deeply embedded in the Punjab Police and instead bring in meritocracy. He addressed a gathering in favour of Raman Bahl, the party candidate from the Gurdaspur seat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-govt-weak-unstable-kejriwal-354097
25-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana blast: Centre, Punjab working together, says Kiren Rijiju||A day after a bomb blast rocked the courts complex here, Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the scene and said the Centre and the state will work together to ensure action against the perpetrators trying to disrupt peace.Editorial: Ludhiana blast: Poll-bound Punjab must be wary of disruptive forcesAlso read: Ludhiana blast suspect a dismissed cop from KhannaRijiju was accompanied by Vijay Sampla, chairman, National Commission for SC; Som Parkash, Union Minister of State for Commerce; and District and Sessions Judge Munish Singhal. He took briefing from CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. Addressing mediapersons, Rijiju said PM Narendra Modi had expressed deep concern over the incident.“Central and state agencies will work together to unfold the mystery behind the blast. No anti-national element will be spared. Agencies have also hinted at a lead in the case,” he said. On state agencies’ failure to act despite an intelligence alert about possible attacks in Punjab, he said he had not come to count lapses, adding sharing of alerts was a routine exercise of central agencies. He appreciated the Sessions Judge for not letting the court work get affected, as routine hearings were on. On PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s remark that such attacks were being orchestrated for vote politics, he said leaders should make responsible statements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-pb-working-together-rijiju-354098
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure peace, Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya directs top officials||DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya today directed all Commissioners of Police and SSPs to take preventive, precautionary and operational security measures to ensure peace.The DGP accompanied by ADGP (Internal Security) RN Dhoke, ADGP (STF) Harpreet Singh Sidhu, ADGP (Intelligence) AS Rai, ADGP (Elections) Shashi Prabha Dwivedi and ADGP (Law and Order) Naresh Arora held a virtual meeting with all CPs/SSPs to review the situation. Officials were told to ensure no one took law into their hands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-peace-dgp-directs-top-officials-354099
25-12-2021||Amritsar||Vested interests behind Ranjit Singh Brahmpura exit: SAD (Sanyukt)||The local unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) snubbed dissident Akali leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura for rejoining the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal).Addressing a press conference, SAD (Sanyukt) urban president, Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Calcutta said it was wrongly being projected that more Akalis from the breakaway faction would join the Badals.Criticising Brahmpura’s move, Calcutta said it was Brahmpura who took the initiative to part ways with the Badals following the inaction against 2015 sacrilege incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, “Sukhbir’s anarchy” and misbehaviour.He said Brahmpura had formed the SAD (Taksali) by associating likeminded Akali stalwarts with an aim to rejuvenate the SAD’s basic philosophy. This was followed by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his supporters, who then jointly formed the SAD (Sanyukt) against the Badal clan.Another leader Manjit Singh Bhoma said Brahmpura could not preserve the sanctity of the oaths that were jointly taken at Akal Takht. “Hundreds of Akalis supported Brahmpura for the sake of Panth and vowed to liberate the core Akali Dal and the SGPC from the clutches of the Badal family. But Brahmpura, for his vested interests, joined the Badals,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vested-interests-behind-brahmpura-exit-sad-s-354100
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal part of transport mafia: Raja Warring||Having failed to elicit response to repeated letters over allowing Orbit buses to ply across Delhi while denying the permission to PRTC vehicles, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Friday led a dharna outside AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence in Delhi, daring him to come clean on his “understanding” with Badals.Calling Kejriwal a “compulsive liar”, Warring said by stopping state transport undertaking (STU) Volvo buses from going up to the Indira Gandhi International Airport and confining these to the ISBT, while giving the permission to private players for the same, Kejriwal’s “doublespeak” on ending the transport mafia in Punjab stood exposed. “You are part of the transport mafia looting Punjab,” alleged Warring.After assuming charge, Warring had written to Kejriwal on October 7, urging him to allow suitable date and time for a meeting to sort out the long-pending issue. The letter was in continuation of three prior letters on the issue by his predecessor Razia Sultana to the Delhi CM on November 29, 2019, March 16, 2020, and February 24, 2021, a spokesperson for the department said.Prior to that, Principal Secretary, Transport, K Siva Prasad had taken up the issue in writing four times with his counterpart between December 6, 2018, and August 21, 2019, the spokesperson added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejri-part-of-transport-mafia-warring-354101
25-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Applying for Congress ticket on merit: Punjab CM Channi's brother||A day after PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu announced during a rally at Bassi Pathana that only one ticket would be given in one family, Dr Manohar Singh, brother of CM Charanjit Singh Channi, said he appreciated the decision of the Congress high command but added that brothers and sisters could not be called as “immediate family members”.He said he was the brother of the CM but had his own family and had been living with them in a separate house. He said he would apply for the Congress ticket from Bassi Pathana and wanted to be allotted it on merit as he had been serving the constituency for a long time. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/applying-for-cong-ticket-on-merit-channis-brother-354102
25-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Dirba: Victim of political tussle||When their MLA Harpal Singh Cheema became the Leader of Opposition (LoP) of Punjab, it raised the hopes of residents of the constituency of seeing some development. But the constituency failed to see any improvement despite repeated letters by Cheema to the government.“There were celebrations when our MLA became the LoP but he failed to bring any development. He says he wrote repeated letters for pending works, but nothing happened on the ground. No one knows whether the LoP failed to take required action or the government deliberately ignored his requests. Our area has not seen any development,” said Jagtar Singh, a local resident.Shortage of staff at Dirba hospital, village community health centres and government schools, and lack of basic amenities, including sewerage and water supply lines in many areas along with other basic amenities, are main issues which are troubling residents. “The Punjab Government deliberately ignored my letters for developmental works in the constituency. I have proof to show that I have written repeated letters, but majority of these failed to elicit the required response. My voters are aware about it,” Cheema said.Past trendIn the last seven Assembly elections in the constituency, the Congress has won thrice, and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) twice. Independent and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also registered victory once each.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,72,684Male 93,561Female 79,121Third gender 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/victim-of-political-tussle-354103
25-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Mand area cries for attention||The 550th Parkash Purb in 2018 saw scores of projects and widespread development in Sultanpur Lodhi. A traditional Shiromani Akali Dal stronghold, it has been won by the Congress for the past two elections.The constituency got an impressive new bus stand, beautification of river/Bein banks, road and street projects and a slew of more projects but many await completion. However, the vulnerable Mand area in the same constituency has been crying for attention. Plagued by floods, it has been causing huge losses to local farmers.Jaswant Singh, a local resident, said: “There was a serious problem regarding garbage disposal at Sultanpur Lodhi, which was eventually addressed. The dump has been moved to a designated spot outside the city. The constituency has seen development in the past years. We now have the state-of-the-art bus stand and better civic amenities.”Past trendAn Akali bastion since 1977, the Congress has won the seat only thrice (in 1992, 2012 and 2017), while the Akali Dal won it six times. Navtej Singh Cheema of Congress won the seat both times. This seat remains a bone of contention within the Congress.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,45,658Male 77,245Female 68411Third gender 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mand-area-cries-for-attention-354104
25-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Create portal for runaway couples to file plaints: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24In an order liable to change the way runaway couples approach the police for protection, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a portal was required to be created by Punjab and Haryana to register their complaints without physical presence.Justice Avneesh Jhingan also made it clear that Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, were required to provide legal assistance to couples, adding that it would also be appropriate for both the states and the UT to ensure adoption of a standard procedure by religious places for getting the marriages solemnised.Justice Jhingan added proper record of the marriages was required to be maintained and certificates issued. Rapping Punjab for not doing enough, Justice Jhingan added a lot of work was required to be done. The matter was pending in the high court since March and it was high time for the state to take effective steps.“A number of petitions still being received from both the states is an indicator that effective working of the steps claimed to be taken has not reached the grassroots level as yet. It is expected that the portal and apps would be made operational by both the states at the earliest and would be given due advertisement,” Justice Jhingan added.In his detailed order, Justice Jhingan asserted Article 21 bestowed the Right to Life and Liberty. The endeavour was to ensure that a person alleging violation of right to life and liberty was not made to run to the high court at the first instance. It was undoubtedly the court’s duty to ensure that the citizen’s fundamental rights were protected. But travelling all the way from their districts to Chandigarh, apart from other issues, exposed such couples to perils.In most of these cases, the couple hesitated from approaching the police station apprehending the exposure of their presence to their parents and relatives. As such, cooperation and efforts of departments, such as the police and social welfare, were required for ensuring redressal of their grievances at the earliest, if not at their doorstep. Justice Jhingan added the issue being dealt with was social, requiring to be handled with care. The balance between social responsibility and legal right was to be maintained. Providing protection was an interim measure and could not continue lifelong. “It is ultimately counselling and mediation between the affected parties, which will ensure that there is a redressal of root cause,” Justice Jhingan observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/create-portal-for-runaway-couples-to-file-plaints-hc-354105
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Keep 'phone location on', court tells UAPA accused||A woman facing allegations of posting about ‘Sikhs for Justice 2020 Referendum’ on her Facebook page has been granted regular bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on the condition of keeping the location of her phone on till the trial’s conclusion.Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal made it clear that the SHO of Jalandhar women police station would be informed and the petitioner would furnish her mobile number to the officer. She would not indulge in any illegal activity and appear before the SHO on the first Monday of every month till the trial’s conclusion. Justice Grewal took into consideration the fact that the woman, Deep Kaur, was in custody for more than two years and there was no likelihood of the trial being concluded soon. Besides, she had three minor children, one of whom was under two and lodged with her in jail.The woman was seeking regular bail through counsel Simranjit Singh and Arnav Sood in an FIR registered at Rangar Nangal police station in Batala on May 31, 2018, under Sections 307, 438, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC and other provisions of the UAPA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-phone-location-on-court-tells-uapa-accused-354106
25-12-2021||Faridkot||Medical seats won't be given back to Punjab now||Much to the dismay of the state quota medical students, there will be no revert of all-India quota (AIQ) MBBS and MD/MS vacant seats this time.So far, all AIQ seats which remained vacant after two rounds of counseling were sent back to the state and were filled under state quota. But now, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has announced that all AIQ MBBS and MD/MS seats will be filled by conducting two more rounds of counseling.All government medical institutes in the state contribute 15 per cent of their MBBS and 50 per cent of MD/MS seats to AIQ seats and these seats are filled by the MCC from the candidates across the country.Earlier, the MCC used to conduct only two rounds of counseling to fill the AIQ seats and the seats remaining vacant after these two rounds of counseling were reverted to states to be treated as state quota seats.But from this year, the MCC has announced to conduct four rounds of counselling — AIQ round 1, AIQ round 2, AIQ mop-up round and AIQ stray vacancy round to fill all these seats.Last year, the MCC had reverted 33 out of total 90 AIQ MBBS seats in three government medical colleges in Punjab after these remained vacant in two rounds of counseling. Similarly, 76 out of total 188 AIQ postgraduate (MD/MS) medical seats in three government medical colleges were also reverted.Fresh candidates will only be allowed in the first three rounds and not in the stray vacancy round. Candidates will be given an option to upgrade and free exit only in round 1. Candidates who join the allotted seat in round 2 will not be allowed to resign and will be ineligible for participating in further rounds of counseling. Candidates who do not join the allotted seat in round 2 will be eligible for further rounds of counselling by paying a security deposit and fresh registration in mop-up round only. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-seats-wont-be-given-back-to-state-now-354107
25-12-2021||Ropar||May regularise staff  under central schemes: OP Soni||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni said the state government was mulling over regularising contractual employees hired under different central schemes. He said a meeting in this regard would be held on coming Tuesday.Soni, who came to inaugurate a radio diagnostic facility at the Ropar Civil Hospital, said the state government has already decided to regularise jobs of 36,000 contractual employees (those who have completed 10 years) working in different departments.Replying to a query, Soni said the government was also looking to regularise contractual workers (with more than 10 years of experience) working under different central schemes.He said the CT Scan machine has been set up at a cost of Rs 2.25 crore under the public-private partnership at the Ropar Civil Hospital to provide the required test facilities to pateints at low rates. The Radio Diagnostic Project was launched in Punjab at a cost of around Rs 100 crore, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/may-regularise-staff-under-central-schemes-354108
25-12-2021||---||Arm tattoo helped identify deceased in Ludhiana blast||Ludhiana, December 24A day after the blast, central and state agencies remained at the site today, collecting samples from the debris. Sources said a damaged mobile phone, suspected to be that of the deceased, was recovered from the scene.Also read: Intel alert on possible blast went unnoticedLudhiana blast suspect a dismissed cop from KhannaLudhiana blast: Centre, Punjab working together, says Kiren RijijuThe police were treating the deceased, now identified as Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed head constable, as a suspect who was either carrying the explosives or was a suicide bomber.His body was shifted to the Civil Hospital last night and a post-mortem examination was conducted by a board of doctors. Before the autopsy, a team of NSG visited the hospital and inspected the body.Sources said the doctors took viscera samples, which would be sent to the forensic laboratory to identify the kind of explosives used in the blast. It is learnt his right arm had a tattoo of ‘khanda’ (religious symbol), which apparently led to the identification of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arm-tattoo-helped-identify-deceased-354109
25-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Intel alert on possible blast went unnoticed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24The Ludhiana court complex blast may have been averted had action been taken on the alert sounded by the Internal Security Wing about possible terror strikes due to high incidence of drone sightings in the past six months along the Pakistan border.The December 14 alert by the ADGP (Internal Security), Punjab Police, went begging as nine days later, the blast took place, killing one.The note said there was high risk of a terror strike as since June, 43 recorded attempts had been made by the agencies in Pakistan to drop material for tiffin bombs, weapons or ammunition besides drugs in Punjab. It was feared drones might have succeeded in dropping the material and gone unnoticed. The note underlined the police had not been able to crack the case involving lobbing of a grenade outside a Pathankot Army camp on November 20. It said those who threw the bomb were at large and might try to carry out another violent incident.It said another incident of hurling grenades at the CIA office in Nawanshahr on the intervening night of November 7 and 8 remained unsolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/intel-alert-on-possible-blast-went-unnoticed-354110
25-12-2021||---||Bathinda: STF DSP acquitted in Sexual exploitation case||Bathinda, December 24A special court of Bathinda has acquitted Special Task Force (STF) Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Gursharan Singh in a case pertaining to a woman’s sexual exploitation.In its order, the court said the DSP could lodge a complaint against the three policemen, complainant woman and her husband for registering a case within 15 days with the DGP. The court also issued notices to the Civil Lines police station SHO Ravinder Singh along with SI Amandeep Kaur and SI Harpinder Kaur under Section 340 of the CRPC and directed them to appear before the court on January 10.DSP’s legal counsel Harpinder Singh Sidhu said the court agreed with their arguments and acquitted the DSP on December 20 and found that a case had been registered against the DSP under conspiracy. “The orders say that after receiving the complaint, the DGP will take action on the complaint as per the law,” he said.“On the orders of the court, DSP Gursharan Singh had on Friday approached the DGP to lodge a complaint against three police officials,’’ the advocate said.The Bathinda police had arrested DSP Gursharan Singh from a private hotel in Bathinda on October 26, 2020, over the allegations of sexually exploiting a woman, whom the DSP had arrested earlier, along with her husband and son, with 212 gm “chitta” and had registered a case against them under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sexual-exploitation-stf-dsp-acquitted-354111
25-12-2021||---||SGPC flays curb on 'kirpan' in Pakistan||Amritsar, December 24The SGPC has condemned the restrictions on Sikhs sporting ‘Siri Sahib’ (kirpan, a religious symbol) in government institutions, court complex and public places in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.Terming it unfortunate and against religious freedom, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said for baptised Sikhs, it was mandatory to wearing ‘Siri Sahib’ and it should not be mistaken for a dagger or knife. On a petition filed in 2020 on behalf of the Sikh community of Peshawar, the Peshawar High Court had issued orders on December 22 that possession of sword could be allowed along with a licence under the 2012 arms policy only. The court also ordered issuance of licence for kirpan.“The decision of the Peshawar High Court has caused disappointment in the mind of the Sikhs. The kirpan is the fifth of the five pillars (kakaar) of Sikhism. Guru Gobind Singh, at the time of formation of Khalsa, had given it to the Sikh community. Sikhs living in other parts of the globe were permitted by various governments to carry the religious symbols at all public places, including airports,” he said.He said Pakistan had been part of India since 1947, so the Sikhs living there and the authorities were well aware of the history and traditions of Sikhism. He urged to the governments of Pakistan and India to resolve the issue while respecting the sentiments of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-flays-curb-on-kirpan-in-pakistan-354112
25-12-2021||---||3 names recommended for post of Punjab Vigilance Bureau Chief Director||Chandigarh, December 24A three-member committee, headed by Punjab Chief Vigilance Commissioner Justice Mehtab Gill, has recommended a panel of three IPS officers for appointment as the Chief Director, Vigilance Bureau (VB). Punjab’s officiating Director-General of Police Siddharth Chattopadhyaya is currently holding the charge of the post, which fell vacant after the then Chief Director BK Uppal, proceeded on leave amid reports of his replacement.Information suggests the committee has recommended, in order of merit, the names of Ishwar Singh, Gurpreet Kaur Deo, and G Nageswara Rao. While both Ishwar Singh and Deo are 1993-batch officers, Rao belongs to the 1995 batch. Sources in the Punjab Civil Secretariat said the committee “carefully considered” the service record, the annual confidential reports and other factors related to all the officers in the rank of DGP and ADGP.The three names were recommended after “careful consideration” and primarily taking into account the “integrity, conduct and experience” of the officers eligible for appointment. The meeting with regard to the Chief Director’s appointment was held under Justice Gill’s chairpersonship on December 20. The other committee members were state Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari and Principal Secretary, Home, Anurag Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-names-recommended-for-post-of-vb-chief-director-354113
25-12-2021||---||Nizampur granthi's family leaves village||Jalandhar, December 24After the arrest of the granthi today, an uneasy calm prevailed at Nizampur village in Kapurthala where a youth was killed for allegedly disrespecting Nishan Sahib on December 19.Hours after the IG announced the granthi’s arrest, villagers were shocked to find the gurdwara locked this morning. Soon after Amarjit Singh’s arrest, his family left the gurdwara. As per reports, they were last seen loading their belongings on a mini truck. Amarjit Singh, who has three sons, lived at the gurdwara along with his two sons — one of whom is a kirtankar. His third son, who works with the Intelligence Department, is posted in Mohali.Kapurthala killingFormer sarpanch Surinder Singh said: “We came to know about the granthi’s arrest and headed to the gurdwara where we found the doors locked. We have come to know the granthi’s family has left the gurdwara. Police have told us they have handed the keys of the gurdwara to a person from the neighbouring village. The family did not inform us before leaving. The granthi’s phone was also constantly switched off after the incident.” He added: “Amarjit has been doing sewa at the gurdwara for the past 15-16 years. His family was also here with him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nizampur-granthis-family-leaves-village-354114
25-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Three killed in road accident||The poor condition of a road coupled with alleged harassment at the hands of an audit officer claimed lives of three bank officials in a car accident near Kale Bridge on Thursday.The deceased have been identified as branch manager Jasbir Singh (40), a resident of Jujhar Avenue in Amritsar, Baljit Kaur (30), a resident of Patti and Sanmeet Kaur (25), a resident of Sultanwind. The trio were heading towards office when their car collided with a tree. Assistant manager Gurwinder Singh told the police that an audit officer was allegedly harassing the staff since the auditing process was on. Gurwinder alleged that Jasbir was under pressure due to the threats being issued by an audit officer. As he reached near Kale Bridge, he apparently lost the control over the car and the vehicle collided with a tree.The police handed over the bodies of the deceased to their family members after the post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-killed-in-road-accident-354115
25-12-2021||Abohar||Abohar hospital's staff go on strike||Health services came to a standstill at the Civil Hospital as the medical institute’s staff also went on a strike due to a cut in their allowances. As a result, patients remained a harried lot. Even employees of the National Health Mission and ASHA workers have been agitating against the non-fulfillment of their demands.Today patients’ slips were not issued at OPD. Services in maternity ward, dialysis, X-ray, laboratory, blood bank and birth and death certificates also got paralysed. Covid-19 testing and vaccination drive also got affected.Dr Gur Kirpal, in charge, Corona sampling, said, “Despite continuing our services during the pandemic, the department has been ignoring us. Sampling will not be done till our demands are met.” Another employee, Lakshmi Rani, said unless the government fulfilled their demands, no vaccination would be administered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-hospitals-staff-go-on-strike-354116
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Holiday in Fatehgarh Sahib for nagar kirtan to mark martyrdom of Sahibzadas on Dec 27||The state government has declared a local holiday on December 27 in Fatehgarh Sahib for nagar kirtan (religious procession) to mark the Shaheedi Sabha.Also read: Shaheedi Jor Mela begins in Fatehgarh Sahib todayAn official spokesman for the state government said all offices of Punjab Government, Boards/Corporations and government educational institutions, will remain close on December 27 in Fatehgarh Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/holiday-in-fgarh-sahib-on-dec-27-354117
25-12-2021||Gurdaspur||Channi inaugurates Talwara Jattan bridge||Cong panel meet deferredChandigarh: The meeting of the AICC-appointed screening committee was postponed as CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary could not make it. TNSSingla’s confidant joins PLCSangrur: In a major setback to Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla, his close associate and District Planning Committee chairman Rajinder Singh Raja Birkalan has joined the Punjab Lok Congress of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh. TNSCong leader joins Capt’s partyChandigarh: Senior Congress leader and PCC general secretary KK Sharma on Friday joined the Punjab Lok Congress. He was inducted into the party by Capt Amarinder Singh. Sharma has served in various capacities in the party and the government. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-inaugurates-bridge-354118
25-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana blast suspect a dismissed cop from Khanna||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24The deceased, also the suspect, in the Ludhiana court blast case has been identified as dismissed head constable Gagandeep Singh. A resident of GTB Nagar in Khanna, he was posted as munshi at Sadar police station in Khanna.Editorial: Ludhiana blast: Poll-bound Punjab must be wary of disruptive forcesAlso read: Ludhiana blast: Centre, Punjab working together, says Kiren RijijuArm tattoo helped identify deceased in Ludhiana blastIntel alert on possible blast went unnoticedHe was arrested by the STF on August 11, 2019, along with two others with 785-gram heroin. After his arrest, he was dismissed by the police. Sources privy to the development confirmed that the police had recovered a cell phone from the court complex which led to the identification of the accused. A tattoo of ‘khanda’ (religious symbol) on his right arm also helped the police identify him.The Ludhiana police have gone to Khanna to get further leads. It is yet unclear what was Gagandeep’s target, and why did he go to the court with the explosives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blast-suspect-a-dismissed-cop-from-khanna-354079
25-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Old probe links Bikram Majithia to gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24In fresh trouble for senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the Punjab Police have dug up a February 2020 inquiry report that claimed that the former minister allegedly had links with Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and three other gangsters.Also read: Bikram Majithia faces big challenge of proving allegations wrong2020 inquiry report“Facts, circumstances... suggest that he (Jaggu Bhagwanpuria) as a gangster is the creation of Majithia, his supporters... faced 32 FIRs from 2010 to 2015.”“Don’t know why our party’s govt sat over such an important report.” — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy CM“Inquiry has been conducted by a biased officer. The charges are laughable.” — Daljit Singh Cheema, SADThe report states Bhagwanpuria was an alleged Majithia creation while the leader “patronised” the three others — Jagtar Singh alias Boxer, Abhijit Singh alias Ankur Lekhari and Sonu Kangla.Naming Majithia, the report states, “Sources suggest in unequivocal terms that Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was a street offender, became a notorious gangster after 2010 when Majithia became all powerful as (then Deputy CM) Sukhbir Singh Badal took charge of the Home Department."Majithia could not be contacted for comments. His party leaders alleged he was being victimised. SAD president Sukhbir and other leaders had earlier this month courted arrest alleging the Congress was trying to implicate Majithia.Also read: Bikram Majithia Case: No vendetta, action based on STF report, says Punjab CMBikram Majithia denied anticipatory bailCancel FIR against Bikram Majithia: AkalisSources said the report had come to the notice of Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa. The Akali Dal had in 2019 and 2020 accused Randhawa of “extending facilities to Bhagwanpuria in jail”.Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had then asked the police to probe the alleged political-gangster nexus. The inquiry, titled ‘Alleged nexus between politicians and gangsters’, was initiated on November 26, 2019 and its report (The Tribune has a copy) was submitted on February 12 last year. But it was never made public or acted upon.Randhawa said, “Don’t know why our party’s government sat over such an important report. This even as the Akalis kept on accusing me of having links with gangsters.”Ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had conducted the probe along with DIG Surjit Singh and AIG Patil Ketal Baliram. The inquiry had focussed on the murders of Bhagwanpuria’s wife Harmanprabh and her alleged friend Satnam Singh, besides cases of other gangsters.SAD spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema said the Congress government was hell bent upon “framing Akali leaders in false cases”. “The inquiry was conducted by an officer who was always biased against us,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/old-probe-links-akali-leader-to-gangster-bhagwanpuria-354075
25-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala Lynching: Police rule out sacrilege, arrest granthi for 'murder'||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24Four days after a youth was killed on the suspicion of sacrilege at a gurdwara at Nizampur Mor village in Kapurthala, the police today arrested Amarjit Singh (55), the granthi and caretaker of the shrine, for the alleged murder.Mala fide intentionThe motive appears to be the intention to flaunt quick justice in sacrilege cases. — Kapurthala SSPAn FIR was lodged against Amarjit and at least a 100 unidentified people for the alleged murder. Of the 100 booked, at least 30 were armed. Ruling out sacrilege, IG, Jalandhar range, Gurinder Singh Dhillon, while addressing the media later in the day, termed the killing a brutal and planned murder.The arrest took place within an hour of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s statement this morning that sacrilege had been ruled out in the December 19 Kapur-thala incident. He also declared that the case was that of murder.The FIR at the Kotwali police station in Kapurthala included the murder charge.It was filed under sections 302, 307, 353, 186, 342, 148, 149 and 120-B of the IPC as well as sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The IG said, “On the basis of the investigation, sacrilege wasn’t established in the case. It was a brutal, well-planned murder. The accused (Amarjit Singh) called his close-knit group on the phone. All these men conspired to carry out the murder. The others will be arrested soon.”The police said an FIR had also been lodged against Amarjit Singh at the Sadar police station in Nawanshahr in 2016 for using a stolen car.SSP, Kapurthala, HPS Khakh said, “Since it has been established that no sacrilege took place, the previous FIR (Section 295-A) will be quashed.”“So far, the motive for the murder appears to be the intention to flaunt quick justice in sacrilege cases, especially after the Darbar Sahib incident,” the SSP added.On December 19, 150 to 200 people had gathered at the gurdwara after Amarjit and his sewadars caught hold of the youth they suspected had come with the intention to commit sacrilege.The granthi had live-streamed the event and also made announcements for people to gather. The autopsy report which arrived today has confirmed that the youth received 18 injuries from sharp-edged weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-lynching-police-rule-out-sacrilege-arrest-granthi-for-murder-354076
25-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||25 farm unions decide to contest Punjab elections; formal announcement likely today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Twenty-five farm unions which participated in the agitation against Centre’s three farm laws have reportedly decided to contest the Assembly elections in Punjab. These unions are likely to stitch an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Seven unions that were part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have decided to keep away from electoral politics.These are the Kirti Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU-Krantikari, Doaba Sangharsh Committee, BKU-Sidhupur, Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Jai Kisan Andolan.At a meeting in Mullanpur near Ludhiana on Friday, these seven unions reportedly asked the other unions not to use the SKM banner for electioneering. The BKU-Ugrahan, the largest farmer union in Punjab, has already announced it would not contest the polls.The senior vice-president of the Kirti Kisan Union, Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, told The Tribune that they would be holding a meeting on December 31 and based on the feedback of members decide whether or not to contest the elections. There has been talk of union leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Harmeet Singh Kadian contesting on AAP ticket.Punjab CM’s offer to raise a memorial to martyred farmers and auditing of SKM funds were also discussed at the meeting today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25-farm-unions-decide-to-contest-punjab-elections-354078
25-12-2021||Mohali||Bikram Majithia denied anticipatory bail||A Mohali court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail application of senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, booked under the NDPS Act, observing that the “facts, financial transactions and extent of his complicity were required to be thoroughly investigated”.Also read: Old probe links Bikram Majithia to gangster Jaggu BhagwanpuriaBikram Majithia faces big challenge of proving allegations wrongMohali court’s observationsAdditional District and Sessions Judge Sandeep Kumar Singla, while dismissing the application, asserted: “The applicant has tried to make out a case of political vendetta, but the applicant himself was one of the powerful persons in state’s politics till 2017 and delay in lodging an FIR cannot be a ground to presume the whole case against the applicant is false. The question on legality of the FIR also cannot be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail. “The FIR has been registered on the basis of a (STF) report which prima facie shows the involvement of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in the drug mafia.... Hence, keeping in view the facts and the gravity of the offence, it is not a fit case where the benefit of anticipatory bail can be granted to the applicant. Finding no merit in the bail plea, it is hereby dismissed”. Majithia’s counsel argued the government had been browbeating officers to register false cases against Akalis, including Majithia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-denied-anticipatory-bail-354074
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali court denies bail to Bikram Majithia in drugs case||The bail application of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia was dismissed by the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Mohali on Friday.The court ruled that the applicant had tried to make out a case of political vendetta but was himself a powerful person state politics till 2017. Delay in lodging the FIR could not be a ground to presume that the whole case against the applicant was false, the court said.“The FIR has been registered on the basis of a report, which prima facie shows the involvement of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in drug mafia,” the court said in its order.“All these facts and financial transactions and extend of complicity of the applicant needs to be thoroughly investigated, which can be done only under custodial interrogation of the applicant and not under protection of anticipatory bail.”“Hence, keeping in view all the facts and the gravity of the offence, it is not a fit case where benefit of anticipatory bail can be granted to the bail applicant. Accordingly, finding no merit in the bail application and the same is hereby dismissed.”Punjab Police had booked former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Also read: Enough evidence against Bikram Majithia; won't spare those involved in drug racket: CM Charanjit ChanniA copy of the FIR stated that Majihtia had been booked for knowingly allowing drug smuggling through the use of his property or conveyance, financing the distribution or sale of drugs and hatching a criminal conspiracy for smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-court-denies-bail-to-bikram-majithia-in-drugs-case-354035
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Enough evidence against Bikram Majithia; won't spare those involved in drug racket: CM Charanjit Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia has been booked in a drug case as there is enough evidence against him and an STF report points to it.The CM also vowed to catch the “big fish” involved in the drug racket and slammed his predecessor Amarinder Singh, saying he did not make the STF report on it public and now gave a statement in “support” of Majithia.Also read: Mohali court denies bail to Bikram Majithia in drugs caseMajithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Monday on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into a drug racket in the state.The Union Home Ministry has issued against the former Punjab minister a lookout circular, which prevents him from leaving the country.Majithia has moved a Mohali court for an anticipatory bail.Channi told reporters here that the drug racket had come to the fore in 2013, when the SAD-BJP government was in power in the state.He said the Enforcement Directorate has been investigating the case since 2013, when now dismissed policeman Jagdish Singh Bhola, alleged kingpin in the synthetic drug case, was arrested by the Punjab Police.It was Bhola who had taken Majithia’s name in front of the media after his arrest in January 2014, said Channi.“The STF report mentioned that there is enough evidence against Bikram Majithia. Later, we converted that report into an FIR,” he told reporters ruling out any political vendetta.Channi held his predecessor Amarinder Singh and the then advocate general responsible for not making the STF report public and initiating any action on it.“The cat has come out of bag. Now, Amarinder Singh is also coming out in Majithia’s support,” he alleged.Channi said after he became the CM, the matter was pursued.He also slammed AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, who had dubbed the registration of the case against Majithia a “political stunt” just before the polls.Channi said Kejriwal must clarify his stand first because it was the AAP leader who had earlier tendered an apology to Majithia. Kejriwal had tendered an apology to Majithia for having levelled “unfounded” allegations, after which the Akali leader decided to withdraw a court case against the Delhi CM.The apology came after a compromise was brokered between Majtihia and Kejriwal by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who was then a SAD leader.Referring to the case against Majithia now, Channi said Kejriwal must now apologise to people of Punjab.The CM said the case was lodged against Majithia after he was convinced of it.“First of all, I convinced myself and asked my officers that what we are doing has to be right. First, I found out what the reality is and when I was convinced…then we took up the issue and moved forward. First, I listened to my conscience,” he said.“This fight (against drug menace) is nation’s fight, this is Punjab’s fight, this is the fight to secure future of our youth. We will not spare those who spread the drug menace and take this case to its logical conclusion,” Channi said.He said the property and businesses of the “big fish” whose involvement is found in the drug racket will also be under the scanner now.“Till the time you do not catch big fish, it does not send out a message below,” Channi said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enough-evidence-against-bikram-majithia-wont-spare-those-involved-in-drug-racket-cm-charanjit-channi-354033
25-12-2021||Aparna Banerji  ||Kapurthala gurdwara caretaker arrested for lynching incident||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24The Kapurthala police have arrested Amarjit Singh (55), the granthi of the gurdwara at Nizampur Mor, for murder in the case of lynching of a youth there on December 19.As many as 100 unidentified people have also been booked. Video of the youth being tied and beaten up by a mob had been live-streamed on social media.The arrest took place hours after CM Charanjit Singh Channi's statement on Friday morning that sacrilege had been ruled out in the Kapurthala incident. He had said that the case was that of murder and an FIR on those charges would be filed.IG Gurinder Singh Dhillon said, "Amarjit Singh, the granthi of the Nizampur gurdwara, has been arrested. As many as 100 unidentified people have also been booked for the lynching of the youth. The remaining people who include 25 to 30 armed persons are unidentified. But we have the videos and photographs, and they will be identified and arrested. We can't allow lynching incidents to happen."While Kapurthala SSP HPS Khakh confirmed that an FIR had been lodged against the caretaker of the gurdwara, the Kapurthala police remained tightlipped about the incident till this afternoon. Sources said police are on the lookout for the 100 other accused and more arrests would be made soon.As many as 150 to 200 people had gathered at the gurdwara after Amarjit and his sewadars caught hold of the youth who they suspected had come with the intention to commit sacrilege. The granthi had live-streamed the event from the gurdwara and also made announcements for people to gather. While the police reached the spot after an hour and a half, till then majority of the injuries had been inflicted, as per police officials.The police post is near the gurdwara on the opposite side of the road.In police's attempts to free the youth from the room where he was tied, a scuffle ensued between the police and the mob and at least three police officials were injured.Meanwhile, until Friday morning the only FIR lodged was against the youth and that for sacrilege under Section 295-A of the IPC. It remained the official FIR for days even as the IG himself had termed it a case of theft and not sacrilege.Police had been awaiting the official report of the autopsy for the cause of the death of the youth. But following autopsy of the youth conducted on Thursday by a medical board, grievous injuries from sharp-edged weapons had been found on his body. An FIR on charges for murder was lodged on Friday, following which the granthi was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-arrest-man-for-lynching-at-kapurthala-gurdwara-353990
