26-12-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 50 fresh coronavirus cases in Punjab||One more Covid-related death was reported in Punjab on Sunday while 50 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 6,04,236, according to a medical bulletin. The death was reported from Pathankot district.With this, the state’s death toll reached 16,638.Pathankot reported 15 cases, followed by seven in Ludhiana and six each in Hoshiarpur and Patiala. The number of active cases rose to 378 from 347 on Saturday. Seventeen more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,87,220, said the bulletin.Meanwhile, Union Territory Chandigarh reported 10 Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s total count to 65,774.The death toll stood at 1,078 with no Covid-related death being reported in the city in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the city was 101 while the number of cured persons was 64,595. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-death-50-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-punjab-354712
26-12-2021||Ropar||Sandoa denied AAP ticket as RTI activist Dinesh Chadha is party candidate from Ropar||Sitting Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa has lost the party ticket for the upcoming Assembly elections as the party has put its bet on Ropar advocate and RTI activist Dinesh Chadha (37) this time.With this, the party has declared its two candidates both first-timers and also advocates from two of the three assembly segments in the district.On Friday, the AAP had declared Harjot Singh Bains its candidate from Anandpur Sahib.Last time, Dr Sanjiv Gautam was AAP candidate from here who stood third polling 30,304 votes while Congress candidate Rana KP Singh wrested the seat from the BJP getting 60,800 votes.The runner-up BJP which had replaced sitting MLA Madan Mohan Mittal with Dr Parminder Sharma could get a mere 36,919 votes.Sandoa, a taxi driver in Delhi, was fielded by AAP from his native place Ropar in the 2017 Assembly elections. He won by a margin of 23,707 votes, defeating Congress youth leader Brinder Singh Dhillon and SAD stalwart and then Education Minister Daljit Singh Cheema.His tenure, however, remained mired with controversies when he was attacked by mining mafia and the accused levelled allegation of extortion against him.A woman also levelled allegations of “attempt to molestation” against him.Facing these allegations, Sandoa switched to the Congress on the eve of Parliamentary elections in 2019 only to return in December last year.Reacting to the party’s decision to deny him a ticket, Sandoa levelled serious allegations against AAP’s co-in-charge of Punjab affairs Raghav Chadha and party candidate Dinesh Chadha.He said party supremo Arvind Kejriwal had already told him that party would field someone else from Ropar and he was with the party’s decision in this regard. Alleging that Dinesh Chadha misused his activities as RTI activist, Sandoa said he had informed Raghav Chadha about the suspicious activities of Dinesh Chadha and the former even promised him that Dinesh would not be fielded as party candidate.Dinesh Chadha, however, said there was no substance in such allegations. He was ready to reply if someone comes out with specific allegations with substantial evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sandoa-denied-aap-ticket-as-rti-activist-dinesh-chadha-is-party-candidate-from-ropar-354706
26-12-2021||Ferozepur (Punjab)||BSF recovers heroin worth Rs 200 crore in Ferozepur sector; second seizure in two days||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Sunday seized 40 kg heroin worth Rs 200 crore in two incidents in Ferozepur Sector, officials said.The recoveries come a day after over 10 kg of the substance was seized in the same region.In the first incident on Sunday, troops attached to 101 Battalion recovered 34 kg heroin concealed in 22 packets near the border outpost Mian Wali Uttar.The estimated cost of the consignment is pegged at Rs 170 crore in the international market.In the second recovery, personnel from 116 Battalion seized six packets of heroin totally weighing 6 Kg worth Rs 30 crore near border outpost Mohammadi Wala.On Saturday, troops belonging to 136 Battalion had recovered 11 packets of heroin weighing 10.852 kg near Barreke along the Indo-Pakistan border. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-heroin-worth-rs-200-crore-in-ferozepur-sector-second-seizure-in-two-days-354698
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP declares 15 more candidates for Punjab polls||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday declared 15 more candidates for next year’s Punjab Assembly polls.It is the fourth list of the party and with this the total number of candidates announced by it so far reached 73. Punjab has 117 Assembly seats.The announcement was made by party leader Raghav Chadha on his Twitter handle.From Rupnagar, the party gave ticket to Dinesh Chadha. Currently, Amarjit Singh Sandoa is AAP’s MLA from this constituency.Sandoa in December 2020 had rejoined AAP, a year and half after defecting to the ruling Congress.According to the list, Ranjit Singh Rana will contest from Bholath, Inderjit Kaur from Nakodar, Gurdhian Singh from Mukerian, Karamvir Singh from Dasuya, Jasvir Singh Gill from Urmur, Lakhbir Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarunpreet Singh from Khanna.Hakam Singh will contest from Raikot, Devinder Singh from Dharamkot and Ashu Banger from Ferozepur Central.Amandeep Singh will fight from Balluana, Vijay Singla from Mansa, Narinder Kaur from Sangrur and Kuljit Singh Randhawa from Dera Bassi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-declares-15-more-candidates-for-punjab-polls-354697
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature hovers close to normal limits in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperature in Haryana and Punjab hovered close to normal limits on Sunday.According to the meteorological department, Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala registered a low of 7.6 degrees Celsius while Hisar's minimum temperature settled at 8.4 degrees Celsius. Gurugram recorded a low of 11.7 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature in Panchkula was 6.7 degrees Celsius.  In Punjab, Amritsar registered a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius. The lowest recorded temperature in Patiala was 7 degrees Celsius while it was 7.4 degrees Celsius in Bathinda. Faridkot recorded a low of 6.5 degrees Celsius. The respective minimum temperatures at Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Moga and Sangrur were recorded at 7.2 degrees, 5.5 degrees, 6.1 degrees, 5.3 degrees and 5.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperature-hovers-close-to-normal-limits-in-haryana-punjab-354663
26-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||To contest poll, 22 farm outfits float Samyukt Samaj Morcha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25As many as 22 farmer unions of Punjab, which were part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that led the struggle against the three central farm laws, have joined hands to form the Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) to contest the upcoming Assembly elections.The morcha leaders met here today and after a meeting, which lasted several hours, announced their decision to contest the elections on all 117 Assembly segments under the leadership of BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal.Though the leaders claimed they would not join hands with any other party, sources amongst the farmer leaders as well as the Aam Aadmi Party confirmed to The Tribune an alliance is in the works. A meeting of some prominent leaders of the SSM and a prominent Delhi-based AAP leader was held late last night. Sources say a common minimum programme is being worked out between the two sides, before the alliance is formally announced.Incidentally, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was in Punjab today. Unconfirmed reports suggest a meeting between top leaders of the newly formed morcha and the AAP top brass was expected shortly. Prem Singh Bhangu of the All-India Kisan Federation told The Tribune: “Our agenda is that the vote against Congress, SAD and BJP should not be divided, but consolidated.”Meanwhile, of the 22 unions that claimed to be part of the alliance, leaders of only 19 unions were present today’s meeting. Three unions that the SSM claimed to be party to the decision — BKU (Dakaunda), BKU (Lakhowal) and BKU (Major Punawal) — were not present at the meeting.Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda), said though their union would not contest the election, they would not oppose leaders who are taking the political plunge. He said a meeting of their union was slated for December 27 to discuss the issue.Harmeet Singh Qadian, general secretary, BKU (Qadian), said the SKM was formed to get the three central farm laws repealed. “After these were repealed, there was overwhelming public pressure to throw our hat in the political arena and provide people an alternative political platform that would deal with issues such as drug trafficking, illegal mining, etc. Thus we have launched the SSM,” he said, adding they would represent every section of society.Rajewal said he would urge like-minded people to come together for a brighter future of Punjab. “We urge you to part your ways with parties that have looted the state and its people,” he added.Of the 32 unions part of the SKM, nine — Krantikari Kisan Union (Dr Darshan Pal), BKU Krantikari (Surjit Phool), BKU Sidhupur (Jagjit Dallewal), Azad Kisan Committee Doaba (Harpal Sangha), Jai Kisan Andolan (Gurbakhsh Barnala), Dasuha Ganna Sangharsh Committee (Sukhpal Daffar), Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Inderjit Kotbudha), Lok Bhalai Insaaf Welfare Society (Baldev Sirsa) and Kirti Kisan Union Punjab (Hardev Sandhu) — have refused to be part of the political front.3 unions skip meetOf the 22 unions that have formed the political outfit, leaders of only 19 attended Saturday’s meeting. Three unions that the SSM claimed to be party to the decision — BKU (Dakaunda), BKU (Lakhowal) and BKU (Major Punawal) — were not present. Of the 32 unions part of the SKM, nine have already refused to be part of the political front, while there is no clarity on the 10th.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-contest-poll-22-farm-outfits-float-samyukt-samaj-morcha-354500
26-12-2021||In an interaction with Rajmeet Singh||'After West Bengal, attempts to polarise votes in Punjab': Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chief||How do you see the recent sacrilege attempts and bomb blast?There are concerted efforts to break the socio-economic fabric of Punjabiyat. Those who did it in West Bengal are doing so here to polarise votes. It is being done barely a month and half from elections. The incidents over three consecutive days are a deliberate attempt at spreading lies, fear and insecurity in a specific community as part of a larger conspiracy. No one can break the social-economic fabric of Punjab. We are together and will stay together.Has your stand been vindicated with the registration of an FIR after the removal of DGP and AG?Yes. Things have started moving gradually with new officers in place. This should have happened earlier. The good will be rewarded and the wrong punished. We should not be playing a fixed match. The politics of fear and division gives way to politics of hope and unity.Are you happy with CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s performance?It is a collective responsibility. The CM and PCC chief are part of the larger system. It is not an individual, it is how a system works. We need to revamp the system that honours merit. The system should not kill the majority to benefit a few. We need to build a system where there is no theft and that offers e-governance for the betterment of the people.Why has the Congress not announced its CM face? Is the leadership listening to your concerns?They understand. That is why I am the PCC chief. Barring the Sukhbir Badal-led SAD, no one has announced the chief ministerial candidate, not even the AAP, which says will put up a Sikh face. It is for the party high command to decide. We are working day in, day out. There are differences of opinion in parties. We are working on the organisation. It is the essence of democracy. This doesn’t mean everything will be superimposed. It has its advantages and disadvantages.People will still want know who the CM candidate will be?That is not an issue. This time people will elect their leader. One may have 100 policies, but I have been talking about 13 issues inspired from Guru Nanak’s teachings. What matters is the character of the person who can deliver on the ground. I talk of politics beyond 2022. The elections are being fought for the next generation.In the event of Congress winning polls, will the CLP decide the leader?I am not saying that. There have been occasions where the MLAs say a particular person will make them win the elections. Democracy is what majority feels. The Congress legislature party did not decide the leader last time. The MLAs only voted to remove the previous CM. The MLAs have been there for five years. Now new MLAs are to be elected. It is people’s decision. Last time, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal played a double game by not announcing the CM face for Punjab. People showed him the door and voted the Congress to power. Any party that commits mistake will be taught a lesson by the people.Will the party increase the number of women candidates this time?On the directions of party president Sonia Gandhi, Punjab was the first to give 50 per cent representation to women in the civic body elections. Taking cue from Priyanka Gandhi’s announcement on giving 40 per cent seats to women in the UP elections, we will try to give representation to more women. But the decision has to be taken by the party high command.Your views on farmers’ unions entering politics under one platform?It is up to them. By entering politics with a roadmap, they can become part of policymaking or can support a political system. Politics is everywhere. Punjab needs politics of hope and bettering people lives. The farmers’ unions have won a great battle fighting the Centre. They got what they wanted. Suicides are still happening. There is a need to have a roadmap to increase farm income. They need to have a revival plan.What is your take on Keriwal’s announcements?He is imitating me without applying his mind. He is talking of earning Rs 20,000 crore from sand and gravel, whereas no government can make more than Rs 2,000 crore. He is talking of generating Rs 30,000 crore from the liquor business, whereas he has given the trade to the Ponty Chadha family and blacklisted contactor Deep Malhotra. There is no comparison between Punjab and Delhi. The national capital is a surplus state with Rs 34,000 crore given by Centre. I challenge him to debate with me.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-west-bengal-attempts-to-polarise-votes-in-punjab-navjot-singh-sidhu-pcc-chief-354502
26-12-2021||Amritsar||Raja Warring confronts Kejriwal on bus permits||Day after Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring staged a protest outside Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence, the AAP convener today assured him of initiating strict action against Indo-Canadian buses flouting norms in the national capital. He even accepted the idea of jointly checking these buses at the Delhi airport.Warring confronted Kejriwal at a local hotel over denial of entry to State Transport Undertaking (STU) buses in the national capital. He alleged only Indo-Canadian transport service buses had been allowed permission to ferry passengers up to the Indira Gandhi International Airport, adding the private transport service, being run by the Badals, plied 35 luxury buses.In his reply, the Delhi CM said his government had impounded 115 buses and challaned 230 over the past few months. He assured strict action against those private buses that were flouting the norms. — TNSKejriwal: Will resolve lawyers’ issuesAmritsar: On the second day of his visit to Punjab, AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met anganwari workers, ASHAs and lawyers.Kejriwal said in Delhi, they had doubled the pay and incentives and similar benefits would be given to the workers here. In another meeting with lawyers, he said, “About 80,000 lawyers from Punjab will form AAP government so that all problems of the lawyers can be solved.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warring-confronts-kejriwal-on-bus-permits-354503
26-12-2021||Sangrur||Track record key to ticket for outsiders, says BJP||BJP’s Himachal Pradesh incharge and senior leader Avinash Rai Khanna on Saturday said experienced leaders of other parties who come into the party fold stood chance of getting a ticket in the upcoming Assembly elections if they had a good track record and the winnability factor.“If they meet this criteria and have the approval of our party, they can be our candidate. Our party has always given chance to good candidates who may have come from other parties,” said Khanna at the residence of local BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia here. The farmers had laid siege to Punia’s house for more than a year during the agitation against the farm laws.Khanna said it was a good sign to see leaders from other parties joining the BJP and showed it was gaining strength in Punjab. “The joining of leaders from other parties indicates people of Punjab support the BJP. We will be victorious,” claimed Khanna. “We never broke the alliance with the SAD. We will welcome parties willing to form an alliance with us for the better future of Punjab,” he added. Sangrur district BJP chief Randeep Deol, state executive member Sarjiwan Jindal along with other leaders accompanied Khanna. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/track-record-key-to-ticket-for-outsiders-says-bjp-354505
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Come clean on Sukhjinder Randhawa's meeting with Mukhtar Ansari's kin: Akalis to Channi||Hitting back at Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the Shiromani Akali Dal today asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to come clean on whether the Home Minister had held a closed-door meeting with the family and aides of gangster-turned-UP politician Mukhtar Ansari.Randhawa has reportedly dug up an old police inquiry which states fugitive Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia had links with gangsters, especially Jagga Bhagwanpuria.Also read: Old probe links Bikram Majithia to gangster Jaggu BhagwanpuriaIn a statement, Maheshinder Singh Grewal alleged there were reports on the Congress government resorting to sponsored acts of terrorism and sacrilege to distract public attention from its failures. He asked CM Channi to make a categorical statement as to why his Home Minister, whose duty it is to be a guardian of peace and law and order, found it necessary to meet an outlaw like Ansari. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/come-clean-on-randhawas-meeting-with-ansaris-kin-akalis-to-channi-354507
26-12-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Amargarh: Development delayed by politics||Amargarh constituency voters believe the raising of questions over the working of the Punjab Government by their Congress MLA Surjit Dhiman has delayed development of the area. Presently, developmental works are going on but many believe these should have been done earlier.“Since our MLA repeatedly targeted his own government over the failure to fulfil poll promises, our constituency did not get required help from the state government. We have to go to Sangrur for basic health facilities,” said Surjit Singh, an elderly.Many areas of the constituency are without proper roads, sewerage, water supply lines and health facilities. Since developmental works are still going on, many suspect the use of poor quality material and have been demanding proper quality check by government authorities before the release of payment.“The constituency has witnessed overall development and there has been never any delay on my part in raising the issues of my area with the Punjab Government. All 120 panchayats and urban areas have got the required funds,” said MLA Dhiman.Past trendEarlier, Amargarh was part of the Dhuri constituency. It was carved out in 2012. During the 2012 elections, the SAD won the seat while in the last Assembly elections, voters elected the Congress candidate.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,54,879Male 81,920Female 72,957Third gender 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/development-delayed-by-politics-354508
26-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Dera Baba Nanak: Growth aplenty, sacrilege main issue||It is the fundamentalist vote that holds sway in the seat of the Kartarpur corridor. Reason enough why all mainline political outfits are harping on the Bargari sacrilege issue.“We are indeed sensitive about Bargari. Our MLA is trying to untangle the vexed issue but a lot still needs to be done,” says Lachman Singh, a farmer.The historical town has numerous lanes and houses preserved since the time of the first Sikh Guru. In the fall of 2018, days before the construction of the corridor began, the Punjab Government not only established the Dera Baba Nanak Development Authority but also released a grant of Rs 172 crore. A new sugar mill is the need of the hour. “We have to take our produce to either to the Paniyar or Batala mill, both of which are equidistant at 35 km. This process can be averted if a mill is set up, preferably at Kalanaur,” says Jaswant Singh, a sugarcane farmer.The area boasts of the fact that 90 per cent of the seat’s 300-odd villages have installed the Seechewal model of irrigation. MGNREGA works worth Rs 700 crore have also been completed.Randhawa brought in several development works leading to a makeover of this once sleepy township. His dominance within the Congress on the seat is absolute.Past trendThe seat came into existence in the 2012 election after the delimitation exercise. In both 2012 and 2017 elections, the SAD presence was substantial and Randhawa, on both occasions, barely managed to scamper home.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,79,346Male 96,780Female 82,561Third gender 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/growth-aplenty-sacrilege-main-issue-354509
26-12-2021||---||Want more cops on field duty, will trim VVIP security: Chattopadhyaya||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Asserting that sacrilege incidents and the Ludhiana courts complex blast were serious incidents, Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya said the police will in the coming days move from individual security to securing the environment.Hinting at large-scale pruning of the personal security given by the Punjab Police to VVIPs, the DGP at a press meet said they needed more visible presence in the state to avoid such incidents.Entry points to Court complex to be reducedHe was referring to misuse of police for personal security or the “gunmen culture”. It was reported recently that the some police officers were using trained cops as cooks and gardeners.“Rest assured the police are active and will have more presence. We are moving from individual security to a secure environment,” he said.The DGP admitted to security lapse leading to the Ludhiana blast. When asked about intel alerts, he said there had been a security lapse at the courts. “There were at least 12 entry and exit points and all cannot be manned. It is here the co-operation of the people is required.”Change on wayRest assured police will have more presence. We are moving from individual security to a secure environment. —Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, Punjab director general of policeRegarding the Golden Temple sacrilege incident he said the investigation was on but it was a “very delicate situation”. “The incident is a very sensitive issue. The SGPC has its own security and is carrying out its own investigation, while we are doing our own. It is a delicate situation. Police have limits in that sphere.”Asserting that taking law into their own hands by public would not be tolerated, the DGP said the registration of a murder case against the granthi of a Nizampur gurdwara in Kapurthala and 100 others underlined police would not tolerate lynching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/want-more-cops-on-field-duty-will-trim-vvip-security-chattopadhyaya-354511
26-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||3-day Shaheedi Jor Mela begins in Fatehgarh Sahib||The three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela (December 25 to 27) held in the memory of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh began here today.To mark the commencement, “Akhand Path” of Guru Granth Sahib was started at Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup Sahib, where the Sahibzadas were cremated.DC Poonamdeep Kaur said more than 10 lakh devotees are expected to pay obeisance to the martyrs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-day-shaheedi-jor-mela-begins-354512
26-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana blast: 2 inmates brought on production warrant||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 25As part of the investigation into the Ludhiana court bomb blast, the police today brought two jail inmates on production warrant for questioning. Sources said the police also rounded up a woman constable, believed to be suspect’s girlfriend, posted at the office of an SP-rank officer in Khanna.The two inmates — Ranjit Singh, alias Cheeta, and Sukhwinder Singh — were lodged in the Central Jail here in connection with drug smuggling and explosives recovery cases. Sukhwinder was arrested three years ago with RDX by the Khanna police.Police sources said when deceased-cum-suspect Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed head constable, was arrested in connection with a drugs case and lodged in the jail, he had come in contact with the two. They could also be part of the conspiracy hatched by Gagandeep, the sources said.After Gagandeep came out on bail, they remained in touch with him over the phone. They had spent time in the same barrack inside the jail, they added.“We suspect the two could reveal details about the conspiracy, why Gagandeep took explosives to court and the intended target. Nothing could be confirmed at this stage,” said a senior police official.Sources said the woman constable’s role had also come under the scanner as her call details suggested she had been talking to the suspect.Meanwhile, during a raid on the suspect’s house, the National Investigation Agency and the police recovered Rs 1 lakh in cash, a laptop, etc.Naib court, thana munshi quizzedSeveral persons, including incumbent munshi (thana clerk), naib court of Ludhiana courts, a bank employee and close friends of the deceased who were in touch with the suspect, have also been rounded up for questioning by the police, said sources||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ldh-blast-2-inmates-brought-on-production-warrant-354513
26-12-2021||Amritsar||Rs 5 lakh reward for info on Golden Temple 'sacrilege' suspect: SGPC||The SGPC has announced Rs 5-lakh reward to the person who discloses the identity of the person who tried to commit “sacrilege” at the Golden Temple on December 18.Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC president, said the religious sentiments of the “sangat” were hurt by the attempt of the person to cross the fence at the Golden Temple. He said the SGPC would pay Rs 5 lakh to anyone who provides any information about the accused and his family. “The identification of the culprit is crucial to get to the bottom of the conspiracy. Any person giving information related to the identity of the accused will be given a reward and his identity will be kept confidential,” he said. — TNSStep up security, Panthic bodies toldExpressing concern over incidents of blasphemy, the five Sikh high priests directed all Panthic organisations and management committees to put credible security apparatus at gurdwaras||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5l-reward-for-info-on-sacrilege-suspect-sgpc-354515
26-12-2021||Bathinda||Co-operative bank staff strike work||Employees of the Co-operative banks are on an indefinite pen-down strike for the past five days demanding implementation of recommendations of the sixth pay commission report in Bathinda.The union leaders have announced to hold a state-level protest outside Chandigarh head office on December 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/co-operative-bank-staff-strike-work-354516
26-12-2021||Ferozepur||Rs55-cr heroin seized||A total of 11 packets of heroin (worth Rs 55 crore) were seized by the BSF near border outpost BOP Barreke, along the Indo-Pakistan border in this sector. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/55-cr-heroin-seized-354517
26-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sukhbir Badal faces protest at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal paid obeisance at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib with his family here today. Sukhbir was taken to the gurdwara through a special passage. However, the devotees protested over this and said there should be no VIP culture at ‘Guru Ghar’. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-faces-protest-at-shrine-354518
26-12-2021||New Delhi||Omicron, Covid-19: Centre sends health teams to Punjab, 9 other states||Multi-disciplinary central teams have been deployed in 10 states, including Punjab, which are reporting either an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or a slow vaccination pace, according to a Union Health Ministry office memorandum. As per the document, besides Punjab, the teams have been sent to Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-sends-health-teams-to-punjab-9-other-states-354497
26-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Drug mafia-politician nexus still thriving, FIR not enough: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Breaking his silence on the FIR registered under the NDPS Act against Bikram Singh Majithia, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu told The Tribune on Saturday that registering an FIR against the Akali leader was not enough. While pointing out that the FIR was possible only because he could get the DGP and AG changed, he said it did not mean that the case had been solved as the drug peddler-police-politician nexus continued to thrive.Evidence thereThere was prima facie evidence against Majithia and even sand mining was connected to drugs in the STF’s report in 2018. Navjot Sidhu, Punjab Congress Chief“The FIR does not mean that justice has been delivered. Had that been the case, the FIR in the sacrilege cases would have meant justice being done,” maintained Sidhu as he sought to know the reasons as to why there had been reluctance to initiate action against the Akali leader in the past, despite ample proof against him in the form of statements of drug lords in the STF report. He said no honest effort had been made to extradite the 13 NRIs named in a drug trafficking case who would otherwise have named the politicians patronising the drug trade.Speaking his heart out, the PPCC chief said, “People were saying in 2018 that I should not have released the STF report. There was prima facie evidence against Majithia and even sand mining was connected to drugs in the STF report. When former ED Deputy Director Niranjan Singh came up with questions for Majithia, everyone knows what happened then. The state and the Centre should have asked for the extradition of the NRIs.”Citing the STF report, Sidhu said, “For five months, Canadian NRIs Satpreet Singh alias Satta, Parminder Singh alias Pindi and Amrinder Singh alias Laddi stayed with Majthia. He would broker truce between them. Drug consignments were ferried in vehicles with red beacons.” When everything was crystal clear in the drug trafficking case, exemplary punishment should be given to the perpetrators of the heinous crime, the PPCC chief added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-mafia-politician-nexus-still-thriving-fir-not-enough-sidhu-354496
26-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Ludhiana blast accused had links with Pakistan's ISI, says Punjab DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said that police leads on the December 23 blast at the Ludhiana court complex showed it was the handiwork of Pakistan’s spy agency ISI.It’s mix of Pak, drug mafia & KhalistanElements linked to anti-India agencies in Pakistan, Khalistani groups and drug mafia appear to be behind the blast. The motive was to scare the judiciary and create unrest. Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, Punjab DGPAddressing the media for the first time after assuming charge as DGP, Chattopadhyaya said elements linked to anti-India agencies in Pakistan, Khalistani groups and the drug mafia appeared to be behind the explosion.He claimed accused Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed Punjab Police head constable from Khanna, who had died while “fixing wires of the bomb” inside a toilet, was allegedly taking directions from handlers in Pakistan. “It was an external conspiracy. The motive was to scare the judiciary. Two persons undergoing trial in drug cases have been brought on production warrant while a woman constable has been detained for questioning,” the DGP said.Gagandeep, a former munshi with the Khanna police, was booked for possessing 385 gm of heroin by the Ludhiana STF (special task force) in August 2019. “Bailed out recently, Gagandeep seemed to have undergone transition from narcotics to explosives after coming in touch with criminals or terrorists inside the jail. He was to appear in the court on December 24, 2021,” he said.Chattopadhyaya claimed peliminary investigations suggested that Gagandeep, while in jail, may have developed links with pro-Khalistani elements, who used him to target the court premises with an intention to create unrest.To a query, the DGP said it was difficult to ascertain whether the accused, being a former cop, had stolen the explosives from a police malkhaana. “To rule out this possibility, we have ordered an audit of the confiscated explosives kept in malkhaanas,” he said. On the nature of the explosives, he said the crime scene didn’t indicate RDX was used, though details would be known after the forensic report was out.Chattopadhyaya said when he had joined the police, terrorism was the only challenge, but now the mix of drug mafia, organised crime and terror groups was posing a bigger headache.The DGP stressed that ahead of the Assembly poll, anti-social elements had got active, “but the police too were fully alert”. “Punjabis have already suffered brain drain with a large number of youth moving abroad. We need to create an environment for profitable agriculture, industry and new job avenues for the youth here,” he said.Congratulating the Punjab Police for cracking the case within 24 hours, he said the deceased was identified from his tattoo on the right arm. “His DNA samples were also collected,” he said.Gagandeep’s wife Jaspreet Kaur said the ex-cop had left home around 9.30 am on the day of the blast and his mobile phone remained switched off after that. She was the one to recognise her husband from the tattoo mark and the clothes worn by him.Two undertrials, woman cop quizzedTwo undertrials in drug smuggling cases were brought on production warrant and a woman constable detained for questioning.Explosives stolen from malkhaana?The DGP said it was difficult to ascertain whether the accused, being an ex-cop, stole the explosives from a police malkhaana. “To rule out this possibility, we have ordered an audit,” he said.Accused had hearing in court next dayAccused Gagandeep Singh, who died in the blast, had a hearing in Ludhiana court on Dec 24. He was recently bailed out in a drug case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-blast-accused-had-links-with-paks-isi-says-punjab-dgp-354495
26-12-2021||---||22 farmer unions from Punjab form Samyukt Samaj Morcha to fight assembly elections||Ruchika M. KhannaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25As many as 22 farmer unions of Punjab have formed Samyukt Samaj Morcha to contest the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls.A "political arrangement" with Aam Aadmi Party is in the works, say sources, although the unions have explicitly dismissed all talks of any such alliance.  A formal announcement in this regard has been made by the unions, after holding a meeting to finalise finer details. The decision to contest the polls was taken in a meeting of 32 farmer unions at Mullanpur (Ludhiana) on Friday.Sources said that the alliance with Aam Aadmi Party is also expected to be announced shortly. It may be mentioned that AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal is in Punjab on Saturday---a meeting between him and farmer leaders led by Balbir Singh Rajewal is expected soon.Ten unions---all part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha---have refused to be a part of the political front. These are Krantikari Kisan Union (Darshan Pal), BKU Krantikari (Surjit Phool), BKU Sidhupur (Jagjit Dallewal), Azad Kisan Committee Doaba (Harpal Sangha), Jai Kisan Andolan (Gurbakhsh Barnala), Dasuha Ganna  Sangharsh Committee (Sukhpal Daffar), Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Inderjit Kotbudha), Lok Bhalai Insaaf Welfare Society (Baldev Sirsa) and Kirti Kisan Union Punjab (Hardev Sandhu). They have taken a clear stand against contesting elections and said that the farmers' struggle is still a long way to go because the struggle has been only postponed following the repeal of the three farm laws by the Union government.“The other demands are yet to be met. Using the name of the SKM by anyone contesting the elections would invite disciplinary action,” said Darshan Pal, Gurjit Singh Mehma, and Surjit Singh Phool on behalf of these nine unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/23-farmer-unions-from-punjab-form-samyukt-samaj-morcha-to-fight-assembly-elections-354370
26-12-2021||New Delhi||Central teams deployed in Punjab, 9 other states reporting high omicron cases, slow vaccination||Multi-disciplinary central teams have been deployed in 10 states which are reporting either an increasing number of omicron and Covid cases or a slow vaccination pace, according to a Union Health Ministry office memorandum.As per the document, these 10 states are Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Punjab."In view of rapid surge in cases and deaths because of Covid, as reported by various news channels, the state governments, and noted in internal reviews, it has been seen that the number of omicron cases has emerged in some states.“It has also been observed that the pace of Covid vaccination in these states is less than the national average. In wake of this situation, a decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states some of which are either reporting increasing number of omicron and Covid cases or slow vaccination pace, to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of Covid,” the memorandum stated.These teams would be stationed in the states for three to five days, and they would work along with the state health authorities, it said.The teams will specifically look into areas of contact-tracing, including surveillance and containment operations, and Covid testing, including sending of adequate samples from clusters to the INSACOG network for genome sequencing, the memo stated.They will also look into enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics, including ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen, and the Covid vaccination progress.The state-level central teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions and submit a report every evening by 7 pm on public health activities being undertaken, besides submitting the same to the state governments, the memo stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/central-teams-deployed-in-punjab-9-other-states-reporting-high-omicron-cases-slow-vaccination-354358
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana blast accused had links with agencies abroad, drug mafia and Khalistanis: DGP||DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said the Ludhiana blast accused had links with the agencies abroad, drug mafia and Khalistanis.He said the Punjab Police with the help of intelligence and central agencies had unravelled the blast incident within 24 hours.Editorial: Ludhiana blast: Poll-bound Punjab must be wary of disruptive forcesAlso read: Intel alert on possible blast went unnoticedArm tattoo helped identify deceased in Ludhiana blastAddressing a press conference here, he said when he had joined the police, terrorism was the only challenge, but now drugs mafia, organised crime and terror are a dangerous cocktail and the Ludhiana blast is an example of that."I am proud of the Punjab Police, who have successfully cracked the Ludhiana blast case in less than 24 hours,” said Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Siddharth Chattopadhyaya told a press conference here at the Punjab Police Headquarters in Chandigarh on Saturday.He said police had identified the suspect as Gagandeep Singh, a 31-year-old man from Khanna who’d been dismissed from service after he was caught with 385 kg of heroin. The suspect, Gangandeep Singh was posed as a munshi at PS Sadar Khanna at the time of his arrest. Police now claim that the suspect could become associated with some pro-Khalistani militants in jail after he was arrested on drug charges in 2019. Singh died in Thursday’s explosion that occurred in a toilet at the Ludhiana district court.Six people were wounded in the incident.Singh was released on bail in September and was scheduled to appear in court for his hearing on Friday, a day after the explosion, police said.The motive for the blast, DGP Chattopadhyaya said, was to cause panic and fear.“Preliminary investigations suggest that accused Gagandeep could have developed links with pro-khalistan elements in the jail, who used him to target the court premises with the intention to disturb the peace of the State,” DGP Chattopadhyaya said in answer to a journalist’s question.Chattopadhyaya claimed that while DNA samples were collected for analysis, police were able to firmly identify the suspect with the help of a tattoo mark on his right arm.Police were still analysing samples from the blast site to determine what the explosives were made of, he said. “A forensic team has collected some vital clues like damaged mobile set and burnt clothes on the body of the deceased besides other material evidence,” the DGP said.Meanwhile, the suspect Gagandeep Singh’s wife Jaspreet Kaur said her husband had left home at 9.30 am on the morning of the blast and his phone was switched off all day.  A press note from the police headquarters said she’d identified the suspect’s clothes and tattoo.Highlights*Ludhiana police unravelled the blast incident in 24 hours with the help of intelligence and central agencies*It was a big incident*We found tattered clothes, mobile SIM and a tattoo*Deceased was carrying the explosive*That was immediate assessment. It turned out to be correct*Dismissed cop Gagandeep carried out the blast and died*He was booked in August 2019 in Ludhiana for possessing 385 gram heroin*His accomplices were Amandeep and Vikas*He was bailed out after remaining in jail for two years*We suspect he underwent transition from narcotics to bombs in jail. We can't disclose much. But he had links with agencies abroad and had links with narcotic smugglers, drug mafia and Khalistanis*About sacrilege at Golden Temple, SIT under DCP working. Deceased still not identified.*The Kapurthala incident happened at a 'private' gurdwara. We registered a case of sacrilege. It turned out it was not a case of sacrilege but of theft. He was lynched, which is unfortunate and will not be tolerated. No one would be allowed to take law in hand. That is why we arrested the accused granthi, who carried out the merciless killing*Assembly polls: Police are geared up for free and fair polls*Rest assured the police are active and will have more presence.*We will deploy men on individual security*We seek full cooperation and help from the public*Inform police about any suspect person or event. Informer will be kept secret but no false information due to personal enmity*Punjab needs to be at the top again, in agriculture, industry and sports. Why have we moved towards chitta and gangsters. Show your prowess in sports field not kill or scare common people. Why are youths leaving Punjab? We need to be responsible*Today I call mafia and gangsters and terror sympathisers to surrender. In coming days we will take strict action*Regarding Ludhiana blast, RDX does not seem to have been used but we will wait for the forensic report to rule it out*The accused seems to be lone wolf but investigation is on*Accused was good in computers and technology*He seemed to be connecting wires or assembling the bomb. He was alone. He was in touch with other elements in jails and abroad. He was frustrated due to the case against him*Narcotics turnover is 40,000 crore now. All Punjab Police personnel are with STF now*The blast had narcotic terror angle*He might have planned the blast to scare the judiciary*We have detained more persons. We are investigating external conspiracy. Leads point towards Pakistan as he had links with smugglers*Security lapse took place at the courts. There were more than 20 entry and exit points*Doing an audit of police malkhannas to see if he stole explosive material from police custody*Golden Temple sacrilege is a very sensitive issue. The SGPC has its own security and is carrying out its own investigation while we are doing our own. It is a delicate situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/live-updates-ludhiana-incident-unravelled-in-24-hours-dgp-siddharth-chattopadhyaya-354344
