27-12-2021||Dera Bassi||Kuljeet Singh Randhawa gets AAP ticket from  Dera Bassi||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kuljeet-singh-randhawa-gets-aap-ticket-from-dera-bassi-355086
27-12-2021||---||146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan: Musical conclave ends on melodious note||Jalandhar, December 26The 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan came to a close today with the strains of the tabla and mellifluous vocals of Patiala Gharana maestro Kaushiki Chakraborty here today. Kickstarted with a gala cultural exhibition and fair, the Harivallabh was hosted in the plush new building of the Harivallabh Bhawan this year, which hosted a musical bonanza in the decked up building.The sprawling largeness of the erstwhile pandal was replaced with a warmer, more insulated Harivallabh Bhawan, which was upholstered and laid over with rugs to host the concert.While the Harivallabh was kickstarted with the haunting strains of the Shehnai and the flute, it saw a packed sitar and tabla jugalbandi last night and came to a close with stirring vocal renditions today.On December 26, the festival’s illustrious line up included D. Alankar’s melodious vocals, he was accompanied by Pt. Surjay Bhaumik on tabla, Rajendra Prsad Banerjee on harmonium and Sandeep Singh on the Dilruba, vocals by Sania Patankar accompanied on the tabla by Avirbhav Verma and on the Harmonium by Rajnish Dhiman. Pt. Sudhir Pandey’s rivetting solo tabla recital came in next. He was accompanied by Ghanshyam Sisodia on the Sarangi. The rousing vocals of Kaushiki Chakraborty brought the sammelan to a close with Ishaan Ghosh accompanying her on the tabla and Milind Kulkarni on the harmonium.On Christmas Day, the warmed and enthusiastically attended recitals included a line up with artists - Divyansh Shrivastav (Santoor) accompanied by Anad Mishra (tabla) and Ankit Parikh (santoor); Jalandhar’s very own talented child prodigy Ashupreet Kaur and Anu Bala with their vocals accompanied by Surjeet Singh (tabla) and Poojapreet Kaur (harmonium), Violinist Asghar Hussain accompanied by Akhtar Hussain; Sanika Kulkarni (vocals) accompanied by Aashay Kulkarni (tabla) and Milind Kulkarni (harmonium) and the packed final performance whjich saw an ace jugalbandi Purbayan Chatterji’s illustrious sitar played to the accompaniment of Pt. Vijay Ghate’s rich, masterful tabla.On day one, acclaimed flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar’s performance entralled the audience. The evening was also ornamented by the dhrupad vocals of Uday Bhawalkar (accompanied om the Pakhawaj by Pratap Awad) and the calming santoor recital from artist Dr Varsha Aggarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/musical-conclave-ends-on-melodious-note-355022
27-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi pays obeisance at Nakodar deras||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday paid obeisance at Dera Baba Murad Shah and Darbar Almast Bapu Lal Badshah, Nakodar. CM Channi also announced grants of Rs 11 lakh each for the both religious places.Accompanied by MLA Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia, former minister Amarjeet Singh Samra, Ex-MLA Kanwaljeet Singh Lalli and others, the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi went to Dera Baba Murad Shah where he prayed for the welfare of all sections of the society besides seeking blessings to serve the people of Punjab for more effectively. The trustees of Dera Baba Murad Shah presented a shawl to the Chief Minister, who also partook of the langar with sangat.The visit is also part of the CM’s spree to announce appeasement sops to various religious communities and devotional places across the state. He has already visited Dhakti Peeth Sheri Devi Talab Mandir, the Lord Vishwakarma Mandir in Phagwara. On November 28, he had announced the setting up of an exclusive research centre at Phagwara after the laying foundation stone for the state-of-the-art Bhagwan Parshuram Taposthal.The CM today also met and interacted with the sangat gathered from different parts of the state. Meanwhile, Channi also paid obeisance at Darbar Bapu Lal Badshah Ji, Nakodar. While visiting the Darbar complex, he also spoke with the sangat besides partaking of langar with head sewadar and MP Hans Raj Hans. CM Channi also prayed for the peace and prosperity in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/channi-pays-obeisance-at-deras-355023
27-12-2021||---||Shehnaaz Gill's father shot at, escapes unhurt||Amritsar, December 26Some unidentified armed persons allegedly shot at Santokh Singh, alias Sukh, near Jandiala Guru area here on late Saturday evening. Sukh is father of Big Boss fame and Punjabi film actor Shehnaaz Gill.Sukh was going from Amritsar to Beas and stopped at a dhaba in Jandiala Guru to answer the call of nature when the incident took place. In his statement to the police, he alleged his gunmen wanted to go to washroom and therefore, he stopped his car near Gurdaspuria dhaba.He said two bike-borne persons stopped near his car and fired at him. Four gunshots hit his car. He said the accused fled when his gunmen hurled bricks at them after hearing gunshots. He immediately informed Jandiala Guru police and a team of cops reached the spot.He alleged though the police were informed timely about the incident, a case was yet to be registered.Harpreet Singh, Station House Officer, Jandiala Guru police station, said the police recovered four empty shells from the spot.“Following a preliminary probe, the matter was found to be suspicious and therefore further investigation was under progress,” he said. He said recently his security was withdrawn as there were several criminal cases registered against him. He said the police were probing the matter and working on different theories and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shehnaaz-gills-father-shot-at-escapes-unhurt-355025
27-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana blast accused was in touch with drug kingpin, calls traced||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 26The role of Ludhiana Central Jail authorities has come under scanner in connection with the recent court complex blast here. It is learnt that the conspiracy for the incident was hatched by the suspects using mobile phones while lodged in this jail.Made from jailUndertrials lodged in the Ludhiana Central Jail reportedly made phone calls to accused Gagandeep Singh, who died in the incidentDrug kingpin Ranjit Singh Cheeta and terror case undertrial Sukhwinder Singh Soni, both lodged in the jail, reportedly had phone calls with blast suspect Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed Punjab Police constable who died in the incident.Sources claimed the police had seized mobile phones used by Cheeta and Soni to communicate with Gagandeep and to facilitate his interaction with some pro-Khalistani activists.Despite the fact that around 150 phones are seized from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates every year, the authorities have neither been able to ascertain the channel through which inmates obtain phones nor could they establish connivance of jail officials.Jail Superintendent Balkar Singh said inmates might obtain phones with the help of outsiders who lobbed these over the jail boundary wall or there might be connivance of some corrupt jail officials. “Soni and Cheeta are being quizzed and the police will soon come to know how they obtained the phone,” he said.In May this year, a hookah party video of Manvinder Singh, alias Nikka Jatana, who faces 16 criminal cases, had gone viral.In June 2020, Nikka Jatana reportedly planned a murderous attack on his rival gangsters using a phone while lodged in the jail. Later, he accepted the responsibility for the attack via a social media post.On April 28, 2019, the STF nabbed a woman smuggler with 440 gm heroin. The drug racket was being run by her son from the jail using a mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blast-accused-was-in-touch-with-drug-kingpin-calls-traced-354893
27-12-2021||---||Never said farm laws will be back, Rahul Gandhi creating confusion: Narendra Tomar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 26A day after his purported comments on farm laws led to political mudslinging, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar today clarified that he never said that the Centre would bring the legislations back.Cheap politicsPeople like Rahul Gandhi indulge in cheap politics. They have unsuccessfully tried to mislead the country. — NS Tomar, Agriculture Minister“I had said that the government had made good (farm) laws. We took them back due to some reasons. The government will continue to work for the welfare of the farmers,” he said. The Congress had reacted to his earlier comments and said the Centre would try to bring back the farm laws with amendments after the Assembly elections in five states.“There is no proposal to bring back agriculture reform laws. People like Rahul Gandhi indulge in cheap politics. These people have tried unsuccessfully to mislead the country by misquoting my statement. There is no such proposal to bring back the repealed laws,” Tomar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/never-said-farm-laws-will-be-back-rahul-creating-confusion-tomar-354901
27-12-2021||Abohar||Gang of bike thieves busted||Heroin, poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police seized 22 gm of heroin and drug money worth Rs 4,200 from Mangat Singh, alias Krishna Singh, of Pakka Seed Farm here. Around 15 kg of poppy husk was seized from a truck driver, Sukhnaib Singh of Nathana, Bathinda. The accused has been arrested. OCFarmer’s son ends lifeAbohar: Gurpreet Singh (20), son of a farmer in Bazidpur Bhoma village, reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan inside his house when his father Darshan Singh and other family members had gone to participate in a religious function. The police handed over the body to the family after a post-mortem. The reason for suicide was yet to be ascertained. OCSupport grows for librariansSangrur: Members of the BKU Ugrahan and the Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) have announced to support the indefinite agitation of unemployed librarians in Sangrur. “We, along with the members of the BKU Ugrahan, have decided to support the agitation,” said Balvir Chand Longowal, a DTF leader. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-of-bike-thieves-busted-354890
27-12-2021||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Shifting loyalties||Let down by partiesSangrur: Feeling neglected by the Congress government in Sangrur constituency, members of the Brahmin community have decided to organise a show of strength on next Sunday at a local temple. They alleged that Congress leaders were promoting other communities and said they would finalise their future course of action next week. “Congress leaders are giving importance to other communities and have appointed their members on various crucial positions,” alleged the members of the community.Dy Speaker loses his coolMuktsar: While addressing a public rally here recently, Deputy Speaker-cum-Malout legislator Ajaib Singh Bhatti lost his cool on seeing Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring interacting with one of the two Deputy Chief Ministers during his address. Bhatti halted the address and asked Warring about the point of discussion. At this, the Transport Minister apologised to Bhatti and asked him to continue with his speach. Notably, when Bhatti had come to the dais, Warring had addressed him as “buddha sher”. However, Bhatti later praised Warring for his enthusiasm.What’s in a name? Ask CongMuktsar: Replying to those who term Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi as ‘Ailaanjit’ for making several announcements close to the Assembly elections, Congress MLA from Zira Kulbir Singh Zira, at a rally here, said Channi was ‘Vishwas-e-Punjab’. He also took some potshots at politicians of other outfits.Tussle over buses persistsMuktsar: The SAD is targeting Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for using state-owned buses for Congress rally at Doda village. SAD’s Gidderbaha constituency incharge Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon, who is also co-owner of the New Deep Transport, said: “The Transport Minister used nearly 500 state-owned buses to bring people to the rally venue. The expense of one bus is approximately Rs 35,000 and according to this, Warring caused a loss to the tune of Rs 1.75 crore to the state exchequer. Who will pay for it?” Contributed by ravi dhaliwal, Parvesh Sharma & Archit Watts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shifting-loyalties-354888
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 decades on, man sentenced to 2-year RI in attempt to murder case||A man, who did not spend even a single day either in the police or judicial custody, has been sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a nearly two-decade old attempt to murder case. The case was registered following an alleged fight over a small container.In all, four accused were convicted by the trial court. Two of the accused were sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC, while the others were sentenced to two years. An FIR in the matter was registered in April 2004, the order of conviction and sentence was passed by Gurdaspur Additional Sessions Judge, (Adhoc), Fast Track Court, in February 2004 and the case was pending in the High Court since then. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-decades-on-man-sentenced-to-2-year-ri-354885
27-12-2021||Bathinda||Manpreet Badal lays stone of Parshuram Bhawan||Finance Minister Manpreet Badal today laid the foundation stone of Bhagwan Parshuram Bhawan in Bathinda. The bhawan will be constructed in 500 sq yards at a cost of Rs 1 crore.The Sri Brahmin Sabha, Punjab, appealed to the FM to include Brahmin girls into the Shagun scheme ambit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parshuram-bhawan-stone-laid-354884
27-12-2021||Bathinda||Sans salaries, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University staff go on strike||The faculty, including teaching and non-teaching, clerical and technical staff, under a banner of the Samuh Mulazam Joint Action Committee, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) and constituent colleges, staged a protest on MRSPTU campus over non-payment of salaries for the past two months.The union members raised slogans against the university authorities and demanded salaries. Sukhwinder Singh, a member of the union, said, “We have not received our salaries for almost three months. We have been on a strike for the last four days and suspend work for two hours (10 am to 12 pm), but if our salaries are not released soon, we will intensify our stir.” “Just like staff in other departments have been given benefits as per the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission, we must also be provided salaries as per new pay scales,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sans-salaries-universitystaff-go-on-strike-354883
27-12-2021||Abohar||ASHA workers to gherao Punjab Deputy CM OP Soni's house in Amritsar||Braving 10 degree Celsius temperature and fog, ASHA workers continued with their protest on Sunday for demands such as regular salary on the patterns of Haryana, besides monthly honorarium of Rs 2,500.Union’s district head Santosh Rani said besides the honorarium, they had been demanding salary on the lines of the Haryana Government. On December 28, the ASHA workers will organise a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. On December 31, the workers from across the state will gherao the residence of OP Soni in Amritsar.While taking out a protest march on Sunday, they raised slogans against the government and later, sat on a dharna inside the Sub-divisional Civil Hospital. ASHA Workers’ Union local unit president Anju Rani said since 2008, all ASHA workers have been working on nominal allowance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-to-gherao-deputy-cms-house-on-december-31-354882
27-12-2021||Mansa||Morcha’s Ruldu Singh Mansa, Sidhu Moosewala raise stakes in Mansa||The Mansa seat could see a fierce contest between Congress leader Sidhu Moosewala and Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Ruldu Singh Mansa in the 2022 Assembly elections.Eyeing ticket from Mansa and unfazed by opposition from local Congress leaders, Mooosewala is holding public meetings. He has disbursed Rs 2.16 crore in Mansa and Bhikhi blocks.Ruldu, who is also the president of BKU (Mansa), could be the likely candidate of the SKM from Mansa. In 2012 Assembly elections, his son Gurjant Singh contested on the ticket of CPI-ML unsuccessfully from Mansa.During the agitation against the central farm laws, Ruldu emerged as a firebrand leader who carried a stick with him in his hand. The Tribune, Ruldu said: “I am not demanding any ticket, if the Morcha gives me an opportunity to contest from here, CPI-ML would surely support me.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morchas-ruldu-singh-mansa-sidhu-moosewala-raise-stakes-in-mansa-354881
27-12-2021||Ropar||Denied AAP ticket, Ropar MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa slams Raghav Chadha||Denied ticket, AAP MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa has targeted state party co-incharge Raghav Chadha and candidate Dinesh Chadha.Sandoa alleged he had informed Raghav about alleged suspicious activities of Dinesh as an RTI activist and the former had promised him not to field him as the candidate. He said party supremo Arvind Kejriwal had already told him they would field someone else from the seat and that he was fine with the decision. On his part, Dinesh claimed there was no substance in the allegations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denied-ticket-ropar-mla-amarjit-singh-sandoa-slams-chadha-354880
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||RTI activist Dinesh Chadha, young turk Narinder Kaur Bharaj on AAP’s list of 15||A known RTI activist and a young star campaigner who relentlessly campiagned for the party are on the list of 15 candidates released by AAP today. This brings the total number of candidates announced by the party to 73.According to the list released by state AAP chief Bhagwant Mann and incharge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh, the party’s star campaigner Narinder Kaur Bharaj, 27, has been given the ticket from Sangrur. Activist Dinesh Chadha, who has contniously raised the issue of illegal mining and goonda tax for past several years, has been given ticket from Ropar after dropping sitting MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rti-activist-young-turk-on-aaps-list-of-15-354879
27-12-2021||Patiala||Delhi minister Satyendra Jain meets Patiala businessmen||Ahead of the upcoming elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national leader and Delhi minister Satyendra Jain on Sunday met traders and businessmen in and around Patiala, listened to their problems and sought suggestions from them.Jain alleged: “Businessmen of Punjab are deeply troubled by corrupt politicians and officers. Those in power ask traders for a share in the business. Tired of corruption, today the businessmen are leaving the state and investing outside.”Accusing the ruling Congress of corruption and bribery, Jain said: “Traders of Punjab have to do a lot of unnecessary paperwork and pay bribe in government offices before starting their business.” Jain promised if AAP formed the government, it would free people of Punjab from unnecessary paperwork. Under the ‘Doorstep Delivery Programme’, all paperwork would be done at people’s homes, he said. — TNSAAP slams Cong over BPL stickersChandigarh: The AAP has criticised the Congress government on the issue of barcode on BPL cards. The party alleged poor people had to visit houses of Congress MLAs and leaders to get a sticker of barcode on their cards so that they could get ration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-minister-jain-meets-patiala-businessmen-354878
27-12-2021||Ferozepur||Rs 200-cr heroin seized in Ferozepur||The BSF thwarted yet another attempt of Pakistan-based drug smugglers to push narcotics inside the Indian territory and recovered a huge haul of 40-kg heroin in two incidents that took place in this sector today.In the first incident, the BSF troops of 101 Battalion observed some suspicious movement ahead of barbed wire fencing along the Indo-Pakistan border near BOP Mian Wali Uttar. Later, a search operation was carried out, during which 22 packets of 34-kg heroin were recovered. The estimated cost of the consignment is pegged at Rs 170 crore in the international market. In the second recovery, the troops of the 116 Battalion recovered six packets of heroin (weighing 6 kg) worth Rs 30 crore near BOP Mohammadi Wala in this sector. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-200-cr-heroin-seized-in-ferozepur-354876
27-12-2021||Amritsar||Shots fired after drone spotted along border||With dense fog engulfing the region, another incident of drone movement was observed at Rajatal village located in the Amritsar-Tarn Taran area here last night.A BSF team fired several rounds at the drone, but it returned to Pakistan. The BSF along with Amritsar Rural and Tarn Taran police carried out a search operation in the area, but failed to make any recoveries.Amritsar Rural SSP Rakesh Kaushal said the search would continue for now. As per details, the unmanned aerial vehicle made as many as five sorties inside the Indian territory between 7.45 pm and 10.30 pm. The BSF personnel heard the humming sound of the drone originating from the Pakistan side. Following the standard operating procedure, they fired in the direction. Kaushal said a joint operation of the BSF and Amritsar Rural police was conducted to search for any droppings, but nothing was found.The sources said it was suspected a consignment of weapons or drugs was apparently dropped inside the Indian territory, which was retrieved and hidden by the anti-national forces with the help of cross-border smugglers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shots-fired-after-drone-spotted-along-border-354875
27-12-2021||Patiala||Will re-operationalise Jharkhand coal mine: New PSPCL chairman||Soon after assuming charge as the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) recently, Baldev Singh Sran said he would work hard to provide cheaper and uninterrupted power to the people of the state.On the coal crisis, he said: “We have our own coal mine at the Pachhwara block in Jharkhand and we can get cheaper and better quality coal from there to generate power. By operationalising this coal mine, which has not been operating for long now, Punjab can save around Rs 600-700 crore annually. Consequently, the cost of power will be reduced and consumers will benefit.”In September, the Supreme Court had paved the way for re-operationalising the Pachhwara coal mine, which can help save at least Rs 20-30 per unit.Sran said bringing in cheaper coal from Pachhwara was one of his top priorities. In the face of the upcoming paddy season and the inability of Coal India Limited to meet the demand, the re-operationalisation of the Pachhwara coal mine would be a boon to the state, said experts.the cancellation of the power purchase agreements with three IPPs, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was present when Sran assumed charge at the PSPCL, said the government had already made up its mind to take over one of the thermal plants and passed a Bill to renegotiate power tariffs with other two private thermal and several solar IPPs. He said Punjab would once again be made a power-surplus state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-re-operationalise-jharkhand-coal-mine-new-pspcl-chairman-354874
27-12-2021||Arun Sharma||Ropar villagers allege illegal sand mining, police inaction||Tribune News ServiceRopar, December 26Even as illegal mining has become a political issue, the Mining Department officials seem to be in no hurry to take action against suspects.The officials haven’t taken note of a complaint of illegal mining in Surewal village near Nangal even two days after a complaint was filed in this regard.Charanjit Singh of Anandpur Sahib said he, along with his brother Parminder Singh and sarpanch of Lodhipur village, owned land in Surewal. On Friday, they came to know that some people had been lifting sand from their land. Charanjit claimed when they reached the spot, nearly 50 tractor-trailers and several JCB machines were busy digging sand and their land had been dug up by more than 15 feet.They tried to stop the digging but fearing for their life, they left the spot and informed the police. The police as well as Mining Department had not taken any action till now, they alleged. Mining Department XEN Sartaj Singh Randhawa and subdivisional officer Satwinder Singh said they did not know about case. Local Mining Department Inspector Harinder Singh said he had received information from the police in this regard but could not visit the spot as he was out of station.Mining Dept officials informed: CopsPolice post incharge Narinder Singh said he visited the spot and informed the department officials. The land in this case was on the border of Himchal Pradesh and the police would be able to take action only after discussing the issue with department officials, who were yet to arrive, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-villagers-allege-illegal-sand-mining-police-inaction-354873
27-12-2021||---||Medical seats for all-India quota won't be given back to Punjab now||Faridkot, December 26Much to the dismay of the state quota medical students, there will be no revert of all-India quota (AIQ) MBBS and MD/MS vacant seats this time.So far, all AIQ seats which remained vacant after two rounds of counselling were sent back to the state and were filled under state quota. But now, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has announced that all AIQ MBBS and MD/MS seats will be filled by conducting two more rounds of counselling.All government medical institutes in the state contribute 15 per cent of their MBBS and 50 per cent of MD/MS seats to AIQ seats and these seats are filled by the MCC from the candidates across the country.Earlier, the MCC used to conduct only two rounds of counselling to fill the AIQ seats and the seats remaining vacant after these two rounds of counselling were reverted to states to be treated as state quota seats.But from this year, the MCC has announced to conduct four rounds of counselling — AIQ round 1, AIQ round 2, AIQ mop-up round and AIQ stray vacancy round to fill all these seats.Last year, the MCC had reverted 33 out of total 90 AIQ MBBS seats in three government medical colleges in Punjab after these remained vacant in two rounds of counselling. Similarly, 76 out of total 188AIQ postgraduate (MD/MS) medical seats in three government medical colleges were also reverted.The MCC has announced that fresh candidates will only be allowed in the first three rounds and not in the stray vacancy round. Candidates will be given an option to upgrade and free exit only in round 1. Candidates who join the allotted seat in round 2 will not be allowed to resign and will be ineligible for participating in further rounds of counselling. Candidates who do not join the allotted seat in round 2 will be eligible for further rounds of counselling by paying a security deposit and fresh registration in mop-up round only.Norms changedFrom this year, the MCC has announced to conduct four rounds of counselling — AIQ round 1, AIQ round 2, AIQ mop-up round and AIQ stray vacancy round —to fill all the seats. Last year, the MCC had reverted 33 out of total 90 AIQ MBBS seats in three government medical colleges in Punjab after these remained vacant in two rounds of counselling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-seats-for-all-india-quota-wont-be-given-back-to-state-now-354872
27-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Cancer patients forced to visit private facilities||The treatment of cancer patients is getting adversely affected as staff nurses, technical staff and ward attendants of Advanced Cancer Institute-cum-Hospital have been agitating for the last one week.The hospital authorities, which were already grappling with staff shortage, have been finding it very difficult to offer treatment these days.Trying our bestThe work is getting affected due to the ongoing strike of employees. We are trying our best to ensure that patients do not suffer. -- Deepak Arora, Director, Cancer hospitalCancer patients admitted to indoor patient department (IPD) have been discharged and new patients were being examined only at out patient department (OPD).As the quality of treatment has also got compromised, critical patients were being forced to visit private hospitals, which in turn charges them exorbitantly. Most of the patients visiting the hospital come from lower strata of society who cannot afford expensive treatment.The cancer institute not only caters to patients from Bathinda or other districts of Malwa, but also residents from adjoining districts of Haryana and Rajasthan.Due to the ongoing protest, there’s no staff to work during the night shift and functioning of medical laboratory has also got affected.An employee on the condition of anonymity said, “It is the patients who are ultimately suffering. The staff have a right to protest, but they must devote some time for welfare of cancer patients.”Dr Deepak Arora, Director, Advanced Cancer Institute-cum-Hospital, said, “Patients are being examined and chemotherapy sessions are happening. A few units of the hospital are lying non-operational.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancer-patients-forced-to-visit-private-facilities-354871
27-12-2021||Sameer Singh||Staff on strike, vaccination pace falters in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 26Amid the threat of Omicron spread, the ongoing strikes by contractual and outsourcing staff working in the Health Department have affected vaccination and sampling in the district.With more than 60 per cent of total staff on strike, the department is not only faltering in meeting set targets for vaccination and sampling but the surveillance, tracing of those returning from high-risk countries and enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour have also got affected. Notably, the Centre has directed states to improve testing and vaccination pace.Sources said with majority of staff working in different units of the Health Department not turning up at work due to the ongoing strike, the latter has been not able to meet revised targets for vaccination. Sources said as per the revised target, 2,000 tests were to be conducted daily but after registering some improvement, only 50 per cent of testing targets could be achieved.“Dwindling vaccination and testing amid Omicron threat are certainly not good signs,” said a retired functionary of the department.The staff working under the National Health Mission, Revised National TB Control Programme, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Integrated Child Development Services are not turning up at work to lodge protest against the state government, accusing it of ignoring their demand of regularisation of services.Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “A majority of staff members are on strike so it is natural that vaccination and testing have got affected. We are putting our best efforts with the available staff and resources to improve the numbers.”Need to rebuild trust: Medical council chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-on-strike-vaccination-pace-falters-in-bathinda-354870
27-12-2021||---||Ashwani Sekhri to contest from Batala: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Gurdaspur, December 26PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today surprised his party colleagues by publicly announcing the candidature of three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri from the Batala Assembly seat even as the process of identifying and finalising the candidates by the Punjab Congress is on. Sidhu was in the city to attend a rally organised by Sekhri.Takes Swipe at TriptSome outsiders are trying to poach what is rightfully Sekhri’s due. However, their ill-conceived plans will not be allowed to materialise. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefSidhu’s declaration warmed the political temperatures on a cold day when rain threatened to play spoilsport. He made it clear “outsiders would not be entertained when it came to selecting the candidate”. This was apparently a reference to Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.It is well-known in political circles that Bajwa is eyeing this segment. He is the sitting MLA of the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian. With this, the chances of Tript being fielded from Batala have virtually been nipped in the bud. “As far as Batala is concerned, there is only one candidate and he is Ashwani Sekhri. There is not even an iota of doubt to it. I know some outsiders are trying to poach what is rightfully Sekhri’s due. However, their ill-conceived plans will not be allowed to materialise,” said Sidhu, amid a roar from the crowd.Observers say the onus is now on the PCC chief to ensure Sekhri actually gets the ticket. “Sidhu has made the announcement at a public rally. From now onwards, at every party forum, the PCC chief will have to strongly back Sekhri if he has to keep his word and reputation,” said a sitting Congress MLA.Apart from the latest push made by the PCC chief, Sekhri is known to enjoy good ties with the party high command and certain AICC bigwigs.Some trade unions holding black flags tried to make their way into the venue but were their attempts were thwarted by the police force led by DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandate-2022-sekhri-to-contest-from-batala-navjot-singh-sidhu-354869
27-12-2021||---||Another stir brings Punjab, Haryana farmers together in Sangrur||Sangrur, December 26The bonding, which developed between Punjab and Haryana farmers during their stir against the farm laws, is getting stronger as farmers from the neighbouring state have joined their Punjabi counterparts to protest against the state government at the district headquarters.Rajinder Rathi, a farmer from Haryana, said, “I had given them my plot in Bahadurgarh. I have developed brotherhood with farmers from Punjab. Since our Punjabi brothers are fighting for their demands, its our moral duty to support them. I have been here since December 21.”Sumedh Singh, a resident of Narwana, said, “I came along with three persons to support farmers in Sangrur. We have developed close relations with Punjabi farmers. These ties will strengthen further.”Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan), said: “This unity will help farmers in winning more battles against the governments in future as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-stir-brings-punjab-haryana-farmers-together-in-sangrur-354868
27-12-2021||Amritsar||Vacate railway tracks: Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla||Local MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has condemned the farmers’ move to block railway tracks, causing disruption in train services from the holy city.At least 80-90 trains had been affected as the farmers, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, have blocked the tracks at Devidaspura, near Jandiala, Tarn Taran, Tanda (Hoshiarpur), Jalandhar Cantt, Moga and Fazilka and at Basti Tenka Wali in Ferozepur district.Blockade unjustifiedThis method of forcing the government to accept demands can never be justified.Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amritsar MPDemanding financial aid for families of farmers who died during the agitation on the Delhi border, compensation to cotton farmers and enhanced sugarcane prices, the MP urged them to vacate the railway tracks as trade and emergencies services had been hit in the border belt.He said though everyone had the right to demonstrate peacefully in a democratic setup, some farmers’ organisations could not harm the state economy at a time when their major demands had been accepted.The tourism and hotel industries had suffered a lot due to the farmers’ struggle and the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to the blockade, cabbies, auto-rickshaw drivers and rickshaw-pullers who were earning their livelihood were returning home empty-handed, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vacate-railway-tracks-amritsar-mp-354867
27-12-2021||---||Poll plunge: Samyukt Morcha deviating from its agenda, says Congress||Chandigarh, December 26Day after the 22 farmer unions of Punjab, under the banner of Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), announced their decision to contest the upcoming Assembly elections under the leadership of BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal, the Congress today accused the farm leaders of giving up their demand for a nationwide minimum support price to further their political ambitions.Brinder S Dhillon, Punjab Youth CongressSacrifice forgottenIt will be a disgrace to the sacrifice of farmers at the Delhi border. Contesting in alliance with AAP is like selling fruits of stir to highest bidder.Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu said the formation of the political front at this juncture raised several questions. He sought to know whether this segment of farmers’ leaders was motivated by any political party or not.Recalling the sacrifice of 700 farmers who died during the farmers’ agitation, Bittu said: “Farmers were welcome in politics, but these are not farmers. Anna Hazare was used and thrown by a ‘common man’ to become the CM of Delhi. Similar fate awaits these leaders too.”Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla said farmers had every right to contest elections. But these leaders had announced that they would stay away from politics during the farmers’ agitation. “They need to reach unanimity before contesting elections. One has to give a stable government.”Party wary of new entrantCongress leaders admit if the SSM joins the AAP ahead of the polls, it may lead to consolidation of vote in favour of the party. Besides, eating into Congress’ vote share, it will also damage the SAD, upsetting the poll dynamics, they say.Rahul to sound bugle in JanCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will launch the party’s election campaign by addressing a rally at Killi Chahlan, Moga. The rally will be organised between January 5 and 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-plunge-morcha-deviating-from-its-agenda-says-congress-354866
27-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Qadian: Missing rail link to development||RESIDENTS of this Assembly seat remember their MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa for being among them when it mattered the most. That is when Covid was at its peak. The legislator’s NGO was at the forefront of distributing masks and sanitisers when the virus was spreading its wings. The common refrain among the masses is “a friend in need is a friend indeed”. Observers say such things definitely do weigh on the minds of the voters when taking a call on which party to vote for.However, the seat has its own set of problems. The 150-year-old world famous Egerton Woollen Mills is on the verge of closure. Employees have not been paid their wages for months. Every week they turn up at the MLA’s residence. On his part, the legislator cannot intervene directly because the solution to all its problems lies with the Ministry of Textiles. Fateh says he has taken up the issue with the Centre.Qadian is a sugarcane-rich belt and hence farmers demand the setting up of a sugar mill. Then there is the vexed issue of completing the Beas-Qadian rail link. MP Partap Bajwa made efforts to get the link operative but politicking killed all his well laid out plans. The MLA says the project could not be completed as villagers are not willing to part way their land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/qadian-missing-rail-link-to-development-354865
27-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sujanpur: Struggling to shed ‘backward’ tag||SUJANPUR is widely regarded as the most backward Assembly seat of Punjab with a rapidly depleting water table and erratic power supply adding to its woes by putting the skids under development projects.There is an acute drinking water scarcity in the Dhar block. It has been there for the past several decades but has become more pronounced now because of the depleting water table. “Dhar is inhabited by poor people who can barely afford two square meals a day. They do not have money to install deep bores. Power supply is also erratic,” says MLA Dinesh Babbu.In Sujanpur city, there is no bus stand. To this, Babbu says, “I have approached transport officials on many occasions. But the fact remains that nobody listens to me because I am an Opposition MLA,” he said.The society is also conservative. Parents say they will send their daughters to the college only if it is an only-girls institute. “Capt Amarinder Singh promised to establish one at Jugiyal in 2014. Seven years down the line, not a single brick has been laid. I will not send my daughter to a co-ed college in any case,” said Vinay Mahajan, a senior Congressman.Villagers say an 8-bedded hospital caters to their area while they need a 30-bedded one. “Lack of funds,” says an official when asked why a hospital was not being established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sujanpur-struggling-to-shed-backward-tag-354864
27-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela: Sikhs languishing in prisons to be released soon, says Punjab CM||All Sikh prisoners who have completed their sentence and have been languishing in jails for a long time will be released soon as the government has started the process, said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here today.He had come here to pay obeisance at historical Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib.Taking his cue from SAD president Sukhbir Badal, who was heckled by devotees for following the VIP culture during his visit to the gurdwara yesterday, CM Channi reached the shrine on foot from the helipad and waited for his turn.The CM directed the security personnel not to cause inconvenience to devotees and later served langar. He was accompanied by MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, DC and SSP. The MLA got stranded in the crowd and was retrieved by security personnel.The CM said the state government had written to the Prime Minister to declare the Sirhind-Morinda-Chamkaur Sahib Road as national highway, to be named after Mata Gujri. He also announced a Baba Sangat Singh memorial at Fatehgarh Sahib. Baba Sangat was martyred at Chamkaur Sahib by the Mughals, who took him for Guru Gobind Singh. His body was brought to Fatehgarh Sahib, where a small gurdwara is located in his memory. Meanwhile, a heavy rush of devotees was witnessed today as all roads remained choked throughout the day. — OCOutfits seek early actionAmritsar: Representatives of various Sikh organisations on Sunday assembled at Akal Takht to perform ‘ardas’ for the early release of Sikh political prisoners who had completed their sentence. The organisations took out a march from Gurdwara Santokhsar Sahib to Akal Takht seeking release of Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, Jagtar Singh Hawara, Jagtar Singh Tara, Balwant Singh Rajoana, Gurmeet Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Shamsher Singh, Gurdeep Singh and Paramjit Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shaheedi-jor-mela-sikhs-languishing-in-prisons-to-be-released-soon-says-punjab-cm-354863
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest over, aspirants line up for BJP ticket for Punjab Assembly polls||With hostility surrounding the three farm laws diminishing, the Bharatiya Janata Party is seeing a surge in requests for a party ticket ahead of the Assembly elections. In contrast, the party was finding it hard to find candidates even for the local bodies elections earlier this year.According to sources, the party plans to contest around 80 seats in alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt).Party minders for various constituencies are getting several calls from ticket aspirants. BJP’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said though there was no procedure in place to invite people for ticket, the response they were receiving was “massive”. “On each seat, we have four to five people who can put up a good fight,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-over-aspirants-line-up-for-ticket-354862
27-12-2021||---||Punjab Congress busy fighting, ignored advisories on blast, claims BJP||Jalandhar, December 26The law and order situation is deteriorating in Punjab. It should certainly be investigated why sacrilege incidents take place right before the elections. This was stated by Union Cabinet Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat here today while inaugurating the state office of the party.Accused need to be ExposedIn the previous polls too such incidents happened. Who is trying to wreck social harmony for political profit? Such people should be brought to the fore. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Cabinet MinisterSpeaking to the media, Sekhawat and state president Ashwani Sharma said attempts were being made to disrupt peace and communal harmony in the state.Taking a dig at the CM and PCC president, Shekhawat said, “Various advisories were issued by the Centre and Home Ministry before the Ludhiana blast. But if there is infighting within the government and the CM and the head of the party are embattled over key official positions, then people have to pay the price.”Speaking on farmer organisations’ declaration on their electoral ambitions, Shekhwat termed it a ‘U-turn’, saying this was in contrary to their intial commitment to stay away from politics. Commenting on sacrilege, Shekhwat said, “In the previous elections also such incidents happened. Many attempts were made at various religious places. Who is trying to wreck social harmony for political profit? Such people should be brought to the fore.”The BJP inaugurated its central political office for elections in Jalandhar. The event saw the presence of entire BJP leadership, including newly joined Akali and Congress leaders, former party presidents, key state functionaries and heads of the district unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-busy-fighting-ignored-advisories-on-blast-claims-bjp-354861
