28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Akali Dal to field Brahmpura from Khadoor Sahib||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the name of former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura on Tuesday as the party candidate from Khadoor Sahib in the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.“SAD President Sukhbir S Badal has announced former Cabinet Minister Ranjit Singh Brahmpura as party candidate from Khadoor Sahib. Total announced 93,” party leader Daljit Singh Cheema said in a tweet.SAD President S Sukhbir S Badal has announced former Cabinet Minister S Ranjit Singh Brahmpura as party candidate from Khadoor Sahib. Total announced 93. pic.twitter.com/Fgj1JkuNfe  Brahmpura rejoined the SAD last week.He quit the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) as he was against its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the Punjab polls. –PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-akali-dal-to-field-brahmpura-from-khadoor-sahib-355536
28-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab: From January 15, only fully vaccinated people allowed in public places||Punjab government banned unvaccinated people from public places, cinemas, shopping complexes, malls, and banks from January 15—a development that comes after Haryana and Chandigarh announced similar restrictions. In an order similar to the ones issued by its neighbours, Punjab said because of “emergent issues especially because of a new variant of concern OMICRON”, those who’re not fully vaccinated need to take more precautions. “Accordingly, all those adult persons who have not yet taken both the doses of COVID vaccination should remain at their residences and should not visit any of the Public Places/Market/function/Public Transport/Religious Places etc,” the order said.“In public places with large gatherings like sabzi mandi, grain markets, public transport, [arks religious places, malls, shopping complexes, haats, local markets and other similar places only fully vaccinated (second Dose)adult persons or those who are not due for the second dose as per health protocol are to be allowed,” the order said. This order applies to people either who have not taken the vaccine at all, or those who’ve missed the deadline for their second shot. All government offices can strictly allow only those who are vaccinated or those who have taken one dose and their second dose is not due yet. Similar restrictions apply to hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, and gyms and fitness centers, and even banks, both government and private.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-from-january-15-only-fully-vaccinated-people-allowed-in-public-places-355526
28-12-2021||Mansa||Charanjit Singh Channi accuses Arvind Kejriwal of hypocrisy, says what common man can afford costly hotels||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi described Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s autorickshaw ride to a driver’s house in Ludhiana last month as “theatrics” on Monday.Channi was in the district for various projects, such as formally giving Beniwal sub-tehsil status, announcing the upgrading of a middle school in Jhunir to senior secondary level as well as flagging of renovations to the Sardulgarh hospital, called Kejriwal and his allies the “East India Company”, once again invoking the “outsider” card against the Aam Aadmi Patry’s national convener.Channi also accused Kejriwal of hypocrisy, saying that he used an autorickshaw last month to go to one person’s house but all the while staying at the “costliest hotels” during his visit to the state. ‘“What common man (aam aadmi) can afford a lavish lifestyle and costly hotels,” he said.Channi also used the stage totatget Congress’s other rivals, the Shiromani akali Dal. He accused the Badals and Bikram Singh Majithia of having robbed the state for their personal gains.Majithia, he claimed, had ruined Punjab’s youngsters and has now gone into hiding because he’s afraid of being arrested. He accused the Badals of running a “Transport Mafia” in the state, claiming that his own government had put paid to that in a matter of three months.Channi took over as chief minister of the state only in September, days after his predecessor Amarinder Singh resigned claiming he was “humiliated”.“We are strong and capable enough to take strong decisions to stop all kinds of Mafia in the state whereas the AAP Convener has given a written apology to the Majithia,” he claimed.He claimed that his government had given Rs 12,000 as compensation to farmers whose crops were damaged in this year’s pink bollworm attack and that Rs 5,000 more was in the pipeline. BoxMeanwhile, Bhagwant Singh, nephew of SAD leader and Rajya Sabha Member Balwinder Singh Bhunder, joined the Congress on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-accuses-arvind-kejriwal-of-hypocrisy-says-what-common-man-can-afford-costly-hotels-355525
28-12-2021||Patiala||Woman among three Khalistani sympathisers arrested in Patiala||The Patiala police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested three members of a gang allegedly campaigning for SFJ (Sikhs for Justice) against the unity and integrity of India along with propaganda material.SSP Patiala Harcharan Singh Bhullar confirmed that in view of the recent incidents and the forthcoming elections, Patiala police managed to arrest a woman and two persons on December 26 with a large quantity of pro-Khalistani and anti-India material.They were allegedly distributing registration forms by visiting various religious and other public places by inciting people to vote for holding a referendum to form Khalistan.Giving further details in this regard, Bhullar said under the supervision of Gurbans Singh Bains, DSP Rajpura, Inspector Tejinder Singh, SHO police station Banur, along with the police party, was present near Banno Mayi Mandir Main Road, Banur.He was then informed that Jagmeet Singh, a resident of village Dargapur in Gurdaspur district, now residing at Housefed Society Banur, Ravinder Singh, resident of village Jasra under police station Mandi Gobindgarh district Fatehgarh Sahib, are preaching in favour of Khalistan.“By visiting various religious and other public places, they were distributing registration forms for voting by urging innocent people to vote for a referendum to form Khalistan. They were writing slogans and pasting posters of Khalistan Zindabad at various religious and public places,” said Bhullar.These posters and other printing materials were allegedly being provided to them by Jagmeet Singh’s mother Jasveer Kaur following which FIR dated December 26 against the accused under Sections 153A, 505(2), 505(3), 120B-of the IPC at Banur police station was registered and print and other promotional materials from the possession of the accused was recovered.“The third accused Jasveer Kaur who was standing at the old sale tax barrier to hand over the referendum voting registration to above mentioned accused has been arrested and print propaganda material has been recovered from her possession too,” the SSP said.Bhullar further said the initial interrogation of the accused revealed that the kingpin of the gang was Jasveer Kaur.Their background is from Gurdaspur district, and they shifted here about 12-13 years ago, Bhullar said.  Accused Kuldeep Singh used to go to Gurdwara Sahib Sri Fatehgarh Sahib with his family to serve in Akhand Kirtan Jatha. Accused Ravinder Singh was also doing seva in Gurdwara Sahib. Ravinder Singh and Jagmeet Singh became friends due to exchange of views and both became active in this illegal activity, he said.Accused Jasveer Kaur’s family background is also allegedly linked to terrorism. Jasveer Kaur’s elder brother-in-law Manjit Singh, son of Arjan Singh, resident of Dargapur district Gurdaspur was the area commander of terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa International (Sukhdev Babbar Group) at the time of terrorism.Jasveer Kaur is now urging her son and other allies to work against the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India, he said.Jasveer Kaur and her son Jagmeet Singh were allegedly associated with banned organisations such as Referendum 2020, Sikhs for Justice, creating different Khalistan through social media like WhatsApp, Instagram and YouTube.Sikhs for Justice is a social media organisation run by people sitting abroad via internet and in India, it is banned. Jasveer Kaur received some funding for campaigning for Khalistan, police said.The accused have been produced in court and remanded in police custody for six days. The case is under investigation and in the near future there are likely to be major revelations about who else is a partner in this crime and who is helping them from home and abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-among-three-khalistani-sympathisers-arrested-in-patiala-355505
28-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh done, now Punjab, says Arvind Kejriwal after AAP’s stunning performance in MC elections||After its spectacular debut at the Chandigarh’s Municipal Corporation elections, the Aam Aadmi Party now turns its attention to the Punjab assembly elections early next year.The party had a phenomenal showing at its very first municipal polls in Chandigarh, sweeping 14 seats and emerging as the single largest party, although it’s still short of the halfway mark at 18.AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal, who was one of the party’s star campaigners for the civic body elections and who has been dividing his time between his own duties as the chief minister of Delhi and campaigning for next year’s Punjab elections in the last few months, now looks to wrest power from the ruling Congress in Punjab.AAP’s currently the chief opposition party in Punjab.“The people of Chandigarh performed a miracle. Chandigarh chose a new face, a new party, and honest politics over old faces and big names,” he says in the video.“Chandigarh chose AAP’s new faces over BJP’s current mayor, two former mayors, and Chandigarh’s youth leader. A man who runs a dhaba beat the incumbent mayor of the BJP.”“The common man has won. This shows people are fed up with old parties, old politicians, and old politics. People are tired of corruption. People have chosen new faces and honest politics. I’m grateful to the people of Chandigarh who’ve brought the change. Chandigarh showed the same kind of revolution Delhi did before.”“I want to assure the people of Chandigarh that we won’t let you down. We’ll live up and strengthen the trust you’ve reposed in us. We should strive to make the city beautiful now. And we’ll work with everyone regardless of their political affiliations,” he said.“Some experts had said after the 2017 elections that AAP failed to capture the popular imagination in Punjab’s urban areas. Chandigarh’s vote for us showed that even urban areas of Punjab are with us this time. Rural and urban areas want a change. Punjab wants a change. Punjab wants new and honest politics. We’ll all work together to change Punjab like we changed Delhi.”  चंडीगढ़ की जनता ने चमत्कार कर दिया। चंडीगढ़ ने नए चेहरे, नई पार्टी और ईमानदार राजनीति को चुना, पंजाब भी अब बदलाव चाहता है। पंजाब भी अब नई और ईमानदार राजनीति चाहता है। pic.twitter.com/pddKiEf00o||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-done-now-punjab-says-arvind-kejriwal-after-aaps-stunning-performance-in-mc-elections-355502
28-12-2021||---||AAP announces 15 more candidates for Punjab Assembly polls; Kulwant Singh to contest from Mohali||Bathinda, December 28The Aam Aadmi Party has announced 15 more candidates for the Punjab Assembly polls.With this the party has announced 88 candidates for the 117-seat Assembly.They are Gurdeep Singh Randhawa from Dera Baba Nanak, Baldev Singh Miyadian from Rajasansi, Manju Rana from Kapurthala, Ratan Singh Kakarkalan from Shahkot, Sheetal Angural from Jalandhar West, Jeet Lal Bhatti from Adampur, Kuljit Singh Sarhal from Banga, Charanjit Singh from Chamkaur Sahib, Kulwant Singh from SAS Nagar, Rupinder Singh Happy from Bassi Pathana, Rajinderpal Kaur Feena from Ludhiana South, Ranvir Singh Bhullar from Ferozepur Urban, Jagroop Singh Gill from Bathinda Urban, Jaswant Singh Gajjanmajra from Amargarh and Gurdev Singh ‘Dev’ Mann from Nabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-announces-15-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-kulwant-singh-to-contest-from-sas-nagar-355466
28-12-2021||Archit Watts||Sacrilege bid at gurdwara in Punjab's Muktsar; accused arrested||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 28A youth in his early twenties, who is said to be mentally challenged, allegedly tried to run away with the Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Ennakhera village in Malout sub-division here on Monday.The gurdwara management allegedly tried to hush up the matter and informed the police on Monday night only after locals gathered at the gurdwara.The gurdwara in the name of Baba Bidhi Chand is located in two rooms on the outskirts of the village, and was opened only a couple of days ago. The gurdwara is not under the control of the SGPC. It does not have CCTV cameras.Gurdwara granthi Gursewak Singh alleged that Arshdeep Singh, a resident of the village and son of a founder member of the gurdwara, visited the gurdwara on Monday around 9 am, showed “disrespect” to the weapons before bringing the Guru Granth Sahib in the open.“I was in the other room and on seeing this overpowered him and managed to secure the Guru Granth Sahib. The holy book is intact. The accused’s father has claimed that his son is mentally challenged and had once even tried to kill him,” claimed the granthi.Meanwhile, villagers demanded a probe. They said, “We doubt the youth is mentally challenged. The police should bring out the truth.”Malout DSP Jaspal Singh Dhillon said, “An alleged attempt of desecration occurred at a gurdwara at Ennakhera village. The incident reportedly took place around 9 am and we were informed almost after 12 hours. We have started an investigation and arrested the youth, who is said to be mentally challenged. The accused’s father is a baptised Sikh who had played a key role in the construction of the gurdwara.”He added, “The accused’s family first took the youth to Baba Avtar Singh Sursinghwale. I have spoken to Baba Nihal Singh at Sursinghwale, who informed me that the youth is mentally challenged.”Meanwhile, Gurnam Singh, sarpanch, Ennakhera village, said the accused who is mentally challenged had been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-bid-at-gurdwara-in-punjabs-muktsar-accused-arrested-355446
28-12-2021||Vibha Sharma||6-member panel to seal seat pact for Punjab polls: BJP||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 27A six-member panel, with two members from each constituent party, will finalise the seat-sharing pact amongst the BJP, Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s SAD (Sanyukt) for the Punjab polls. The three parties will also issue a joint manifesto, said Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, who is BJP’s poll in charge for the state.Will contest jointlyAt a meeting attended by Shah, Nadda, Capt Amarinder and Dhindsa, it was decided that the BJP and other two parties will jointly contest Punjab polls. — Gajendra Shekhawat, Union MinisterThe panel, Shekhawat said, would prepare a joint manifesto to create “a new Punjab”. The official announcement followed Capt Amarinder and Dhindsa’s meeting with the BJP’s top brass, including Home Minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda.“The meeting was attended by Shah, Nadda, Capt Amarinder and Dhindsa. It was decided that the BJP and the other two parties will jointly contest the Assembly polls in Punjab,” said Shekhawat.The new alliance will help the BJP align with prominent Sikh faces of the state, BJP leaders said, adding the elections would be multi-cornered with the Congress, SAD, AAP and various farmers outfit joining the fray — a situation that may “help the alliance”.Keeping in mind the Chandigarh MC verdict, where the AAP sprung a major challenge for rivals in Punjab, the BJP is looking towards contesting urban seats. Though BJP leaders here claimed “AAP’s win in Chandigarh is actually the defeat of the Congress”, section believes “the Arvind Kejriwal-led party has successfully occupied the space of Congress’ Opposition”.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to launch the alliance’s campaign with a rally in early-January, where he is likely to make “big announcements”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-member-panel-to-seal-seat-pact-bjp-355197
28-12-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh: Together for security, Punjab's progress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today expressed confidence that after coming together, the three parties — the BJP, Punjab Lok Congress and SAD (Sanyukt) — will form the government with absolute majority in Punjab.“I am happy we have come together in the interest of national security and welfare and progress of Punjab,” said Capt Amarinder in a statement after meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda, BJP in-charge for state Gajendra Shekhawat and SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa in Delhi today.“With the BJP governments both at the Centre and in the state, Punjab will be on an irreversible trajectory of growth and development driven by a double engine,” the former CM remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-together-for-security-states-progress-355198
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Congress govt has done nothing for Punjab in 5 years: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed Capt Amarinder-led previous Congress government wasted almost five years doing nothing and going by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s term as Local Bodies Minister, his vision, too, wouldn’t be of any use.Capt ‘committed’ biggest sacrilegeAbohar: SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday said the Congress should introspect instead of blaming others as its former senior leader Capt Amarinder Singh had done the biggest sacrilege by taking the oath on Gutka Sahib to end drug mafia and give ‘ghar ghar naukri’ and complete loan waiver to farmers. None of the promises was fulfilled, she added. OC“Navjot Singh Sidhu as minister had stopped the maintenance of the iconic Heritage Street, besides putting a brake on the BRTS and other tourism projects like Harike amphibious bus”, he said.He also snubbed Sidhu over the cases registered against Bikram Singh Majithia. “Sidhu was instrumental in the appointment of new DGP S Chattopadhyaya to entangle Bikram on frivolous charges when all other top police officers, including three chiefs of the Bureau of Investigation and the Patiala SSP, refused to register cases at the behest of the government”, he said.Sukhbir also accused AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal of spreading falsehoods. “Kejriwal is promising Rs 1,000 a month to all women in Punjab, but had not given a penny to any woman in Delhi.” He also said even though all employees in Delhi were serving on contractual basis the Delhi CM was talking about regularising all contractual employees in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-govt-has-done-nothing-in-5-yrs-sad-355199
28-12-2021||---||Punjab Congress faces tough choice in Muktsar||Archit WattsTribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 27To get the Congress ticket from the Muktsar Assembly segment, which is the home turf of former Chief Minister Harcharan Singh Brar, won’t be easy for former MLA Karan Kaur Brar this time as some loyalists of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, son of former MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar and cousin of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal are also in the race.Brars’ dominanceMultiple claimantsSecuring party ticket from the constituency won’t by a cakewalk for former CM Harcharan Singh Brar’s family as loyalists of Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, son of ex-MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar and cousin of Manpreet Badal are also in the race.Karan Kaur, the daughter-in-law of Harcharan Singh Brar, has served as MLA Muktsar from 2012-17. She is submitted her application for the Congress ticket recently. Notably, during the 2017 Assembly elections, 10 days before the Congress released its official list of the candidates, Karan Kaur circulated a voice message that AICC president Sonia Gandhi allotted her ticket from the Muktsar segment.However, this time, a number of Warring loyalists, including his maternal uncle-cum-District Congress Committee president Harcharan Singh Sotha Brar; Punjab Rice Industry Association president Bharat Bhushan Bansal Binta; Zila Parishad chairman Narinder Singh Kaoni; and Zila Parishad member Simarjit Singh Bhina Brar are in the race for the party ticket.Similarly, ex-MLA Sukhdarshan Singh Marar’s son Rajbalwinder Singh Marar, a SP-rank officer who claims to have sent his resignation, is also eyeing the Congress ticket from here. Marar family has even opened an office in Muktsar town. Even Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had on Sunday came to Muktsar to attend the first death anniversary of Sukhdarshan Marar and termed Rajbalwinder as his good friend in his speech.Further, PCC general secretary Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala, a cousin of Manpreet Badal, who unsuccessfully contested the 2012 elections from Muktsar, is also vying for the ticket.About the Congress leaders staking claim on the party ticket, Karan Kaur said, “I don’t want to comment on it. I belong to a staunch Congress family. I have applied for the party ticket from Muktsar as I am working in my constituency.” She is a close relative of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, which may go against her,” said some Congressmen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-faces-tough-choice-in-muktsar-355200
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Difficult for Samyukt Samaj Morcha to replicate success: Sunil Jakhar||Former PCC chief and party’s campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar on Monday said it had become difficult for the farm unions, contesting the elections, to carry forward the mass support they enjoyed during the Delhi agitation.Won’t support any party: BKU factionBarnala: The BKU (Dakaunda) has decided it won’t support any party or any group. In a state-level meeting held here on Monday, farmer leaders also announced that their members were free to vote for anyone in the forthcoming Assembly elections.As many as 22 farmer unions of Punjab, under the banner of Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), have decided to contest the upcoming Assembly elections under the leadership of BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal.“Not only have they lost the moral authority to negotiate with Centre the unfinished agenda of MSP, it will be difficult to replicate the success of farmers agitation in Punjab’s political arena,” said Jakhar.The success at the Delhi border was achieved due to the commitment to the cause and purpose and restrain from extreme provocation. Without the commitment to the cause of farming issues, the morcha seems to be a bunch of rebels without a cause. “They will have to face the realities of the political system. As the illusion breaks, many will return to their political affiliations,” said Jakhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/difficult-for-morcha-to-replicate-success-congress-355201
28-12-2021||---||People want to give Kejriwal's model a chance, says Manish Sisodia Sisodia||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerging as the biggest party in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections after contesting for the first time, AAP leader Manish Sisodia said: “The results in Chandigarh have made it clear that people are all set to give a chance to Kejriwal’s model of development and they’ve broken the arrogance of those who do politics of hatred.”Will honour Chandigarh mandateThough Chandigarh is ruled by the Centre and BJP ministers campaigned hard, people of Chandigarh have reposed their faith in AAP. We will honour the mandate. —  Bhagwant Mann, State AAP ChiefAddressing a press conference with party’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann here today, the Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi congratulated the people of Chandigarh, the winning candidates and all other party leaders, workers and supporters. Sisodia promised them that AAP would honour the confidence that people of Chandigarh had shown in them.He said the Delhi Government under the leadership of national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had ushered in a new era of “work politics” in the country. Today, Kejriwal’s development model is spreading across the country. The results in Chandigarh are a clear indication of this, as during the election campaign the Aam Aadmi Party appealed to the people of Chandigarh to give ‘a chance to Kejriwal’ and the people of Chandigarh rejected the BJP and the Congress.On this occasion Bhagwant Mann said Chandigarh, the city of the most educated and capable people has defeated the current BJP Mayor, 2 former Mayors, BJP Yuva Morcha president and Mahila Morcha president and sent a clear message to the whole country that now, there was no room for divisive and hate politics based on religion, regionalism and caste, people prefer the politics of work.Mann said the first priority of AAP was to restore the status of Chandigarh City Beautiful, which had been lost due to corrupt governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-want-to-give-kejriwals-model-a-chance-says-sisodia-355202
28-12-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh hits out at Navjot Sidhu over remark on cops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has hit out at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over his alleged comment on police force.Figure of speechIt is a figure of speech to suggest someone wields authority. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefIn a tweet, Capt Amarinder said, “Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1,700 personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the state out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by Punjab Congress leaders and above all their president. A leader must give respect to earn respect. On the other hand officials are being transferred every day at the whims and fancies of Punjab Congress leaders. The Punjab Home Minister should know, it not only breaks the morale of the force but it’s also a clear signal that Congress leaders have no confidence in our men in uniform.”Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu also criticised the statement and praised the police for their role in eliminating terrorism. Bittu, whose grandfather and then Chief Minister Beant Singh died in a blast in 1995, said: “Whatever has been said about the police, I seek apology.... I know it is the Punjab Police personnel, from senior IPS officer to the constable level, who did not care for their own lives and curbed terrorism with iron hand,” Bittu wrote on his Facebook page.Sidhu had at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi pointed towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and said he could make a “thanedar (cop) wet his pants”. He repeated this remark at a Batala rally on Sunday. Clarifying on the row, Sidhu said: “It is a figure of speech to suggest someone wields authority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-hits-out-at-sidhu-over-remark-on-cops-355203
28-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela concludes in Fatehgarh Sahib||The three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela held in the memory of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh - Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh along with Mata Gujar Kaur, concluded here with religious ceremonies today.A ‘nagar kirtan’ (religious procession) was taken out from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup Sahib after performing ‘ardas’ by Bhai Harpal Singh, head granthi Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib.The ‘Panj Pyaras’led the ‘nagar kirtan’. School bands, ‘gatka’ parties, Nihangs, kirtani jathas, Sukhmani Sahib Sewa Societies and various social, religious and political leaders accompanied the procession. The main attraction was the traditional martial arts ‘gatka’ displayed by Nihangs and gatka teams. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shaheedi-jor-mela-concludes-355205
28-12-2021||---||Village in Lambi to bar entry of leaders failing to answer drug queries||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 27Peeved over the drugs menace, residents of Midda village in the Lambi Assembly segment here have warned politicians to enter their village only if they can reply to their queries.Some residents of the village even lodged a protest for over 24 hours, demanding strict law against drug peddling. “Our village has become the hub of drug peddling. We, along with residents of neighbouring six villages, had informed the local police and SSP about it nearly two months ago. However, nothing has changed. Irate over it, we started an indefinite protest. However, the police came to the village on Friday and assured us that stern action would be taken against those found selling drugs. Now, we have suspended our protest. If the police fail to fulfil their promise in the next 10 days, we will again start the protest,” said Jagmeet Singh, a resident of Midda village.He said, “A number of youths are hooked to ‘chitta’. When the cops arrest any drug peddler, he comes out on bail easily and again starts selling drugs. We demand strict law to curb the peddling. The politicians should get ready to give replies to our queries during their election campaign.”Residents also appealed to senior police officers to conduct surprise checking in the village. “We have done community policing too in the past for nearly two months,” claimed the residents.Inspector Angrej Kumar, Station House Officer, Kabarwala police station, said, “We assure Midda residents that those found selling drugs won’t be spared.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/village-in-lambi-to-bar-entry-of-leaders-failing-to-answer-drug-queries-355206
28-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Bhoa: Mining hub battles ecological woes||Bhoa has gained infamy for being the epicentre of mining-legal and illegal. For decades, outsiders have exploited the Ravi and Ujh rivers to the hilt. This means the ecological balance of the area has got imbalanced to the extent where it has reached a point of no return.Past trendBefore delimitation in 2012, the segment was known as Narot Mehra. Seema Kumar of the BJP was the first-ever MLA of the rechristened Bhoa constituency. Since 1985, the Congress and BJP have been winning the seat alternatively.Electorate strengthTotal voter - 1,70,908Male - 89,942Female - 80,965Third gender - 1Locals’ key demandsSample Maira Kalan village on the banks of the Ravi. Rampant mining has ensured that the water table of the area has fallen to such low levels that villagers have to go the neighbouring village of Kirri Khurd to get their daily supply of potable water.Enter sitting Congress MLA Joginder Pal. He is loved by the youth because he often squares off with the powerful bureaucracy. His verbal skirmishes with officers are recounted by the local youth.There are just two community health centres in Bhoa. Residents say a 50-bedded hospital is the need of the hour. “Ever since Joginder Pal was elected as an MLA, no school has been upgraded,” says Seema Kumari. “We need a sugar mill but the legislator pays no heed to us,” says Lachman Singh, a sugarcane farmer.Residents say till illegal mining business is curbed, and sanity restored, they will have to live in appalling conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-hub-battles-ecological-woes-355207
28-12-2021|| Arun Sharma||Anandpur Sahib: Major projects hanging fire for years||Residents of the constituency — the birthplace of Khalsa — have not seen any drastic change as all major projects inititated during the last regime could not be completed till now. The underconstruction railway over-bridge and a bridge on the Sutlej at Nangal since 2017 cause frequent traffic jams.Past trendThe constituency, known as Nangal until 2007 Assembly polls, has primarily seen keen contest between the Congress and BJP. Both parties have fielded Rana KP Singh and Madan Mohan Mittal since 2002, barring 2017 when the BJP dropped the latter.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,89,455Male - 98,906Female - 90,544Third gender - 5Locals’ key demandsThe seven-decade-old demand of Nangal residents to have ownership rights on land with them on lease from BBMB remains pending despite their several protests and memorandum.A lift irrigation scheme to provide water to farmers of nearly two dozen villages in the Changar area was launched three years ago on January 24, 2019, by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The Rs 100 crore scheme was to be completed in nine phases within three years. Till now, the water could be release to mere two villages that also just recently.The channelisation of Swan river to protect villages in Anandpur Sahib and the Anandpur Sahib-Naina Devi ropeway project, which could have given a major fillip to tourism in the area, has been on the backburner for the past five years. Truck operators, who depended on work from National Fertilisers Limited and Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals Limited, have been rendered jobless since the dissolution of truck unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/major-projects-hanging-fire-for-yrs-355208
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress legislator linked to drug smuggler: Akalis||The SAD today released photos of a Congress MLA with wanted smuggler Satpreet Singh, alias Satti.Youth Akali Dal (YAD) chief Parambans Singh Romana question the government on inaction against its own MLAs for having links with smugglers. The Special Task Force report on drugs states Satti, a Canadian citizen, used to live with Majithia. Bolaria, who is the sitting MLA from Amritsar-South, owned up his photos with Satti but said he had in fact left the SAD due to such company kept by their leaders. “The moment I guessed something was wrong, I left the SAD,” Bolaria said, stressing he had no link with any shady person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-legislator-linked-to-drug-smuggler-akalis-355210
28-12-2021||Barnala||Suspended Barnala doctors reinstated||After overruling an inquiry by the Barnala Civil Surgeon (CS), who indicted two doctors for alleged irregularities and led to their suspension, Punjab Health Department authorities have reinstated the suspended doctors and ordered the transfer of CS Dr Jasvir Singh Aulakh to Chandigarh.Aulakh has proceeded on leave and alleged that his predecessor, now posted as ESI Director Dr Gurinderbir Singh, under whose tenure irregularities also took place, has conducted the inquiry. Dr Aulakh has raised questions that how an officer of his rank could recommend action against him by overruling his inquiry.In his letter, sent to senior authorities of Health Department, Dr Aulakh has said: “After joining at Barnala, I found gross irregularities in the Orthopaedic Department at Barnala Civil Hospital and started an inquiry.” He said he sent both orthopedic surgeons — Dr Anshul Garg to Tapa and Dr Harish Mittal — to Dhanaula hospitals. But they allegedly disobeyed the deputation and did not join and were later suspended.“Recently, Dr Gurinderbir conducted a probe into the case and did not record my statement. On his recommendations, both the surgeons were reinstated. Since Dr Gurinderbir and I are of same rank, how can he overrule an inquiry done by me and recommend action against me?” said Dr Aulakh. Dr Gurinderbir said he had asked Dr Aulakh for his statement during the inquiry but he said we should use his report as his statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspended-barnala-docs-reinstated-355211
28-12-2021||Fazilka||Medical practitioners take out protest march in Fazilka||Members of the Fazilka Medical Practitioners’ Association took out a protest march in the town and burnt an effigy of the government in favour of their demand. They have been demanding permission to practice, particularly in rural areas.Association district president Raj Krishan Josan said they had been serving and treating most of the rural population of the state since long but had not been given the right to practice. They said over 65 per cent of the state population resides in rural areas and they had been providing cheap medical facilities to them, that too in absence of adequate government medical facilities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-practitioners-take-out-protest-march-355212
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Centre eases norms for import of Afghan dry fruit||The importers of Afghanistan dry fruit, who were worried that their consignments would be dumped at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari for want of fumigation, were relieved after the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare extended a temporary relaxation in the norms.Fumigation issueDry fruit, an agricultural product imported from Afghanistan, was earlier required to undergo fumigation with methyl bromide, only as stipulated by the Plant Quarantine wing (Regulation of Import into India), before clearance through the Attari-Wagah land route. Since this chemical was not available with Afghanistan, the dry fruit received here was being treated with aluminium phosphide at the checkpost. As the process did not comply with the stipulated norms, it was not acceptable, resulting in dumping of large consignments worth crores, hampering the import.Aluminium phosphide, a toxic substance, is not meant for human consumption. However, in more than 100 countries, it is used as an approved fumigant to protect certain substances from rodents and insects. Its ethical use help in the storage of food items for a longer period.The issue was taken up by Anil Mehra, president of Federation of Dry Fruit and Karyana Merchants association, who, along with BJP leader Tarun Chugh, met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Taking the issue into account, the ministry issued a notification to relax the fumigation laws for import of agricultural commodities from Afghanistan until March 31, 2022. The orders stated that the consignments arriving till the stipulated date would be exempted from fumigation treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-eases-norms-for-import-of-afghan-dry-fruit-355214
28-12-2021||---||Interstate gang busted, 6 held||Our CorrespondentAbohar, December 27The police claimed to have busted an interstate gang that had been involved in theft of mobile phone companies’ tower batteries and other equipment.Six persons of the gang were living at a rented house in the Basanti Chowk area here. Superintendent of Police Anand Sharma said batteries of towers of mobile phone companies were being stolen in and around the district for the past several days. Cases had been registered at various police stations. A police team that was formed to unearth the gang, succeeded today.DSP Bhanwer Lal Meghwal said Amandeep Singh (32), Ravi Singh (24), Mandeep Singh (21), Dharam Preet Singh (24), Ravinder Singh (24) of Muktsar and Baltej Singh (33) of Abohar had been arrested.He said on November 25, a case of theft of 48 batteries was registered at Lalgarh Jattan police station. These youths have been arrested in this case. On interrogation, they confessed to committing such thefts at several places in Punjab and Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interstate-gang-busted-6-held-355215
28-12-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||3 months after Punjab Government won case in Supreme Court, operations yet to start at Jharkhand mine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Three months after the Punjab Government won the case in the Supreme Court for operating the Pachhwara central coal mine, the state is yet to start the mining operations there. This, even as the state continues to get “restricted” supply from Coal India, and most of its thermal plants are unable to maintain the required buffer stocks.Allocated to state in 2001Allocated to Punjab in 2001, the coal mine in Jharkhand has reserves for 50 years. The coal blocks were allocated to the state for mining of coal to be used by state-owned thermal power plants. This mine is expected to produce seven million tonnes of coal each year.If the mine were to become functional, it would reduce the cost of power production by 30-40 paise per unit, which could then be passed on to the consumer as a tariff rebate. Operating own mine would also ensure saving of over Rs 500 crore per annum. Sources said it would take some months before the coal mine could be operated.The Tribune has found that the state is still facing a shortage of coal at all thermal plants, as it is getting a restricted supply of coal because of chronic shortage in the country. As of today, the two state-run thermal plants — Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant at Ropar and Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant at Lehra Mohabbat — have stocks of just 11.8 to 16.2 days, respectively. The situation is worse for the private thermal plants, where Talwandi Sabo Power Plant has stocks for just 2.1 days, Nabha Power Plant for 13.5 days (because only one unit is functional) and GvK plant has stocks for just 1.4 days.Interestingly, in a letter written by the Union Ministry of Power, to all state power utilities, including Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), earlier this month, the power generating companies have been advised to “build their coal stocks ”as the supply from Coal India is not commensurate with the requirements of thermal power plants”. The state was advised to build its stock through imported coal, required for blending purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-months-on-ops-yet-to-start-at-jharkhand-mine-355217
28-12-2021||Ropar||No funds, sarpanches in Ropar district begin relay fast||Feeling ignored, sarpanches of villages in the Ropar Assembly segment have started a relay fast demanding grants to carry out development works.The aggrieved sarpanches of various villages, including Miani, Katli, Santokgarh Tapparian, Barri, Bahadarpur, Balawalpur and Hussainpur, said they hadn’t received even a single penny for development works despite running from pillar to post, as a result of which they had been forced to start the relay fast strike outside the mini secretariat here.On December 23, the sarpanches had at a press conference announced boycott of all political parties, alleging leaders, including those of the Opposition, had failed to safeguard their interests.Katli sarpanch Kamal Saini claimed crores of rupees had been granted for works in neighbouring Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib constituencies, being represented by Speaker Rana KP Singh and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, respectively. However, the 282 panchayats of the Ropar constituency had been ignored as its MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa belonged to the Opposition AAP, he alleged.In August 2019, the Katli panchayat had passed a resolution demanding funds for the sewerage system. “Nothing has been done so far,” said Saini. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-funds-sarpanches-in-ropar-dist-begin-relay-fast-355218
28-12-2021||Faridkot||Jaitu sarpanches stage dharna outside DC's office||A month after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced Rs 15 crore grant for the development of the Jaitu constituency, several sarpanches of this reserved Assembly seat on Monday staged a dharna outside the DC’s office over alleged disparity in distribution of funds.Blaming it on groupism within the Congress, they alleged while some villages with 2,000 population were allocated Rs 5 lakh, others with having 500 population got up to Rs 20 lakh.Khachda sarpanch Manohar Singh alleged some Congress leaders were trying to browbeat opponents by favouring certain villages. It would cause loss to the party in the Assembly elections, he said.Ransingh sarpanch Jarnail Singh said: “While a village in my area with 2,000 population was allocated Rs 12 lakh for various works, another with only 400 votes was given Rs 32 lakh at an MLA's insistence.”DC Vimal Setia said there was no disparity in the allocation of grants and every village would get the share on the basis of population. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharna-outside-dcs-office-355219
28-12-2021||---||Punjab former Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan gets central posting||Chandigarh, December 27Former Chief Secretary, Punjab, Vini Mahajan has been appointed Secretary, Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Ministry of Jal Shakti.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of the 1987-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre. Mahajan was Chief Secretary during Capt Amarinder Singh’s regime. A spokesperson said she had been handpicked to drive the ambitious Jal Shakti Mission, a flagship programme of the government and the Prime Minister to ensure piped and clean water to every home in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vini-mahajan-gets-central-posting-355220
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC calls Jan 4 meet on Punjab DGP's post||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has called a meeting on January 4 for empanelment of officers for the post of Director General of Police, Punjab.A communication to the Punjab Government was received in this regard even though the UPSC was silent on the cut-off date for the eligibility of officers. The Punjab Government and the UPSC are at odds over the cut-off date. Punjab wants officers eligible for the post should be considered from the remaining service effective from September 30, 2021. However, the UPSC maintains the date should be October 5 when the outgoing DGP, Dinkar Gupta, relinquished charge.Today’s communication notably said the meeting would be held between the UPSC Chairman or his nominee, Union Home Secretary, or his nominee, Chief Secretary, Punjab, and the DGP, only if he is not one of the candidates. The officiating DGP, Siddarth Chattopadhyaya, is the main candidate supported by the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upsc-calls-jan-4-meet-on-dgps-post-355222
28-12-2021||Ropar||FIR filed on illegal mining plaint||Three days after the mining mafia allegedly dug up the Swan riverbed at Surewal village near Nangal, the local police registered a case against the suspects today.Police post incharge Narinder Singh said a case under the Mines and Minerals Act had been registered on the complaint by landowners. Landowners had lodged a complaint with police on Friday evening alleging sand was lifted by unidentified people. ASI Narinder Singh said the department officials visited the site yesterday and confirmed that illegal mining was carried out in the Swan river. Following it, the police registered a case and started investigation to identify the suspects, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fir-filed-on-illegal-mining-plaint-355223
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Firing at Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla's office, 2 booked||Two persons allegedly barged into the office of Amritsar Member Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla and took away an Apple iPad and Rs 50,000 in cash late last evening.On the statement of Saurav Sharma, an employee, the police have booked Joginder Singh of Gumtala and his son Love. No arrests have been made so far.Saurav claimed the suspects entered Aujla’s estate and Love opened fire at him. They allegedly took away the iPad and cash from the office before fleeing.The police have registered a case under the IPC and the Arms Act. Raids were on to nab them. The police officials said investigations were under progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firing-at-mps-office-2-booked-355224
28-12-2021||Bathinda||CM's promises only on paper, stir on: Farmers||Farmers under the banner of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan continued their protest outside the district administrative complex in Bathinda and Mansa districts for the seventh day on Monday, demanding compensation for cotton crop damage and debt waiver.Harjinder Singh Baggi, general secretary of the union, said, "During a meeting held between representatives of farm unions and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the latter had promised that pending demands of providing compensation for crop damage and debt waiver of Rs 2 lakh will be fulfilled soon. But these are just verbal assurances without anything on the ground. So we have decided to continue the agitation at the district headquarters till December 30 when the government has scheduled a meeting to discuss and take further decision on the matter." Earlier, farm unions had given a call for a five-day agitation.The protesters raised slogans against the government and demanded that their genuine demands be fulfilled before Assembly elections scheduled early next year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cms-promises-only-on-paper-stir-on-farmers-355225
28-12-2021||London||UK probes video of teen threatening to assassinate Queen over Jallianwala||A video has surfaced on social media in which a fully masked man, identifying himself as an Indian Sikh, is seen declaring to “assassinate” Queen Elizabeth II to avenge the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, prompting Scotland Yard to launch a probe, days after an intruder was arrested at the monarch’s Windsor Castle.The video, shared on Snapshot, is that of a fully masked man who identifies himself as Jaswant Singh Chail and declares that he wants to “assassinate” the monarch in revenge for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, according to The Sun newspaper which obtained the video.Meanwhile, the 19-year-old intruder, who has not yet been named by the Metropolitan Police, is now being held over mental health issues.Scotland Yard officers were investigating the video reportedly linked to the intruder armed with a crossbow arrested at Windsor Castle on Christmas Day.The Metropolitan Police said the arrested suspect has been sectioned under the UK’s Mental Health Act after a mental health assessment and remains “in the care of medical professionals”.“I’m sorry. I’m sorry for what I’ve done and what I will do. I will attempt to assassinate Elizabeth, Queen of the Royal Family,” the masked man is seen saying in the video.“This is revenge for those who have died in the Jallianwala massacre. It is also revenge for those who have been killed, humiliated and discriminated on because of their race. I’m an Indian Sikh, a Sikh. My name was Jaswant Singh Chail, my name is Darth Jones,” he says. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-probes-video-of-teen-threatening-to-assassinate-queen-over-jallianwala-355204
28-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab Government to reimburse Rs 4.5 crore to workers' fund||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 27The state government will reimburse around Rs 4.58 crore which was spent on the vaccination of registered construction workers and their family members to the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board.It has been learnt the Labour Department has already asked the Finance Department to take steps in this regard in the recent 28th meeting of the board. The meeting was chaired by the Chief Minister himself, wherein the Labour Department asked officials to reimburse the money citing the free supply of vaccination to the entire population by the central government.The Tribune had been highlighting the paid vaccination of construction workers while others were being jabbed for free. The Labour Department had to transfer around Rs 7.04 crore to the Health Department for the vaccination of registered construction workers and their family members. Ironically, other beneficiaries of the state were being jabbed free of cost.The decision to bear the cost of vaccination from the labour welfare fund was taken on May 7 under the chairmanship of the then Chief Secretary. Of the Rs 7.4 crore, the Health Department has already returned around Rs 2.49 crore to the Labour Department after the labourers moved the Punjab and Haryana Court against the spending of welfare money of construction workers on Covid vaccination.Sardara Singh, a labourer, said, “The government should act against officials who siphoned off the money meant for labour welfare. Besides, the government should return our money with interest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-to-reimburse-4-5-cr-to-workers-fund-355182
28-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu 'rivalry' confusing Punjab Congress cadre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Even as Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is projecting himself as the CM face with his 13-point agenda on reviving Punjab’s ailing economy, the party high command is learnt to have told Punjab leaders that it would not declare the CM candidate ahead of the elections.It has been made clear that the elections would be fought collectively with CM Charanjit Singh Channi as the Dalit face, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu the Jat face and former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar the Hindu face. Indicating internal dissensions, the PPCC chief at the Batala rally on Sunday declared former MLA Ashwani Sekhri as the Congress candidate from Batala even though the party is yet to release a list of nominees. The announcement by Sidhu is being interpreted as a snub to minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, who has been eying the Batala seat. In the Qadian Assembly segment, Sidhu is backing sitting MLA Fatehjang Bajwa.The latter’s brother, Partap Singh Bajwa (MP), too wants to contest from Qadian.Also, CM Channi “allowing” probable candidates to distribute grants in ‘their’ constituencies has annoyed ticket aspirants. Allowing particular leaders to distribute grants when the party is yet to announce the candidates is causing confusion. “We are puzzled as to whether the high command is keen on projecting Channi as the CM face or Sidhu”, remarked a senior party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-sidhu-rivalry-confusing-cadre-355181
28-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Win in Chandigarh MC signals change in Punjab: Kejriwal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerging as the leading party winning 14 of 35 wards in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, its national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday claimed the party’s victory “is a sign of the ensuing change in Punjab”.He said the people of Chandigarh have chosen “honest politics” of AAP, rejecting the “corrupt politics” of its rival parties. Party leader Manish Sisodia too claimed that the people of Punjab “have decided to give a chance to Kejriwal this time”.It’s Mandate for honest politicsThe victory of AAP in Chandigarh MC is a sign of ensuing change in Punjab. People of Chandigarh have chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting corrupt politics. —Arvind KejriwalHowever, political analysts say infighting in the Congress and anti-incumbency against the BJP favoured AAP in the UT. They feel the result may not be an indicator of the party’s performance in the Punjab Assembly elections.The analysts say AAP’s claims are far-fetched. The UT poll results may not help AAP beyond boosting the morale of its cadre and building a perception in a limited way, they say.Chandigarh-based political observer Dr Pramod Kumar says the UT results are a clear mandate against the BJP. The Congress despite getting the highest vote share lost because of its internal rift. “A large section of Congress workers joined AAP, which built the party in Chandigarh,” he says. The party, however, is unlikely to repeat the same feat in Punjab, he claims.Echoing similar views, political commentator Jagtar Singh says AAP won mainly in urban pockets of Chandigarh. “This clearly shows their style of politics is unlikely to find favour in a large part of Punjab,” he claims.Besides, the experts say the politics in Punjab is completely different than in Chandigarh. Cautioning the Congress in Punjab, Dr Kumar says, “The party must acknowledge that its Chandigarh unit messed up the election due to internal conflict and the Punjab unit is going the same way. More than AAP winning this election, it is about the Congress losing it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/win-in-chandigarh-mc-signals-change-in-punjab-kejriwal-355180
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akali leader Bikram Majithia moves Punjab and Haryana High Court for anticipatory bail||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, booked under the NDPS Act, on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking anticipatory bail.The plea, moved by Majithia’s counsels Damanbir Singh Sobti and Arshdeep Singh Cheema, submitted that “to target the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government” led by the Congress in Punjab.A Mohali court on December 24 had dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Majithia.Last week, Majithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in Punjab.Majithia is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him.The Shiromani Akali Dal had called the registration of the FIR against Majithia as “political vendetta”.The 49-page FIR was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station.In his bail plea, Majithia submitted that the Congress government had “left no stone unturned to misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance upon its political opponents”.“To target the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government. To fulfil its election stunt, the Congress government of the State of Punjab has been day and night browbeating officers to register false cases against the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal including the applicant/petitioner,” according to the petition.In the run-up to the polls, witch-hunting of the political opponents has gone to its peak, according to the petition.The petitioner pleaded that three DGPs and three Directors of Bureau of Investigation were changed and police officers have been coerced to falsely implicate the applicant. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-bikram-majithia-moves-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-for-anticipatory-bail-355150
28-12-2021||New Delhi||AAP victory in Chandigarh MC poll is a sign of upcoming change in Punjab, says Kejriwal; big setback for Congress||With the AAP emerging as the leading party winning 14 of 35 wards in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, its national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the party’s victory is a sign of the ensuing change in Punjab which will go to assembly polls early next year.Congratulating his party’s winning candidates and the workers, he also said the people of Chandigarh have chosen “honest politics” of the AAP, rejecting the “corrupt politics” of its rival parties.चंडीगढ़ नगर निगम में आम आदमी पार्टी की ये जीत पंजाब में आने वाले बदलाव का संकेत है।चंडीगढ़ के लोगों ने आज भ्रष्ट राजनीति को नकारते हुए AAP की ईमानदार राजनीति को चुना है।AAP के सभी विजयी उम्मीदवारों एवं सभी कार्यकर्ताओं को बहुत-बहुत बधाई।इस बार पंजाब बदलाव के लिए तैयार है।  The AAP won 14 of 35 wards in the final results declared on Monday. The BJP, which enjoyed a majority in the previous Municipal Corporation House, came a close second registering win in 12 wards, while the Congress bagged eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one.The Congress, which was aiming to defeat the BJP, has been pushed to the third place.“The victory of Aam Aadmi Party in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is a sign of ensuing change in Punjab. People of Chandigarh have today chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting the corrupt politics,” Kejriwal tweeted.“Many congratulations to all the winning candidates and workers of the AAP. Punjab is ready for change change,” he added.The AAP, which is the main Opposition party in Punjab, has contested the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls for the first time. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-victory-in-chandigarh-is-a-sign-of-upcoming-change-in-punjab-says-kejriwal-big-setback-for-cong-355117
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu says MLA can make cops 'wet their pants', police officer sends defamation notice||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has courted controversy while praising two party members, allegedly saying that they are capable of making policemen wet their pants.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Daljit Singh Cheema slammed him over the purported remark and a Chandigarh police officer sent him a defamation notice."I have sent a defamation notice to him for humiliating the police,"  Chandigarh Deputy Superintendent of Police Dilsher Singh Chandel said.A sub-inspector also issued a video message condemning the remark.Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has backed the policemen and praised them for their role during militancy and COVID-19 times.The controversy erupted after Sidhu, at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said he can "make a 'thanedar' (policeman) wet his pants".He repeated the remark at a rally in Batala on Sunday while praising local leader Ashwani Sekhri who was standing by his side.When reporters asked him about his remark, Sidhu indicated that it should not be taken literally.He said it's a way of saying that these Congress leaders "wield authority".A video clip of Sidhu making the remark went viral on social media inviting sharp reaction from some police officials and political leaders.Punjab Lok Congress president and former chief minister Amarinder Singh said it was sad that the men in uniform were being disrespected."Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1700 @PunjabPoliceInd personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the state out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by @INCPunjab leaders & above all their President. Shameful! A leader must give respect to earn respect," Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.SAD's Daljit Singh Cheema questioned the "silence" of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over Sidhu's remark.He asked both of them to tell Sidhu that he should refrain from making such a remark and ask him to withdraw his statement and seek apology from the police.Chandigarh DSP Chandel dubbed Sidhu's remark as "shameful"."It is very shameful that such a senior leader uses these words for his own force and humiliates them," Chandel said."This is the same force which protects him (Sidhu) and his family," he said in a video message.He even dared Sidhu to return his force deployed for his protection."Without (security) force, even a rickshaw puller will not listen to him," he said."I strongly condemn this remark and he (Sidhu) should not use such words for his force. The force has its own dignity and respect and it is our responsibility to maintain this dignity," he said.In a video message, Sub-Inspector Balbir Singh, posted in Jalandhar (Rural), said, "Such language was used by a senior leader against us, I strongly condemn it." He also requested the Punjab DGP not to allow the image of police to be affected."We live with our families in the society and our children question us why such language is being used against us," Balbir Singh said.He said this remark was not against any 'thanedar' but against the entire police force."I want to tell Sidhu Sahib that we are not cowards. We are brave and the whole country knows about the tales of our bravery," he said as he recalled the role of police against militancy.Without caring for their own lives, the personnel of the Punjab police provided food to the needy at their homes during the COVID-19 outbreak, he added.Commenting on the videos of the Chandigarh DSP and the sub-inspector, Ludhiana MP Bittu lauded the Punjab police for its role in eliminating terrorism from the state.Bittu, whose grandfather and the then chief minister Beant Singh died in a bomb blast in 1995, said, "Some videos of a DSP and sub-inspector have gone viral. First of all whatever has been said about the police, I seek apology," he said."I know it is Punjab police personnel, from senior IPS officer to the constable level, which did not care for their own lives and curbed terrorism with iron hand," Bittu wrote on his Facebook page.Bittu said during the COVID-19 outbreak, the police force personnel took food to the homes of people.Referring to the Ludhiana court bomb blast, he said it was the Punjab police that reached the spot first."How will they protect people if we use wrong words against them. It was very important that we stand by them," he said."We are proud of you and we salute you," he said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-policemen-condemn-navjot-singh-sidhus-make-a-cop-wet-his-pants-remark-355093
28-12-2021||Vibha Sharma||Capt Amarinder, Dhindsa meet Amit Shah, Nadda in Delhi; 6-member panel to finalise seat-sharing pact in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 27A joint six-member panel—two from each constituent party—will finalise the seat-sharing pact between the BJP, Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s SAD (Sanyukt) in the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls. The three parties will also issue a joint manifesto, BJP’s poll in-charge for Punjab, Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, said on Monday.The six-member panel will prepare a joint manifesto to create “a new Punjab”, he said.Capt Amarinder and Dhindsa today met the BJP’s top leadership, including Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda, here to chalk out a strategy for the upcoming Assembly polls.“It was decided in the meeting that the BJP and the other two parties would jointly contest the upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab,” Shekhawat said.Meanwhile, BJP leaders said elections in Punjab would be multi-cornered with the Congress, the SAD, the AAP and various farmers outfit joining the fray—a situation that may help the allianceThe new alliance will help BJP align with prominent Sikh faces in the state, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to launch the alliance’s campaign in the state with a rally in earlyJanuary. Sources say the election scene will pick up further with PM Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi planning rallies. However, it all depends upon CEC directions/restrictions.Keeping in mind the Chandigarh MC poll verdict, the BJP is looking towards contesting urban seats. Sources claimed that the BJP would get a major share.The PM is expected to make “big announcements” at his rally in the state where his party is trying to emerge from the shadows of estranged former ally Akali Dal. The rally will mark the point that the BJP is no longer the second fiddle to any party.There will be big announcements for the state, BJP leaders said“The Prime Minister has already given the biggest gift to farmers by rolling back the three farm laws,” they say, adding that the new alliance with Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress will give the border state a “new lease of life, a new direction it deserves”.“The next government in Punjab will include the BJP,” party leaders here claim. With the Akalis, who parted ways in the wake of the now-repealed farm laws, the BJP remained limited to 23 seats with the senior leadership openly acknowledging them as the big brother in the NDA alliance in Punjab. “The BJP is aiming for a bigger role in the state. Not only urban voters, farmers and rural Punjab will also support us,” several leaders claim.Security and communal harmony in the border state are expected to be among the top leads of the BJP’s narrative for the upcoming elections. Meanwhile, the BJP is scouting for and gathering “winnable candidates” to contest in the state. Recently, former SAD leader and president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa and former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, a loyalist of Captain Amarinder, joined the saffron party after quitting the Congress, accusing it of putting the state’s “security and communal harmony at stake”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-meets-with-amit-shah-nadda-in-delhi-355077
