29-12-2021||---||Overseas Citizen of India cardholders need RBI nod to purchase farm property||New Delhi, December 29Those holding Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards need Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) permission to buy agricultural land, farm houses and plantation property. But they need not seek the RBI’s prior approval to buy or transfer immovable property in India, said the apex bank in a clarification after it received a large number of queries based on newspaper reports on a Supreme Court Judgment.The Supreme Court’s judgment on February 26, 2021, in a civil appeal was related to provisions of FERA which has been repealed. At present, NRIs and OCIs are governed by provisions of FEMA and do not require prior approval of the RBI for acquisition and transfer of immovable property in India, other than agricultural land, farm house and plantation property. The sale and transfer will have to be as per the terms and conditions laid down in Chapter IX of the FEMA (Non-debt Instruments) Rules of October 17, 2019, said the RBI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/overseas-citizen-of-india-cardholders-need-rbi-nod-to-purchase-farm-property-355944
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports first Omicron case||Punjab has reported its first Omicron case with a 36-year-old man, who came from Spain earlier this month, testing positive for the new variant of coronavirus.The man, who arrived in India on December 4, visited his relatives in Nawanshahr in Punjab, a health official said.The man tested negative for coronavirus upon his arrival. However, he tested positive on December 12, he said.He was then admitted to a hospital and his samples were sent for genome sequencing at a facility set up at the Government Medical College, Patiala, the official added.“The genome sequencing report declaring him positive for the Omicron variant came on December 28,” said Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.The man was tested again on December 25 and his report came back negative, following which he was discharged from the hospital, the officer said.Meanwhile, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni directed officials to ramp up Covid testing and vaccination in the state.Presiding over a meeting of the health department, Soni, who also holds the health portfolio, took stock of the prevailing Covid situation in the state.According to officials, Punjab’s positivity rate stands at 0.3 per cent and has increased slightly over the past few days. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-first-omicron-case-355937
29-12-2021||Barnala||SHO, cops injured in clash between locals and police in Barnala over construction of gurdwara||A clash between the Schedule Caste (SC) community members and the police took place on Wednesday after the police tried to convince local members of the SC community against the construction of a gurdwara on vacant land near tehsil complex of Tapa, causing injuries to Tapa SHO, three other police personnel and some members of the SC community.The official vehicle of the SHO was also damaged.Tapa Nagar Council (NC) claims that the land belonged to it but SC community members say they are the owners of the land.There is still tension in the area as senior authorities have deputed force while SC community members are adamant for the construction of a gurdwara.“The land belongs to SC community and we want to construct a Gurdwara Sahib here, but NC authorities want to grab our land. Today when local cops tried to remove Nishan Sahib (religious flag) from here, residents protested and the cops fired in the air and used sticks, causing injuries to residents,” said Advocate Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD party candidate from Bhadaur constituency.Some other residents alleged that after cops fired in the air and started lathicharge on them, they started protesting and it led to a clash.But the police alleged that when they went to convince them to vacate the land, they started pelting stones and bricks.“On the complaint of NC, the police had also registered an FIR some days back against some locals after they refused to vacate the land,” said Simarpreet Kaur, SDM, Tapa.When contacted, SSP, Barnala, Alka Meena said, “Both Tapa NC and members of the SC community have been claiming that land belongs to them. After the members of SC community started the construction of gurdwara there, our cops went to convince them to vacate the land. But area residents started pelting stones, causing injury to our Tapa SHO Gurlal Singh and three other cops and they also damaged the official vehicle of the SHO.”She said that the situation was under control as they have deputed more force in the area.“I have got information that some residents have also suffered injuries. We would conduct investigations and also register an FIR against all those who have attacked the SHO and other personnel and damaged their vehicle,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sho-cops-injured-in-clash-between-locals-and-police-in-barnala-over-construction-of-gurdwara-355928
29-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||Punjab remains dry in December, excess downpour in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Punjab has remained virtually dry in the month of December while rain received in Haryana is just about half of normal for this period. On the other hand, Himachal Pradesh has experienced surplus rain.Data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that rain has been deficient by 99 percent in Punjab. From December 1 to December 29, the state received 0.1 mm rain as compared to the normal of 11.3 mm.Haryana has recorded a deficiency of 54 per cent for this period, with the actual rain received being 2.5 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm. The hill state of Himachal Pradesh received 69 mm rain against the normal of 39.6 mm, translating to a surplus of 74 per cent.While rain has fared poorly during the year’s last month in Punjab and Haryana, precipitation has been above normal in all three states during the; last quarter of the year. IMD data shows that from October 1 to December 29, the total rainfall was surplus by 45 percent in both Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and by 39 percent in Punjab.Warning of cold wave conditions in isolated pockets over northwest India during next 4-5 days, the IMD has predicted that an intense western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region during 4-7 January 2022, with possibility of isolated heavy falls on January 4-7 over north western India.“A fresh active western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to cause fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall during 04th to 07th with possibility of isolated heavy falls on 05th and 06th over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh,” a bulletin issued by IMD today said.“Light or moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during 05th to 07th is also likely,” the bulletin added.In addition, the weatherman has also forecast cold wave and  severe cold wave conditions in isolated/some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during December 30 to January 3 along with dense fog in isolated pockets during night and morning hours over the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-remains-dry-in-december-excess-downpour-in-himachal-355927
29-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana bomb blast: 7 mobiles recovered from jail, a few of them used by accused, say police||The investigating agencies probing the Ludhiana court complex blast incident recovered seven mobile phones, a few of them used by the accused, from the city’s central jail, police sources said on Wednesday.The phones have been sent to forensic lab for further examination, they said.Dismissed Punjab Police cop Gagandeep Singh was killed in the blast on December 23. Six others were injured in the incident.According to the police, Gagandeep had gone to the washroom in the court complex to assemble the bomb to plant it somewhere.Gagandeep, who was dismissed from service in 2019, had spent two years in the Ludhiana jail in a drug-related case.Gagandeep along with two others — Ranjit Singh and Sukhwinder Singh—who were also lodged in the same jail allegedly used these phones, the sources said.Ranjit and Sukhwinder had been brought on production warrants for questioning, they said.It has been found during investigation that some international calls had also been made from these mobile phones. Two of these phones were largely used by Gagandeep during his stay in the jail, said police sources.    Gagandeep had come out on bail in September.According to CCTV footage procured from cameras installed at Ludhiana bus stand and roadside, Gagandeep had used a bus to reach Ludhiana from Khanna on December 23.The investigating agencies have also questioned Gagandeep’s wife. They also questioned his girlfriend, serving in the police. Gagandeep had stayed with her in a hotel before proceeding to Ludhiana.The police are also questioning Gagandeep’s friends in the police department whom he used to frequently meet after his dismissal from the service.Notably, German authorities detained a person allegedly belonging to the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an organisation suspected to be behind the bomb blast in Ludhiana, based on intelligence inputs from India, officials had said on Tuesday.The man, identified as Jaswinder Singh Multani, was detained in a city in Germany after intelligence inputs were shared with the authorities in Berlin highlighting his alleged role in planning terror attacks in India, they said.Multani, against whom two FIRs have been registered in Punjab, was picked up and kept under detention, and was questioned on the inputs provided by Indian agencies to the authorities in Berlin through diplomatic channels.The central agencies and the Punjab Police are investigating the Ludhiana blast incident jointly. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-bomb-blast-7-mobiles-recovered-from-jail-a-few-of-them-used-by-accused-say-police-355914
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||NIA files chargesheet against 2, including Pakistani national, in Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case||The NIA on Wednesday filed a third supplementary chargesheet in a special court in Mohali against two narcotics traffickers, including a Pakistani national, for their alleged involvement in a narco-terror case of Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, an official said.Charges have been slapped on Gurjant Singh of Amritsar and Nasir of Pakistan under Sections of the IPC, the NDPS Act and the UA (P) Act, the official of the premier investigation agency said.The case was registered in April last year in Amritsar after the arrest of Allah Ahmed Shergojri, seizure of a truck and recovery of Rs 29 lakh from his possession.He was an overground worker and a close associate of Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo, the then commander of Hizbul Mujahideen in Kashmir, the NIA official said.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the investigation in May last year.Earlier, a chargesheet against 12 accused was filed by the NIA in this case.Gurjant Singh, a narcotics trafficker, was in close contact with other co-conspirators for the supply of heroin and channelising the proceeds of the sale of narcotics, the official said.Nasir, a Pakistan-based trafficker, was involved in the smuggling of heroin into India in the garb of export of rock salt granules through Attari border, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-files-chargesheet-against-2-including-pakistani-national-in-hizbul-mujahideen-narco-terror-case-355912
29-12-2021||New Delhi||New BJP entrant Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi accorded 'Z' security cover||Punjab politician Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who joined the BJP a few days ago, has been accorded ‘Z’-category VIP security cover by the Union Government, official sources said on Wednesday.Sodhi, 67, is an MLA for the last four terms and is considered close to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.He recently announced his resignation from the Congress on Twitter and had posted the letter sent to party president Sonia Gandhi.An MLA from Guruharsahai in Ferozepur district, he was the Sports Minister in the Amarinder Singh government.He joined the BJP on December 21 at the party’s headquarters here.Sources said Sodhi has been accorded ‘Z’-category security on the recommendation of the Union Home Ministry and he will have an armed cover of the CRPF commandos every time he travels in Punjab and in Delhi.Under this cover, Sodhi will have a contingent of 6-8 commandos travelling with him, the sources said.The force protects as many as 76 personalities under its VIP security cover, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the first family of Congress Party, its president Sonia Gandhi and her children Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, among others.It is currently training a contingent of the Delhi Police and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in VIP security tasks. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-bjp-entrant-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-accorded-z-security-cover-355910
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Severe cold hits most places in Punjab, parts of Haryana||Biting cold swept most places in Punjab and parts of Haryana on Wednesday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits.Moga in Punjab was the coldest place, recording a low of one degree Celsius.Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot and Ferozepur recorded identical minimum temperatures of 2.4 degrees Celsius each, according to the meteorological department here.Among other places in Punjab, Barnala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot reeled under intense cold recording respective minimum temperatures of 2.7 degrees Celsius, 3.9 degrees Celsius, 3.3 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.1 degrees Celsius while Patiala's minimum temperature settled at 6.5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Hisar, Sirsa and Narnaul experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 5 degrees, 4.6 degrees and 6 degrees Celsius.Ambala recorded a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius while Karnal's minimum temperature settled at 7.7 degrees Celsius.Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-hits-most-places-in-punjab-parts-of-haryana-355893
29-12-2021||Ravi S Singh||AAP to micro-manage each assembly constituency in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 29The Aam Aadmi Party will assign each of the 117 assembly constituencies in Punjab to MLAs and senior party functionaries to micro-manage them electorally.At least one leader will be deputed for every constituency.While some of the constituencies have been assigned to leaders, responsibilities regarding the remaining will be finalised before the end of this year.The strategy of micro-managing the constituencies was fleshed out at a recent meeting of senior leaders at the central level.Delhi AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, who is the co-incharge of Punjab affairs, is in the vanguard of implementing the strategies with the support of core senior leaders of the state."AAP will leave nothing to chance. People of Punjab have already showered love and affection on AAP national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. They have appreciated his administrative skills," AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said.Sources close to Kejriwal said the party was temporarily on the backfoot initially after the Congress made Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit Sikh, the chief minister. The party went to the drawing board and planned afresh for the elections.  "People of Punjab want the AAP government. Hence, the party will not be found wanting on an effective strategy for the electoral battle," Gupta said.Besides putting each of the constituencies under the charge of a leader, AAP's central leadership has decided to allow the local leadership to be in the forefront and lead the party's electoral campaign.A review would be made on this strategy midway as the election campaign intensifies.Senior leaders of AAP have by now a fair grooming in electoral strategy from the party electoral laboratory of Delhi, so to speak. The party is buoyed up with its high percentage performance in the recent local elections in Chandigarh.The party has high hopes from the assembly elections in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/aap-to-micro-manage-each-assembly-constituency-in-punjab-355883
29-12-2021||---||Channi in driver's seat: Punjab CM drives bus as he flags off 58 new buses||Chandigarh, December 29Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday drove a new Punbus for a short distance as part of induction of 58 new buses into the state fleet.A total of 842 modern vehicles are being added into the state fleet in one go for the first time ever at a cost of Rs 400 crore.Flagging off the first tranche of 30 buses for PRTC and 28 buses for PUNBUS, Channi said the last two months had witnessed the transport department's revival as a result of stringent action against erring bus operators and tax evaders.The chief minister also announced free bus travel facility for all college and university students. The decision will benefit lakhs of students across the state in ensuring education to them. “We are also constructing and renovating 105 bus terminals to further strengthen the overall infrastructure,” the CM said.Crackdown on those running the state transport as a mafia has resulted in significant enhancement of department revenue, said Channi, who was accompanied by Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring.The CM asserted that no one would be allowed to fleece commuters and a transparent, efficient and effective transport mechanism is his government's top priority.Lauding Warring for his efforts in the last three months, the Chief Minister said the new buses are a gift to the people of Punjab, especially women for whom the government has already made travel free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-charanjit-channi-rides-punjab-roadways-bus-as-he-flags-off-new-buses-355881
29-12-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal trains guns on Navjot Sidhu, Bhagwant Mann; says Punjab needs a CM with vision, not one who only cracks jokes||Amritsar, December 29SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said Punjab needed a CM who could present a vision for its welfare and prosperity, and not the one who could only crack jokes.Sukhbir, who was here, said this while targeting Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and AAP’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann.He said he had rightly declared Sidhu as a “misguided missile” which could explode anytime anywhere to cause destruction whereas Mann lacked the calibre to head the state.“Sidhu would end up destroying the Congress. Today, their key leaders are quitting the party only due to Sidhu. Kejriwal has ambition to be the CM of Punjab. It is written on the wall, ‘ek mauka Kejriwal nu’. This ‘mauka’ could be for the CM's position only, what else. I have observed that AAP has disrespected its state chief umpteen times. Kejriwal issues statements in the presence of Mann that a ‘changa banda’ (good man) would be there for the CM’s post. It seems he doesn’t consider Mann for it. Anyone else in Mann’s place would have quit by now,” he said.He said the SAD-BSP is a regional outfit that would give a tough fight to the Congress, BJP and AAP.“In the last Assembly election, our vote share was 31 per cent whereas AAP had 21 per cent. In 2019 parliamentary polls, our share got escalated whereas AAP’s share nosedived to 6 per cent. This time, the SAD-BSP which has to face three opponents on various seats would come up with flying colours,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-trains-guns-on-sidhu-bahgwant-says-punjab-needs-a-cm-who-has-vision-not-one-who-only-cracks-jokes-355878
29-12-2021||GS Paul||SAD-BSP comes up with 'transport policy' to be part of its manifesto for Punjab election||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29The SAD (Badal) has come up with its ‘transport policy’ which would be part of its manifesto for the ensuing 2022 Assembly elections.  Divulging SAD-BSP’s vision for transporters in case it comes to power, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said here on Wednesday that a Transport Welfare Board would be constituted to regulate the transport, remove the hiccups and formulate the transporters’ welfare schemes.He said transport-related policies and taxes would be decided and implemented by the board with the active involvement of the beneficiary before implementation. A corpus of Rs 25 crore would be spared to run the affairs.“Our aim is to provide a forum to the transporters where they can raise their concerns. The government-oriented transport board would include the representatives of transport sector,” he said.A grievance committee would be constituted under the SDM of the district concerned where the rate of transportation of goods would be decided after taking the transport and the trading community into confidence. The committee would address the grievances of the transport and the trade unions in a transparent and efficient manner, he said.Government e-tenders for the carriage of goods would exclusively be for the transport operators who were actively involved in it. “This step has been taken to restrict the political interference at the time of allotment of tenders. The process will be online for maintaining transparency,” he said.To curb the officials’ interference in exploiting the transporters on the pretext of furnishing documentation, a policy would be formulated under which the documents pertaining to the vehicle would be scrutinised only once a year. The government would allot a ‘sticker’ to the vehicle that would validate that the papers of the vehicle were in order.“This move would be introduced so that the police and state transport officials should not harass the transporters on the basis of documentation. The police could intercept the vehicle only to check illegal activity only,” he said.On the national highways, special weighing machines would be installed to check the overloading of the vehicle, keeping in view the safety aspect and legality of the carriage.The ‘one-time settlement’ scheme would be introduced to clear the taxes and dues of the vehicle. School vans and buses which transport schoolchildren would get special subsidy in transport taxes in comparison to the commercial vehicles.Sukhbir assured that the defunct ‘transport unions’ would be revived and its president would be the one with at least five-year experience of operating the transport business.A special insurance scheme would be introduced under which the driver of the vehicle would be covered under life insurance policy of Rs 10 lakh for his family.On the lines of the one at Lambi, identical centres would be established in the district headquarters which would provide training and facilitate heavy vehicle driving licence.  To spare a thought for environment, diesel-operated auto-rickshaws would be replaced with e-rickshaws and special loan facility with negligible rate of interest would be offered, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bsp-comes-up-with-transport-policy-to-be-part-of-its-manifesto-for-punjab-election-355877
29-12-2021||---||Teachers seek Navjot Sidhu's support to get new pay scales||Chandigarh, December 28Teachers today sought support of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu for implementing the revised UGC pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The teachers assembled at the Congress Bhawan, Sector 15.“The Punjab Government has failed to fulfil the long-pending demands of university and college teachers,” they said.PPCC general secretary Joginder Pal Dhingra met the teachers and assured them of resolving their issues.Dhingra also accompanied a delegation of the PUTA to meet Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni to apprise him of the issues. Soni assured them of resolving the matter soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-seek-sidhus-support-to-get-new-pay-scales-355795
29-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||522 from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana region give up citizenship in past 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28A total of 522 persons from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana region have surrendered their passports in the past five years, according to the data provided by the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34.A ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service. Those who have acquired the foreign nationality on or after June 1, 2010, need to pay Rs5,000 and those who acquired the foreign nationality before June 1, 2010 need to pay Rs500.The RPO recorded the highest number of surrender certificates in 2019, just before the pandemic crippled the travel and tourism industry. That year, it issued a total of 162 surrender certificates. Despite the pandemic-induced restrictions, 99 people surrendered their passports in 2020. In 2021, the straight-line graph points at no change in the trend whatsoever. Till December 20, this year too, the RPO has issued 99 surrender certificates to the applicants wanting to give up Indian citizenship.In 2018, this number stood at 90, while in 2017, the RPO issued only 70 surrender certificates.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said: “Mostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries.”Chargeable serviceA ‘surrender certificate’ is issued to applicants willing to surrender their passports at passport offices, mainly for renunciation of Indian citizenship and acquiring foreign nationality. This is a chargeable miscellaneous passport service.OfficialspeakMostly, the reason behind surrendering the passport is to acquire a foreign nationality. Over these five years, we have observed that more and more people are leaving for Canada from the region. It is probably because there have been relaxations in getting Canadian PR and how it provides easy access to other developed countries. — Sibash Kabiraj, Regional Passport Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/522-from-region-give-up-citizenship-in-past-5-yrs-355778
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||National security calls for realistic approach: Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari||Anandpur Sahib MP and Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari on Tuesday said India’s security approach should be based on realism and humility.“You either increase the defence budget exponentially or bring down the security threat,” Tewari said during the launch of his book “10 Flashpoints; 20 Years”.The book was released by former Chief of Army Staff General VP Malik. The event was organised by the Chandigarh Literary Society with Rupa Publications.The former Union Minister said India was in a difficult situation as far as the security was concerned. He said the issue needed to be settled with China. For that, he added, it could be done with a sense of realism and humility and not with a sense of jingoism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-security-calls-for-realistic-approach-manish-tewari-355748
29-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur: Limited job avenues worrisome||In Gurdaspur, more than anything else, voters want to know the fate of development projects announced by the government from time to time in the past.These projects will be giving employment to their children. Hence the focus is on development rather than speculating on the eventual winners or losers. This Assembly seat has few employment avenues. In the future, too, the chances of big-ticket projects setting up shop here are bleak.“In the run-up to the elections, leaders promise us the moon. But this time we will not be fooled. Whenever a politician will make a promise, we will ask him or her to give it in writing. The days of listening to mere rhetoric are over. Actually, the manifestos released by parties should have some sort of legal sanctity and only then the phenomenon of making false promises disappear,” said Nikhil Kumar, a small-time shopkeeper. His views reflect the majority of voters’ sentiments.Barring a few rice mills, the area has absolutely no industry. The world famous Keshopur wetland has the potential to bring in tourists and give the local economy a major fillip. However, it remains untapped. Residents also want an answer from leaders as to what happened to the medical college and hospital project promised by then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in 2017. The venture has met a dead end after getting mired in red tape.Past trendEver since the first Assembly elections were held in 1951, the Congress has won 12 times, while SAD has emerged victorious on four occasions. No other party apart from the Congress and SAD has been able to make its presence felt in the segment.Locals’ key demandsElectorate strengthTotal voters: 1,55,264Male: 81,230Female: 74,032Third gender: 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-limited-job-avenues-worrisome-355746
29-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Dakha: Gave 2 CMs, but still a laggard||Dakha is predominantly a rural segment, which includes parts of the erstwhile Kilarapur constituency, from where the state got two Chief Minsters. They were late Justice Gurnam Singh and Parkash Singh Badal. Leaders of all parties bank on the popularity of Chhapar Mela and the observance of martyrdom day of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha to garner support.The Dakha constituency has remained a stronghold of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). But in 2017, the Akalis suffered a setback as their candidate Manpreet Ayali lost to AAP’sIn 2019, Phoolka resigned from the Assembly, necessitating a byelection. Ayali defeated Congress nominee Capt Sandeep Sandhu, a close confidant of then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, by 14,672 votes.Ayali banks on his popularity gained during his tenure as the zila parishad chairman, when a large number of stadia were constructed and village ponds developed.Probable Congress nominee Capt Sandhu, though an outsider, has tried to make a mark for himself in the segment. He gained political support, earlier by his proximity to Capt Amarinder Singh and now with changed loyalty to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. He ensured adequate grants for development projects in Mullanpur town and villages.Jathedar Mohinder Singh Latala, a social activist, alleged the Congress government failed to come up to the expectations of residents. He, however, claimed the previous SAD governments had developed the constituency.Past trendSAD’s Basant Singh Khalsa won four times (1969, 1972, 1980 & 1985) and his son Bikramjit Singh Khalsa in 1997. SAD’s Charanjit Singh (1977) and Manpreet Ayali (2012, 2019 bypoll) won even when the electoral wave was not in the party’s favour.Locals’ key demandsElectorate strengthTotal voters: 1,84,306Male: 97,343Female: 86,962Third gender: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dakha-gave-2-cms-but-still-a-laggard-355742
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD fields Ranjit Singh Brahmpura from Khadoor Sahib segment||The SAD today named veteran leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura as the party’s candidate from Khadoor Sahib. Party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said Brahmpura was the 93rd candidate announced by the party out of its quota of 97 seats as per the alliance with the BSP.Brahmpura had recently left the Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) over its alliance with the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-fields-brahmpura-from-khadoor-sahib-segment-355738
29-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmers meet Punjab CM Channi,  suspend 'rail roko'||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today suspended its ‘rail roko’ agitation following their representatives’ meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi.For the past nine days, the farmers had blocked the rail track in support of their demands at Jandiala in Amritsar, Tarn Taran railway station, Tanda in Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar Cantt, Moga and Fazilka railway stations and at Basti Tenka Wali in Ferozepur, leading to disruption of over 90 trains. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC said seven rail tracks were vacated from 4 pm onwards following an assurance by the CM that their demands would be addressed.The next meeting with the CM has been scheduled for January 8. He said the assurance was given on the hike in relief for basmati crop that was damaged due to hailstorm would be enhanced from Rs 12,000 an acre to Rs 17,000, jobs and compensation to the family members of farmers who lost lives during the course of farm agitation at Delhi borders within a week, and cancellation of the cases registered against farmers after discussion with the Centre. “Besides, the CM responded positively to the loan waiver for marginal farmers,” Pandher said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-meet-punjab-cm-suspend-rail-roko-355737
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Realtor among  15 on AAP list for Punjab Assembly elections||Realtor Kulwant Singh, who joined the AAP yesterday, is among 15 candidates on the fifth list of the party for the upcoming Assembly elections. This brings the total number of candidates announced by the AAP to 88.Former Mayor Kulwant Singh, who has been fielded from Mohali, had contested from the Fatehgarh Sahib parliamentary seat on a SAD ticket in 2014, but lost. He later parted ways with the SAD and formed his own outfit — Azad Group — restricting his activities to Mohali. Also, ex-MC chief Jagroop Singh Gill has been fielded from Bathinda Urban. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/realtor-among-15-on-aap-list-for-punjab-assembly-elections-355732
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet nod to amend coop audit service rules||Keeping in view the larger interest of employees and the administrative need of the Cooperation Department to ensure efficiency in its functioning, the Punjab Cabinet today approved amendment to the Punjab Cooperative Audit (Group-B) Service Rules, 2016.The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by CM Charanjit Singh Channi.The amendment to the provisions due to the restructuring of the department would provide for direct/promotional avenues to the posts of audit officer, superintendent grade 2, senior auditor, inspector audit and senior assistant. After the approval of the officer committee, the restructuring of the department was approved during a Cabinet meeting on December 30, 2020, in which the posts of inspector were reduced from 774 to 654, while those of senior auditor were increased from 32 to 107.Likewise, the posts of audit officer were increased from 22 to 24, superintendent grade 2 from 16 to 22 and senior assistant from 24 to 34 after the approval of the Punjab Government order issued on April 29. — TNSAur sub-tehsil nowKeeping in view the convenience of general public, the Cabinet has decided to accord sub-tehsil status to Aur town, which is part of Nawanshahar tehsil/subdivision. People of the town have to travel long distances to Nawanshahar tehsil for regular official works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-amend-coop-audit-service-rules-355729
29-12-2021||---||Former joint Punjab bureaucrat Jivat Thadani dies in US||Chandigarh, December 28A former bureaucrat, Jivat Thadani, who served in joint Punjab between 1950 and 1965, breathed his last at his home in Vermont, US, on December 23. He was 94.An illustrious personality, Thadani after joining the Indian Administrative Service was posted to Punjab between 1950 and 1957. He served in several districts, including Amritsar, Hisar, Karnal, Mahendragarh and Ferozepur. From 1957 to 1962, he was Director of Industries, Punjab, before resigning from the service. Thadani later joined Delhi Cloth and General Mills to help develop new industries in various parts of the country.In 1969, Thadani was employed by World Bank in Washington DC and remained a senior adviser for industrial projects before his retirement in 1987.Throughout his career, he sought to advance industrial development through various routes, seeing in it the only way to improve the condition of the poor and underprivileged whose plight had influenced him from his earliest days in India.Born in Hyderabad, Pakistan, Thadani was schooled at home in Delhi, where his father was principal of Hindu College. He subsequently attended Hindu College, and after changing his subject from English to economics, he became the first student to be granted a PhD in economics by Delhi University.Widely read in history, economics, and philosophy, and remained to the end clear in intellect, Thadani spent his last years in India, the US, and the UK. He is survived by his wife, Jaya Thadani, son Vijay Thadani, daughter-in-law Onita Connington and their grandchildren.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-bureaucrat-thadani-dies-at-94-355727
29-12-2021||Bathinda||Delhi Police crackdown on medics condemned||Doctors of the region condemned the police brutality on Delhi resident doctors, who have been protesting against a delay in NEET-PG counselling since November. The admission process of around 50,000 MBBS doctors (cleared NEET-PG in September) has been affected.Also read: Protesting doctors, police face-off in DelhiDr Janak Raj Singla, Mansa chief, IMA, said: “The government is targeting doctors to cover up their incompetence. The future of new doctors seems to be in the dark.”Dr Ranjit Singh Rai, vice-president, Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, said, “On one hand, there is a shortage of doctors and, on the other, the counselling is being delayed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-crackdown-on-medics-condemned-355725
29-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Tramadol seizure: Clean chit to Kala Amb pharma firm owner raises eyebrows||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28A clean chit by the police to the pharmaceutical firm owner, who was booked following a probe in connection with the seizure of banned Tramadol tablets in May this year, has raised eyebrows.A probe by then Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana found Rakesh Goyal, the owner of Orison Pharma International, Kala Amb, as one of the prime suspects in the drug racket.Rana submitted his report with the Amritsar Rural SSP on September 27.Though the ASP’s probe was underway, Goyal moved an application before the Amritsar Rural SSP on September 9, claiming to be innocent. The SSP marked a probe to SP (Detective) Manoj Thakur, who gave Goyal a clean chit.The SP (D) concluded that the phrama firm owner was nominated on the basis of “false facts”. The report was submitted to the SSP in November.Thakur said he was unaware of any other probe. “The case was investigated impartially,” he said, adding “it was Ashish Chaudhry (one of the suspects) who procured Tramadol from Orison Pharma and later smuggled it into Punjab. He was yet to be arrested. Goyal delivered him Tramadol as per government norms”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tramadol-seizure-clean-chit-to-pharma-firm-owner-raises-eyebrows-355723
29-12-2021||Patiala||3 Khalistan sympathisers held||The police today claimed to have arrested three members of a gang for allegedly campaigning for the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) and distributing propaganda material.Patiala SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar has confirmed the development.On a tip-off, the accused — identified as Jagmeet Singh (26) of Dargapur village in Gurdaspur district, his mother Jasveer Kaur (50) and Ravinder Singh (27) of Mandi Gobindgarh — were arrested from Banur on December 26.Pro-Khalistani and anti-India material were seized from them, the police have said.“The propaganda material included registration forms, inciting people to vote for a referendum to form Khalistan. They visited various shrines and other public places, distributing registration forms. They wrote slogans and pasted posters of ‘Khalistan Zindabad’,” said Bhullar.Jagmeet and Jasveer revealed that Jasveer Kaur provided them with the propaganda material, said the SSP.A case under Sections 153-A, 505 (2), 505 (3) and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Banur police station.Bhullar said, “Jasveer Kaur was the kingpin of the gang. She, along with her husband, shifted near Banur almost a decade ago.”“Jasveer Kaur’s brother-in-law Manjit Singh was the area commander of the Babbar Khalsa International during the days of terrorism,” added the SSP.The accused were produced in a court, which sent them to six-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-khalistan-sympathisers-held-355721
29-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana blast case: Cops scan CCTV footage to unravel suspect Gagandeep's movement||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 28Several questions related to Gagandeep Singh, the suspect behind the Ludhiana court complex blast on December 23, remain unanswered.Also read: 'Recruiter' Jaswinder Singh Multani wanted in two terror cases: DossierFor example, whom did he meet on the day of the blast? From where did he collect the explosives? Which route did he take from Khanna to reach the court complex? And, how did he reach the court?The only clue the police have so far is the CCTV footage of Gagandeep, who was dismissed as a head constable in a drug case, and his woman friend, who is a constable, visiting Hotel Down Town, Khanna, before the blast.A day after the explosion, the police seized the digital video recorder (DVR) from the hotel.The probe revealed that on the day of the blast, Gagandeep left home at 9.30 am on his Activa scooter, went to the Civil Hospital, Khanna, and parked the scooter there.“It is suspected that either Gagandeep’s aides dropped him at the Ludhiana court or he boarded a bus. Someone in Khanna might have given him the explosives,” a senior police official told The Tribune.As per his wife, Gagandeep was not carrying any bag when he left home on December 23, raising the suspicion that explosives could have been handed over to him either in Khanna or Ludhiana.Sources say the NIA and police have already checked footage of dozens of CCTV cameras, starting from his home in Professor Colony, Khanna, to the civil hospital. Even cameras installed on highways and markets in Khanna are being examined for clues. The police have no CCTV footage of Gagandeep’s presence in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-blast-case-cops-scan-cctv-footage-to-unravel-suspects-movement-355719
29-12-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||'Recruiter' Jaswinder Singh Multani wanted in two terror cases: Dossier||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) activist Jaswinder Singh Multani, arrested by German police on Monday on the request of Indian security agencies, is known in Punjab Police records as a “master handler and recruiter” of youngsters for terror-related activities.Also read: Ludhiana blast case: Cops scan CCTV footage to unravel suspect's movementHe is named in two FIRs in Punjab. The first was registered on February 7 in Amritsar after the arrest of four persons from Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Ferozepur with arms and ammunition. On their interrogation, the police arrested Jeewan Singh of Mansa who claimed Multani had sent him money and weapons to kill farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal and cause unrest in the region.Rajewal’s outfit is part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha that spearheaded the anti-farm law agitation. He is also a top leader of the recently announced Samyukt Samaj Morcha, a farmers’ outfit to contest the upcoming Assembly elections.The second FIR lodged in August accused him of supplying two hand grenades to recruits in Tarn Taran.A Punjab Police dossier states he is an expert in radicalising youths in impressionable age towards terrorism and works at the behest of Pakistan operatives. Multani is wanted in two cases of funding terror and supplying weapons and explosives to recruits, claimed a police official.The state police were suspecting Multani’s role in the Ludhiana court blast though no direct link had been made public so far. It is suspected he was in touch with the accused, Gagandeep Singh, either directly or through a handler.The state police hope disclosures made by Multani might help break the network of anti-India groups in foreign countries. His interrogation may also take the lid off the drug smuggler-gangster-terrorist nexus working to cause unrest in Punjab, said a senior police official.As per the dossier, Multani is a pro-Khalistan terrorist originally belonging to Mansoorpur village, near Mukerian, Hoshiarpur. Currently living in Erfurt City, near Frankfurt, Germany, he is closely associated with the banned outfit SFJ for promoting separatist activities.The dossier says he has been in touch with the US-based SFJ activists Avtar Singh Pannu, president, SFJ and others, who are pursuing separatist agenda of Khalistan through ‘Sikh Referendum 2020’. He also assisted the SFJ’s registration campaign in Germany.He has participated in rallies and events organised by the SFJ in Germany and is closely associated with its core members. His Facebook friends’ list includes many foreign-based Sikh radicals, including Hardeep Singh Nijjer, Paramjit Singh Pamma, Sabi Singh, Kulwant Singh Mothada and others.Ludhiana blast: Nabbed by German police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recruiter-multani-wanted-in-two-terror-cases-dossier-355717
29-12-2021||Dinanagar||Give Chandigarh to Punjab: Sukhbir Badal to PM Modi||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give Chandigarh and some Hindi-speaking areas to Punjab on his visit to Punjab on January 5.He addressed a series of meetings in the Dinanagar Assembly segment in support of BSP candidate Kamaljit Chawla. On MLAs Fateh Bajwa and Balwinder Laddi joining the BJP, he said both had been in touch with the saffron party for the past several weeks and today’s development was on expected lines.“Just wait for some more days and then see the spillover from the Congress to other parties. The Congress MLAs were disgusted earlier with Capt Amarinder Singh and now with Charanjit Singh Channi. The Congress will now contest the polls as a fractured entity,” he said.He added if his party came to power, he would make efforts to solve the vexed SYL issue. “It has been a long time now. We should do something about it. We should ensure that Punjab gets its rightful due,” said Sukhbir. — TNSPanth in dangerThe Panth and Punjab is in danger as the other parties are only interested in grabbing power. — Parkash Singh Badal, SAD patron||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-chd-to-punjab-sukhbir-badal-to-pm-355713
29-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||No decision on Dalit CM face: Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 28Seemingly aimed at targeting SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in his Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency, the state BJP leadership today formally announced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the town for a ‘historic rally’ on January 5. The PM is slated to lay the foundation stone of PGI satellite centre there. The party also denied claims of having decided on putting up a Dalit CM face in Punjab.State BJP president Ashwani Sharma and general secretary Subhash Sharma held a meeting of party office-bearers from across the state wherein they were given a target of ensuring a gathering of 5 lakh people for the rally. The party leaders were told to arrange for 3,200 buses from across Punjab, including 250 from Jalandhar.A party insider said the rally was earlier planned for Ludhiana, but the venue was changed later. “The party decided to launch its campaign through a show of strength on Sukhbir’s turf, especially since the central leadership is unhappy at the Akalis dumping them in the hour of crisis. There are other factors too for choosing the venue. The party recently roped in former Congress minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who is from the area. It is a rural Hindu belt with sizeable BJP following,” said a party leader.Denying claims on putting up a Dalit CM face, Sharma said: “Sentiments of an individual do not reflect the party’s stand. A final call over such a vital decision has to be taken by the parliamentary board of the party,” he said. During Ambedkar Jayanti in April, BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh had made the announcement of a Dalit CM face. Regarding an FIR against former SAD minister Bikram Majithia, he said: “Since the matter is sub judice, it will not be appropriate to comment.”Farmers’ hidden agenda exposedWe had been saying from the beginning farmers have some hidden political agenda behind the morcha. Now, everyone can see for themselves. Ashwani Sharma, state BJP president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-decision-on-dalit-cm-face-punjab-bjp-chief-355710
29-12-2021||Ropar||Punjab Youth Congress chief bats for loyalist Achhar Sharma from Anandpur Sahib||Factionalism in the Ropar district Congress came to the fore today with Punjab Youth Congress chief Brinder Singh Dhillon proposing the name of District Youth Congress (DYC) president Achhar Sharma as the party candidate from the Anandpur Sahib Assembly constituency. The seat is represented by Speaker Rana KP Singh.Dhillon had unsuccessfully contested the last elections on the party ticket from Ropar. The AICC had recently appointed Ashwani Sharma, a Dhillon’s opponent and staunch Rana KP Singh supporter, as the district Congress committee chief. Reacting to it, Dhillon had appointed Acchar Sharma as new DYC president on December 13, removing Rana’s confidant Surinder Singh Haripur.During Sharma’s installation ceremony today, Dhillon announced that the Youth Congress was staking its claim to the Anandpur Sahib seat. Meanwhile, Haripur claimed he was appointed DYC chief through election and Dhillon had no authority to remove him. — TNSVillages denied fundsIt was due to factionalism that village panchayats of Ropar segment did not get required funds for development. — Brinder S Dhillon, Punjab Youth Cong||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yc-chief-bats-for-loyalist-from-anandpur-sahib-355709
29-12-2021||Sunam/Mansa||Punjab CM Channi does a Navjot Sidhu, backs Daman Bajwa for Sunam||A day after Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu announced Ashwani Sekhri as party candidate from Batala, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi declared Daman Bajwa’s candidature from Sunam, though indirectly.Channi even invoked senior party leader Rahul Gandhi to make his announcement stronger in favour of Daman. “Last time when she got the ticket, she did not get time to campaign and lost. But Rahul Gandhi then said she would win next time. Today after seeing such a huge gathering I am elated that you have confirmed that this time Daman would win,” said CM Channi.In fact, he went a step further and requested all to help her as “she has determination to serve people of the area”. Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring also sought ticket for Daman from the CM.In Mansa, CM Channi said AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was an outsider but projecting himself on posters as a leader of Punjab which the Punjabis wouldn’t tolerate.He dared “the common man to explain his stay in costliest hotels during his visits to the state”. He further said Badals wouldn’t be spared as they had looted the state for their personal gains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-does-a-sidhu-backs-daman-for-sunam-355708
29-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Partap Bajwa-Fateh Jung rift out in the open||Tribune News ServiceQadian, December 28The defection of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa was very much on the cards ever since his elder brother Partap Singh Bajwa, a two-time MP and three-time MLA, made his intentions clear of contesting from the family seat.Also read: Fearing denial of ticket, Cong MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi join BJPThis was a clear signal to Fateh to either shift loyalties to another party or find another seat for himself. As things stand, he has chosen to exercise the first option.Incidentally, the brothers stay in the same house in Qadian. The Congress flag flutters on the roof of their house. It remains to be seen if Fateh now matches it with the BJP flag or not.Sources say the Qadian MLA has been inducted into the party with the assurance that he would be fielded either from Qadian or Batala.Fateh’s son Arjun Partap Bajwa won the Gurdaspur zila parishad polls on a Congress ticket. It remains in the realms of speculation whether he follows in his father’s footsteps or not.The Qadian melodrama was becoming one big headache for the party as Partap was not willing to forgo his claim, while Fateh had been insisting “nobody had the guts and gumption to snatch Qadian away from me”. With today’s development, the rift in the Bajwa family is out in the open. Earlier, whenever Fateh and Partap would be on a collision course, and such occasions used to happen regularly, senior members of the family used to intervene.When Partap made it clear in the first week of December he would fight from Qadian, Fateh was taken aback. There were many who thought he would join the SAD and contest from the Batala seat. However, this speculation was nipped in the bud the moment the Akalis announced Sucha Singh Chhotepur as their candidate.In 2012, Fateh was adamant on contesting from Qadian but his sister-in-law and Partap’s wife, Charanjit Kaur Bajwa, rocked the family boat and insisted she be made the candidate. She had pulled out all the stops to make sure Fateh stayed out of contention. Finally, Partap played the peacemaker and Fateh withdrew, but with the rider that he would be the candidate in the 2017 elections.Partap remained true to his word and in 2017, Fateh won by a comfortable margin. He was given the ticket but not before Charanjit had staged a revolt of sorts by insisting she be given a second chance to contest.When Charanjit contested from Qadian in 2012, a livid Fateh had left his hometown and campaigned around the clock for his friend and Congress candidate Balwinder Laddi in the neighbouring Sri Hargobindpur seat.Laddi, a Fateh’s protégé, was expected to follow in his master’s footsteps and that is what he has done. “He has joined the BJP on the assurance that he will be the BJP candidate from Sri Hargobindpur,” said a BJP leader.BJP May field MLA from Qadian or Batala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partap-fateh-rift-out-in-the-open-355706
29-12-2021||---||Fearing denial of ticket, Cong MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi join BJP||Chandigarh, December 28Ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll early next year, Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa (Qadian) and Balwinder Singh Laddi (Sri Hargobindpur) joined the BJP today. Sources said since they were unlikely to be given ticket by the Congress, they switched over to the saffron party. The Congress is learnt to have identified at least 10-12 MLAs who performed poorly in surveys conducted by it to work out the merit of prospective candidates.Also read: Partap Bajwa-Fateh Jung rift out in the openGuruharsahai MLA Rana Gumit Sodhi, who recently joined the BJP, was also among those who were likely to be denied the ticket.A senior party leader said, “We won’t be surprised if a few more MLAs, who are not in a winning position, join the BJP or other party in the coming days. The BJP is poaching Congress MLAs to create a false impression of its consolidating position.” The sources said since the Congress had already conveyed to Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa to contest from Qadian, his younger brother Fateh Jung quit the party. It is yet to be seen whether the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fields him against his brother from Qadian or gives him ticket from Batala.Fearing “attempts by the BJP to poach more MLAs”, leaders from Majha Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Kulbir Singh Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra are reported to have met Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary on the issue of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu hitting out at Tript Bajwa while extending support to former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri.On the other hand, some Doaba MLAs have been targeting Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh. The Majha leaders had played a big role in teaming with Sidhu to oust former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Cricketer Mongia in BJP fold tooFormer cricketer Dinesh Mongia joined the BJP in presence of party’s state in-charge and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday. Shekhawat claimed the party was gaining ground in Punjab.Ticket to Bajwa Sr?Sources say since the Congress had already conveyed to Partap Singh Bajwa to contest from Qadian, his younger brother Fateh Jung quit the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-denial-of-ticket-cong-mlas-fateh-jung-bajwa-balwinder-singh-laddi-join-bjp-355631
29-12-2021||Mukesh Ranjan &||Covid surge: 'Yellow alert' in Delhi, Punjab tells unjabbed to stay home||Vishav BhartiTribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, Dec 28Amid a fresh surge in Covid cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has declared a “yellow alert” and ordered the closure of schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms in the National Capital even as the Punjab Government has asked eligible persons who haven’t taken both vaccine doses to remain indoors.“Those who are eligible for vaccination but haven’t taken both doses should stay inside their houses. They mustn’t visit public places, including markets and shrines, attend any function or use public transport,” read an order issued by Punjab Principal Secretary (Home) Anurag Verma. The fresh curbs will come into force from January 15.Considering the situation in the aftermath of Omicron spread, those not fully vaccinated needed to take more precautions, said Verma. Those not due for second dose, however, would be exempted from the fresh curbs, he said. All government offices in Chandigarh have also decided to allow only fully vaccinated people or those not yet due for second dose.The same guidelines are to be followed by banks, hotels, bars, restaurants, shopping complexes, cinemas and gyms. In Delhi, the DDMA directions came after CM Arvind Kejriwal issued a “yellow alert” (declared when case positivity remains above 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days) as part of the graded response action plan (GRAP) in view of the rising cases.The fresh restrictions mean that shops of non-essential goods and services and malls will open with an odd-even formula. Besides, the timing of the night curfew, imposed from Monday, too has been extended and will now begin at 10 pm instead of 11 pm.Marriages and funeral-related gatherings will only be allowed with an attendance of 20 persons. However, public gatherings, including political or religious, have now been prohibited.The entire public transport, including the Delhi Metro, will run at 50 per cent capacity, while autos and cabs can now only carry two passengers. The alert was sounded as Delhi reported 496fresh cases on Tuesday (one death), which is the highest over the last six months.Further, restaurants and bars will now only be allowed to operate with 50% capacity.“We are imposing restrictions to avoid this virus from entering everyone’s homes. A few months ago, we had formulated GRAP to take appropriate action and impose restrictions depending on the level of spread of the virus. This will ensure a scientific and systematic approach to impose a certain amount of restrictions at a certain percentage of Covid prevalence,” Kejriwal said.“Under the GRAP, we had decided that in case the positivity rate remains over 0.5% for two days consistently, the yellow alert or Level 1 will be imposed. Since the positivity rate has consistently been above 0.5% for the past 2-3 days, we have decided to impose Level 1 starting today,” he added.6,358 fresh casesTOTAL DEATHS 4,80,290ACTIVE CASES 75,456293 deaths in 24 hoursStricter curbs in CapitalSchools, colleges shut | Cap on weddingsPvt offices, Metro to run at 50% capacityCipla to market MolnupiravirDrug major Cipla on Tuesday has received emergency use authorisation permission from the Drug Controller General of India to launch antiviral drug Molnupiravir in the country to treat mild-to-moderate Covid-19. The Mumbai-based firm plans to launch Molnupiravir under the brand name Cipmolnu.Covovax, Corbevax get approvalExpanding India’s vaccine basket, the Central Drug Authority has approved the Serum Institute of India’s Covid-19 vaccine Covovax and Biological E’s jab Corbevax for restricted use in emergency situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/yellow-alert-in-delhi-punjab-tells-unjabbed-to-stay-home-355627
29-12-2021||---||Sitting Punjab Congress MLAs Fateh Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Laddi join BJP||Chandigarh, December 28Congress MLA from Qadian, Fateh Singh Bajwa, on Tuesday joined the BJP.Another Congress MLA from Sri Hargobindpur, Balwinder Laddi, and a close associate of Fateh Bajwa, also joined the BJP.Both were sitting MLAs and were likely to be denied party tickets.A senior leader said apprehensions of the BJP poaching on sitting MLAs proved true. Sources have not ruled out more joining the party in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-cricketer-dinesh-mongia-and-sitting-punjab-congress-mla-fateh-singh-bajwa-join-bjp-355474
29-12-2021||New Delhi||Key conspirator of Ludhiana court blast arrested in Germany||Jaswinder Singh Multani, a top member of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), has been arrested in Germany for allegedly being the main conspirator of the December 23 blast in the Ludhiana district court complex which killed one person and injured five others, sources said.He was arrested after India shared evidence to counter-terror agencies in Berlin."We shared all the evidence that we gathered from the blast spot and also how the conspiracy by Multani was hatched," said one of the sources.Multani was conspiring to bring in more explosives from Pakistan in India through the international boundary and was also planning to carry out similar blasts in other parts of the country.It is also alleged that Multani was also behind pushing arms in the Khemkaran area of Punjab's Tarn Taran district in October this year.The Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) had recovered a huge cache of weapons near the India-Pakistan border in the Khemkaran area on October 20. They had recovered 22 pistols, 44 magazines and 100 rounds of ammunition and also a kg of heroin.The source said that Pakistan's Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) were in touch with Multani.On December 23, the explosion took place in a washroom on the second floor of the District and Sessions court complex in Ludhiana at around 12.22 pm.The counter-terrorism agencies probing the incident had claimed that it was the former Head Constable of Punjab Police, Gagandeep Singh, who planted the bomb at the court complex and died as it suddenly went off killing him on the spot.Gagandeep Singh, a former police head constable who was dismissed from the service for having links with durg dealer. He was booked under NDPS act and lodged in jail for two years in this connection in 2019.The probe agencies have also found that Pakistani's ISI were behind the blast and were in touch with Gagandeep Singh. During the probe, cops found the role of SFJ members Harvinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh Multani, who were based in Germany. They were in touch with SFJ president Avtar Singh Pannu and Harmeet Singh.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-conspirator-of-ludhiana-court-blast-arrested-in-germany-355463
