30-12-2021||Phagwara||Man held for robbing Rs 45 lakh at gunpoint in Punjab’s Phagwara||A man was arrested for allegedly being involved in a Rs 45 lakh robbery, the police here said on Thursday.Shankar Maini, an employee of a money exchange firm, was abducted and robbed at gunpoint on December 25.The accused has been identified as Akhil Rawat alias Sonu of Chandigarh, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said.Addressing the media, he said Rs 22 lakh and two cars were recovered from him.Maini was kidnapped from Phagwara by three armed men who had their faces concealed with mufflers.The assailants bundled Maini in their car and dumped him in Goraya after snatching the bag carrying cash, said the SSP.Their car was found to have a fake number as its number plate was changed by the accused, he said.Amandip Singh alias Makhan, resident of Fatehabad in Haryana, and Shami Sharma of Mohali — the other two involved in crime—will be nabbed soon, the SSP said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-robbing-rs-45-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-punjabs-phagwara-356393
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly polls: AAP releases sixth list of 8 candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday released the sixth list of eight more candidates for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.With this, the total number of candidates announced by Punjab’s main opposition party has reached 96.According to the latest list, Amarpal Singh will contest from Sri Hargobindpur and Jasbir Singh will fight from Amritsar West.Jeevanjot Kaur will contest from Amritsar East seat. Currently, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is a legislator from Amritsar East.Gurinder Singh will contest from Amloh, Narinderpal Singh from Fazilka, Preetpal Sharma from Gidderbaha, Sukhvir Singh from Maur and Mohammad Zamil-Ur-Rehman from Malerkotla, according to the AAP’s list.The Punjab Assembly has 117 seats and its term will end in March 2022. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-aap-releases-sixth-list-of-8-candidates-356387
30-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi announces increase in wages of Asha workers and mid-day meal workers||Chamkaur Sahib, December 30Doling out goodies to poorest of the poor on election eve, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here on Thursday announced a substantial increase in wages of Asha workers and mid-day meal workers.There are 22,000 Asha workers and 42,205 mid-day meal workers in the state.With this the long-pending demand of both has been met.Announcing the much-awaited relief at a mammoth gathering, including the beneficiaries, Channi said the Aaha workers would get a monthly allowance of Rs 2,500 now onwards. It would be besides the commission they had been receiving, he said.They would also be entitled to a cashless health insurance of Rs 5 lakh, he added.The chief minister said 42,205 mid-day meal workers employed at 19,300 government schools in the state had been receiving a meagre Rs 2,200 per month. This had been increased to Rs 3,000 per month, he said.He also announced that both would get these benefits for the whole year. Till now they were paid for 10 months a year. They would also be entitled to maternity leave on par with other regular government employees, declared the chief minister.Taking a dig at AAP which has promised Rs 1,000 monthly pension for women in Punjab in case they form the government, Channi said it was a farce as women needed empowerment and the Congress was working in this direction and 33 per cent government jobs and 50 per cent seats in civic bodies, block samitis and sarpanches had been reserved for them.Channi appealed to people to give him a chance to form the next government."AAP leaders have been enticing the electorate by saying that after trying the SAD and Congress the people of state must give a chance to  them to form government in Punjab. I appeal to you that you have tried the Badals as well as Captain, now give us a chance,” he said.Others who were present on the occasion included Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, Revenue Minister Aruna Chaudhary, Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha and MLAs Balbir Singh Sidhu and Amrik Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-announces-increase-in-wages-of-asha-workers-and-mid-day-meal-workers-356358
30-12-2021||Aman Sood||Centre stopping GST compensation grant from June will increase Punjab's fiscal deficit by Rs 18,000 crore: Navjot Sidhu||Tribune news servicePatiala, December 30Asking the state to wake up to the reality of state’s fiscal condition and “hypocrisy of the central government”, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu has revealed the dark side of the state economics.Addressing a rally held by Sanaur Congress leader Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann, Sidhu said the Congress would form the next government which would work for the betterment of the state and its residents.“It is revealed that the income generated from tax collection and grant of central government schemes amounts to Rs 75,000 crore. However, salaries and pensions, interest expenditure on previous loans and repayment of principal loan amount itself comes to Rs 100,000 crore which is a fixed expense of the state. This has caused the state to be in continuous debt,” said Sidhu.“Over and above this, the Centre is soon to discontinue the GST compensation grant in June 2022 which is set to cause a dramatic increase in the fiscal deficit of the state by Rs 18,000 crore annually. With additional losses of Rs 9,000 crore on VAT and Rs 5,000 crore on power subsidy, the state would be at the mercy of the Centre.“The state must continue to get the GST compensation grant even after June 2022 for another five years, which is a matter of right for the people due to the faulty implementation of GST by the Centre,” he said.“This has caused us to review the state governance. It is imperative at this stage to note that Punjab does not have a functional gram panchayat system. Elected sarpanches, panches, councils and corporators don’t have independence and authority to effectively use people’s power vested in them. For each action permission from the panchayat secretary is required causing the process to be power-centric as opposed to people- centric. Auditing must be done on such a sanction system at panchayat level and a democratic mechanism be adopted and power be decentralised across all 12,500 villages of Punjab.“It is with the Punjab Model that the PPCC president will bring people’s power back to its people where it truly belongs and work towards reducing state debt and make it a flourishing state once again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-to-stop-gst-compensation-grant-from-june-that-would-increase-punjabs-fiscal-deficit-by-rs-18-000-crore-navjot-sidhu-356341
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Piercing cold in most places in Punjab, Haryana as Hisar shivers at 2 degrees Celsius||A biting cold wave swept through most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Thursday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department.Karnal, Rohtak, Gurugram, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Panchkula experienced a cold night recording respective minimum temperatures of 3.2 degrees C, 4.4 degrees C, 6 degrees C, 4.8 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C and 4.9 degrees C.Chandigarh recorded a low of 4.2 deg C.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense chill recording a low of 2.6 degrees C.Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Moga and Sangrur recorded a low of 4.4 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C, 3.3 degrees C, 4.3 degrees C, 3.4 degrees C, 4.3 degrees C, 3.7 degrees C, 3.2 degrees C and 3.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/piercing-cold-in-most-places-in-punjab-haryana-as-hisar-shivers-at-2-degrees-celsius-356337
30-12-2021||Chandigarh/Jalandhar||Nawanshahr man Punjab's 1st Omicron case||Punjab today reported its first case of Omicron, as a Nawanshahr man who returned from Spain on December 4 tested positive for the new variant.A resident of Chak Ramu village, the 36-year-old man was placed under institutional quaratine after testing positive for Covid on December 12. He, along with two of his contacts who had tested positive, remained asymptomatic and tested negative on December 24.Meanwhile, the number of daily Covid cases in Punjab touched the 100 mark today after a gap of almost five months.During the second wave in April and May this year, 3.5 lakh cases were reported in about two months. The cases and deaths had started declining July onwards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-man-punjabs-1st-omicron-case-356168
30-12-2021||---||Narco-terror: Pak national among  2 chargesheeted||Tribune News ServiceMohali/New Delhi, Dec 29The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today filed a third supplementary chargesheet in a special court in Mohali against two drug traffickers, including a Pakistani national, for their alleged involvement in a narco-terror case linked to terror group Hizbul Mujahideen.A probe agency spokesperson said charges were slapped on Gurjant Singh of Amritsar and Nasir of Pakistan under various sections of the IPC, NDPS Act and the UAPA.The case was registered in Amritsar in April last year after the arrest of Allah Ahmed Shergojri, seizure of a truck and recovery of Rs 29 lakh from his possession, the spokesperson said.The NIA said Shergojri was an over-ground worker and a close associate of Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo, the then commander of Hizbul Mujahideen in Kashmir. The NIA took over the investigation in May last year.“The investigation revealed that chargesheeted accused Gurjant Singh alias Sunny alias Ashish Gattu is a narcotics trafficker and he was in close contact with other co-conspirators for supplying heroin and channelising the proceeds of sale of narcotics into terror activities,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/narco-terror-pak-national-among-2-chargesheeted-356167
30-12-2021||Bathinda||Farm labourers protest delay in crop loss relief||Citing delay in being provided with compensation for “loss of work” after cotton crop damage due to pink bollworm attack this season, members of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union and other labourers’ unions have given a call to gherao CM Charanjit Singh Channi at a rally in Bathinda on Thursday.Labourers from various unions staged a protest outside the SDM’s office in Maur Mandi on Wednesday and demanded the government must fulfil their demands at the earliest. Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union president Jora Singh Nasrali said: “Despite agreeing to our demands, the state government has not taken any concrete steps to materialise them. We have decided to intensify our stir. We will ghearo the CM at his rally on Thursday and show him black flags.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-labourers-protest-delay-in-crop-loss-relief-356166
30-12-2021||Abohar||Three siblings die of suffocation, parents critical||Three minor siblings allegedly died of suffocation due to firewood smoke at their house near the Seed Farm Colony here last night. The condition of their parents, who have been referred to Faridkot for specialised treatment, is stated to be critical.Hailing from UP, Krishan (35) had reportedly been living along with his wife Radha (32) and children Pooja (7), Deep (5) and Poonam (2) at a poultry farm near the colony for the past few years.When the family didn’t wake up in the morning, a neighbour is learnt to have opened the house door and found all of them lying unconscious. All five were rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared the children “brought dead”. Krishan and his wife were referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-siblings-die-of-suffocation-parents-critical-356165
30-12-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana North: Buddha Nullah remains vexed issue||Buddha Nullah is the main issue in the constituency as it has become a major source of pollution and turned the city into an open drain. Although the Municipal Corporation has spent around Rs 9.55 crore on cleaning of the Buddha Nullah since 2000, ithas failed to stop pollution in the stream.Buddha Nullah remained an issue during the previous Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha and MC elections. Successive governments have failed to make the nullah pollution-free. “The stench emanating from Buddha Nullah makes the life hell and during monsoons the things become even worse,” said Kirpal, living along the nullah.Besides, the authorities closed the bridge opposite Chand Cinema for traffic a year ago, citing it to be unsafe for commuting. “The government has not taken any action to repair or rebuilt the bridge. People have to take a detour to reach Jagraon and old city areas,” said Jagmohan, who works in a cold store.Stray cattle also remain an issue. These can be seen moving freely on the roads and causing accidents, especially during night. “Stray cattle should be either sent to ‘gaushalas’ or rehabilitated by launching some project,” said Jagdish, a residentLocals’ key demandsPast trendRakesh Pandey is a five-time MLA from here. It was in 1992 that Pandey was elected an MLA. He won continuously for four terms from the segment. BJP’s Parveen Bansal, who also remained senior deputy mayor, defeated Pandey in a close contest in 2012.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,96,207Male: 1,04,506Female: 91,678Third gender: 23||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-north-buddha-nullah-remains-vexed-issue-356164
30-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sri Hargobindpur — Missing links: Industry, jobs||The lack of industry and jobs have been the bane of the Sri Hargobindpur Assembly (reserved) segment for long. The interesting thing to note is that just 30 km away is Batala, where more than 1,200 industrial units, big and small, are located. However, in Sri Hargobindpur, the figure barely reaches 10.The uneven industrial development in the region and lack of job opportunities are manifested in different ways. Some youths have planned to go abroad, while some, unfortunately, have hooked on to drugs. “An idle mind is a devil’s workshop,” says Congress MLA Balwinder Laddi. Ask residents and they say the segment lags on the health front. “The constituency badly needs a 50-bed government hospital,” said Jaswant Singh, a city resident.Locals’ key demandsPast trendBefore Balwinder Laddi of the Congress won the reserved Assembly seat in the 2017 poll, the SAD had a decent run, winning nine out of 10 elections. It was the CPI which broke the SAD’s run when its candidate Gurnam Singh won in 1992.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,61,235Male: 84,446Female: 76,787Third gender: 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sri-hargobindpur-%E2%80%94-missing-links-industry-jobs-356162
30-12-2021||---||25K litres of ENA seized in Lalru||Mohali, December 29In a joint operation by the Punjab Excise Department and the Mohali police, an organised module allegedly involved in smuggling of ENA (extra neutral alcohol) into Punjab was busted in Lalru today.Joint Excise Commissioner Naresh Dubey said inputs were received that a few persons were allegedly smuggling ENA into Punjab and Chandigarh to evade duty, causing losses to the state exchequer.On the night of December 28, a joint team of the Excise Department’s Special Operations Group and the Mohali police deputed at the Lalru inter-state border intercepted a tanker (KA 02 AB 9232) carrying 25,000 litres of ENA.The driver and his accomplice produced some documents in support of the consignment, but these were found to be fake, said an official.The illegal consignment was reportedly meant to be supplied to a bottling plant in Chandigarh whose liquor brands have been confiscated in huge quantities in Punjab. As per the statement of the driver, the ENA was loaded from Chhattisgarh.Rajat Agarwal, Punjab Excise Commissioner, said the entire chain of forward and backward linkages leading to disclosure of the main suppliers and recipient of ENA was being pursued expeditiously.Meant for UT plant19K FIRs in 18 monthsAs many as 19,784 FIRs have been registered in Punjab in cases related to the seizure of illicit liquor between May 17, 2020, and December 11, 2021. In all, 19,689 persons were arrested and 3,32,693 litres of illicit liquor, besides huge quantity of lahan, seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25k-litres-of-ena-seized-in-lalru-356160
30-12-2021||---||Challenging TET answer key to cost Rs450 per question||Faridkot, December 29Days after around one lakh candidates appeared for the Punjab State Teacher Eligibility Test (TET), the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has announced it will charge Rs 450 per question as processing fee from general category candidates who want to challenge the provisional TET-2021 answer key.For reserved category candidate the fee is Rs 300 per question. The candidates can challenge the answer key till January 2, 2022.Many candidates alleged that the fee imposed by the PSEB was aimed to discourage them in challenging the answer key. The exam was conducted offline in two shifts on December 24 across various exam centres in the state. The test had two papers — Paper 1 for candidates who intend to be a teacher for Class I to V, Paper 2 for those candidates who intend to be a teacher for Class VI to VIII.The general category candidates were charged Rs 900 for one paper and Rs 600 was charged from the reserved category candidates.The PSEB would release the final answer key for each paper after getting objections on the provisional TET answer key, said the authorities.The fixing of fee at Rs 450 per question for raising an objection in the provisional answer key would discourage us, alleged numerous candidates. However, the PSEB authorities said the fee for challenging the answer key was fixed to avoid unwarranted objections.There’s always high scope of mistakes in the answer key and the provisional answer key has been released to rectify these mistakes.The results of National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), declared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCSERT) this year had stirred a controversy as hundreds of students were not satisfied with the outcome and had demanded rechecking of their answersheets. After rechecking, marks increased by 200 to 300 per cent of a majority of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/challenging-tet-answer-key-to-cost-450-per-question-356159
30-12-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Govt advertisements on Amritsar Heritage Street irk SGPC||The state government’s move to ‘utilise’ Amritsar’s world-famous Heritage Street as an advertisement platform for its ‘achievements’ featuring CM Charanjit Singh Channi has irked the SGPC.This multi-crore street is visited by over one lakh local, domestic and foreign tourists as it leads to the Golden Temple from the century-old Town Hall.The SGPC has entrusted the responsibility of approaching the office of the CM to its secretary to lodge a protest. SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the screens on the street were installed to exclusively broadcast Gurbani. “But the Congress government has been using them for its own publicity and political interests, which has been hurting the sentiments of pilgrims who come up with a spiritual mindset to the Golden Temple. The government should stop its publicity on these screens and immediately start Gurbani kirtan there,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ads-on-heritage-street-irk-sgpc-356158
30-12-2021||---||4 policemen hurt in clash over construction on disputed land||Barnala, December 29A Station House Officer (SHO), three other policemen and some members of the SC community were injured after a clash erupted here on Wednesday. The official vehicle of the SHO was also damaged in the incident. The situation turned tense after a few locals were stopped from constructing a gurdwara on a vacant plot near the Tapa tehsil complex.The Tapa Nagar Council authorities claimed the land belonged to the council, but the SC community members maintained they were its owners. Owing to the tense situation, senior authorities were deputed at the spot.“The land belongs to the SC community and they want to construct a gurdwara there. But the nagar council wants to grab it. The residents protested when the police tried to remove the Nishan Sahib (religious flag). The policemen fired into the air and resorted to lathicharge, leaving them injured,” said advocate Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD candidate from Bhadaur constituency.Residents said the clash broke out after the police opened fire. The police officials, however, maintained they went to the site only to convince the locals to vacate the land, but they started hurling stones and bricks on the police personnel.“On the nagar council’s complaint, the police had registered an FIR a few days ago against some locals after they refused to vacate the land,” said Tapa SDM Simarpreet Kaur.When contacted, Barnala SSP Alka Meena said: “The Tapa Nagar Council and members of the SC community have been claiming that the land belonged to them. After the community members started constructing a gurdwara on the said land, the police went there to convince them to vacate the land. But area residents started pelting stones, causing injury to Tapa SHO Gurlal Singh and three other cops. They also damaged the official vehicle of the SHO.” She said the situation was under control as they had deputed more force in the area.“I have got information that some residents have also suffered injuries. We will conduct a probe into the issue and also register an FIR against all those who had attacked the SHO, other policemen and damaged their vehicle,” said the SSP.Tapa Nagar Council, sc members stake claim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-policemen-hurt-in-clash-over-construction-on-disputed-land-356157
30-12-2021||---||Times Square remembers Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29The World Sikh Parliament commemorated the martyrdom of Sahibzadas and Mata Gujri, the mother of Guru Gobind Singh, in Times Square, New York, to educate the broader American community about the Sikh history.Jessica Gonzalez-Rojas, Assembly Women of District 34 from New York, attended the event with her family, including her eight-year-old son. She presented a citation, declaring the four Sahibzadas the “youngest martyrs in the history of the world”.More than 5,000 brochures on the Sikh history were distributed during the event organised at Gurdwara Sikh Centre of New York, Flushing.Himmat Singh, coordinator of the World Sikh Parliament, led the celebrations with a team of the Religion and Education Council of the World Sikh Parliament.Pritpal Singh from the American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee said, “Jessica has been working with the Sikh community for long. She helped distribute langar during the first wave of Covid in 2020.”Norwich City Council member Swaranjit Singh recognised December as the “Sikh Religious Freedom Awareness Month” and asked the gathering to show their commitment towards human rights and religious freedom guaranteed under the UN Charter and US Constitution.Sikh leaders, including gurdwara vice-president Jinder Singh and trustee Hardeep Singh, attended the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/times-square-remembers-sahibzadas-356156
30-12-2021||Kahunwan (Gurdaspur)||SAD: Investigate  Tript Bajwa's 'links' with SFJ||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today demanded a probe into the alleged links between Congress minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and the SFJ.Talking to the media here, Sukhbir alleged Bajwa was related to SFJ chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannu’s family.“It is strange that the Congress government is yet to start any internal probe into Bajwa’s alleged links with the SFJ,” he said.When contacted, Bajwa said Sukhbir was making “frivolous” allegations. “I am open to an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge. Let him substantiate his allegations with proof. Otherwise, he should not take up such issues in the public,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-investigate-tript-bajwas-links-with-sfj-356154
30-12-2021||---||Ludhiana blast suspects brought to Mohali by crime unit||Ludhiana, December 29Key suspects in the Ludhiana courts blast case — Ranjit Singh Cheeta, an undertrial in drug cases, and Sukhwinder Singh Soni, alias Boxer, an accused in multiple terror cases — were today shifted to the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), Mohali, for questioning.The two were reportedly in touch with the deceased suspect, Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed Punjab Police head constable, and facilitated his talks with the pro-Khalistan radical elements abroad.Sources privy to the development said the two suspects were brought to Mohali for interrogation by senior officers of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), OCCU and counter-intelligence. After the December 23 blast in the Ludhiana court complex, both Cheeta and Boxer were taken on a seven-day police remand.“Since the OCCU is a specialised unit, which has access to technical resources to connect the dots and establish evidence, the suspects have been shifted to Mohali for questioning. They will be brought back to Ludhiana in a day or two,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity.When Gagandeep was in the Central Jail, Ludhiana, in a heroin recovery case, the duo had reportedly radicalised him and brought him in contact with militants living abroad. It is also being suspected that the entire conspiracy of the bomb blast was hatched in the jail, where Gagandeep, Cheeta and Boxer had access to mobile phones.“Cheeta and Boxer’s interrogation may expose the entire planning and execution of the blast. During the search of barracks where the two suspects were lodged, we have recovered a diary in which contacts of Pakistan-based terrorists were found,” said the official.An Internet dongle belonging to Gagandeep was recovered from the blast site. It was used to make calls abroad and in the Central Jail.Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and other senior police officials are tight-lipped about the ongoing investigation.Sleeper cell link||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-blast-suspects-brought-to-mohali-by-crime-unit-356150
30-12-2021||---||Jaswinder Singh Multani being questioned in Germany over Punjab terror cases||Chandigarh, December 29Jaswinder Singh Multani, an activist of the banned terror organisation Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), was being questioned in Germany at the behest of Indian security agencies over his involvement in terror incidents in Punjab, officials privy to the development said today.The German Federal Police, in reply to a query by The Tribune on Multani, neither denied nor confirmed his arrest. In an e-mail communication, the press officer of the German police said as a matter of principle, they did not divulge personal information and the Indian authorities should be contacted for the purpose.A controversy had erupted earlier in the day when SFJ general counsel Gurpatwant Singh Pannu released a purported video, claiming Multani had not been arrested. He is also seen speaking with Multani in the video.Media reports from New Delhi claimed on Tuesday that efforts made by Indian diplomatic channels had led to the arrest of Multani after the Ludhiana court blast.Indian officials today chose to ignore the claims made by the SFJ. Interestingly, Pannu, in earlier video messages, had threatened different Punjab CMs and DGPs. But in today’s video, he said the SFJ believed in fighting through ballot, not bombs. Sources privy to the developments in Germany said Multani was a suspect in some recent terror incidents, with a Punjab Police dossier stating he was a “master handler” and expert in recruiting youth for terrorism and that he used to supply them money, weapons and explosives through narcotic smugglers or gangsters in the state.His name figures in two FIRs lodged in February and August in Punjab, including a plot to kill farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal to spread unrest and chaos.The police are suspecting his involvement in the Ludhiana court blast case.Indian officials mum on SFJ videoA controversy erupted on Wednesday when banned SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu released a purported video, claiming that the outfit’s activist Jaswinder Singh Multani had not been arrested. He is seen speaking with Multani in the video. Indian officials chose to ignore the claims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jaswinder-singh-multani-being-questioned-in-germany-over-punjab-terror-cases-356149
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||In BJP fold, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi gets  'Z' security||Within a few days of joining the BJP, former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi has been accorded ‘Z’ category VIP security cover by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Sodhi confirmed the develpment and said the security cover to him had been given based on the threat perception.Under the cover, Sodhi will have a contingent of six to eight CRPF commandos. Before joining the BJP last week, Sodhi, an MLA from Guruharsahai in Ferozepur district, was a Cabinet Minister in the Congress government. He was dropped from the Cabinet after Charanjit Singh Channi became CM three months ago.Sodhi (67) has been an MLA for the last four terms and is considered close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.In Punjab, there are only a couple of politicians who are protected by the central security forces. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-bjp-fold-sodhi-gets-z-security-356146
30-12-2021||Our Correspondent||PM to lay stone of PGI satellite centre on Jan 5||Ferozepur, December 29Dozens of JCBs, tractors and road rollers, besides other earth-moving machinery, have been pressed into service ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the border town on January 5 to prepare ground for laying the stone for a PGI satellite centre.A team of senior officials from the PGI, Chandigarh, along with district officials and senior BJP leaders, including party’s state chief Ashwani Sharma and national vice-president Saudan Singh, today visited the proposed site where the PM is scheduled to arrive.Modi will be addressing his first public rally in Punjab after scrapping of the controversial farm laws and to launch the much-awaited PGI satellite centre here, which has been hanging in abeyance for the past nine years.The PGI centre was approved during the fag end of UPA-II in 2013, but it couldn’t take off as it remained mired in controversies over the selection and acquisition of land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-to-lay-stone-of-pgi-satellite-centre-on-jan-5-356144
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP promises to end interference in police||Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said his party, if voted to power, would ensure that the Punjab Police functioned independently and that political interference was stopped.Addressing the media here, Chadha also attacked Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for his remarks allegedly defaming the police and dubbed it “shameful”. He also dared Sidhu to give up his security cover.He raised the issue of “long hours and minimum allowances” of Punjab Police personnel. Chadha alleged that Sidhu and Congress leaders treated the police personnel as an “ornamental instrument”. He said the family members of about 70,000 police officials in the state were “feeling defamed, insulted and demoralised” due to Sidhu’s remark. Meanwhile, AAP will organise a ‘peace march’ in Patiala on December 31. Party convener Arvind Kejriwal urged people to join the event in maximum numbers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-promises-to-end-interference-in-police-356143
30-12-2021||Amritsar||Will form board to bail out transport sector: Sukhbir Badal||The SAD-BSP has come up with a “vision for the transport sector” that would be part of its manifesto for the 2022 polls.Sharing the alliance’s vision, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said a transport welfare board would be constituted to regulate transport, remove hiccups and formulate welfare schemes and decide taxes.A corpus of Rs 25 crore will be allocated to run the affairs. “Our aim is to provide a forum to transporters where they can raise their concerns and have them addressed in a transparent and efficient manner.The e-tenders for the carriage of goods will exclusively be for transport operators who are actively involved in it.“The allotment of tenders online will prevent political interference and ensure transparency,” he said, promising to revive defunct ‘transport unions’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-form-board-to-bail-out-transport-sector-sukhbir-badal-356142
30-12-2021||New Delhi||Punjab polls: More SAD, Cong leaders join BJP||Ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab, former Akali leaders Jagdeep Singh Nakai, Ravipreet Sidhu and Harbhag Singh Desu, and former Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Rai today joined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat.With an aim to expand its base in Punjab, the BJP has been roping in leaders from various political parties, including the Congress.Meanwhile, Shekhawat said the BJP was ready for virtual election rallies and would follow the EC guidelines regarding polls in the wake of the surge in Omicron cases. “Conducting elections is the responsibility of the Election Commission. It is holding talks with the Health Secretary and experts over the pandemic situation in the country. The poll panel will take a decision on election rallies and we will follow its guidelines,” he told mediapersons here.Shekhawat said the BJP held virtual rallies during the West Bengal elections as well. “During the first and second waves of Covid, political parties around the globe went under hibernation, but the BJP remained active at the booth level through the virtual platform. We can work under any circumstances,” he said. — TNSSwitching loyaltiesThe way eminent personalities, elected representatives and influential people from different walks of life are joining the BJP shows which way the wind is blowing in Punjab. — Gajendra Shekhawat, Union minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-sad-cong-leaders-join-bjp-356141
30-12-2021||Pathankot||Pathankot Congress leaders open front against own MLA||Over 10 prominent Congress leaders of Pathankot Assembly seat have come on a joint platform to urge the party high command to deny the ticket to sitting MLA Amit Vij, claiming he was “liaisoning for a private company he was associate with earlier, rather than bringing any welfare schemes to the city”.Prominent among those who have opened the front against Vij are former minister Raman Bhalla, councillor Nitin Laddi Mahajan, Pathankot Planning Board chairman Anil Dara, Punjab Infotech vice-chairman Kartik Wadhera, PCC secretary Rakesh Mahajan and spokesman Rohit Kohli.Dissidence against Vij had been brewing for the last few months and today it spilled over in the public domain with almost all senior party men of the area uniting against him at a press conference. The legislator could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Laddi alleged the MLA had a hand in almost every business deal that took place between the government and contractors. Bhalla alleged Vij was not even a primary member of the party when he was given the ticket in 2017. “We did not protest at that time because the decision was imposed upon us by the high command. We also demand a probe by the state vigilance into his financial dealings ever since he was elected a legislator. We urge the PCC to reject his application for the ticket,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-cong-leaders-open-front-against-own-mla-356140
30-12-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab polls: Capt Amarinder, Akalis hand in glove, alleges CM Channi||Tribune News ServiceGhanaur/Samana, December 29Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday inaugurated and announced projects worth Rs 269 crore in the Ghanaur and Samana segments, besides granting the sub-division status to Ghanaur.At a rally in Ghanaur organised by MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, the Chief Minister took on his rivals and said, “The Akali Dal cannot hope for revival till Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia are at the helm of affairs.” He accused former CM Capt Amarinder Singh of being hand in glove with the Akalis. “The former CM listened only to his cronies and paid the price for it,” said Channi, who addressed his first political event in the former CM’s home district.He sidestepped the issue of power tussle brewing within the state Congress on the party’s CM face for the upcoming elections. Channi said the next government would be more people-centric.Hitting out at AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said the Delhi CM, who earlier accused Majithia of being the kingpin of the drug trade, had apologised to him. “How can such a person offer good governance to the people of Punjab?” he said.For the Ghanaur constituency, Channi announced Rs 10 crore each for pending works, besides others. He also announced Rs 5 crore for development of Samana.58 news buses inducted into state fleetChandigarh: CM Charanjit Channi on Wednesday inducted 58 new buses as part of 842 modern vehicles being added into the state fleet at a cost of Rs400 crore. He announced free bus passes for students of public and private universities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-akalis-hand-in-glove-channi-356139
30-12-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Punjab polls: PM Modi to launch campaign from Akali stronghold Ferozepur||Ferozepur, December 29In an apparent move to prove a point to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), BJP’s fomer ally in Punjab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch his party’s campaign from Akali stronghold Ferozepur on January 5. The seat is represented by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the Lok Sabha.Also, the BJP and its new partners, the Punjab Lok Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), intend to make national security as one of the key poll planks. This is why Ferozepur, located a few kilometres from the India-Pakistan border, has been chosen for the big event.Sources said the PM was expected to make important announcements to woo the voters, particularly the farmers, who earlier this month returned home after a year-long stir at Delhi’s borders.Former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who joined the saffron party recently, said there was much enthusiasm among the BJP’s rank and file. “PM Modi has always delivered on his promises. He will be welcomed with open arms,” he observed. Preparations have begun for PM’s visit. Senior BJP leaders Saudan Singh, national vice-president, Punjab president Ashwani Sharma and state general secretary Subhash Sharma, are camping in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-to-launch-campaign-from-akali-stronghold-ferozepur-356080
30-12-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress panel 'finalises' 50 poll candidates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Having reached a consensus over candidates on at least 50 seats in Punjab, the Congress will now conduct another quick survey on seats with more than one strong contender.Discussions in this regard were held at a meeting of the AICC-appointed screening committee for Punjab elections in Delhi on Wednesday late evening. The party has already conducted multiple surveys to determine the ‘winnability’ of aspirants.The final list will be released by the central election committee (CEC) headed by Sonia Gandhi. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Ajay Maken. Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary were present. The Congress wants to release its first list of candidates ahead of the announcement of the model code of conduct to counter BJP’s efforts to poach its leaders. The screening committee today held discussions on seats where new faces are to be fielded.There are indications that 10-15 sitting legislators could be replaced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-panel-finalises-50-poll-candidates-356078
