01-08-2021||First Edit||Put hoarding rules on hold||Advertisement hoardings, which had been missing from Bengaluru for the past three years following a ban imposed by the BBMP, are now all set to stage a comeback, threatening to once again turn the cityscape into an eyesore. Strategically-located creative billboards can add to the city’s aesthetics and at the same time promote brands and help BBMP garner additional revenue. However, the current rules notified by the urban development department, appear to be a complete sell-out to the hoarding mafia, which has spared no effort to get the ban revoked. With the exception of about a dozen roads, the hoardings, which can now be bigger than those previously permitted, can also be installed anywhere in the city, including on narrow thoroughfares. The new policy also permits all kinds of advertisements, including cloth banners and buntings. When the draft rules were first published by the state government in 2019, the BBMP Council had passed a resolution opposing it, with BJP members alleging that a hidden hand was working behind the scenes to bring hoardings back. Now, ironically, the new rules were approved by the BJP government at the last Cabinet meeting presided over by outgoing chief minister B S Yediyurappa. The BBMP ban had come after a crackdown by the Karnataka High Court, which ordered removal of all illegal hoardings, buntings and banners following a PIL by Saidatta, a public-spirited citizen, who sought to expose the nexus between bureaucrats and officers in what was touted to be a Rs 2,000-crore scam. Though a single judge of the court later permitted legal hoardings, in reality, the ban continued to remain in force as BBMP found that most billboards within city limits were illegal. The new rules have also failed to consider traffic hazards that haphazardly installed hoardings can cause. An analysis by a UK-based researcher of various studies conducted in different parts of the world, concludes that too much visual clutter at or near intersections and junctions can distract drivers and lead to accidents. The undue interest shown by the urban development department in notifying the rules on a subject that falls within the BBMP’s domain, that too when the matter is pending before the court, clearly shows that some vested interests could be at work. Instead of announcing such piece-meal measures, the government should evolve a comprehensive policy after adequate consultation with all stakeholders in order to strike a balance between the aesthetics of the city and revenues, without compromising on public safety. Until then, the new rules should be put on hold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/put-hoarding-rules-on-hold-1015316.html
01-08-2021||In Perspective||Bommai verdict: A law for all time||As I watched Basavaraj Bommai taking oath as Karnataka Chief Minister, my memories went back to the day his father, S R Bommai, came to my house in Delhi, along with then Advocate General of Karnataka R N Narasimha Murthy, on April 27, 1989. Bommai, who was deposed as CM two days earlier as President’s rule was imposed on the state, wanted to discuss the case with me before proceeding further— as he usually did in matters involving law.  The immediate issue was challenging the dismissal of the government. The biggest impediment here was the judgement of the Supreme Court by a Bench of seven judges in State of Rajasthan v Union of India dealing with the imposition of the President’s rule on nine state governments following the defeat of the Congress in the Lok Sabha elections of 1977. The law declared was that the satisfaction of the President under Article 356(1) on imposition of President’s Rule was beyond the purview of courts. In addition, the law was that if the Governor reported that the administration of the state cannot be carried on in accordance with the constitution and that the government no longer enjoyed the support of the House, its correctness, legality or propriety cannot examined by any court. With that, any challenge to President’s rule was virtually impossible. However, in between the Rajasthan case and our starting line, one important constitutional development had taken place: the 10th Schedule to the Constitution (anti-defection law) was added according to which any voting on the floor of the House against the party whip will be considered an act of defection; and taking clue from this, we added an important ground stating that the Governor of Karnataka did not resort to floor test even though the state government had indeed requested for calling of assembly session and proposed the date of April 27. Bommai had even met the Governor in this regard but the latter did not listen and recommended imposition of President’s rule. The ground taken in the Writ Petition filed before the High Court of Karnataka was that case of Rajasthan did not apply to the Bommai case after the introduction of 10th Schedule to the Constitution (the anti-defection law) because the new law attached adverse legal consequence to Members expressing their views contrary to the party Whip. The matter came up before a three-judge bench of the Karnataka High Court. Bommai wanted Narasimha Murthy and I to argue for him but with Justice Shivashankar Bhat, a relative of mine, being on the bench, I opted out fearing the judge recusing himself. I requested my friend, eminent jurist Soli Sorabjee, to take up the case and he did. The HC, in its ruling, found it impossible to distinguish the Rajasthan case, and Bommai’s petition was dismissed in 1990. On an appeal to the Supreme Court, the case was referred to a nine-judge bench (Rajasthan case was decided by seven judge bench). Meanwhile, after the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition, several BJP-ruled states had been dismissed, and those orders were challenged before the SC. The SC found it proper to take up those cases along with the Bommai case. Time-consuming exercise Constitution of a nine-judge bench in the SC is a time-consuming exercise because if nine of the 13 judges (the prevailing strength of the court) get engaged in one big case, the court will be virtually closed for others — so the tendency is to postpone meeting of larger benches. Noted lawyer Ram Jethlamani, appearing for those states, asked me to persuade Bommai to withdraw his appeal so that the new cases could be heard by a five-judge bench. He pleaded that since election had already been held in Karnataka, there was nothing that Bommai could get. Bommai firmly declined because he was fighting for a principle. The matter finally came up for hearing before nine judges, one of the rare events in the SC (Kesavananda Bharati case had 11). The cases were argued by the most eminent of the Indian lawyers. Sorabjee again argued for Bommai. The bench, in October 1994, in the landmark judgement, held that whether the government has lost majority or not cannot be decided on head count on the lawns of the Raj Bhavan but should be decided on the floor of the House. It also held that the report sent by the Governor is subject to judicial review. It said the court has the power to reinstate a government which has been wrongly dismissed (although in the Bommai case, two elections had intervened). This became a binding declaration of law virtually for all time to come; it is based on sound legal principles. And it can be overruled only by a 10 or 11 judge bench, a very difficult proposition. The historic verdict has seen to it that there is no misuse of the ‘President’s Rule’ by the Centre. This is a notable contribution for the protection of the federal structure of India— and that was by S R Bommai. (The writer is a senior advocate of the Supreme Court, former Additional Solicitor-General of India and a Rajyotsava awardee)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bommai-verdict-a-law-for-all-time-1015309.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Supply more Covid-19 vaccine to Dakshina Kannada or face protest: DCC president to govt||The District Congress Committee has given an ultimatum till August 15 for the state government to supply required quantities of Covid-19 vaccine to Dakshina Kannada district. If the government fails to supply, protests will be staged against the government, warned MLC and DCC president Harish Kumar. "There is a shortage of supply of vaccine to the district. People are struggling to get a jab. The state government has no concern for the people of the district," he told reporters on Sunday. He said the government should ensure enough supply of vaccine as per the demand of the district. Otherwise, protest against the government is inevitable, he added. Stating that the state government should have woken up to Covid-19 pandemic, he said even though there is a threat of a third wave, the government has failed to supply enough quantities of vaccine. The BJP-led government is only engaged in changing its chief minister and failed to tackle Covid-19 pandemic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/supply-more-covid-19-vaccine-to-dakshina-kannada-or-face-protest-dcc-president-to-govt-1015160.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru will be included in smart city list: MP Pratap Simha||Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha on Sunday said that the royal city would definitely be included in the smart city scheme as it is eligible for the project. Speaking to reporters here, the MP said, Mysuru missed out on the smart city project owing to certain reasons. In 2008, the Union government had sanctioned huge funds to the city under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) but 80 per cent funds were not utilised. In addition, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had not conducted local auditing from 2011 and thus Mysuru’s name was not recommended. The Union government set a few guidelines for smart city eligibility but Mysuru’s name was dropped due to underutilisation of funds and non-conducting of a local audit. Despite Siddaramaiah being the chief minister then, the city missed out on the project. The MP said he managed to get an extension of three years to complete the works under JNURM. “We completed the works of Outer Ring Road (ORR) and other works,” he said. The MP said he has requested the authorities concerned to give the smart city project to few other cities and also urged them to include Mysuru in it. The Union government has assured that it will give funds for waste segregation and recycling of debris under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-will-be-included-in-smart-city-list-mp-pratap-simha-1015198.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant electrocuted by plantation fence in Chikkamagaluru||A 28-year-old male elephant was electrocuted after coming in contact with the live wire of the fence of a plantation, at Galipooje near Mallenahalli in Chikkamagaluru, on Sunday. The fence was deliberately charged with a high voltage electric current. A case has been registered against the plantation owner Basavaraj. He has been arrested and was remanded in judicial custody, said DCF N E Kranthi to DH. Bhadra Wildlife division veterinary doctor Dr Yashas conducted the post mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-electrocuted-by-plantation-fence-in-chikkamagaluru-1015271.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada registers 410 Covid-19 cases||The graph of Covid-19 cases continued to move an upward trend with Dakshina Kannada district registering 410 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The district had registered 365 positive cases on Saturday. The total number of cases registered in the district so far is 1,00,780 while the district has 2,943 active cases undergoing treatment. As the Covid-19 cases are rising in the neighbouring Kasargod district, the district administration has made RT-PCR negative certificates mandatory for those arriving in the district from Kerala. All the buses operating to Kasargod from Dakshina Kannada district have suspended their operation for one week from Sunday. As many as 12 check posts have been set up in border areas to step up surveillance in Dakshina Kannada. The six check posts including those at Talapady and railway stations function round the clock. To ensure that people adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, a team of officials from Mangaluru City Corporation visited malls, shops, supermarkets, business establishments and markets on Sunday. As many as 25 cases of failing to wear masks and maintain social distance were booked and a fine of Rs 12,400 was collected. The officials will continue to strengthen surveillance in those areas where people gather in large numbers in the coming days, said officials. DHO Dr Kishore Kumar said that vaccination camps will be held in all the Primary Health Centres in the district from Monday. The target is to administer 40,000 vaccines. All those above 18 years will be administered with the first dose and those above 45 years will be administered with the second dose. About 50 per cent of the vaccines will be administered to those who have registered online in urban health centres. Covaxin is available in District Wenlock Hospital for a second dose, said the DHO. About 100 NRIs will be administered with the second dose on Monday, the DHO added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-registers-410-covid-19-cases-1015287.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan monkey killing: 15 taken into custody||The Police and Forest department, on Sunday took to custody more than 15 people from a village in Hassan taluk for inquiry in connection with the mass killing of monkeys. According to police sources, the people of the village decided to get rid of the monkeys, as the simians were destroying coconut, arecanut and banana crops in the village. While the police took five persons into custody, the Forest personnel took 12 into their custody. It is also suspected that a couple has been involved in the mass killing of the monkeys. The villagers had contacted the couple, who were used in catching monkeys, and asked their help to get rid of the animals. The couple came to their village and started feeding the monkeys daily. Later, they caught and killed them, it is said. The Karnataka High Court on Friday initiated a suo motu PIL over the “massacre of monkeys” in Hassan district.  Taking cognisance of media reports, including the one published in DH, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka termed the incident as disturbing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-monkey-killing-15-taken-into-custody-1015288.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sarvajna Samadhi goes under overflowing Kumudwati again||The Samadhi (tomb) of the 16th-century poet-philosopher Sarvajna, and the ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple and stone inscriptions at Masuru in Haveri district have remained submerged in Kumudwati river following sharp showers last week. The heritage structures going under the Kumudwati waters has become a common scene during the monsoon. Repeated submergence has taken its toll on the structures, Kashi Vishwnath temple in particular is in a deplorable condition. The Sarvajna Pradhikara activists Malleshappa Guttannavar, Naganagouda Patil, Erappa Bevinamarad among others have urged the government to construct protection wall around the heritage structures and save them for the posterity. Last week, Kumudwati, the tributary of Tungabhadra, unleashed a flood fury in Hirekerur taluk, inundating vast tracts of farmland, along with the Sarvajna’s Samadhi and the Kashi Vishwanath temple worshiped by the poet’s father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sarvajna-samadhi-goes-under-overflowing-kumudwati-again-1015295.html
01-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dalit CM issue: BJP doesn’t need morality lessons from Congress, says Eshwarappa||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) doesn’t need a morality lesson on the Dalit CM issue from the Congress, which has sidelined the likes of G Parameshwara and Mallikarjun Kharge, said senior BJP leader and MLA K S Eshwarappa. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of his visit to Banashankari temple in Badami taluk, Eshwarappa said, “B S Yediyurappa had sworn in as chief minister for four times, but never once completed a full term for want of numbers. On the other hand, Congress formed the government with a full majority number of times. If they are so concerned about Dalits why didn’t they elevated one to the top post,” he questioned. President Ram Nath Kovind and Karnataka Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot are from SC/ST communities. Has AICC chief Sonia Gandhi written to BJP seeking their appointments? he asked. “Congress does not care about Dalits. They only make lofty speeches about backward classes, reservation, minorities... But the BJP has empowered the Dalits and backward classes in real sense. As many as 45 ministers of 81-member strong Modi Cabinet are from the backward classes. Never before in the history of independent India, the backward classes had such a big representation in the Union Cabinet,” Eshwarappa said. ‘Brigade a closed chapter’ Replying to a query on Sangolli Rayanna Brigade, K S Eshwarappa, a prominent Kuruba community leader, told reporters in Vijayapura that he won’t take part in Rayanna brigade activities. “I have distanced myself from the brigade long back following the instructions by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. I am an honest party worker and is ready for any role, including the deputy chief minister’s post, given by the party,” the five-time MLA from Shimoga constituency said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dalit-cm-issue-bjp-doesn-t-need-morality-lessons-from-congress-says-eshwarappa-1015300.html
01-08-2021||Main Article||Exploitation of police immunity||Justice was half-delivered when the court convicted Derek Chauvin, a former American police officer, of the murder of a 46-year-old Black man named George Floyd on May 25, 2020. Videos that surfaced on the internet showed how Chauvin pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck, while he was handcuffed and his face down on the street, for up to nine and a half minutes, which made him unable to breathe and eventually led to his death. No doubt, it triggered the biggest outcry against racial injustice in the US in generations. Notwithstanding this, the court imposed a sentence which fell short of the 30 years that the prosecutors had requested. With good behaviour, Chauvin, 45, could be paroled after serving two-thirds of his sentence, or about 15 years. Though the court cracked the whip of law on the culprit, it failed to deliver justice to the victim. As several activists said, the extraordinary case begged amendments to laws and policies of the country to prevent atrocities in future on innocent persons. Apart from racial injustice, the case also reveals how authorities and political leaders exploit procedural immunities granted to police officers against the weaker sections of society. In India too, a procedural immunity is granted under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. By virtue of it, if any police officer is accused of any offence committed while performing duty, the court cannot initiate proceedings against them without the government's sanction. An instance of exploitation of this provision was recently observed in India when P Jeyaraj, 62, and his son, J Bennix, 32, were beaten up for hours in the police station. Both died in hospital after a few days due to injuries inflicted by the cops. There are numerous Jeyaraj and Bennix who die due to torture and ill-treatment of police officers. It is time now to seek changes in criminal laws to protect weaker sections from the exploitation of unreasonable criminal immunity granted to police officers. The question is: Why is it unreasonable? It is usual that authorities, especially for political reasons, deny sanction without any reasoned orders. Recently, the Gujarat government denied sanction to prosecute police officers accused in the Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case. Thus, it is an instrument which an authoritative government uses to achieve its ends with the help of police officers. Even when a victim approaches the trial court for a remedy, he/she is asked to get the sanction first. And if the trial court somehow takes up the case for consideration, it is faced with the difficulty of determining whether the act committed by police was done during the discharge of official duties. Since police officers serve to maintain law and order by preventing crime and apprehending suspects, the act of police brutality on the accused or suspect is wrongly and consistently declared as an act committed in the discharge of public duties by trial courts.  Thus, it is usual that lower courts don't allow the prosecution of police officers for want of sanction. In exceptional circumstances, the cases reach the higher courts which allow them to prosecute the officers declaring that the act was not committed in the discharge of public duty. There are numerous victims of police brutality who are living without any redressal of their grievance. This provision has caused more damage than serving the purpose it was enacted for. In Matajog Dobey v H C Bhari, it was held that public servants have to be protected from harassment in the discharge of official duties while ordinary citizens not so engaged do not require this safeguard. However, today, the situation is reversed. It is the ordinary person of the country who faces harassment from police officers and they need to be protected. An instrument to harass The government of the day, too, is reluctant to abolish the immunity because of the reason that police help it to achieve its political goals. Using police brutality, the government indirectly harasses activists and people who speak against its interests. The situation becomes worse when the accused is detained under anti-terror laws like the UAPA, where police custody can be extended to 30 days. It is now trite to say that today, the government has started invoking anti-terror laws against simple acts like organising protests against it. The reason is that anti-terror laws make it near-impossible to get bail, and police custody gets extended beyond the normal period as provided under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Keeping its opposition in custody helps the government to take revenge through the channel of police officers. Apparently, under the current government, it seems impossible to get the law abolished. The Supreme Court is considered as the guardian of fundamental rights. Any provision which infringes on any fundamental right needs to be set aside. Today, to say that the police stand on a different footing and thus, the equality code of Article 14 does not apply rather compounds the problem of inequality, especially for weaker sections. Today, it is not the police but the ordinary citizen who needs to be protected from the harassment of police officers and the government which commits torture through the channel of police. Thus, the Supreme Court can abolish this law which infringes on Article 14 by granting already empowered police officers the immunity from prosecution. In addition, it infringes on Article 21 by depriving people of their liberty because of police torture and ill-treatment. The court can take the help of Article 39A which directs the state to ensure that the legal system works so as to promote justice on the basis of equal opportunity. By abolishing it, the court can prevent the usage of this weapon by the police and the government to commit atrocities on their opposition. (The writers are students of Campus Law Centre, University of Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/exploitation-of-police-immunity-1015312.html
01-08-2021||National||Amarinder Singh: The Congress Captain who soldiers on||His sprawling palace spread in several acres in Patiala, around a dozen pedigree horses grazing in the backyard and lavish king-sized lifestyle is not just the only thing that defines Captain Amarinder Singh, the incumbent chief minister of Punjab. The scion of the erstwhile Patiala royals, Amarinder has proved many times he’s a people’s man who seldom hesitates to take hard decisions, he has many to count on, especially the ones impelled by his conscience. He still remains Congress' best bet in Punjab, one of the few states where the beleaguered party has a majority stake and rule. That he is lying low, at least for now, in the changing dynamics that have brought his estranged former cabinet colleague and ex-cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu at the helm of affairs in the Punjab Congress, remains inconsequential. Simply put, many in the Congress believe emphatically: Punjab cannot be won without the Captain. The former soldier is an ardent reader and writer of history and wants to create his own. His decisions have aroused passions, at times controversies. Just a few years into his new-found love for politics way back in the 80s, Amarinder resigned as a Congress member of Parliament in 1984 over his complete disapproval of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s decision to launch Operation Bluestar when the Army stormed into the Golden Temple to flush out militants holed up inside. He dabbled with the Akali Dal for some time and later rejoined the Congress. An author of many books, Amarinder’s ongoing term as the chief minister, which will end before Assembly polls less than 8 months away, is dubbed as lacklustre over his government's alleged failure to live up to its words, including its poll promise to wipe off the drug menace from the border state. Amarinder rubbishes all this as opposition propaganda and expresses confidence in winning elections once again in 2022. Amarinder knows how to aggrandise his footprints politically, even if it meant stirring a hornet nest. In 2004, he passed the controversial Punjab Termination Agreement Act that scrapped all water-sharing agreements with neighbouring states. He couldn’t care less about states that had been fighting over claims on the contentious Sutlej Yamuna Link canal project. The announcement of debt waiver for farmers in Punjab was a revolutionary decision that factored in the revival of the Congress in Punjab five years ago ending a decade of the Akali-BJP rule. That the poll pledge has remained below the mark is a different story. The soldier Amarinder remains alive all the time. Even when the chips were down amid resisting the coronation of Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief, Amarinder was seen shaking a leg and rejoicing with the soldiers of his Unit, 2nd battalion of the Sikh Regiment, to commemorate their 175th Raising Day over a week ago. Amarinder served as the ADC to the GOC-in-C (Western Command) and became an MP from Patiala constituency in 1980. Amarinder is known for his candid views, addresses Rahul Gandhi as “Rahul” (his father Rajiv Gandhi and Amarinder were together in the elite-famed The Doon School in Dehradun) and minces no words when it comes to lambasting the Badals or even his own, including Sidhu. He went public with his criticism of Sidhu over the controversial hug when the former cricketer embraced Army chief Gen Bajwa in Pakistan. Amarinder’s views on national security have matched those expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, something which experts opine has been instrumental in halting the Modi juggernaut in Punjab. That he convincingly defeated BJP stalwart Arun Jaitley from Amritsar remains one of Amarinder's best feats in a Modi wave. (The writer is a Punjab-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-the-congress-captain-who-soldiers-on-1015058.html
01-08-2021||National||States skip serosurveys, slip up on Covid-19 response||In 14 months, the rampaging SARS-CoV-2 has found its way to nearly two-thirds of Indians. But most of the states still have little clue on the volume of vulnerable population in the absence of granular data, since they didn’t care to conduct serosurveys which generate such information. And a few that had undertaken the exercise failed to continue it with regular periodicity. With the threat of a third wave looming large, the states now have little time to complete their surveys that can help identify the areas where the vaccination drive needs to be intensified. Earlier this week, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to states asking them to launch their own seropositive surveys, which were essential in formulating localised public health response measures. The Centre also released the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) fourth national serosurvey’s state-wise data that shows widespread interstate variations — from 79% in Madhya Pradesh to 44% in Kerala. The national average was 67.6%, signalling the exposure to two-thirds of Indians to the virus. This, however, doesn’t mean all of them had the disease. It may have occurred to a small percentage of the population (around 3.16 crore). The serosurveys are inexpensive and follow a simple method. The ICMR, for instance, took samples from 70 districts in 21 states for each of the four rounds of the survey it conducted since last year. Blood samples were analysed to check the presence of SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies.  The results demonstrate a silent spread of the virus — from 0.7% in May-June 2020 to a whopping 67.6% in June-July 2021 in the wake of the ferocious second wave. The ICMR survey also reveals the presence of 40 crore vulnerable people who need to be identified quickly for vaccination. But such an identification needs granular data within the state because the national survey masks district-wise variations. Experts said states’ inability to realise the importance of such surveys, coupled with limited manpower, has led to a situation where most of the states are unable to properly map their vulnerable residents. "Till supply constraints are completely resolved, the results from the serosurveys will help deploy the scarce vaccine to places which deserve it the most so that mortality can be reduced," said Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Some states with stronger health systems carried out state-level surveys, both because they understood their value and had the public health workforce to conduct them. Others with weaker health systems couldn’t carry out such an exercise due to the limited health workforce which was already stretched by tasks of Covid-19 prevention and management. "The erroneous perception that there would be no second wave resulted in the lack of interest in surveys initially. Then the second wave struck with a ferocity that kept all states too busy with emergency response to think of conducting such surveys. The attitude may change now after the second wave," PHFI president K Srinath Reddy told DH. Virus spread The few state-level surveys threw up interesting results on how the virus spread into the population. Delhi, for instance, conducted as many as six surveys since June 2020 and discovered that nearly 56% of its population had been exposed to the virus following the second surge, in contrast to less than 30% exposure in the first wave (till October). On the other hand, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, which conducted five serosurveys so far, found antibodies in 81.63% of people (including the vaccinated lot) in its latest report in May-June this year. This is a more than 3.5 times jump from the third survey, which found seropositivity in only 24.20% people in the Gujarat capital a few months ago. The result of the fourth survey is yet to be released officially. Down south, Karnataka conducted two surveys in the last one year with both showing that less than 30% people in the state were exposed to the virus. But results of the second one, carried out on 35,000 people in January 2021, are yet to be officially disclosed. Tamil Nadu conducted three surveys in October-November 2020, March-April 2021 and June 2021. While the first survey included all 37 districts of the state, the second exercise was conducted in 36 districts excluding Chennai. Separately, the Greater Chennai Corporation conducted two serosurveys to check the prevalence of Covid-19 in the city, with one in coordination with the ICMR.  The first survey found that nearly one-third of the state’s population (31.6%) had been exposed to the virus. The second survey showed 23% of the population in Tamil Nadu, excluding Chennai, was exposed to the virus. Poonamallee, a suburb of the capital, recorded the highest seroprevalence of 50.6%, followed by Tiruvallur (48%) and Chengalpattu (42.5%).  The third survey conducted between June and July showed the seroprevalence rate is 66.2% in the state. Critical tool "Serosurveys are very important in any pandemic. It is a very critical tool to help the authorities plan their next course of action. If a serosurvey says 80% of the total population have antibodies, then the impact in the case of a third wave will be very less,” a public health expert who advises the Tamil Nadu government told DH. Unfortunately, most of the state governments didn't get the message. West Bengal, for instance, hasn’t made any attempt to undertake such a survey, whereas Maharashtra — the epicentre of the pandemic in India — didn’t conduct a survey covering the entire state. The surveys were carried out in and around two of its biggest cities, Mumbai and Pune, but they didn’t give any clue to the extent of the vulnerable population in coastal and western Maharashtra, which were severely hit by the second wave. "There can be marked differences between highly rural or hilly districts and highly urban and industrial districts. The level of restrictions we place on people’s mobility as well as prioritisation of districts for immunisation coverage can be guided by understanding the differences in transmission dynamics and the percentage of susceptible population still existing in each district," said Reddy. Since serosurvey studies done over a period of time provide the threshold of population immunity, they offer an evidence-based approach for decisions regarding several public health measures through the course of the pandemic. "For example, this can be useful in deciding where and how unlocking can be done after the surge and thereby help to restart economic activities," noted Babu. "Since there are likely to be considerable variations between states and among districts within each state, context-relevant decision-making requires granular data," added Reddy. On the ground, the realities are, however, starkly different. (With inputs from Mrityunjay Bose, Satish Jha, E T B Sivapriyan, Akhil Kadidal and Soumya Das)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-skip-serosurveys-slip-up-on-covid-19-response-1015078.html
01-08-2021||National||Congress accuses Centre of taking away states' right on listing OBCs||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of assaulting the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the other backward classes (OBCs). Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the BJP is now in a self-congratulatory mode and is "befooling" the country by creating a "false narrative". He said the government through the support of the opposition got a constitutional amendment passed in Parliament for setting up of a backward classes commission at the national level on August 11, 2018. During the passage of the constitution bill, the BJP government by inadvertence or oversight did not include the provision that enabled states to make their own state list of OBCs, he said Singhvi said there were clear apprehensions during the debate in Parliament in this regard and the minister concerned assured the house that it is not the intention to take away the states' right. "Due to your lack of attention to detail, you did not add a two line clarification that the creation of a national Commission does not mean that the states will not have its list of inclusion or exclusion at the state level," he alleged. "Now, unfortunately your blunder is costing the country dear," he said. Singhvi said the creation of a national Commission has been interpreted by the Supreme Court in its recent judgment as that the states will not have their own lists of OBCs and there will be only one list at the national level. "Is it not a very serious assault on the fundamentals of federalism? It cuts at the root because nobody is disputing that the states always had the power. You should have put that clarification... this adds further insult to injury," the Congress leader alleged. However, Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumarhad told Rajya Sabha early this week that the Government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the State list of OBCs. The Supreme Court court judgement "did not take into account the legislative intent as reflected in the debates in Parliament preceding the enactment of the Amendment, where it was declared unequivocally that the Amendment would not impinge upon States' powers to recognise and declare those classes in the state which were backward," the minister said in a written reply, while noting that a review petition has also been dismissed. Singhvi's reaction came after the BJP alleged that the Congress did "nothing" for social justice and uplift of weaker sections during its rule, while hailing the Modi government for approving reservation for OBCs and EWS candidates in the all India quota for medical courses. Underlining that the OBC Commission was given constitutional status by the Modi government, BJP leader and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said the previous Congress-led UPA government did nothing on this front despite several reports given by various commissions. Singhvi hit out at the BJP for its "self-congratulatory" stance on the issue. "You can keep calling the glass one quarter full, but, what about the three quarters are empty? You made a national commission at the constitutional level for Backward Classes with our support and our instance, but, by the absence of clarification, you have taken away the entire states' powers and we are today suffering," he alleged. Singhvi also accused the BJP of "misleading" the people of this country by giving this a "spin". "Do not befool the people with self-congratulatory press conferences, which are comic, because they are, actually, hiding a blunder," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-accuses-centre-of-taking-away-states-right-on-listing-obcs-1015079.html
01-08-2021||National||Another BJP leader demands statehood for 'deprived' north Bengal||After a brief lull, another BJP leader in West Bengal on Saturday demanded statehood for the north Bengal region alleging lack of development since Independence. His statement comes after Alipurduar MP and Union minister John Barla, and several other BJP leaders in the region, demanded Union territory status or statehood for north Bengal. Barla, however, has not been very vocal about the demand after being made the Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs. "No discernible development has taken place in north Bengal since Independence. The region has not got any AIIMS or even good schools in all these years. It remains deprived, discriminated and exploited. "There is a demand for statehood among the people of north Bengal and there is a logic behind it," Baren Chandra Barman, the BJP MLA of Coochbehar's Sitalkuchi, where five people were killed, including four in CISF firing, during the assembly elections earlier this year. Responding to Barman's statement, TMC Coochbehar district chief Partha Pratim Roy said, "This unmasks the true self of the BJP and its doublespeak. While the state BJP leadership says the party doesn't endorse such comments, important leaders continue making such statements without being censured." He asserted that the TMC will fight any attempt to divide West Bengal and hit the streets if needed. The latest demand for bifurcation of West Bengal came over a month after Barla demanded that a Union territory be carved out of the region, which has strategic significance, to speed up its development and ensure its security. His demand created a political storm, with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accusing the BJP of "hatching a conspiracy" to divide West Bengal. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had said that the party does not endorse Barla's "personal views" and opposes any plan to divide West Bengal. The saffron party, however, called for uniform development of all regions of the state and not merely areas near capital Kolkata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-bjp-leader-demands-statehood-for-deprived-north-bengal-1015080.html
01-08-2021||National||Assam's all-party delegation to visit Delhi, urge Centre to resolve Mizoram boundary dispute||A 19-member all-party delegation of Assam assembly, headed by Speaker Biswajit Daimary, on Saturday decided to visit Delhi and urge the Centre to resolve the state's boundary dispute with Mizoram at the earliest. The delegation visited Lailapur close to the inter-state border where the clash took place on July 26 in which six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed, and later held a meeting at Silchar. "It was decided at the meeting that an all-party delegation will meet the central government authorities and urge them to resolve the border dispute at the earliest as well as ensure that the constitutional boundaries were maintained," an official release said. The delegation members unanimously decided to support the Assam government in all measures it takes to "protect the border" at any stage of the ongoing dispute in the interest of the people of the state. The speaker also appealed to everyone to remain united to protect Assam's land and its people. "Just as all parties in Mizoram are united in protecting the borders of their state, all parties in Assam must also be united," Daimary said. He said that there is a need to formulate new policies or enact laws in the interest of inter-state border security to ensure that not an inch of the state's land was encroached upon. Besides Daimary, the delegation comprised Deputy Speaker Numal Momin, BJP MLAs Jayanta Malla Baruah, Bhuban Pegu, Rupak Sarmah and Krishna Kamal Tanti, Congress members Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha, Misbahul Islam Laskar, Siddeque Ahmed and Khaliluddin Mazumder. Other members of the delegation were AGP's Ramendra Narayan Kalita and Prodip Hazarika, AIUDF's Zakir Hussain Laskar, Suzamuddin Laskar and Karimuddin Barbhuiya, UPPL's Lawrence Islary, BPF's Charam Boro, CPI(M)'s Manoranjan Talukdar and Independent MLA Akhil Gogoi. Cutting across party lines, 15 MLA from the three Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi have assured full support to the Assam government in dealing with the inter-state border situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assams-all-party-delegation-to-visit-delhi-urge-centre-to-resolve-mizoram-boundary-dispute-1015081.html
01-08-2021||National||Danish Siddiqui's body was mutilated in Taliban custody, officials say||The body of Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Reuters photojournalist who was killed in Afghanistan this month, was badly mutilated while in the custody of the Taliban, officials said this past week. The revelation comes amid concern that the fighting in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have carried out an aggressive military offensive since the United States withdrew nearly all its troops, has become increasingly brutal as peace talks have stalled. Siddiqui, 38, an Indian national who took some of the most memorable news photographs from South Asia in recent years, was killed on the morning of July 16, when Afghan commandos he had accompanied to Spin Boldak, a border district recently captured by the Taliban, were ambushed. Initial photographs from the scene showed Siddiqui’s body with multiple wounds but fully intact. But by that evening, when the body was handed over to the Red Cross and transferred to a hospital in the southern city of Kandahar, it had been badly mutilated, according to two Indian officials and two Afghan health officials there. The mutilation was reported by an Indian website, Newslaundry, in the days after Siddiqui’s killing. The New York Times reviewed multiple photographs, some provided by Indian officials and others taken by Afghan health workers at the hospital, that showed Siddiqui’s body had been mutilated. One Indian official said that the body had nearly a dozen bullet wounds and that there were tire marks on Siddiqui’s face and chest. One of the health officials in Kandahar said that the body, along with Siddiqui’s press vest, had reached the city’s main hospital around 8 pm on the day he was killed. His face was unrecognisable, said the official, who added that he could not determine exactly what had been done to the body. A Taliban spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, denied any wrongdoing on the part of the insurgents, saying that they were under orders to treat bodies with respect and to hand them over to local elders or the Red Cross. But the Taliban were in control of the area at the time, and some photographs showed what appeared to be the group’s fighters standing around Siddiqui’s body, which was then intact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/danish-siddiquis-body-was-mutilated-in-taliban-custody-officials-say-1015085.html
01-08-2021||National||Centre advises strict curbs in districts with over 10% Covid-19 positivity rate||Highlighting that 46 districts are showing more than 10% positivity rate while another 53 are showing positivity between 5% and 10%, the Centre has urged the states to ramp up testing. The Health Ministry said it was forcefully underlined that any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Saturday to review the situation in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur. The public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 in these states were also reviewed. These states are either reporting a rise in daily Covid cases or a rise in positivity. The ministry said, "All districts reporting a positivity rate of more than 10% in the last few weeks need to consider strict restrictions to prevent/curtail the movement of people and formation of crowds to prevent the spread of infection." Noting that more than 80% of active cases in these states are reported to be in home isolation, it said there is a need to effectively monitor these cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-advises-strict-curbs-in-districts-with-over-10-covid-19-positivity-rate-1015099.html
01-08-2021||National||India logs 41,831 new Covid-19 cases, 541 deaths||The death toll climbed to 4,24,351 with 541 daily fatalities. Registering an increase for the fifth consecutive cases, the active cases have climbed to 4,10,952 and comprises 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,032 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. Also, 17,89,472 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 46,82,16,510, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent .  Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,20,521, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.02 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-41831-new-covid-19-cases-541-deaths-1015109.html
01-08-2021||National||ISRO to take cooperation with European, Israeli space agencies to higher orbit||The Indian Space Research Organisation is in discussions with European and Israeli space agencies to enhance cooperation and identify potential opportunities to work together. The Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan held virtual meetings with Director-General of Israel Space Agency (ISA) Avi Blasberger and Director General of European Space Agency (ESA) Josef Aschbacher last week. Sivan and Blasberger reviewed the progress of the ongoing activities including cooperation in electric propulsion system for small satellites and GEO-LEO (Geosynchronous Earth Orbit-Low Earth Orbit) optical link. They also discussed potential opportunities of working together in future including the launch of Israeli satellites in the Indian launcher and commemorating the 75th anniversary of Indian independence and 30 years of India-Israel diplomatic relations through an appropriate event in 2022, an ISRO statement said. Sivan and Aschbacher reviewed the status of ongoing cooperation activities in earth observation, space science, satellite navigation, space situational awareness and human space flight. An ISRO-ESA Arrangement concerning network and operations Cross-support which will enable use of ground station to support each other's spacecraft missions was signed recently. "They agreed to form thematic working groups which will discuss to identify potential opportunities for working together to further enhance ISRO-ESA cooperation", the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency added. "I place @ESA's cooperation with @ISRO high on the ESA international agenda. #India's space portfolio is expanding thus many more cooperation opportunities between our agencies are on the horizon", Aschbacher tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-take-cooperation-with-european-israeli-space-agencies-to-higher-orbit-1015120.html
01-08-2021||National||Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs to visit Kashmir, Ladakh in August third week||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs will be touring Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in the third week of August for an "in-depth" understanding of the issues and problems of the region besides visiting Border Out Posts. The meetings with officials and stakeholders in both the union territories will be held between August 17 and August 21. The panel led by senior Congress MP Anand Sharma will hold deliberations in Leh in Ladakh on August 17 and then will fly to Srinagar to hold meetings on August 18, 19 and 20. The multi-party panel will be meeting stakeholders in Jammu on August 21, the last day of their visit, sources said. The official tour comes as the panel has taken up 'Administration, Development and People's Welfare' in the two union territories for detailed examination. The team will reach Leh on August 16 and will return on August 22 from Jammu, sources said. During the tour, the panel will also review the working of CRPF, ITBP and BSF, which are deployed on the India-Pakistan border as well as the India-China border. Sources said the panel will have meetings with the Advisor to the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir and select stakeholders in both the union territories. The panel will also visit BoPs manned by the ITBP at the Line of Actual Control (India-China) as well as the camps of CRPF located in Leh and Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-on-home-affairs-to-visit-kashmir-ladakh-in-august-third-week-1015139.html
01-08-2021||National||Explained | How CBSE Class 12 results were calculated||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 12 results for the 2020-21 batch were announced on July 30 and 99.37 per cent of the students passed their board examinations after a difficult year. In this year’s batch, 70,004 of 13,69,745 students (or 5.37 per cent) scored more than 95 per cent.  For calculating the marks, CBSE came up with an alternative assessment policy that used the 40:30:30 formula based on the students’ marks in Classes 12, 11, and 10 respectively. Both school and the board were a part of the evaluation process. What is the formula used for calculating the results? CBSE divided each subject into two parts — practical/internal assessment and theory. The practical/internal assessments were completed in most schools in June and these marks were directly taken to the final calculations. Then, the 40:30:30 rule was applied to the theory part, which ranged between 50 marks to 80 marks depending on the school. If the theory marks for a subject were 80, the practical was worth 20 marks; if the theory was worth 70 marks, then the practical was for 30, and so on. The CBSE included all the marks from the student’s historical performances to calculate the final result. What is 40:30:30 ratio? Through the 40:30:30 formula, 40 per cent weightage was given to the Class 12 category, 30 per cent to Class 11, and 30 per cent to Class 10, to calculate theory marks. In this process, 40 per cent is taken from marks obtained in the theory exams in pre-boards or mid-term exams held in schools earlier this academic year or an average of both, a decision left to the results committee set by the school and 30 per cent is taken from Class 11 final theory exams. The remaining 30 per cent weightage constitutes marks from the average of three main subjects in which a student performed the best in Class 10 board exams.  Finally, the total of the theory marks of each subject was added to that subject’s practical marks to get the final result for Class 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-cbse-class-12-results-were-calculated-1015142.html
01-08-2021||National||Dilip Ghosh leads BJP supporters in run to support India at Olympics||BJP's West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday morning led around a hundred party activists in a run in Kolkata's Maidan area to garner support for the Indian contingent participating at the Tokyo Olympics. Citing the Covid-related restriction, the Kolkata Police had denied permission for the programme, which was organised by the party's youth wing -- BJYM. Withstanding the denial, Ghosh led around 100 BJYM activists, including its state president Saumitra Khan and national secretary Raju Bista, a few hundred meters from the statue of Subhas Chandra Bose to the statue of Syama Prasad Mukherjee in Maidan. As the BJP members ran in Maidan, a police team kept watch from a distance. "We are here to boost the morale of the Indian squad at the Tokyo Olympics. This marathon has nothing to do with politics. We sprinted barely a few steps," Ghosh said. "We are all Indians over and above of everything. We are happy that this was also understood by the police. The police cooperated. No Covid protocols were violated," he added. Kolkata Police officials said that no untoward incident was reported and the programme went off unhindered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-ghosh-leads-bjp-supporters-in-run-to-support-india-at-olympics-1015148.html
01-08-2021||National||31 militants including top commanders killed in J&K in July||On an average, a militant was killed every day in Jammu and Kashmir in July this year as 31 ultras were neutralised in 15 encounters with security forces during the month. While 43 militants were killed in separate encounters across Kashmir in the first four months of this year, only 15 ultras were neutralized in May and June during the Covid-19 lockdown. Of the 15 gunfights in July, four each were reported in Kulgam and Pulwama and one each in Anantnag, Shopian, Srinagar, Kupwara, Bandipora, Baramulla and Rajouri districts. Out of 31 slain militants, Neeshaz Lone of Tral Pulwama, Arif Hajam of Sadoora, Anantnag, Ishfaq Dar from Heff, Shopian, Aijaz alias Abu Huraira, a non-local, Fayaz War of Sopore, Sharik Baba of Bandipora and Aamir Mir of Check-i-Choland, Shopian were commanders associated with Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit. Mehrajudin Halwai of Kupwara was affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen while Ismail Alvi alias Lamboo, who was killed on the last day of July, was a top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad, who had planned and executed the February 2019 deadly fidayeen (suicide) attack in Pulwama in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed. A senior police officer said the LeT has been almost wiped out mainly from south Kashmir and other than Reyaz Ahmad from Kakapora, Pulwama, no local top commander of the outfit is active in the region now. According to the army, there are 200-225 militants active across J&K despite the fact that no infiltration has taken place so far this year. Among 89 militants killed in J&K this year, only seven are Pakistanis while the rest are all locals. According to the police, in recent years, some boys had gone to Pakistan on a student visa, where they got arms training and came back. “In total 40 youth had gone to Pakistan on a student visa. 27 out of them picked up arms and got killed here. Those who are still across are in touch with families, and we are keeping a tab on it,” Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said. Sources said as infiltration has dried up along the Line of Control (LoC), Pakistan is now relying more on recruiting locals into militancy. “Besides, some Kashmiri youth are being sent to Pakistan on student visas where they are given specialized arms training and sent back to carry out terror activities in Kashmir,” they revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/31-militants-including-top-commanders-killed-in-jk-in-july-1015152.html
01-08-2021||National||India's power consumption returns to pre-Covid level in July; up nearly 12% to 125.51 bn units||India's power consumption grew nearly 12 per cent in July to 125.51 billion units (BU) and returned to pre-pandemic level mainly due to easing of lockdown curbs and delayed monsoon, according to power ministry data. In July 2020, power consumption stood at 112.14 BU, lower than 116.48 BU in the same month of 2019 (pre-pandemic level). Thus, consumption of power has not only grown year-on-year but also returned to pre-pandemic level. Experts say recovery in power demand and consumption in July 2021 is mainly due to delayed monsoon and surge in economic activities amid easing of lockdown restrictions by states. They said power demand as well as consumption returned to pre-Covid levels in July and a strong recovery is expected in coming months. The commercial and industrial power demand and consumption got affected April onwards this year due to lockdown restrictions imposed by states. Experts said that amid decline in the number of daily Covid-19 positive cases across the country and easing of lockdown restriction by the states, the commercial and industrial demand for power would definitely rise from July onwards. Peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW in July (recorded on July 7, 2021). Daily power consumption also touched an all-time high of 4,508 million units on July 7, 2021. Peak power demand met for the entire month of July 2020 was 170.40 GW. Therefore, peak power demand met recorded growth of nearly 18 per cent in July 2021, compared to 170.40 GW (recorded on July 2, 2020). The peak power demand met was recorded at 175.12 GW in July 2019. Last year, the government had imposed a lockdown on March 25, to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was eased in a phased manner, but it had hit the economic and commercial activities and resulted in lower commercial and industrial demand for electricity in the country. Power consumption in April 2021 saw year-on-year growth of nearly 38.5 per cent. The second wave of Covid-19 started in the middle of April this year and affected the recovery in commercial and industrial power demand as states started imposing restrictions in the latter part of the month. Power consumption in the country witnessed 6.6 per cent year-on-year growth in May at 108.80 BU despite a low base of 102.08 BU in the same month of 2020. As per the latest data, power consumption in June grew nearly 9 per cent to 114.48 BU, compared to 105.08 BU in the same month last year. Power consumption in February this year was recorded at 103.25 BU, compared to 103.81 BU a year ago. In March this year, power consumption grew nearly 22 per cent to 120.63 BU, compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020. After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020, and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November, power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to early onset of winters. In December, it grew 4.5 per cent, while this was 4.4 per cent higher in January 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-consumption-returns-to-pre-covid-level-in-july-up-nearly-12-to-12551-bn-units-1015157.html
01-08-2021||National||Cinema halls bell ring again; bank on vaccinated staff, promising content to win back viewers||Allowed to open after almost four months in select states after forced closure by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, multiplex chains are now banking on good content to raise the curtains again to woo the maximum allowed viewers. Leading multiplex chains as PVR, Inox and Cinepolis have vaccinated their entire team and support staff, ensuring safety to win back the viewers in the current situation and has also lined up special offers and promotion for them. The multiplex operators had opened some of their auditoriums on Friday last week in the permitted states, strictly following the standard operating procedure (SOP) and has plans to add more screens in a phased manner in the coming weeks. Besides multiplexes are also now offering private screenings for families and smaller groups at the operational screens as entertainment bubble, personalised service, customised food package and dedicated manager along with a content of their choice, either from the current play list, or an old blockbuster. The country’s leading film exhibition company PVR has got permission to operate 526 screens and around 25 per cent of them are operational as of now. "As on date 12 states and 2 UTs where PVR is present in India and Colombo, Sri Lanka, have allowed cinemas to reopen with varying norms relating to social distancing," PVR CEO Gautam Dutta told PTI. These account for 526 screens across 111 properties which is around 60 per cent of our total screen portfolio, he added. "We are reopening our cinemas on a staggered basis starting July 30 onwards,” Dutta added. PVR, which operates in India and Sri Lanka, has a portfolio of 842 screens at 176 properties across 71 cities. While Inox, the second biggest exhibitor, said almost one-third of its 650 screens are now operational. “We have a total screen count of 650 and around one-third of that is operational now. This number is going to increase in the next two-three days. As and when cinemas get ready, we will keep opening them,” said an Inox official. Every week, the number of operating screens would keep on increasing, he added. While Cinépolis India, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Mexican movie theatre chain Cinépolis which operates around 360 screens here, has opened gates in cities such as Hyderabad and Vijaywada. "We are now open in #Hyderabad & #Vijaywada! Welcome back to the movies, Welcome back to Cinepolis!," said Cinepolis India in a tweet. Mukta A2 Cinemas has also started operations in Vizag and over the next few weeks, more screens would be added. "Our Vizag property became operational from July 30 and we expect that over the course of the next few weeks, more of our screens will also open to the public, who is keen to return to watch their favourite stars and artists on the biggest screen possible,” said Mukta Arts Managing Director Rahul Puri. Bollywood producer and director Subhash Ghai’s Mukta Arts, which runs the multiplex chain under the brand name 'Mukta A2 Cinemas’, currently operates 18 cinema properties across India and one in the Kingdom of Bahrain. As per an earlier statements of the Multiplex Association of India, the country has around 10,000 cinema screens. According to PVR, it would be welcoming the patrons to the cinemas with Hollywood content such as Mortal Kombat, The Suicide Squad 2, Promising Young Woman, The Conjuring: The Devil made me do It, Old in the first three weeks of opening. "August has traditionally been a good month for movies and it is encouraging to know that in August, we have confirmed releases of a huge pipeline of other Hollywood movies like Fast & Furious 9, The Croods," said a statement from PVR. INOX Leisure Chief Programming Officer Rajender Singh Jyala said: "With a promising content pipeline in the months to come, we strongly believe that the remaining part of 2021-22 will be a treat for the movie enthusiasts across the country." Multiplex chains are also minimising the human contact through digital transactions. "One can also pre-book meals from the dedicated ordering and pickup counters via the PVR app to ensure social distancing. The use of anti-microbial film on most-touched surfaces and hourly disinfection of key touchpoints with hospital-grade virucide, use of UV cabinets to sterilize all food packaging are some of the standard safety protocols that have been adopted,” said PVR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinema-halls-bell-ring-again-bank-on-vaccinated-staff-promising-content-to-win-back-viewers-1015163.html
01-08-2021||National||Delhi HC asks DoPT to give number of vacancies, reservations as per RPWD Act for 2020 civil services exam||The Delhi High Court has asked the DoPT to file an affidavit giving the total number of vacancies notified and reservations given in accordance with the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act for the Civil Services Exam (CSE) 2020. The court was hearing two pleas by the disability rights organisations, which have alleged that seats for visually-impaired and people with multiple disabilities have not been reserved in accordance with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of 2016. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh granted time to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to file an additional affidavit before August 2, the next date of hearing in the matter. "The DoPT will clearly highlight in the affidavit the total number of vacancies notified and the reservations given in accordance with Section 34(1) of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 as also the details of 251 vacancies for which it is stated that no reservations can be made," the bench said. Central government standing counsel Abhay Prakash Sahay, appearing for the DoPT, submitted that the final vacancies notified for the CSE 2020 are 836, out of which against 251 vacancies, there can be no reservation. As against the remaining 585 vacancies, 24 have been reserved and thus the reservation is in accordance with the mandate of Section 34(1) of the Act, that is, 4 per cent, he said. The high court had earlier sought responses of the Centre, Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the DoPT on the plea seeking quashing of the notice announcing the civil services preliminary and an interim stay on declaration of the results on the ground that inadequate number of seats have been reserved for persons with visual and multiple disabilities. Petitioner organisation Evara Foundation has contended that due to inadequate number of advertised vacancies for visually-impaired and those having multiple disabilities, fewer candidates belonging to these two categories would qualify for the main examination. It has also said that the number of seats reserved for visually-impaired, deaf, hard of hearing and locomotor disabilities is not in accordance with the RPWD Act. The foundation has sought a direction to the UPSC and the Centre to "amend the impugned notification by earmarking not less than eight seats for blind/low vision and multiple disabilities category each in the impugned notification".  It has also sought "equal bifurcation of the vacancies (meant for disabled) among the categories of persons with disabilities minimum one per cent each in terms of law".  Besides that it has also sought directions to the UPSC and the Centre to fill up all the backlog vacancies of persons with disabilities arising since 1996 till date.  Another plea by NGO Sambhavana has alleged that in the exam notice only expected approximate vacancies for the disabled are mentioned and not the four per cent mandatory reservation mandated under the law. It has contended that the UPSC exam notice only mentioned "expected approximate vacancies" -- a category that does not exist under the law. The NGO has further claimed that there is a mathematical error in calculating the four per cent reservation in the expected vacancies numbering 796. It has said that four per cent reservation of 796 would come to 31.8 or 32 vacancies, whereas according to the notice the number is 24. The petition has also claimed that even the subsequent distribution of the vacancies at the rate of one per cent per category of disability -- deaf, blind, locomotor and multiple disabilities -- is also not mathematically accurate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-dopt-to-give-number-of-vacancies-reservations-as-per-rpwd-act-for-2020-civil-services-exam-1015164.html
01-08-2021||National||Chhattisgarh man gets life term for raping 3-year-old girl||A fast track court in Chhattisgarh's Durg district has sentenced a 39-year-old auto-rickshaw driver to life imprisonment until death for raping a three-year-old girl in 2019. Special Judge Sarita Das on Saturday convicted the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 376(AB) (punishment for rape on female under 12 years of age) and 363 (kidnapping), and imposed a cumulative fine of Rs 5,500 on him, Special Public Prosecutor Kamal Kishore Verma told PTI. According to the prosecution, on August 26, 2019, the accused took the victim along with him in his vehicle to Utai area in Durg where he raped her and then fled from the spot. Some locals spotted the girl and called an ambulance. The victim was shifted to the district hospital from where her parents took her home, he said. Later, when the victim's mother noticed bleeding injuries on her private parts, she lodged a police complaint. The accused was subsequently arrested and a charge sheet was filed against him in the court in October 2019. After hearing the arguments on Saturday, the court pronounced the accused guilty and sentenced him to life imprisonment until death, the prosecutor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-man-gets-life-term-for-raping-3-year-old-girl-1015165.html
01-08-2021||National||Policy ignition: India's satellite navigation sector set for higher growth trajectory||India's satellite-based navigation and augmentation services sector appears headed for a higher growth trajectory with the proposed ignition of a policy push towards effective development, operation and maintenance of such systems. The Department of Space (DoS) plans to devise a "comprehensive and substantive" national policy for satellite-based navigation -- the Indian Satellite Navigation Policy - 2021 (SATNAV Policy - 2021). Its draft has now been hosted on the website of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for public consultation after which it would be placed before the Union Cabinet for final approval. It seeks to "Achieve self-reliance in satellite-based navigation and augmentation services with emphasis on assuring availability & quality, enhancing usage, working towards progressive evolution of the services and promoting research & development". In the last few decades, there has been a phenomenal growth in the number of applications that rely on Position, Velocity and Time (PVT) services provided by space based navigation systems, it was noted. With the advent of information and mobile phone technology, crores of users across India rely heavily on PVT based applications in virtually every walk of life. Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) are space based navigation systems that provide navigation signals across the globe. Currently, there are four GNSS -- GPS from the USA; GLONASS from Russia; Galileo from European Union & BeiDou from China -- offering PVT solution globally. In addition, there are two regional navigation satellite systems -- NavIC from India and QZSS from Japan offering navigation signals for the defined coverage area. The Navigation signals are offered free-to-air for a variety of applications ranging from air, space, maritime and land applications covering tracking, telematics, location based services (using cell phone and mobile devices), automotive, survey, mapping & GIS and timing. GNSS also offer secured navigation signals exclusively for strategic applications of their respective countries as the free-to-air signals are susceptible to adversaries. There is a need for such secured services exclusively for the Indian strategic community also, according to the draft. The Government of India has, therefore, established a resilient and independent system - Navigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC) which is totally under its control. satellite-based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) augment navigation satellite constellations by providing integrity and correction information via geostationary satellites. WAAS of USA, EGNOS of European Union, SDCM of Russia, SNAS/BDSSBAS of China offer these services in their defined coverage area. Government of India has also established a similar SBAS system -- GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation-(GAGAN) for the Indian airspace. "Space based navigation /augmentation system is essentially a public good which has to be accessible to all users", the DoS said. "Such a national infrastructure can only be provided by the Government". Further, to strengthen Government's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' initiative, it is essential to ensure continuity of NavIC and GAGAN services, upgrade the system considering the exponential technological advancements and also continue having the capability to operate in conjunction with other GNSS/SBAS, the draft said. So, it is pertinent to devise a comprehensive and substantive national policy for satellite-based navigation. The objective of the policy is to ensure guaranteed and continuous availability of free-to-air navigation signals for civilian uses and secured navigation signals for strategic uses in the defined coverage area. Another goal is to ensure guaranteed and continuous availability of SBAS for aviation safety in the defined coverage area. There is also a need to work towards progressive evolution of navigation signals and expansion of coverage for enhanced use. Focus would also be on technology development for enhancing the navigation satellite systems, and working towards compatibility and interoperability of Indian satellite navigation and augmentation signals with other GNSS/SBAS signals. Another aim is to promote Indian industry and academia to carry out research and development activities in the field of satellite navigation based applications with emphasis on societal benefits. There is also a need to work towards facilitating global usage of Indian satellite navigation and augmentation systems, the DoS said in the draft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policy-ignition-indias-satellite-navigation-sector-set-for-higher-growth-trajectory-1015167.html
01-08-2021||National||Fact-check | No, state govts don’t levy more tax on petrol than Centre||Several social media users have shared a "break-up" of fuel prices that claims state governments levy twice as much tax on petrol as the Centre. Multiple Twitter users have posted this viral claim. The fuel prices have soared to record highs and the central government is under criticism from various sections, including the Opposition parties who have staged protests across the country.   The claim is also widespread on Facebook. [Viral text: All Petrol Pump should have a board like this: Basic rate 35.50 Central government 19.50 State Government 41.55 Dealers 6.50 Total 103.05 Then public will understand who is responsible share it with your groups and friends.]  Alt News has received multiple verification requests for the message. It was recently reported that India is the world’s third-largest crude oil importer. The country imports 84 per cent of its oil requirements. Fuel prices change each month or even every day in India due to external factors like global crude oil prices. But internal factors like taxes and dealers’ commissions also impact the price of domestic petrol. Petroleum Planning & Analysis Cell (PPAC), in the FAQ section says, "The fuel prices are decided by the Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) namely, Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, in line with the changes in the international market prices and other market conditions." According to ICRA Limited, an Indian government credit rating agency, the cess on unbranded petrol remains unchanged at Rs 32.9/litre in FY21. This is also called excise duty which is collected by the central government. Speaking to Alt News, Prashant Vasisht, vice-president and co-group head at ICRA, said, “The excise duty was last changed in May 2020 by the central government. Unlike international fuel prices, this doesn’t change daily. It is fixed by the central government.” The tax on fuel does not fall under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Thus fuel prices in India vary from state to state and even city to city. The latest retail fuel prices in metro cities are listed on PPAC’s website. For the ease of explaining the price break-up, this article analyses the fuel prices in the national capital as of July 1, according to Bharat Petroleum (BP).  The latest state-wise taxes are listed on the website of PPAC under the ‘Sales Tax‘ sub-section. Taxes in most states range between 20-25 per cent. The highest rate of tax on fuel is in Manipur (36.50 per cent VAT), followed by Rajasthan (36 per cent VAT+ Rs 1500/KL road development cess) and Karnataka (35 per cent sales tax). The lowest tax rate is in Andaman & Nicobar Islands at 6 per cent. No other state charges sales tax or VAT in single digit.  Price Charged to Dealers (excluding Excise Duty and VAT): This is the price OMCs charge the dealer. Vasisht explained, “The price charged to dealers (as mentioned in the price buildup of auto fuels) is based on the trade parity price (TPP) and includes a freight component. The TPP is calculated as 80 per cent of import parity price plus 20 per cent of export parity price.” As per PPAC, Import Parity Price (IPP) represents the price that importers would pay in case of actual import of product at the respective Indian ports. This includes FOB price, ocean freight, insurance, customs duty, port dues, etc. While the Export Parity Price represents the price oil companies would realise on the export of petroleum products. This includes FOB price and advance license benefit (for duty-free import of crude oil pursuant to the export of refined products). Excise Duty: This is the cess charged by the central government and it is consistent across the country. As of July 1, excise duty is Rs 32.90 per litre. Dealer Commission: According to Mint, the dealer commission is different for petrol and diesel and varies from the location of fuel pumps, ranging from Rs 2-4/litre. “This amount goes to the petrol pump owners,” said Vasisht. Alt News spoke to a petrol pump owner in Delhi who confirmed the same and added, “This is the source of revenue for petrol pump owners. It covers our operating costs such as salaries, water, electricity bill, etc.” VAT: This is the cess charged by the state. In Delhi, this stands at Rs 22.81 or 30 per cent as per PPAC and BPCL. The tax is levied on the sum of the previous three components (price charged to dealers, excise duty and dealer commission) i.e., 30 per cent of Rs 76.04 = Rs 22.81. Studying excise duty and VAT in Delhi makes it clear that the Delhi government doesn’t charge more tax on fuel than the central government. The VAT in Delhi is 30 per cent of Rs 76.04 = Rs 22.81. We calculated the share of excise duty (prior to VAT) in Delhi (32.90/76.04×100) and it comes to 43.27 per cent. As pointed earlier, the highest VAT is 36.50 per cent in Manipur. Thus, no state government charges more tax than the central government. Earlier, Alt News had recently published a report debunking the false claim that states levy 55 per cent tax on domestic LPG against the centre’s 5 per cent. Domestic LPG is taxed under 5 per cent GST divided equally between the state and centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-no-state-govts-don-t-levy-more-tax-on-petrol-than-centre-1015169.html
01-08-2021||National||Amit Shah says BJP govts work for the poorest, praises Adityanath||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, but for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order. Addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here, Shah heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking the state to the top spot in terms of law and order. "The BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, families, or for the people who are close to them. The BJP governments work for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order," Shah said. "For six years till 2019, I travelled a lot in UP. Hence, I know the earlier UP very well. Today in 2021, I can say with pride that Yogi Adityanath and his team have taken UP to the top spot in terms of law and order,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-says-bjp-govts-work-for-the-poorest-praises-adityanath-1015171.html
01-08-2021||National||Deepak Das takes charge as Controller General of Accounts||Civil Accounts Service officer Deepak Das on Sunday took charge as the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) under the Department of Expenditure, the Finance Ministry said. A 1986-batch Indian Civil Accounts Service (ICAS) officer, Das has held important positions at different levels in ministries such as science & technology, environment and forest, and Departments for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. He also held important positions in departments of heavy industries, commerce, agriculture, road transport, highways and home affairs, as well as the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. Prior to assuming charge of CGA, he was the principal chief controller of accounts in the Central Board of Direct Taxes, where he was pivotal to several important technology-driven initiatives relating to direct taxes collection, reporting and receipt accounting, the ministry said in a statement. Das is the 25th officer to hold the position of CGA, who is the principal advisor on accounting matters to the Union government. Under the Department of Expenditure, CGA is responsible for establishing and managing a technically sound management accounting system, for preparation and submission of the accounts of the Union government and internal audits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deepak-das-takes-charge-as-controller-general-of-accounts-1015183.html
01-08-2021||National||Former Manipur Congress chief Govindas Konthoujam joins BJP||Poaching from the opposition camp in north-east continues for the BJP with former Manipur Congress president Govindas Konthoujam joining the saffron party on Sunday. Five days ago, he was an MLA and chief of Congress in Manipur but the BJP managed to rope him in. He is another high-profile state Congress leader to join the saffron camp after N Biren Singh, who became Chief Minister under BJP, after leaving Congress. The induction of Konthoujam will be a boost to the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in Manipur early next year. With Kanthoujam's resignation from the 60-member Assembly, Congress now has 16 MLAs while BJP has 25. Its number could rise if the bypoll to Kanthoujam's constituency Bishnupur seat is won by it. The Manipur assembly has an effective strength of 56 in which the BJP has 25 members and the Congress 16 after Kanthoujam's resignation from the House. BJP had in 2017 polls won 21 seats. Congress had won 28 seats to emerge as the single-largest party but the BJP's political maneuvering helped it form the government after it managed to get support of other parties. A former minister and six-time MLA, Konthoujam joined the BJP in the presence of Biren Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni and the party's in-charge for the state Sambit Patra. Patra said Konthoujam decided to join the BJP after he was impressed by the development work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the north-east. "The Prime Minister has cared for the north-east and recently five ministers from the region have been inducted into his Council of Minister. Manipur promises to make the Modi-led government stronger," Biren Singh said. The Chief Minister said he was also in Congress but the vehicle could not move as the driver was asleep. "Since Modi's government came in, things have been peaceful in Manipur where there had been violence," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-manipur-congress-chief-govindas-konthoujam-joins-bjp-1015193.html
01-08-2021||National||'Muslim Women's Rights Day' observed, 3 ministers interact with triple talaq victims||'Muslim Women's Rights Day' was observed by different organisations across the country on Sunday to mark the enactment of the law against triple talaq with victims of the "social evil" hailing the government for the legislation in their interaction with three Union ministers. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav attended the "Muslim Women Rights Day" programme here, an official statement said. The Union ministers also interacted with several Muslim women, who were triple talaq victims, it said. The Muslim women thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing the law against the criminal practice on August 1, 2019 which has made the social malpractice a criminal offense, it said. The Muslim women, while interacting with the ministers, said the Modi government has strengthened "self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence" of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against triple talaq. Addressing the Muslim women on the occasion, Irani said August 1 is a day to salute the struggle of Muslim women against triple talaq. She said the Ministry of Minority Affairs, the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Labour Ministry will work unitedly to encourage entrepreneurship among Muslim women.  Muslim women have immensely benefitted through schemes such as 'Mudra Yojana', 'Jan Dhan Yojana', 'Stand Up India' and 'Poshan Abhiyan', she said. On the occasion, Yadav said the Modi government has been working to ensure dignity and empowerment of women from every section of the society.  The Modi government has ensured dignity of Muslim women by bring the law against triple talaq, Yadav said. The Modi government's policy of "development without discrimination' has created an atmosphere of trust across the country, he said.  The Modi government's decision to provide quota for OBC and economically backward section in medical/dental studies will also benefit poor sections of the Muslim community, he added. Yadav said the Modi government has always worked for welfare of the needy. In his remarks, Naqvi said the law against triple talaq has proved to be a "big reform" to ensure constitutional rights of Muslim women. There is a significant decline in triple talaq cases across the country after the law came into effect, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-womens-rights-day-observed-3-ministers-interact-with-triple-talaq-victims-1015199.html
01-08-2021||National||Centre's obdurate refusal to discuss Pegasus disrupting Parliament: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Sunday squarely blamed the BJP-led Narendra Modi government for the stalemate in Parliament claiming that its "obdurate refusal" to discuss Pegasus is "disrupting" the proceedings as it does not want to "tell the truth" on the snooping episode. The party also said the Centre is passing important legislations through the din created by "government sponsored disruptions" and this "undermining of Parliament must stop". Describing the Assam-Mizoram flare up as "unprecedented" and "total failure" of the Centre, it also asked what is the BJP doing as both the states are being ruled by the saffron party. After a meeting of its Polit Bureau, the CPI(M) said that it reiterated its demand for an "immediate high-powered judicial enquiry monitored by the Supreme Court" to establish the truth and punish the guilty. It said the "obdurate refusal of the Modi government to discuss the issue of Pegasus spyware surveillance is disrupting the Parliament"and "more importantly, it is clear that the government does not want to tell the truth and be accountable to the Parliament". The party said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is refusing to answer if the government or any of its agencies have engaged the Israeli NSO weapon grade Pegasus spyware to be used for spying on individuals ranging from political leaders, journalists, officers of the judiciary, former CBI chief and ex-Election Commissioner among others. "This is ominous. The attack is not only the violation of the fundamental right to privacy but it is an attack on institutions that act as vital checks and balances in a democracy and discharge their constitutional duties. Use of this spyware is tantamount to destroying democracy and its institutions," it said. Referring to the attempt to pass a Bill to replace an ordinance that bans strikes in defence production units, the CPI(M) said the Modi government has embarked on more attacks on the rights of the working people along with "large-scale loot" of national assets and they would oppose the legislation in Parliament. It said the Centre was passing important legislations "through the din created by government sponsored disruptions" while demanding that no legislation should be passed without a proper structured discussion. On the Assam-Mizoram conflict, the party said it was "unprecedented" that two neighbouring states were engaged in armed clashes and hostilities and it is a "total failure" of the Centre and the Ministry of Home Affairs. "Worse, such a situation developed soon after the Union Home Minister (Amit Shah) had gone there and attended a meeting convened by him of all the North Eastern states and their officials. The Central government must ensure that these hostilities cease and peace is established. Both Assam and Mizoram have NDA governments. NDA is led by the BJP. What is the ruling party doing?" the CPI(M) asked in a statement. The CPI(M) also demanded that the controversial farm laws should be repealed and urged the government to resume talks with farmers protesting at the Delhi border. "Obstinately the Modi government refuses to engage in any discussion with them. The Central government must resume talks with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha," it said. It also demanded that all teachers, students and staff of educational institutions must be fully vaccinated on a priority basis, treating them as frontline workers to create conditions for the early reopening of educational institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-obdurate-refusal-to-discuss-pegasus-disrupting-parliament-cpim-1015211.html
01-08-2021||National||SC takes objection to release of life term convict on political functionary's letter||The Supreme Court has taken an objection to a decision by previous Uttar Pradesh Government to let go a life-term convict in a triple murder case on a recommendation from a functionary from the Samajwadi Party, saying the criminal justice system can't be distorted like this. "What would happen to criminal jurisprudence if life term convicts are released after serving just five years? Can the convicts be let off on recommendation from political functionary," a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari asked rejecting a plea by Jaini Singh against the decision of Allahabad High Court, which set aside the Governor's order to release him from jail.  Singh challenged validity of the High Court's order of February 26 to surrender to serve the sentence. "We do not find any ground to interfere with the order passed by the High Court," the bench said, dismissing his plea. The High Court had passed the order on a plea by Prakashwati Singh, wife of Karan Singh who was one of the three persons killed by Jaini Singh in Bulandshahr. The trial court had convicted and awarded life term to Jaini Singh and five others in 2011. The order to grant remission to the convict was passed on March 15, 2017 just four days before the Yogi Adityanath was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, on a letter by Col Satyaveer Yadav, advocate, State President Samajwadi Sainik Prakostha.  Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, then Minister of the Department of Jails recommended release of Jaini Singh on account of his old age and ailing health. The then Chief Minister and the Governor approved the recommendation. A division bench of the High Court said the Governor's order did not reflect the application of mind and transgressed the jurisdiction under Article 161 of the Constitution. It also pointed out Section 433-A of the Criminal Procedure Code stated that where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction of a person for an offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, such person shall not be released from prison unless he has served at least 14 years of imprisonment. "We are unable to comprehend as to what prompted the Governor to exercise indulgence in favour of the convict despite he had committed a heinous offence wherein three members of a family were done to death by the him and other co-accused who are in Jail. The mercy committee denied to consider his application for premature release. Even appeal is pending against the conviction judgment and twice his bail is rejected by this court in appeal," the HC had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-objection-to-release-of-life-term-convict-on-political-functionarys-letter-1015241.html
01-08-2021||National||SC to hear on August 5 plea for probe into Pegasus scandal||The Supreme Court has fixed August 5 as the date to hear a plea for an independent probe by its sitting or retired judge into the alleged Pegasus snooping scandal. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant would consider the petitions filed by advocate M L Sharma, CPI-M MP from Rajya Sabha John Brittas and eminent journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar. The alleged snooping of journalists, opposition leaders and other people had rocked the Parliament.  In their plea, the journalists claimed that the act of snooping amounted to "cyber-terrorism", having an obvious chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life. The plea sought a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained license for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner.  In his PIL, Brittas said the recent Pegasus snooping allegations were causing huge apprehensions and great agony for the citizens as it violated freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) as well as personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Only a proper court monitored investigation can alleviate these apprehensions and agonies, the plea by Brittas, senior journalist and managing director of Kairali TV, added. Sharma, in his plea, maintained that Pegasus is not just a surveillance tool but a cyber weapon unleashed on Indian polity. "The Supreme Court could force the government to come clean on the narrow issue of the use of Pegasus in India, or the existence of NSO contracts," his plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-august-5-plea-for-probe-into-pegasus-scandal-1015242.html
01-08-2021||National||PV Sindhu India's pride, one of our most outstanding Olympians, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed ace badminton player P V Sindhu as India's pride after she won bronze in the Tokyo Olympics. He tweeted, "We are all elated by the stellar performance by P V Sindhu. Congratulations to her on winning the Bronze at @Tokyo2020. She is India's pride and one of our most outstanding Olympians." The reigning world champion became only the second Indian and the country's first woman to win two Olympic medals, securing a bronze after a straight-game win over world No. 9 He Bing Jiao of China in the badminton women's singles third-place play-off. She had secured a silver in the 2016 Rio Games. Wrestler Sushil Kumar is the first and only other Indian to win two Olympic medals, following up his bronze at 2008 Beijing with a silver at the 2012 London edition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pv-sindhu-indias-pride-one-of-our-most-outstanding-olympians-says-pm-modi-1015248.html
01-08-2021||National||'179 illegal religious structures exist on railway properties'||As many as 179 illegal religious structures exist on railway properties, including on platforms and yards across the country, Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said. These structures including temples, dargahs (shrines) and mosques have existed since long, Vaishnaw said in a written reply. “Efforts to remove these illegal religious structures from all station platforms or yards have been taken by the railway administration along with the Railway Protection Force (RPF) with the assistance of local administration and Government Railway Police (GRP),” he said. The railway authorities were closely monitoring to ensure “no further expansion or extension takes place.” Whenever railway authorities tried to remove these strecrures, they faced public agitation, the minister said, adding that the state governments' help is needed to clear such structures. He also said that the railways is trying to amicably settle the issue by persuading the members of the religious structure committee to shift the location of the religious structures to other places outside railway areas. Vaishnaw said the railways is also taking steps to ensure that no new structure comes up on its properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/179-illegal-religious-structures-exist-on-railway-properties-1015250.html
01-08-2021||National||Pakistan ensuring Osama Bin Laden-like strike does not happen on Masood Azhar: Report||Pakistan has ensured that India's most wanted terrorist Masood Azhar, who has been charge-sheeted in several cases from the 2001 Parliament attack to the 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing, remains in a densely populated area so that an operation similar to the one by the US against Osama bin Laden is not possible, according to a report by a newly launched Hindi news channel. According to Times Now Navbharat channel, it has "accessed undeniable visual evidence" that confirms Pakistan's "deep state is still providing a safe haven to terror masterminds" including Masood Azhar, who heads Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group. The news channel said in a release that Masood has two houses in Pakistan's Bahawalpur with one located right next to the Osman-O-Ali Masjid and the National Orthopedic and General Hospital. Pakistani army jawans have been stationed outside his house to secure their prized asset, the release said, adding the motive is simple - with a mosque and hospital next to his house "an Osama-like operation becomes virtually impossible", while the residential surroundings will give Masood and his friends an opportunity to escape in case of a strike. The second house of Masood is also located in Bahawalpur, nearly four kilometers away from the first. It also lies next to a mosque known as Jamia Mosque and the Bahawalpur bench of the Lahore High Court is just a kilometer away from Masood's second home, while the District Collector's office is just at a distance of three kilometers. Again, the channel said, Pakistani army personnel in uniform were seen guarding Masood's bungalow and added that the "global terrorist resides in a posh locality of Pakistan as a state guest." Azhar is wanted in the Parliament attack case, terror strike at Pathankot airbase and even in the 2019 case of a suicide attacker of the terror outfit killing 40 CRPF personnel in South Kashmir. He was among the three terrorists released by Indian authorities after the 1999 Kandahar hijacking of an Indian Airlines plane. He went to Pakistan and started his new terror outfit by the name of Jaish-e-Mohammed. India has been trying for sanctions against him at the United Nations but the same has been obstructed by China. After the Abbottabad incident in 2011 when the US Seals killed Al Qaeda terror mastermind Osama bin Laden, Pakistan seems to have ensured that Masood's hideout remains in a densely populated area to avoid suspicion and a possible raid. The report is aimed at showing how Pakistan continues to shelter, secure and safeguard terrorists and use terror as a state policy. India has submitted dossiers after dossiers to Islamabad to bring the terrorists to book but to no avail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-ensuring-osama-bin-laden-like-strike-does-not-happen-on-masood-azhar-report-1015251.html
01-08-2021||National||Only time will tell what I do next: Babul Supriyo after announcing decision to quit politics||A day after kicking off a political storm over his announcement to quit politics over Facebook, former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo on Sunday said he has met top leaders of the saffron party, but was yet to take a call on his next course of action. The Asansol MP told a TV channel that "only time will tell what I do in the future". Taking a dig at TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh for his assertion that Supriyo was staging a drama and didn't have the guts to quit as MP, the parliamentarian said, "I have already sought time from the Lok Sabha speaker as his consent is required before I take a decision." "I have already met the top leadership of my party last night but only time will tell what is going to be my future move," he maintained. Sources in the BJP said Supriyo met party president J P Nadda in Delhi around midnight on Saturday. Lashing out at Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, who had asked reporters to cross-check if the Asansol MP "actually resigned as such decisions cannot be announced over Facebook", Supriyo said he has nothing to do with people who make "narrow-minded and nasty remarks", no matter which camp they belong to. "By not dealing with such people, I save my positive energy every day," he stated. Reacting to the broadside, Ghosh, without naming anyone, said, "The more my name is taken by people who want to be in news through theatrics, the more I become aware they tend to seek importance by doing that." He is still in the BJP, as far as “my knowledge goes”, the state BJP president said. Supriyo (50), who has served as a Union minister for the Narendra Modi government, was removed earlier this month in a major cabinet rejig. "Leaving, Goodbye. I spoke to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to the advice, I am saying that I am leaving. I am not going to any other party - TMC, Congress, CPIM, nowhere. I am confirming that nobody has called me. "I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player! I have always supported one team, #MohunBagan - Have been with only one party - BJP West Bengal. That''s it!! Leaving," Supriyo said in the first Facebook post. The singer-turned-politician said that he will vacate his government accommodation within a month. "I have stayed for too long. I have helped somebody, have disappointed someone...it is for the people to decide. If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics. Yes, I am resigning from the post of MP," his post read. He hinted that difference with the state leadership was one of the reasons that prompted him to take the decision. Supriyo had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls against TMC’s Aroop Biswas in the March-April assembly elections. "I think I need not be an MP or a minister to distribute tarpaulin or blanket among 500 people. Sans any vote politics there won't be any conflict of interest. "My long term plan to set up a trauma centre in my late mother's name will perhaps be more feasible now as some of my doctor friends will feel more free to come on my side with no political strings attached," the MP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-time-will-tell-what-i-do-next-babul-supriyo-after-announcing-decision-to-quit-politics-1015272.html
01-08-2021||National||Kargil, Leh join hands to push for statehood, constitutional safeguards for Ladakh||Days ahead of the second anniversary of getting the Union Territory status, Ladakh on Sunday witnessed ideologically different representatives of Kargil and Leh districts joining hands to seek full-fledged statehood along with constitutional safeguards for the region -- eight months after their historic meeting last year. The Leh-based Apex Body of People's Movement for 6th Schedule and Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) leaders also said they have reached the consensus to seek one more Lok Sabha seat and two Rajya Sabha seats from the region besides a special recruitment drive for the local youth to fill up over 10,000 vacancies within a month. On August 5, 2019, the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. “This is a historic and golden day for the people of Ladakh. We have reached here on the invitation of the apex body yesterday (Saturday) and held a threadbare discussion to have a consensus on four points including the demand for full-fledged statehood for Ladakh,” Co-chairman of KDA Asgar Ali Karbalai told reporters here. Karbalai, who was flanked by members of both KDA and Apex body including its leader and former MP Thupstan Chhewang, said, “We are ready for whatever is necessary to push for our demands…We will form a joint committee which will highlight the demands with the Union Home Ministry.” In December last year, a Chhewang-led delegation visited Kargil and held first-of-its-kind deliberations with the leadership of KDA and decided to fight together any law which would be considered against the interests of the people of Ladakh. Both Apex body and KDA, which is a separate amalgam of socio-religious, political and student organisations of the two districts, were formed after the August 5, 2019 development. While the people of Leh have welcomed the fulfilment of their long pending demand of UT status and later formed the Apex body in support of the demand for implementation of the sixth schedule of the Constitution to safeguard their culture and identity, the KDA was not in the favour of UT status and raised the demand of statehood to Ladakh. The Apex body had held several meetings with the Union Home Ministry in support of its demand, while the KDA representatives also had a meeting with a committee of the ministry last month. “We are forming a joint committee which will represent the entire Ladakh and hold further dialogue on various demands with the central government. The focus of our demands will be full-fledged statehood for Ladakh, constitutional safeguards whether under sixth schedule or Article 371 of the constitution and one more seat in Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha seats,” Chhewang said. He said they are setting a deadline of one month for the UT administration to fill up 10,000 to 12,000 pending vacancies in different departments as no recruitment has been held in the region since August 2019. “We want the administration to provide jobs to the local educated youth as per already issued Permanent Resident Certificates for identification of Ladakh residents. Domicile law like the one implemented in J&K is not acceptable to us,” he said. The leaders said they would not hesitate to come on the roads, stage protests and go for shutdowns in the interest of the people of the region. “Have trust and faith in the joint committee. We will not let you down,” Karbalai said, asserting that they have set their political differences aside for the larger interest of the people of Ladakh and the holistic development of the region. In response to a question, Chhewang said BJP representatives were also part of the deliberations. Member Parliament Ladakh and other party leaders were not present because of their prior commitment, he added. Former minister Qamar Ali Akhoon from Kargil said the case related to the revocation of Article 370 and Article 35A is pending before the Supreme Court and the meeting unanimously decided that the decision of the apex court on the issue would be acceptable to all the parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kargil-leh-join-hands-to-push-for-statehood-constitutional-safeguards-for-ladakh-1015286.html
01-08-2021||National||Assam to waive 20% surcharge in power bills of tea gardens, BPL families||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said the state government has decided to waive the 20 per cent surcharge in power bills for tea garden labourers and all BPL consumers. The chief minister, who reviewed the functioning of the Power Department, also said new electricity connections will be provided to nearly five lakh new customers at an expenditure of Rs 1,719 crore sanctioned by the central government. According to an official release by the Chief Minister's Office, a decision was taken at the meeting for "not imposing 20 per cent surcharge in the power bills of tea garden labourers and BPL consumers". It was also decided that these economically backward consumers will be allowed to clear their pending power bills in 10 instalments. "The chief minister said that Rs 1,719 crore has been sanctioned by the Central government to Assam under Saubhagya Scheme and 4,80,249 new households would be provided power connection in the state with the amount," the statement said. The Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana or the "Saubhagya" Scheme aims to provide electricity to all households. It also said that 48,557 Anganwadi centres and 13,321 lower primary schools will be provided power connection within December this year. The power sector in Assam is divided into three government-controlled companies -- Assam Power Generation Corp Ltd (APGCL), Assam Electricity Grid Corp Ltd (AEGCL) and Assam Power Distribution Company Ltd (APDCL). Sarma said steps will be taken by the Power Department to minimise revenue losses of nearly Rs 102 crore every month due to power theft and transmission loss. "The APDCL has performed well in revenue collection in the last few months. The revenue earned by the power company in July last year was Rs 463.12 crore. This year, July collection is Rs 735.16 crore, which is a considerable increase from the previous year," he added. Sarma also said that power bills of all government offices will be paid under one financial head by the government to APDCL by the first of every month. The chief minister also said that the result of the examination held for filling up 1,600 posts in the APDCL will be declared soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-to-waive-20-surcharge-in-power-bills-of-tea-gardens-bpl-families-1015299.html
01-08-2021||National||HC to hear on August 2 plea for bifurcating project on laying undersea OFC||Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association of India (TEMA) has brought the issue of laying undersea optical fibre cable (OFC) link between Kochi and Lakshadweep, before the Delhi High Court. It has sought directions from the government to bifurcate the Rs1,072 crore tender to connect mainland Kochi to 11 islands of Lakshadweep into two parts so that domestic companies can take part in it. The matter is scheduled to be heard on Monday. In its petition, the TEMA has argued that the Telecom Ministry and the BSNL, which is implementing the project, are ignoring Indian entrepreneurs from bidding by incorporating certain conditions which could not be fulfilled by Indian or domestic entrepreneurs. In its plea, the TEMA has said that the tender does not fulfil the basic guidelines issued by the Government of India for Aatmanirbar Bharat to give maximum opportunities to Indian or domestic parties.  It contends that the KLI project which involved installation of ‘Repeaters’ in the undersea OFC after every 100-110 km, is not only an old or outdated technology but also involves higher cost to the project.  This technology is not being preferred worldwide now. Moreover, it puts an additional financial burden on the public exchequer, a fact which has been ignored by the BSNL, it said. If any domestic bidder is unable to fulfil the criteria fixed by BSNL, the project could be split in segments. Indian bidders, who could fulfil the terms and conditions of that particular segment, should be preferred over the foreign bidder, it said. In case any Indian bidder cannot fulfil the conditions of particular segment, that segment should be offered to a foreign bidder. Unless such projects are not offered to Indian parties, the government’s goal of Aatmanirbar Bharat cannot be achieved, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hear-on-august-2-plea-for-bifurcating-project-on-laying-undersea-ofc-1015301.html
01-08-2021||National||'Friendship’ in exchanges between Indian Army and Chinese PLA returns as they launch new hotline||Words like “trust” and “friendship” made a comeback in the exchanges between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday, even as the soldiers of the two nations remain engaged in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. A hotline was established between the Indian Army at Kongra La in North Sikkim and the PLA at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region of China. The Indian Army stated in a press-release that the hotline with the Chinese PLA was established to “further the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders”. The ground commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA attended the inauguration ceremony and “a message of friendship and harmony” was exchanged through the hotline, according to the press-release issued in New Delhi. Though the “message of friendship” between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA was exchanged far away from the scene of the 16-month-long military standoff along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, it signalled easing of tension between the armed forces of the two nations. The inauguration of the hotline coincided with the PLA Day that commemorates the founding of the PLA in 1927. Earlier, the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA routinely held ceremonial border personnel meetings along the LAC on Republic Day (January 26) and Independence Day (August 15) of India, PLA Day (August 1) and National Day (October 1) of China and the International Workers Day (May 1). But no such ceremonial border personnel meeting was held since April 2020, not only due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but also because the military standoff in eastern Ladakh escalated tension all along the disputed boundary between India and China and brought the relations between the two nations to a new low. The inauguration of the new hotline took place just a day after the senior military commanders of India and China had another round of talks to resolve the standoff along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. It was the 12th such engagement between the senior military commanders of the two sides, after the standoff started in April-May 2020, following the Chinese PLA’s unilateral move to alter the status quo along the LAC and the counter-deployment by the Indian Army to resist it. Neither New Delhi, nor Beijing made the outcome of the talks public though. The talks between the senior military commanders took place amid indications that the two sides may have reached closer to a deal to end the standoff at Gogra and Hot Springs along the LAC, but continue to have differences about Depsang Plains and Demchok. If India and China announce a deal for mutual withdrawal of frontline troops from Gogra and Hot Springs along the LAC, it will be the second major breakthrough in the protracted negotiation between the two sides to resolve the 16-month-long standoff. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had earlier mutually withdrawn frontline troops from the face-off points on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso between February 10 and 21. The Indian Army’s delegation was led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the commander of XIV Corps based in Leh. Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang Military district of China, led the delegation of the PLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/friendship-in-exchanges-between-indian-army-and-chinese-pla-returns-as-they-launch-new-hotline-1015303.html
01-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Amit Shah a 'hard facts' gymnast!||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday dropped strong hints that Hindutva would be at the centre of his party's agenda in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-amit-shah-a-hard-facts-gymnast-1015319.html
01-08-2021||National||PM Modi may preside over UNSC meeting on August 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may preside over a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on August 9, becoming the first Head of the Government of India to do so. India took over the rotating presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the month of August on Sunday, promising to remain “a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law”. “It is a singular honour for us to be presiding over the Security Council in the same month when we are celebrating our 75th Independence Day,” T S Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, said. “This is our eighth tenure in the Security Council. In the last seven months of our tenure in the council, we have taken a principled and forward-looking position on various issues. We have been unafraid of shouldering responsibilities. We have been proactive. We have focussed on issues of our priority.” Though no official announcement has been made yet, Tirumurti’s predecessor and retired diplomat Syed Akbaruddin posted on Twitter that the Prime Minister might address preside over a virtual meeting of the Security Council on August 9. “A first in the making…With India as President of @UN Security Council in August, an Indian Prime Minister may perhaps preside, albeit virtually, a Council meeting for (the) 1st (first) time on 9 August 2021,” tweeted Akbaruddin. A first in the making… P V Narasimha had attended a meeting of the UNSC in 1992 during his tenure as the Prime Minister, as India had been a non-permanent member of the council then. But he had not presided over a meeting of the council. India commenced its eighth two-year term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council on January 1. Tirumurti said that India had made efforts to narrow differences within the Security Council so that it could speak in one voice on a variety of important issues. He said that India would organise signature events on maritime security, peacekeeping and counterterrorism during its presidency at the UN Security Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-may-preside-over-unsc-meeting-on-august-9-1015327.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Stormy week awaits Parliament as govt, Opposition remain adamant on Pegasus debate||Another stormy week awaits Parliament as the government looks at clearing bills to replace six ordinances even as the Opposition remains adamant on a discussion on the Pegasus episode, which the ruling BJP has described as a "non-issue". Though a couple of meetings were held with Opposition leaders, government floor managers have made it clear that they are not willing to allow a discussion on Pegasus. Government sources said the priority to get these Bills passed at the earliest and it has given indications that it is willing to get it passed even amid din, as witnessed during the passage of seven bills in Lok Sabha and four in Rajya Sabha. Some government floor managers are also sending signals that the government may not be averse to curtailing the session by a week if the disruptions continue. Criticising the government, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, "They are used to questions like 'how do you eat mangoes', therefore, they are scared of discussion in Parliament on issues that concern people like price rise." Congress Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore said the Opposition wanted a discussion on Pegasus because it was "truly deadly" and it was used against Opposition leaders, an ElectionCommissioner, journalists, including women and the then CBI Director Alok Verma among others. "Developed and sold by the Israeli spyware firm NSO Group, it allows the government agency which deploys it to effectively take remote control of a smartphone and all its contents and functions. All messages, even encrypted ones, become visible. And the microphone and camera can be remotely activated to record and relay private conversations and meetings. Do you think it's a non-issue? Do you think discussion in Lok Sabha is needed or not?" Tagore tweeted. Lok Sabha could hold proceedings for just 4:27 hours in nine sittings while Rajya Sabha sat for 10:08 hours, as Opposition MPs protested inside both the Houses demanding a discussion on Pegasus. In Rajya Sabha, 1:24 hours were spent for passing four Bills while Lok Sabha took just 52 minutes to clear seven bills, including two Appropriation Bills, sources said. The government has listed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for passing in Rajya Sabha, which was already cleared by the Lok Sabha. The Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021, Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021 and The Essential Defence Service Bill, 2021 are listed for passage in Lok Sabha first and later in Rajya Sabha in the next five sittings. These four bills and Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2021 are being brought to replace ordinances issued after Budget sessions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stormy-week-awaits-parliament-as-govt-opposition-remain-adamant-on-pegasus-debate-1015083.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Economy went downhill due to Nehru's 1947 speech: Madhya Pradesh minister||A BJP minister in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday said the problem of inflation does not arise "in a day or two", and the economy began to go downhill due to the "mistakes" of Jawaharlal Nehru's speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 1947. Inflation would have been under control had the first prime minister of the country and his party left the economy in good shape, Minister for Medical Education Vishvas Sarang said. Speaking to reporters in Bhopal about a planned protest by the Congress over rising prices and other issues, Sarang said that "if the credit for increasing inflation by crippling the economy after the country's independence goes to anyone, it is the Nehru family". “Inflation does not rise in a day or two. The foundation of the economy is not laid in a day or two. The country's economy has deteriorated due to the mistakes of the speech that Jawaharlal Nehru delivered from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 1947,” the BJP leader said. The Narendra Modi government, on the other hand, has strengthened the economy in the past seven years, he said. The inflation is down and people's incomes have increased during the BJP rule, the minister claimed. Congress workers should rather protest in front of "10 Janpath" (party president Sonia Gandhi's residence), he quipped. Later, speaking to PTI, Sarang said the country's economy was primarily based on agriculture, but Nehru neglected it. "Seventy per cent of our population is dependent on agriculture, but he did not care about this sector. The village economy was sustainable and self-reliant. He put his western mindset in this and ended the village economy,” he said. The wrong policies of Nehru were responsible for the present situation, Sarang added. Industrialization was fine, but it should have been based on agriculture, he said. “Our situation would have been different had the industrialization been based on agriculture,” the minister said. The problems such as the Kashmir dispute and internal security and cross-border issues which date back to Nehru's times still persist and this crippled our economy, Sarang said. He also claimed that a river-linking project had been proposed by Nehru's cabinet. “The implementation of the river interlinking project then would have brightened the country's future permanently...the country, which is dependent on agriculture, would have become fully irrigated," he added. "Inflation would have been under control, had the Congress and Nehru left the economy in good shape and industrialization been based on agriculture," the BJP leader said. Congress leaders in the state, meanwhile, ridiculed Sarang's comments. MP Congress spokesperson K K Mishra said, “Vishwas Sarang, an eligible minister of Shivraj's (Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan) circus, is blaming the country's inflation on Nehru's speech in 1947, when he was not even born. As a departmental (health) minister, can you state if Nehru was also responsible for the thousands of deaths due to lack of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir during the coronavirus pandemic?” Narendra Saluja, another Congress spokesperson, said the BJP ministry in MP was full of weird people. “A minister starts climbing up an electricity poll to repair it, another talks about how many children a couple should have, yet another says that money should be charged for a selfie. Now, a minister is holding a speech delivered 75 years ago responsible for inflation. Why did the BJP then promise relief from inflation in its poll campaign?” he asked. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/economy-went-downhill-due-to-nehrus-1947-speech-madhya-pradesh-minister-1015101.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Wounded Congress looks to 'refresh' leaders||With overhaul done in half a dozen states including Punjab, Uttarakhand, Telangana, Kerala, Maharashtra and Assam, Congress has signalled its forward march towards generation next. Be it the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief in Punjab, Revanth Reddy in Telangana, K Sudhakaran or Nana Patole in Maharashtra as Congress chiefs in their respective states, the Congress high command, which has for long faced criticism for procrastination in decision-making, has of late shown its willingness to go beyond the obvious and explore new leadership in states even at the cost ignoring voices from its trusted veterans of past to some extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-wounded-congress-looks-to-refresh-leaders-1015102.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | PM's promise of $5 tn economy may be delayed||Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council Chairman Bibek Debroy has cautioned that India’s target of achieving the $5 trillion economy may move two years away from 2025 and it will be a little more difficult for the country to adhere to the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) target with the Covid-19 pandemic whittling away two years of economic development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-pms-promise-of-5-tn-economy-may-be-delayed-1015103.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Parliament deadlock between Centre, Oppn cost Rs 130 cr of taxpayers' money: Report||"So far Parliament has functioned only 18 hours out of the possible 107. Thus around 89 hours of working time have been wasted. This means that the total loss to the taxpayers is more than Rs 133 crore," a statement via unnamed sources is quoted as saying in the report. The Monsoon Session, which started on July 19, saw relentless demand from the Opposition for a discussion on and a Supreme Court-monitored independent inquiry into the Pegasus spyware issue. Reports surfaced earlier this month that Israeli spyware Pegasus was sold to governments for surveillance of opposition leaders, judges and activists. The government has dismissed the reports, calling it a non-issue and asked the Opposition to let Parliament function. The productivity, which has touched just 21.60 per cent in nine sittings in two weeks since July 19, could have been much lower if both sides did not have agreed to hold a discussion on Covid-19 on July 20, which lasted for 4.37 hours. Sources in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat told DH the annual budget for Rajya Sabha, including Rajya Sabha TV and Parliamentary Committees functioning, is around Rs 460 crore and the expenditure would come to around Rs 1.2 crore per day for a year whether the House sits or not. The Bills passed so far are The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill 2021, The Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill 2021, The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill 2021. The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 were among the four Bills introduced in the Rajya Sabha. (With DHNS inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-deadlock-between-centre-oppn-cost-rs-130-cr-of-taxpayers-money-report-1015112.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Congress was 'James Bond of spying' when in power at Centre; Pegasus a fabricated issue: Naqvi||Attacking the Congress which has been protesting in Parliament demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said the party was "James Bond of spying" when in power and it now wants to waste Parliament's time over "fake and fabricated" issues. Naqvi, who is the Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader, also accused the Congress and a few other Opposition parties of working with the policy of "rant and run" by making allegations and scooting off. In an interview with PTI, the Minority Affairs Minister said the government is ready to discuss all issues that are related to people and expressed hope that the impasse between the government and the Opposition will be broken allowing Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to function smoothly. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have failed to transact any significant business, except passage of some bills, amid continued protests by Opposition parties over the Pegasus and farmers' issues since the Monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19. The Opposition and the government are locked in a standoff with the former seeking a debate over the Pegasus issue. The senior BJP leader also rejected talk of the Parliament's Monsoon session being curtailed and said there was no basis of such "rumours" as the session was to scheduled till August 13 and business is listed till then. Asked if a middle path can be found to end the deadlock in Parliament, Naqvi said the Congress and a few other Opposition parties are adopting a "rant and run" formula and are not interested in participating in debate and discussion on people's issues. "They first said that we want a discussion on corona but then later did not agree to it. They said we want a discussion on farmers and then did not agree on that. There has been the problem of floods in various parts of the country, they are not showing any interest in that also or on the price rise issue that they talk about," he said. On the Opposition insisting on debating the Pegasus issue, Naqvi said they want to waste Parliament's time on "fake and fabricated issues that have no identity." "Without wasting time, IT Minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) had made a statement and they had an opportunity to get a clarification in Rajya Sabha. But instead of taking a clarification they created a ruckus and adopted a violent attitude," he alleged. Naqvi said most of the Opposition parties are interested in debate and discussion but unfortunately the Congress is trying to be their self-appointed head and in that attempt, it is "propagating its own negative attitude as that of the Opposition". "They (the Congress) are trying to hijack the thinking of even those opposition parties that are thinking on constructive lines. Congress is trying to become a self-appointed leader of the Opposition," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Naqvi said the Congress also tried to "mislead" people on the Rafale jets issue and wasted Parliament's time and everybody knows what happened as they were exposed. "These people (Congress) were the James Bond of spying (when in power). They spin a web of spying when in government and when in opposition create a hullabaloo alleging surveillance," Naqvi said, making a reference to the fictional super spy character that novelist Ian Fleming created on which several movies have been made. In the UPA time, their own finance minister had accused his government of spying on him, he said. "They want to create that atmosphere even now, though there is no substance in these allegations," the minister asserted on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers — Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw — businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The Congress and several other Opposition parties are demanding a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the allegations and also asking the government to come clean whether Pegasus spyware was used or not. Naqvi said the government has stated that it is ready to discuss all issues that are related to the people and the Opposition parties should give notices over it on which the Speaker in Lok Sabha and the chairman in Rajya Sabha will decide. The Rajya Sabha deputy leader said the government is reaching out to opposition leaders and there is no communication gap. "In a day, three-four times discussion is happening with opposition leaders but unfortunately what path the leadership of the grand old party wants to adopt is baffling," he said. Asked about the Opposition's charge of the government passing bills amid din without debate, Naqvi said they should look at their own history as to how many bills were passed by the UPA amid din. "The din during their time would have been due to Commonwealth, 2G spectrum scams, but they don't have any issue. It is an issueless Congress party," he alleged. "We humbly request the Opposition to participate in debate and discussion. They can give notices on the issues they want to discuss and the speaker and chairman will allot time and day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-was-james-bond-of-spying-when-in-power-at-centre-pegasus-a-fabricated-issue-naqvi-1015144.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||RSP MP complains to Lok Sabha Speaker on Modi announcing policy decisions outside Parliament||Premachandran, a Lok Sabha MP from Kerala's Kollam, wrote to Birla on Saturday seeking a ruling from the Chair on this, saying that Modi's conduct was disrespectful to Parliament as well as circumventing traditions followed for decades. The RSP MP from Kerala said one should show respect to Parliament and its tradition and any action that disregards it should be looked into and concerned persons should face action. Premachandran's complaint to Birla came as Modi on Twitter announced the decision to implement  27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for Economically Weaker Section (EWS)  in the All India Quota Scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year. The announcement on OBC and EWS quota in All India medical seats has been projected by the BJP as a landmark decision. It came days after Madras High Court criticised the government for not implementing its order, which was issued last July. Emphasising that Modi's announcement on quota was a policy decision, the RSP MP said there is a precedent and convention that policy decisions are announced first in Parliament when it is in session and it has been adopted since long. While acknowledging that there may not be breach of privilege as per rulings, Premachandran said the announcements being made outside would tantamount to "breach of courtesy and breach of propriety" of the House. He said he would raise the matter in the House. The 'Rajya Sabha At Work' said it has generally been held that "no privilege of the House is involved if statements on matters of public interest are not made first in the House. However, it is a breach of propriety for a Minister to make a statement outside the House while it is in session." "It has also been held that policy statements should first be made on the floor of the House when the House is in session before releasing them to the press or to the public but Ministers cannot be prohibited from making the statements outside the House if such statements are not contrary to the declared policy of the Government," it added Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rsp-mp-complains-to-lok-sabha-speaker-on-modi-announcing-policy-decisions-outside-parliament-1015176.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya hits back at Rahul Gandhi for questioning Covid vaccine availability||The vaccination drive in the country is set to get a major boost this month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Sunday as he took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government's vaccine delivery programme. The minister asked Gandhi to join everyone in feeling proud about the work done by the country's health workers. In a response to Gandhi's tweet questioning the availability of vaccines last month, Mandaviya said more than 13 crore doses were administered in July and the drive is going to accelerate this month. "More than 13 crore doses were administered in India in the month of July. It is going to accelerate this month. We are proud of our healthcare workers for this achievement. सुना है, जुलाई में जिन 13 करोड़ लोगों को टीके लगाए गए, उनमें से आप भी एक हैं। लेकिन आपने हमारे वैज्ञानिकों के लिए एक शब्द नहीं बोला, जनता से वैक्सीन लगाने की अपील नहीं की। मतलब आप वैक्सीनेशन के नाम पर तुच्छ राजनीति कर रहे हैं।दरअसल वैक्सीन की नहीं, आपमें परिपक्वता की कमी है। "Now you too should be proud of them and the country," Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi in response to Gandhi's post. Earlier during the day, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi saying "July is gone, but the shortage of vaccine hasn't gone away." He used the hashtag #WhereAreVaccines. सुना है, जुलाई में जिन 13 करोड़ लोगों को टीके लगाए गए, उनमें से आप भी एक हैं। लेकिन आपने हमारे वैज्ञानिकों के लिए एक शब्द नहीं बोला, जनता से वैक्सीन लगाने की अपील नहीं की। मतलब आप वैक्सीनेशन के नाम पर तुच्छ राजनीति कर रहे हैं।दरअसल वैक्सीन की नहीं, आपमें परिपक्वता की कमी है। The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 47 crore with 60,15,842 doses being administered in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry said Sunday morning. More than 3 crore balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-for-questioning-covid-vaccine-availability-1015206.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah pitches for 'just action' by police, says they get defamed for 'no action' or 'extreme action'||Police get defamed due to either "no action" or "extreme action", Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday as he laid emphasis on "just action". "I often say that police get defamed due to two reasons -- one is no action, and the second is extreme action. No action is not right as indolence cannot rectify the law and order system. And extreme is also not correct as it triggers reaction. So, the police should come out of no action and extreme action, and move in the direction of just action," he said. He was addressing a function after laying the foundation of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here. Shah said the institute along with the National Forensic Sciences University in Gandhinagar will help the police move ahead in the direction of natural action. "Today policing is not confined to what was imagined 20 years ago, be it counterfeit notes, narcotics, narco-terror, cyber crime or cow smuggling. The day is not far when every district in UP will have a mobile forensic van, and there will be regional FSLs (forensic sciences laboratories)," he said. The government will work towards making the utilisation of FSL compulsory for conviction in crimes carrying punishment of more than 6 years, he said. "Today, the seeds of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences have been sown. Once it becomes a banyan tree, a number of children will make their career from here, they will take part in research and will prove to be the backbone of the country's law and order. When (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji was the chief minister (of Gujarat), he had established the first-of-its-kind forensic sciences university in Gandhinagar. The Government of India has approved Rs 15 crore for establishment of a DNA centre here." He also said that the institute will prove to be a milestone in terms of police modernisation. "Though law and order is a state subject, the Centre is taking some initiatives so that the law and order of the country can be strengthened. Many colleges in the country are going to start after taking affiliation from the National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar. By 2024, half of the states in the country will have forensic science colleges," he said. Highlighting the low rate of conviction in the country, Shah said, "The rate of conviction in the country is very low. In some countries like Israel, it has been taken to 90 per cent. India is lagging behind, and the main reason is lack of professional education." He said forensic sciences university will help in conviction, leading to punishment. "When there will be punishment...the crime rate will automatically come down," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-pitches-for-just-action-by-police-says-they-get-defamed-for-no-action-or-extreme-action-1015209.html
01-08-2021||National Politics||BJP-JD(U) ties: Nitish Kumar meets Chautala in BJP ruled-Haryana, sets off buzz||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday met INLD chief and former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala, a meeting which has set off speculation whether a realignment of political forces is on the cards amid uneasy BJP-JD(U) relations. While leaders from both the camps have remained tightlipped about the meeting, Chautala had, after meeting Nitish Kumar's emissary K C Tyagi last week, said if a strong third front is formed, then many who support the government will leave it and that he would himself contact opposition leaders soon to forge a third front at the national level. Chautala's son and INLD Abhay Chautala meanwhile tweeted about Nitish Kumar and K C Tyagi's meeting with his father to enquire about his well being during which they "discussed political matters". JD(U) general secretary Tyagi has been maintaining that politics should not be read into it as both leaders go back many decades and share similar socialist backgrounds. Om Prakash Chautala plans to meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform before September 25, the birth anniversary of former deputy PM Devi Lal.  He had also flagged his good relations with BJD's Naveen Patnaik and YSRCP's Jagan Mohan Reddy, leaders who on many occasions helped the Modi government in Parliament on specific occasions. While JD(U) is the dominant ally of BJP in Bihar, Chautala's rebel grandson Dushyant Chautala-led party JJP is an ally of BJP in Haryana. In last year Bihar Assembly polls, late Union Ram Vilas Paswan's party LJP, led by his son Chirag Paswan, had ensured by fielding candidates against Nitish Kumar's party even while supporting the BJP that the latter emerges as the single largest party while JD(U)'s number substantially comes down. While the BJP later distanced itself from Chirag, many in the JD(U) believed BJP's subtle politics behind the whole episode. Ever since then, the ruling JD(U) in Bihar led by Nitish Kumar had tried to strengthen itself, inducting NDA's former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha into the party to widen its OBC base as Kushwaha is a prominent leader of Koiri community that has six per cent votes in the state. The coalition of BJP and JD(U) in Bihar has been for long considered kind of a social coalition with BJP keeping a captive vote of upper caste votes and Nitish Kumar bringing with him Extremely Backward Castes (EBC) and Mahadalit votes. In this backdrop of a complementary coalition of the two parties, Singh's appointment as JD(U) chief raises eyebrows. Even as BJP agreed to make Nitish Kumar CM as promised even after JD(U) getting a far lesser number of seats than BJP, some leaders from BJP have quite frequently fired their salvos against the Chief Minister. JD(U) seems to have gone from 'ally with a difference' to 'ally with differences' level, taking a different stand from BJP on several issues -- most recently on the OBC census and the population control law proposed by Yogi Adityanath government of BJP in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. JD(U) MPs have sought time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impress on the government to come out with caste census months after the Centre informed the Parliament in March that there is no proposal at present to release the report of the caste census carried out in 2011. On Saturday, the party passed reiterating that the central government should come out with a caste census voicing its concern against any coercive measures like the enactment of laws to control population growth even as more BJP ruled states have now batted in favour of this law. A more clear picture of how JD(U) will move forward could be clear when the party's national council, the largest organisational body of the party, meets in Patna this month. After taking charge Singh had already said he would work to strengthen the JD(U) in different parts of the country. The party has also announced to contest elections in poll-bound BJP-ruled states Uttar Pradesh and Manipur, preferably with BJP if a "respectable number of seats" is given to it. JD(U) has said it will contest 200 seats in UP otherwise. Singh also said he will reach out to those leaders who were once part of the organisation but moved out due to some reasons. The last prominent leader of JD(U) to be forced to leave the party was Sharad Yadav. Many leaders at level have also left the party and went to Chirag Paswan-led LJP. A few years back there was a failed attempt to bring together different splinter groups of old Janata Parivar like JD(U), INLD, SP and few others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jdu-ties-nitish-kumar-meets-chautala-in-bjp-ruled-haryana-sets-off-buzz-1015277.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Over 100 families evacuated as water level in Yamuna rises again||The water level in the Yamuna in Delhi increased again and was recorded at 205.30 meters on Sunday morning, just below the danger mark of 205.33 meters, as rains continued to lash Delhi and upper catchment areas of the river, officials said.  According to the officials, over 100 families living in the Yamuna floodplains have been moved to higher areas over the last few days. On Friday, the Delhi administration had sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people from vulnerable areas, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas. The water level was recorded at 205.30 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 am.  On Friday, the Yamuna had breached the danger mark and swelled to 205.59 metres by 9 pm. It had receded to 204.89 metres on Saturday evening, according to the Delhi flood control room.  With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have been evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. "The flood alert remains in place. We have deployed boats in different areas and families living in vulnerable areas are being temporarily moved into tents and shelter homes of the city government," an official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres.  The Delhi flood control room reported a discharge rate of 17,827 cusecs from the Hathnikund Barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district at 9 am.  Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. It had peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. A Met Department official said "moderate to heavy" rains are predicted in northwest India over the next few days, which is likely to increase water levels in the rivers flowing through the region.  In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-100-families-evacuated-as-water-level-in-yamuna-rises-again-1015146.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||RSS advises Uttarakhand CM Dhami to introduce population control law to ensure 'demographic balance'||In a coordination meeting held Wednesday in Dehradun, the RSS leaders claimed that the population of Muslims in Dehradun, Nainital, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar had increased over the years and needed to be controlled. They also raised objection to the alleged unauthorised development of religious sites and wanted "appropriate action" against such sites. The RSS functionaries also objected to former CM Trivendra Singh's decision to set up the Char Dham Devasthanam Board. Apart from CM Dhami, BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, state party president Madan Kaushik, and RSS joint general secretaries Dr Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar were present in the meeting. Set up in December 2019, the Char Dham Devasthanam Board controls the four major shrines and the 49 other linked temples. In a bid to dampen the fire surrounding the issue, CM Dhami said he would form a high-level panel to study the board's impact, the report added, citing sources. The functionaries also hinted that the RSS cadres on the ground level were not happy. They must be kept happy if the BJP is to return to power in 2022, the functionaries said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-advises-uttarakhand-cm-dhami-to-introduce-population-control-law-to-ensure-demographic-balance-1015162.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Day after road cave-in, Delhi Jal Board says leakages in underground water pipeline plugged||The leakages in an underground water pipeline beneath the IIT-Delhi flyover, where a portion of the road caved in after rains on Saturday, have been plugged, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said on Sunday. "After working round the clock, the leakages of waterline under the IIT flyover have been attended. One upstream manhole is being plugged and @pwddelhi (Public Works Department) has constructed the road," the DJB tweeted. The PWD had earlier said the portion of the road caved in because of the leakage in an underground DJB line. "Our engineers are on the spot and are fixing the road. The road caved in because of an underground DJB line which is leaking. The leaking line eroded the road leading to cave-in. It is being attended on priority," PWD Engineer-in-Chief Shashi Kant had said. The capital has witnessed rainfall for five days on the trot, starting Tuesday last week. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, recorded 100 mm rainfall on Tuesday, 5.4mm on Wednesday, 5.2mm on Thursday, 72 mm on Friday and 43.6 mm on Saturday. Over 126mm rainfall was gauged at the Ridge weather station between 8.30 am on Saturday and 8.30 on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-road-cave-in-delhi-jal-board-says-leakages-in-underground-water-pipeline-plugged-1015166.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Parents have little idea of my feat, says girl who scored 100% in CBSE Class 12 board exams||At a remote village in the backward Bundelkhand region, Rati Bai and her husband Laxmi Prasad are happy that their youngest daughter has cleared her class 12 exam but have little idea about her extraordinary feat. Ansuiya, who hails from Badera village in Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh, has scored 599 out of 600 marks in her class 12 exam (99.8 per cent), with a best of five score being a perfect 100 per cent, according to her CBSE result. The 18-year-old humanities student scored 99 marks in Political Science and a perfect 100 in English, History, Geography, Painting and Hindi (additional elective subject), her result showed. "My parents are happy but they do not realise how valuable this achievement of mine is. Parents in cities value it," Ansuiya, the first person from her family to have cleared class 12, told PTI over the phone. "Some of the people in the village and nearby areas have also heard about my result. They are all happy but yet to comprehend the value of my result. But that is how it is," she added, with a tinge of gloom in her voice. She said her father is a part-time farmer and a part-time labourer while mother is a home-maker. She has three elder brothers, one younger brother and two elder sisters. "The elder brothers studied till class 8 after which they dropped out to support the family financially and started working as labourers. My sisters have not been to school. Only the younger brother is into studies and took his class 12 exam this year," Ansuiya said. The younger brother, who is 17-years-old, studied at a local state board-affiliated school in Mahoba, said the girl, who had been enrolled in VidyaGyan, a residential-boarding school in Bulandshahr district in western Uttar Pradesh. Talking about her exam result, Ansuiya, who had scored 98.2 per cent in class 10, said, "I was nervous before the results were announced but I am excited since then. I was hoping to improve on my class 10 score but had not expected 599 out of 600." Besides studies, she said she was part of the school Basketball team and a music band and enjoyed painting too. She credited her boarding school, teachers and friends for the extraordinary success. "If I had not got this platform (VidyaGyan school), life certainly would have been different." She also expressed gratitude towards her Mahoba primary school teacher Mohan Lal, who had helped her apply in to the free of cost boarding school in 2006, an initiative of the Shiv Nadar Foundation. "My family was supportive at the time about my getting into a boarding school as I was the only child in the family who had shown some inclination towards education," she said. Elated with her exam result, the girl said she now plans to go for graduation from Delhi University and eventually get into the prestigious Indian Administrative Services (IAS). "I got an idea during school about how an IAS officer can work for development of places like my village, which are remote and far-flung. This way, one can work at the ground-level to improve society. I will prepare for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to get into the IAS," Ansuiya said. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 12 results were announced on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parents-have-little-idea-of-my-feat-says-girl-who-scored-100-in-cbse-class-12-board-exams-1015170.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks CBSE's stand in plea concerning assessment of private class 10 students||The Delhi High Court has granted time to the Central Board of Secondary Education to respond to a plea concerning the methodology of assessment of private class 10 students after the examination was cancelled on account of Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year. Justice Prateek Jalan, hearing a petition moved by the mother of a private class 10 student, passed the order after time was sought by the counsel for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the Central Board of Secondary Education, seeks ten days' further time to take instructions on the methodology for assessment of private candidates for the class 10 examinations,” the judge recorded in the order dated July 29 as he listed the matter for further hearing on August 23. The notice to CBSE in the petition was issued in June when the court granted six weeks' time to the education body to clarify its stand. In her petition, Payal Bahl has submitted that while students have been declared as “Pass” after the announcement of cancellation of examinations, CBSE has not issued any notification regarding its policy on how marks are to be awarded to private students. CBSE's attitude towards the students who are privately enrolled in class 10 examination is "prima facie violative of the Article 14 of the Constitution of India" and takes away “their equal opportunity of proceeding with further education”, she contended. It is highlighted that CBSE has already notified that assessment of regular class 10 students was to be based on internal assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-cbses-stand-in-plea-concerning-assessment-of-private-class-10-students-1015173.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri youths visiting Pakistan infiltrating back as trained terrorists||The recent killing of terrorist Shakir Altaf Bhat and subsequent finding that he had left the country on a valid passport for studies in Pakistan in 2018 and returned as a terrorist set alarm bells ringing in the security establishment in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said here on Sunday. Security agencies made a quick estimate of passports issued between 2015 and 2019, and found that out of the 40 youths who had gone to Bangladesh or Pakistan for studies, 28 had infiltrated back into the country as trained terrorists, the officials said. This is in addition to over 100 Kashmiri youths who travelled to Pakistan on valid visas for short durations, and have either not come back or disappeared after their return in the last three years. The security agencies fear that they could be possible sleeper cells of terror groups operating from across the border. The July 24 encounter in the heights of Bandipora led to the killing of three terrorists, including Bhat, a resident of the same district. Security agencies believe that Bhat had targeted to assassinate Usman Majid, a former militant-turned-politician who has withstood at least three such bids in the past. Between April 1 to 6 of last year, some youths hailing from Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag districts of south Kashmir were seen as part of the infiltrating groups of terrorists and all of them had travelled to Pakistan on valid documents and never returned thereafter, they said. A massive exercise was undertaken by the security agencies along with the immigration officials at Wagah border as well as at the New Delhi airport during which it was found that at least 40 youths who had travelled to either Bangladesh or Pakistan for studies were missing with their families not knowing about their wards, they said. As a precautionary measure, even the youths from the valley who travelled on valid visas for a duration of over seven days over the last three years were questioned, the officials said. The figures have surprised the officials as in some of the cases it was found that the youths never returned and in others they disappeared after their return, raising suspicion that they could have become "sleeper cells", waiting for instructions from their masters in Pakistan's spy agency ISI or handlers in terror groups located across the border. The youths who had travelled to Pakistan even two years back have been called for questioning and a proper analysis of their activities after their return was being carried out by the security agencies. Those questioned by the security agencies were asked for a valid reason for their travel to Pakistan, the officials said, adding that the background of all these people was checked and verified thoroughly. The Jammu and Kashmir police also issued a directive on Saturday asking its Special Branch, a unit mandated for verification, to “ensure that during verification related to passport and any other government scheme, the individual's involvement in law and order, stone pelting is specifically checked. Also, the digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audios clips, quadcopter images available in the records of police stations should be referred to by the unit. Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied any security clearance, the order said. The officials believe that there is a six weeks' training course for new terror recruits and intelligence inputs suggest that some of the youths were provided a quick module of fabrication of improvised explosive devices using easily available material within a week's time, they said. The recruitment of youths for various terror organisations is also being carried out discreetly and it is quite possible that these youths could also be doubling as "recruiters" for brain-washing of vulnerable men in the militancy-affected union territory. The missing youths are mainly from average middle class families and have been described as the new faces of terrorism in Kashmir. They could be waiting for delivery of arms and ammunition, which has been substantially choked due to heightened surveillance at the Line of Control, they said. In a recent interview to PTI, Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said as many as 69 youths had joined terror groups. Singh had said though the number of local youths joining terror groups has fallen from 85 to 69 this year for the first six months, there is some amount of recruitment taking place for which there should be more efforts from the society and agencies to check this "unfortunate trend". "That is an unfortunate trend as I see some amount of recruitment is taking place. It is 69 to be precise. But then if you compare it with the same period of previous year it was 85. You see a declining trend here but the fact is that certain recruitment is taking place. We are trying to address this problem by targeting the people who are responsible for such luring of the youth and radicalization of the youth,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-youths-visiting-pakistan-infiltrating-back-as-trained-terrorists-1015213.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||J&K Police to deny security clearance for passport, govt services to stone pelters||The CID wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police has ordered the denial of security clearance required for passport and other government services to all those involved in stone-pelting or subversive activities. In an order issued on Saturday, the senior superintendent of police (SSP), CID, Special Branch (SB), Kashmir, has directed all the field units under it to ensure that the person's involvement in law and order, stone-pelting cases, and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into during verification related to passport, service and any other verification related to government schemes. “The same must be corroborated from the local police station records,” the order read. The SSP also said digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police, security forces, and security agencies be also referred during the verification. “Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance,” the SSP, CID-SB, Kashmir said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-to-deny-security-clearance-for-passport-govt-services-to-stone-pelters-1015234.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah sharpens Hindutva agenda ahead of UP polls||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday dropped strong hints that Hindutva would be at the centre of his party's agenda in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due early next year. Shah, who addressed two meetings in UP after laying the foundation stones of Institute of Forensic Science at Lucknow and Vindhyavasini Corridor at Mirzapur, focused mainly on the development of important religious places in the state after the formation of the BJP government in the state and at the Centre. ''BJP fulfilled its promise on Ram Temple....a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya will soon be a reality.....we had been fighting for it for the last five hundred years,'' he said while addressing a meeting at Mirzapur, about 300 kilometres from here. ''Why did the previous governments not get the Ram Temple constructed....why did they not make efforts to develop the Brij Bhumi (land of Lord Krishna) and Chitrakoot, where Lord Rama had spent several years,'' Shah said. ''The previous government did not pay attention to the Hindu religious places as they pursued vote bank politics,'' he added. He also said that the UP government had launched several projects to develop important Hindu religious places. Shah also made a subtle reference to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots and said that in the previous governments people in western UP had been forced to migrate fearing a particular community. ''The situation has changed now....there is rule of law in UP...the mafias have been surrendering before the police,'' the former BJP president said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also stuck to the Hindutva agenda and mentioned development works at Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Vindhyachal, Varanasi, Prayagraj and other religious places. He also said that the BJP government at the Centre had corrected the mistakes committed by the Congress government by abolishing Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-sharpens-hindutva-agenda-ahead-of-up-polls-1015235.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||BJP govt in UP anti-Brahmin and anti-Dalit: BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra||Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Chandra Mishra on Sunday said many “innocent” Brahmins were booked in last year's Bikru ambush case in Kanpur and claimed that the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh was not only anti-Dalit but also anti-Brahmin. He also said that Khushi Dubey, the wife of a relative of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, was “unnecessarily” booked in the case. On July 3 last year, a police team was ambushed in Bikru village in Kanpur district when it had gone to raid Vikas Dubey’s house. Eight policemen were killed in the incident. Later, on July 10, the gangster was shot dead by police which claims that he had tried to escape when the vehicle bringing him back from Ujjain met with an accident at the Bhauti area near Kanpur. The present BJP government is anti-Brahmin and anti-Dalit, and atrocities are being done on both the communities under this dispensation, Mishra alleged at the 'Prabuddha Varg Sammelan' here. He also alleged that in the Bikru incident many “innocent” Brahmin's were booked in false cases. "In the same incident, Khushi Dubey was dragged in the case and was booked,” the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader said "Khushi Dubey has been detained unnecessarily by the government," he claimed. Mishra said that the BSP has always supported Brahmins and honoured them in the party. Brahmins have been given key responsibilities in the party, he added. When the BSP was in power, it did various development works in Mathura-Vrindavan, Varanasi and Ayodhya and other religious places, Mishra said. Urging Brahmin's to support the BSP, he claimed, “Brahmin's should join hands with the BSP to defeat the BJP in the upcoming 2022 assembly election of state.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-govt-in-up-anti-brahmin-and-anti-dalit-bsp-leader-satish-chandra-mishra-1015253.html
01-08-2021||North and Central||6 killed in MP after 2 houses collapse due to rains; flood-like situation in parts of Rajasthan||Six people were killed and four others injured in two incidents of house collapse due to heavy rains in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, while some parts in Rajasthan faced a flood-like situation due to torrential rains, putting lives and property at risk. The India Meteorological Department has issued a 'red alert' for Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, forecasting very heavy to extremely heavy rains on Monday. Delhi witnessed extensive waterlogging and traffic jams in several parts of the city as rains continued to lash the national capital. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for Delhi, recorded 28.2 mm rainfall, while the Ridge station registered 126.8 mm rainfall from 8.30 am on Saturday to 8.30 am on Sunday. The maximum temperature was recorded at 32.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's average. The weather office has forecast a generally cloudy sky with heavy rains on Monday. Parts of Paschim Medinipur and Howrah districts in West Bengal witnessed inundation as additional water is being discharged from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams after heavy rains. At least 212 relief camps have been set up in Paschim Medinipur, offering shelter to over 12,000 people as water having breached embankments entered their homes. In Howrah, vast stretches of Udaynarayanpur and Amta, including medical facilities, lay submerged with the NDRF and the SDRF carrying out relief operations on war-footing. Several arterial roads, including the Udayanarayanpur-Tarakeswar stretch, have gone under water, virtually cutting off link between Howrah and Hooghly districts. In Madhya Pradesh, six people were killed and four others injured in two incidents of house collapse due to heavy rains in Rewa and Singrauli districts. Some 300 people from Tyonthar area of Rewa district had to be moved to safety after incessant rains caused flooding. According to the IMD, showers ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.5 mm or above along with thunderstorms and lightning are very likely at isolated places in Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena, Bhind, Neemuch and Mandsaur. Several areas in Himachal Pradesh received light to moderate rains, while the MeT Department has issued a fresh yellow weather warning till August 5. Nadaun received 35 mm rain, followed by Dalhousie 34 mm, Chamba 19 mm, Kasauli 17 mm and Paonta Sahib 14 mm. Parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana also received light to moderate rains. In UP, rainfall was recorded in Sonbhadra, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot, Moradabad, Mahoba and Pratapgarh. Hisar, Karnal and Rohtak in Haryana, and Patiala in Punjab received 22 mm, 32 mm, 0.4 mm and 7 mm rain, respectively. Battered by torrential rains, some places in Rajasthan are facing a flood-like situation. According to the weather office, 240 mm rainfall, the highest in the state, was recorded at Makrana in Nagaur from Saturday to Sunday morning, while Hurda in Bhilwara recorded 215 mm rains. Many other areas in Nagaur, Tonk, Jaipur, Bhilwara and Ajmer also recorded heavy to very heavy rains during this period. Sawaimadhopur, Vanasthali (Tonk), Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Kota and Dabok also recorded 38 mm, 27 mm, 23 mm, 16.2 mm, 7 mm and 6.2 mm rains till Sunday evening. The water level in Ajmer's Anasagar increased due to the rains and areas surrounding it were inundated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-killed-in-mp-after-2-houses-collapse-due-to-rains-flood-like-situation-in-parts-of-rajasthan-1015273.html
01-08-2021||Oasis||Confusion compounded||As confusion 'compounded' rages through my brain in sorting the various views on subjects I read in the newspapers or hear most often as a cacophony of competition as to 'who can senselessly screech the loudest', either in Parliament sessions or over the TV panel discussions, my mind has to step in strong as a sort of filter to enable me keep my own sensibilities focused and in balance. A part of my mind prompts: "Forget the paradoxical present, remember the past. Those halcyon bygone days when little stresses didn’t stretch our equilibrium to breaking point, were certainly more enriching weren't they?" Another part intrudes with a counter argument: "But you live in the present, so you can't ignore the good, the bad plus the ugly that somehow co-exists. Adjust along with the times." Indeed, I agree, as both are feasible, interchangeable, to suit the mood. Thus my mind wanders on at age 71, as old age enters the stage, making seemingly mountainous the task of keeping at bay the anxieties of even small issues, infusing doubts that deter important decisions. Many a time these hesitancies take a toll, even on tough nuts like me, normally hard to crack! Personally speaking, my eyes do blink at the myriad choices before me, to get even simple jobs completed as they involve these mindboggling, challenging millenium inventions called computer configurations, smart phone Apps or Bots. Dealing with such is a necessity, but with no training or guiding, my hit or miss attempts are unnerving. Just picking up a phone and speaking your request to another human being isn’t in existence anymore, it seems. Isn’t it therefore irksome to ‘flow with the go’, to tussle with sanity, live in a world of escapism, denial and mockery that troublesome times are knocking at our door, be they the stretch of the Covid scare, the differing vaccine views, the almost daily rise in prices, the education systems struggling to find a suitable fix, the employment scene endeavouring to keep afloat, the utterings and mutterings that circulate en masse via social media, some for the better, but most for the worse, as they harbour a quiver of arrows to be shot at will among the vulnerable, as also those who speak up against inequalities. Time for sure is to set right awkward awry equations...||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/confusion-compounded-1015317.html
01-08-2021||Opinion||Protect India’s secular nationalism!||I often tell foreign friends that India is a land of paradoxes. You can often make two contradictory statements about India and find that both are almost equally true. The wildly debated recent Pew survey on India pretty much established that. One of the most fascinating paradoxes in the survey was about the role of religion in public life. While 84% of Indians said that respecting all religions is very important to being ‘truly Indian’, 64% Hindus also said that being Hindu is very important to being ‘truly Indian’. Many analysts took solace in this paradox with a ‘glass is half full’ attitude, but it is deeply problematic. The driving thrust of Hindutva politics has been to redefine Indian national identity based on the Hindu identity, and then subsume other identities within the Hindu identity. This allows one to believe that Hindus ‘own’ India, while non-Hindus are merely ‘guests’ or (worse) ‘tenants’ in India, with the right to practice their religion but not to lead or represent the nation as a whole. Of course, a further strand within this ideological debate is the question of ‘who is a Hindu’. While some Hindutva friends hold that Indian Muslims or Christians should also be considered ‘Hindu’, politics is practical, and the most practical way of defining a Hindu in public life is through their religious beliefs (while segregating the rest). The closest parallel to this model of nationalism is perhaps Israel – a country that is, not coincidentally, looked up to by many Hindutva enthusiasts. While about 20% of Israel’s population is Arab, Arabs are – for all practical purposes – not ‘truly Israeli’. Arabs have largely been left out of Israel’s growth story, with nearly 40% of them still living in poverty. They are also not conscripted into the military, even though military service is compulsory for other Israeli citizens. And it is highly unlikely that an Arab politician would ever become Israel’s prime minister. I once asked an Israeli friend why his country does not simply absorb Palestinians as citizens, instead of building illegal settlements. He said, “But we are a Jewish state!” (It was therefore irrelevant that the Palestinians would not like that either.) By contrast, the Indian model of nationalism, at independence, had meant to embrace all of India’s diverse communities and identities equally. The founders of the Indian republic were unanimous in the belief that India can’t simply become a ‘Hindu Pakistan’. But if being Hindu is considered the key to being ‘truly Indian’, can one ever visualise a Muslim or Christian being elected prime minister? Sadly, the survey showed that Muslims are also buying into the segregation. Strikingly, but unsurprisingly, almost half of the Muslims surveyed by Pew saw the partition of India and Pakistan as a ‘bad thing’. Indian Muslims hold syncretic religious beliefs with strong Hindu influences (77% of them believe in karma, for instance). Yet, the Muslim social and political identity is now much more sharply defined. The Muslim attitude to inter-religious marriages is extremely hostile, but they also tend to live largely amongst themselves and want access to religious courts to solve family disputes, rather than go to the general judiciary. India’s experiment with democracy has been truly unique – especially in the post-colonial world. Around us, many a Congo and Cambodia have stumbled into ethnic conflict and civil war, and hurtled towards ruin. But Indian democracy will only continue to thrive if Indian nationalism continues to celebrate diversity. Come August 15, India’s secular nationalism would have survived 74 miraculous years. It does not need to be redefined because it isn’t broken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/protect-india-s-secular-nationalism-1015056.html
01-08-2021||Opinion||Stories of skilled thieves and lessons they offer||One of the unexpected benefits of the lockdown was the reduction in crime rates. After all, how could chain snatchers snatch chains if no one was out walking? And how could burglars burgle if everyone stayed home? Now that the lockdown is lifted, crime is back with a vengeance, with at least five muggings every day in Bengaluru alone. On that note, why not peek into some stories of skilled thieves? In Sanskrit, of course. Legend goes that there was an ancient text, the Steya-Shastra, authored by Karnisuta or Muladeva, a textbook of thievery! It contained, among other things, classifications of thieves, methods of digging tunnels into buildings, and recommendations for breaking into houses. The Steya-shastra has not come down to us, quite fortunately perhaps, but Sanskrit dramas hint at what the content of such a text could be. In Mricchakatika, a thief Sharvilaka, who obviously believes in burglary as an art form, describes the seven kinds of breaches that can be made in walls and classifies them by shape — the lotus, the sun, the crescent moon, the tank, the broad, the svastika shaped, and the filled pot. Imagine a burglar who would take the effort to build a tunnel into your home! Everyone knows the story of the infamous Angulimala, who wore a necklace of fingers after looting every traveller crossing his path, until he met and became a disciple of the Buddha. But less known is the story of Rauhineya, a clever thief from many Jain texts. Rauhineya’s father was a thief, and so Rauhineya was naturally skilled at thieving. Rauhineya’s father, just before he died, had only one word of advice for Rauhineya: to never listen to the discourses of the Jain Tirthankara Mahavira. Rauhineya took his father’s words very seriously, and lived merrily as he pleased, robbing people recklessly in the city, and making sure that he never passed the street where Mahavira was talking, lest even a word fall on his ears. One day though, the only route to his destination was a street where Mahavira was giving a discourse to his disciples. Nevertheless, Rauhineya shut his ears very tightly so that he would not hear a word. He walked quickly, until a thorn pricked his foot, and he was forced to use one of his hands to extract the thorn. He heard a few stray sentences that Mahavira was saying: “The gods in heaven do not sweat; their feet never touch the ground; their flowers never wilt…”. Rauhineya cursed his bad luck, shut his ears again, and walked away as fast as he could. A few days later, the king’s men, who were desperately searching for Rauhineya finally managed to capture him. But the king was in a fix, because Rauhineya had not been caught red-handed, and there was no confirming evidence of any theft to sentence him. The minister came up with a plan, and when Rauhineya was asleep, dressed him up in the fanciest finery, and placed him in a palace that looked like heaven itself. When Rauhineya woke up, he was greeted by an entire retinue of ministers and beautiful women who told him that he was in heaven, and that he had been crowned their king. They danced and sang for him, before they suddenly remembered the customary procedure! Every new king must narrate, in detail, his deeds on earth, before he could formally be crowned. Poor Rauhineya was in a fix. Was this truly heaven, and should he tell the truth about his time as a thief on the earth? Or was this a trick, in which case he would pretend as if he had lived virtuously? Then the stray phrases of Mahavira’s discourse came to his mind. He noted that all the men and women there walked on the ground, their garlands had wilted slightly, and they were sweating in the heat. And he confidently told them that he had been a virtuous man on the earth. The king’s men were forced to let him go. At this point, Rauhineya ran straight to Mahavira, fell at his feet, and gave up his life as a thief. If an overheard line or two could save him from prison and execution, how much more transformative would disciplehood be? A nice story and everything, but who could possibly believe they are king of heaven? Well, anyone can, until High Command tells you to get off the throne, that is!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stories-of-skilled-thieves-and-lessons-they-offer-1015057.html
01-08-2021||Opinion||We need to count the pandemic’s invisible deaths||By Clara Ferreira Marques Eighteen months into the Covid-19 pandemic, we don’t know exactly how many people have died. A true global tally is not just overdue. It’s vital.  The task is a Herculean one, given that so much of the world struggles to record basic information about deaths even in normal times. But without a better grasp of the toll, we will strain to assess the precise, real-world impact of vaccines and other preventative measures, or to understand just how lethal variants have been. Absent efforts to fill the gaps even in developed nations, the wealthy will be counted, but too many of the rest will not, making it easy for economic recovery to overlook the underserved.  Deaths are a sure indicator of the damage wrought. The trouble is just how bad we are at counting them. The World Health Organization puts the pandemic’s toll at more than 195 million infections and over 4 million deaths. Both anecdotal evidence and academic estimates suggest reality is far worse. That’s not necessarily because of deliberate misreporting, though there have certainly been instances of politically motivated lowballing. More commonly, it’s a combination of insufficient testing and patchy data collection, families’ reluctance to register coronavirus deaths to avoid funeral restrictions and stigma, and a narrow view of what counts as a Covid-19 fatality amid complications or confusion from underlying ailments. Probable coronavirus deaths that aren’t confirmed by a diagnostic test can also go unrecorded, despite global guidelines to the contrary. Considering excess mortality — a measure that includes all fatalities above what would be expected in normal conditions, based on historic trends — gets around some of those issues and is arguably a better metric for the overall loss, capturing deaths from mental health strain, drug abuse, or illnesses left undiagnosed while hospitals were overwhelmed. It just isn’t necessarily any easier to track. The developing world has gotten better at registering births, partly because of incentives or the need for families to provide legal identity to access schooling or other services. But still too many deaths are either not reported at all, or are recorded inadequately. Civil registration systems reflect the capacity of the states supporting them. Often they are slow and fragmentary, even for deaths in hospital. One Bangladesh study done outside the capital, Dhaka, found that out of all deaths in the households surveyed, only 17% were registered and most of those were men. Only 5% of female deaths made it into the record. When it comes to Covid-19, India has provided one of the most dramatic examples of undercounting. The government’s death toll is over 420,000, suggesting a lower case fatality rate and fewer deaths per capita than the U.S. or Latin America’s hotspots. In fact, seroprevalence surveys that estimate the number of infections, plus data-based evaluations from journalists and researchers, suggest numbers several times higher. So does anecdotal evidence, including reports during the most recent wave of corpses dumped in the Ganges, firewood shortages for cremations, and, in one instance, of furnaces burning the dead so continuously that metal parts began to melt.  Unsurprisingly, under-reporting is most acute where access to health care is poor. Murad Banaji, a mathematician at Middlesex University London who has tracked India’s pandemic, has highlighted discrepancies in data between states that point to this weak surveillance. Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor at the School of Public Health at the University of Michigan, warns of inequities skewing the findings even in the data that has been available, much of it coming from cities and private hospitals accessed by the middle classes. She estimates that the Covid-19 toll alone could be as high as 2.5 million, five times the official number.  Overall excess mortality, the wider metric of all deaths above the trend, comes in somewhere between 3.4 million and 4.9 million, according to a report by the Washington-based Center for Global Development that leans on a major household survey, civil registration, and applying international fatality rates to Indian infection data. New Delhi, wary of opportunities to call into question its handling of the pandemic, has said reports on higher death counts are “conjectures and speculation.” The trouble is, gaps in knowledge this wide not only limit the official understanding of who suffered and how — slum dwellers or villagers, as opposed to city folk — but also have direct consequences for pandemic management. Had numbers been more realistic and uncertainties acknowledged after India’s first wave of infections, there might have been fewer government victory laps and less complacency. Ordinary people may just have been more cautious, too. India’s government isn’t alone. Russia initially had significant gaps between excess deaths and official figures, though that has since narrowed. Mexico acknowledged in March that Covid-related fatalities were far higher than the official count; excess deaths since early 2020 are now running at close to a half-million, nearly 50% more than the country would normally expect and twice confirmed Covid deaths. Fixing this on a global scale isn’t easy. But there are steps we can take. One, put the focus on excess deaths. That bypasses the complexities of definition in the throes of a pandemic and has the advantage of taking a holistic approach to considering the human cost to include, say, malnutrition during a collapsing economy. As Dale Fisher, an infectious diseases physician at Singapore’s National University Hospital, put it to me, even if there was a consistent methodology to count fatalities from Covid-19 alone, the number might not be as valuable. Then, focus on getting emerging economies — and even the less affluent corners of the developed world — to the point where more deaths are counted. In the long term, that means supporting administrative capacity and encouraging community and faith leaders to promote the importance of timely registrations, especially in an epidemic. Short-term, it’s building workarounds that should include targeted surveys but might even involve, as Mukherjee suggests, a range of data points, from (in India) inactive biometric identification cards to suspended bank accounts, plus extrapolation from better-covered but demographically similar regions. Every life deserves to be counted, and that’s a powerful moral argument. But there’s an economic and social one, too. Without data, we can’t even begin to set right the pandemic’s wrongs — much less tackle the next one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-need-to-count-the-pandemic-s-invisible-deaths-1015108.html
01-08-2021||Panorama||Need to bring balanced population growth||The Uttar Pradesh government’s draft legislation — The Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021— introducing a mandatory two-child norm, has kicked up a huge debate. In a memorandum to the President, a group of women’s organisations termed it ‘unconstitutional’, for violating the ‘right to equality’. They said that it enforces compulsion, attempts to control women’s bodily rights and fertility, will expose them to domestic violence and abusive relationships and encourage people to evade registration of marriages, which, in turn, will deprive many women of rights of maintenance, support, and property. Poonam Muttreja, Executive Director, Population Foundation of India (PFI), is of the view that the Bill, with its restrictive norms, will further ‘dispossess the most disadvantaged, who are the ones most dependent on government rations, subsidies and schemes. In the present pandemic situation, which has already exacerbated inequities, it will put women and children at further risk’. The Bill also drew flak for looking at the issue purely from the ‘demographic angle’, and ignored the findings of the empirical studies that reiterated that ‘socio-economic empowerment of families is a far more effective way in limiting the family size, enabling women to opt for reduced fertility rates as rational choices’. While some political parties dubbed the UP Bill an ‘election propaganda’, population experts, on the other hand, questioned the very rationale behind its mooting, when, according to government data, the state is undergoing a declining fertility rate (TFR), which has nearly halved from 4.82 in 1993 to 2.7 in 2016. A technical group under the National Commission on Population (NCP) estimated that the state will achieve the replacement level of TFR (2.1) by 2025. However, it is not UP alone. Assam as well  and a few more states are now also mulling over introducing two-child policies in their respective states. In fact, if we look back, since the early 1990s, as many as 12 states introduced some versions of such policies for limited purposes, while four among them subsequently revoked them. In this context, the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare’s biennial evaluation report (2019-20), based on National Family Health Survey-5  (NFHS) data, has confirmed that a ‘transition in fertility’ is already under way in 19 out of 22 states surveyed, attaining the TFR below the replacement level. Bihar, which has a two-child policy from 2007, was found to be one of the three defaulting states, with a TFR of 3.5, much above the replacement level. Against this, southern states like Kerala (1.8), Karnataka (1.7), Andhra Pradesh (1.7) and Goa (1.3), all have performed much better than the national average of TFR (2.2). These states, instead of prohibitive norms, concentrated on improving women’s education, which created enlightened decisions. N Saggurti, India Country Director, Population Council, commented that ‘punitive provisions do not make much impact either on fertility change or reproductive health goals per se, while improved status of women, definitely, yields better results. Nevertheless, there are some defenders of the UP Bill too, saying it ‘is a timely step in the right direction’, as the state confronts ‘an extremely adverse man-land ratio, accommodating around 17% of India’s population within 7% of the land area, and faces huge developmental challenges’. A PFI statement read that ‘UP’s Population Policy (2021-2030), based on a non-coercive, rights-based and life-cycle approach, would become irrelevant and ineffective, if the proposed bill comes into effect’. Emergency excesses Nonetheless, in the 1960s and 1970s, India, was in the league of those countries which were influenced by the Neo‐Malthusian overpopulation alarmism, and its ugliest manifestation was seen in forced sterilisations during the period of Emergency (1975–77). Now, when many countries of the world like China are moving away from ‘control and command’ approaches, surprisingly, such ideas are now seeing resurgence in India. Two private member’s bills, one, titled ‘Population Regulation Bill, 2019’, and the other a ‘Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2020’, are pending in the Rajya Sabha. They have raised the hackles of many, especially, when India is witnessing a significant drop in decadal population growth. According to data from National Population Commission (NPC), India’s decadal population growth rate has gone down from 21.5% to 17.7 % between 1991-2001 and 2001-2011 and is set to touch the lowest since the independence to 12.5% in the 2011-2021 decade, and to further plummet to 8.4% in the coming decade (2021-2031). As a demographic shift is already in progress, raising the bogey of population explosion has been considered by many as `politically motivated’, targeted towards a particular community, and will ‘lead to a systemic direct exclusion of the marginalised’. Gender experts fear that ‘when many women in India still can’t choose to refuse marriage or to reproduce, they will be further victimised with forced birth control measures’. Though the government has ruled out the possibility of taking them up in the monsoon session of Parliament, there is a lurking fear among many that they may be raked up before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls for polarisation of votes. Now, as women in India, under the dark shadows of the pandemic, suffered many setbacks with regard to health, food security, education, job opportunities and increased violence, there is a need for a new set of women-centric policy tools, facilitating their re-entry into the mainstream of development. India should also recall the principles adopted at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), 1994, duly incorporated in the National Population Policy, 2000, and embark on a journey for a ‘balanced population growth’, focusing on ‘informed free choices’, and ‘development as the best contraceptive services’. (The writer is former Director-General, Doordarshan, and All India Radio and also former Press Secretary to the President of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/need-to-bring-balanced-population-growth-1015311.html
01-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Seeking stardom||When I was in school, eight decades ago, my classmates and I used to be taken on trips to museums, factories, the Madras High Court, sites of historical significance and other interesting places. Our teachers wished to impress upon us that a whole wide world awaited us, once we left the sheltering walls of our educational institution. A visit to a film studio stands out clearly in my memory. That is probably because my fellow students and I were at an age when we had the usual teenage crush on actors and actresses. We were drawn to a group of stars who sat near the sets, waiting to be summoned for the shoot. One of them was decked in the finery of a princess, the main character in the picture. Grabbing a chance to speak to this dazzling heroine, we asked her how we could enter the glorious realm she inhabited. The young woman condescendingly replied that anyone aspiring a career in films should first have ‘the looks’. At this juncture, a member of the camera crew pointed to one of us: A slim tall girl, with fine features and a dusky complexion. He smilingly said that maybe she stood a chance. We were amused because the fair-skinned, acknowledged beauty of our class was seething with annoyance. She felt that she alone had the requisite attractive appearance. Actually, after spending a morning at the studio, each of us harboured a lurking desire to join the film industry. We knew, however, that such an opportunity was not even remotely within our reach. Long after we left school, whenever we met somewhere, we used to laugh at our youthful dreams. The prettiest girl is now a leading doctor and would not have changed her job for any other. One from our group had become a lawyer, another a politician and several others had opted for the teaching profession. The majority (including myself) were content to be housewives.  Looking back, I feel that, while none of us acquired movie roles, we played the parts best suited to our talents. Over the years, I have lost touch with most of my friends and many have passed away. I like to think that they found happiness in their varied walks of life, however humble. After all, one does not need glitter and glamour to shine like a star.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/seeking-stardom-1015308.html
01-08-2021||Second Edit||Building on Blinken’s visit||Although the recent visit of US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to India did not result in concrete deliverables, it signalled to a strengthening partnership between the two countries. There was some apprehension in the run-up to the visit that US’ raising of concerns over weakening human rights, and religious and media freedoms in India would dampen the mood at bilateral meetings and impact the outcome. While it did ruffle feathers in Delhi, even prompting officials to go on the offensive on the eve of Blinken’s arrival in the capital, the ‘democracy issue’ did not derail the visit. Blinken met civil society members ahead of his official engagements. And while we do not know what transpired behind closed doors, Blinken’s praise for India’s “remarkable democratic elections” and “free-thinking citizens” in his remarks to the press, with no mention being made of democratic rights and religious freedoms, is telling. The two sides are said to have had wide-ranging talks on the dire security situation in Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific engagement and cooperation in tackling Covid-19, among other issues. While India and the US are on the same page in wanting a political settlement to the conflict, Blinken’s focus was more on the Taliban; he warned that an Afghan government that commits atrocities against its own people would be treated as a “pariah state” and did not raise concerns over Pakistan’s continuing support to the Taliban. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, however, drew attention to the “broad consensus, deep consensus [that] most of the neighbours of Afghanistan” have reached on wanting a political statement. Although he didn’t name Pakistan, Jaishankar was pointing to Islamabad as the outlier. On cooperation in fighting the pandemic, the US announced it would give $25 million – this is over the $200 million already extended - to support vaccination efforts. It has promised to keep the raw materials supply chain open for vaccine production in India. This is a step in the right direction. At his meeting with civil society leaders, Blinken engaged with an official of the Tibetan government-in-exile. It is likely that the engagement on Indian soil was aimed at sending a message to the Chinese government that on the Tibetan question, there is growing proximity between New Delhi and Washington. The meeting is bound to draw Beijing’s ire. While India’s frustration with Chinese bellicosity is understandable, it is questionable whether flashing the Tibet card, especially jointly with the Americans, is the best way forward. This may not be in India’s best interests as unlike the US, India is a neighbour of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/building-on-blinken-s-visit-1015315.html
01-08-2021||South||A low key opening of first NH tunnel in Kerala||The first road tunnel on the NH in Kerala was opened for traffic on Saturday. Even as the state government was planning to have the opening of the tunnel with much hype, Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari opened the tunnel partially. "We will open one side of the Kuthiran Tunnel in Kerala today. This is the first road tunnel in the state and will drastically improve connectivity to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The 1.6 km long tunnel is designed through Peechi- Vazahani wildlife sanctuary," he tweeted. Vehicle movement was allowed through the tunnel by evening. The tunnel between Palakkad and Thrissur on NH 544 will help ease the traffic congestion along the stretch. It will also reduce the distance by around 1.5 kilometres. The tunnel work started about ten years back. Though steps were being taken to inaugurate the tunnel several months back, it suffered damage in January after a huge rock fell over the tunnel while clearing the earth over the tunnel. Kerala Public Works Minister Mohammed Riyaz recently announced that the tunnel would be opened by August 1. But till yesterday those associated with the tunnel work said that they did not have any information about the tunnel's opening. Hence the opening of the tunnel by the union minister may trigger a political row.  However, NHAI sources said that the tunnel was opened partially only. A formal inauguration ceremony may be organised when the tunnel becomes fully operational.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-low-key-opening-of-first-nh-tunnel-in-kerala-1015082.html
01-08-2021||South||Avoid events, crowds during Onam festival: Minister to public||With the Onam festival round the corner, Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Saturday asked people to avoid crowds and if possible, even events, celebrations and visits to relatives to reduce the risk of Covid infection. People should strictly avoid crowds and follow Covid protocols while organising and attending events and celebrations, the Minister said. She further said that if possible, people should avoid going to any events or celebrations. Visits to relatives and family should also be avoided as much as possible especially if there are small children in the family, the Minister said. The suggestions come at a time when the State is witnessing over 20,000 fresh Covid cases over the last five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/avoid-events-crowds-during-onam-festival-minister-to-public-1015106.html
01-08-2021||South||Maoist killed in exchange of fire with Telangana cops||A maoist was killed on Sunday in an alleged exchange of fire (EoF) between the ultras and police in a forest area of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, police said. According to a senior police official, special police parties were combing in the Kurnapalli-Bodhenalli area when the members of the banned outfit CPI (Maoist) suddenly opened fire at the personnel, who retaliated resulting in the death of one maoist. "While combing the area the police sighted 10 armed Maoists at around 8.15 am. They fired on the police and during the encounter and one of them was killed. There were no casualties on the police side," Bhadradri Kothagudem District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said. The identification of the maoist, who is in his mid-20s, was being ascertained, police said. Police seized one .303 rifle and two kit bags from the scene. Searches are on, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maoist-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-with-telangana-cops-1015151.html
01-08-2021||South||Kerala rape victim moves SC seeking permission to marry 'tormentor'||A victim of rape has approached the Supreme Court seeking permission to marry her 'tormentor', a 53-year-old Kerala Catholic priest Robin Vadakkumchery who has been sentenced to 20 years in jail and was dismissed from priesthood by the Vatican. The petition filed by the victim will now come up before the apex court on Monday and the victim has also sought bail for Vadakkumchery so that their marriage can take place. The petitioner says this has been filed according to her wish. Earlier, Vadakkumchery had approached the Kerala High Court with a petition seeking to marry the victim, but it was turned down. Vadakkumchery was serving as a parish vicar near Kannur and was the manager of the Church-backed-school, where the victim, a Class 11 student was studying. It was a Child line agency that works among school children that had registered the complaint against the priest. The priest came under pressure after the girl gave birth to a child on February 7, 2017 at a hospital run by the management. The priest was arrested on February 27, 2017 from near Kochi International airport while he was preparing to slip out of the country. The priest was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment on February 17, 2019 by a court in Thalassery after he was tried under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. During the trial, the victim and her mother turned hostile. Despite that, the court proceeded on the basis of evidences collected already and handed out the verdict. Four nuns, another priest and one more woman attached to the convent, who were co-accused in the police charge sheet were let off due to lack of adequate evidence. Incidentally in March last year, the Manthavady (in Wayanad district) dioceses officials informed the media that the Vatican after going through all the process decided to dismiss Vadakkumchery from priesthood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rape-victim-moves-sc-seeking-permission-to-marry-tormentor-1015177.html
01-08-2021||South||AIADMK tells TN CM to ensure full compliance of Covid-19 guidelines as fresh cases rise||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin should ensure complete compliance of Covid-19 guidelines and take steps to protect people against a "third wave of coronavirus," AIADMK top leader O Panneerselvam said on Sunday. Citing the trend of a marginal rise in fresh virus cases in Tamil Nadu from July 29, Panneerselvam said improper enforcement of norms to help prevent virus spread was the reason behind the spike. The AIADMK leader, who is also the deputy leader of opposition in the Assembly said while closure of outlets, markets in nine locations in Chennai and disallowing 'darshan' in some places of worship was a welcome measure, it is also important to monitor if guidelines are followed. Use of face mask, physical distancing in showrooms were among the norms the AIADMK leader outlined. In the wake of continuing rise in virus cases in Kerala, those entering Tamil Nadu from the neighbouring state should also be monitored, he said in a statement. Flagging "slackness" in monitoring and implementing guidelines, Panneerselvam urged Stalin to pay his individual attention and ensure cent per cent compliance of Covid-19 guidelines and take steps to protect people against a "third wave of coronavirus." Tamil Nadu has seen three consecutive days of rise in fresh virus cases prompting authorities to take measures like shutting down specific market places. As many as 1,986 people tested positive on Saturday, the third day of increase in new cases. Stalin had on Friday advised officials to strictly enforce virus guidelines following a marginal increase in new virus cases for the first time on July 29 after a decline that began in the last week of May. While 1,859 new cases were reported on Thursday, the state logged 1,947 fresh infections on Friday, the second day of marginal spike. On July 28, Tamil Nadu registered 1,756 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-tells-tn-cm-to-ensure-full-compliance-of-covid-19-guidelines-as-fresh-cases-rise-1015201.html
01-08-2021||South||RT-PCR test mandatory for those entering Tamil Nadu from Kerala||As Covid-19 cases in Kerala continue to increase exponentially, the Tamil Nadu government has made it mandatory to carry RT-PCR test reports from August 5 for those coming from the neighbouring state. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said those who come by road from Kerala will be asked to show their RT-PCR test report as they enter Tamil Nadu. If those coming do not have RT-PCR reports, they should produce their full vaccination certificate. He said the same will apply to those who come from Kerala via air.  The minister said the government has taken steps to conduct RT-PCR tests at the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. The step was necessary with Kerala continuing to report an exponential increase in the number of daily positive cases. The decision by the Tamil Nadu government comes close on the heels of Karnataka making the RT-PCR test mandatory for those coming from Kerala. Subramanian said the state government is in the process of introducing a new technology to process Covid-19 samples at the airport. “We will introduce the system in the next few days which will ensure the reports come in 13 minutes,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-those-entering-tamil-nadu-from-kerala-1015246.html
01-08-2021||South||TN parties oppose site chosen for Karunanidhi memorial library||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu on Sunday took objection to the DMK Government’s move to raze down the staff quarters of the Public Works Department (PWD), where British Colonel John Pennycuick is believed to have lived, for constructing a world-class library in memory of late Chief Minister M Karunanidhi in Madurai.  John Pennycuick is a revered figure in southern Tamil Nadu, especially in Madurai and Theni, as he played a pivotal role in the construction of the Mullaperiyar Dam, which is the lifeline of thousands of farmers in the region.  Madurai district collector S Aneesh Sekar said on Saturday that the government has chosen the PWD staff quarters in Madurai for establishing the Kalaignar M Karunanidhi Memorial Library at a cost of Rs 70 crores. Chief Minister M K Stalin had announced on June 3 that the library will be modelled on the lines of the Anna Centenary Library in Chennai.  Opposition parties like AIADMK, BJP, and PMK condemned the government’s move to raze down the “place where Pennycuick resided” and construct the library. The parties said the government can choose any other spot to build the library but not by razing down an “iconic structure.” However, the district administration said there was no proof to establish that the British Colonel lived in the PWD staff quarters. In a joint statement, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami said the PWD quarters is being maintained by successive governments for the past 100 years and it is imperative that the structure remains so that the younger generations learn about Pennycuick.  They also recalled Karunanidhi himself unveiling a statue of Pennycuick in Madurai. The library to be constructed at a cost of Rs 70 crore will have eight floors and a collection of over six lakh books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-parties-oppose-site-chosen-for-karunanidhi-memorial-library-1015269.html
01-08-2021||South||Centenary celebrations of Madras Legislative Council to be kicked off on Aug 2||The Madras Legislative Council came into existence a century ago on January 12, 1921, with the Justice Party, a precursor to the state’s ruling DMK, forming the first government of the Madras Presidency under British rule.  On Monday, President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the centenary celebrations of the establishment of the MLC at the Assembly premises within Fort St George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government. During the event, Kovind will also unveil a portrait of DMK patriarch and five-time Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M Karunanidhi in the assembly hall.  The President will arrive in Tamil Nadu on Monday on a five-day visit. After the event in Chennai, Kovind will leave for Nilgiris on Tuesday where he will stay for the next four days and attend various events.  The MLC was established in 1921 continued to function as the legislative assembly of the then Madras state after independence and thereafter Tamil Nadu from 1969. After the first council elections in 1920, the Justice Party formed the government – the DMK’s precursor ruled the council in the first, second, and fourth elections. The last and the fifth council saw the Justice Party running a minority government. The MLC was inaugurated by the Duke of Connaught after the first elections to the council were held in November 1920. The MLC’s centenary celebration is historic as the House had passed several landmark legislations like the Hindu Religious Endowment Act (1926), abolition of the Devadasi system, and issuing free pattas to the poor for housing sites. DMK, under Chief Minister M K Stalin, has been quite vocal about the contributions of the Justice Party in ensuring social justice. During a recent speech in the Assembly, Stalin said he takes pride in the fact that the DMK has formed its government coinciding with 100 years of the Justice Party installing its first government.  “When (C N) Annadurai assumed office as Chief Minister in 1967, he declared that the DMK government was an extension of the Justice Party dispensation. In the same vein, I take pride in declaring that our government is also an extension of the Justice Party,” Stalin said. “Annadurai is an extension of the Justice Party. Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) is an extension of Annadurai and today I say I and the DMK government are an extension of Kalaignar,” he had said.  Justice Party is the precursor to Dravidar Kazhagam founded by social reformer Periyar E V Ramasamy. The DMK is an offshoot of the Dravidar Kazhagam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centenary-celebrations-of-madras-legislative-council-to-be-kicked-off-on-aug-2-1015275.html
01-08-2021||South||As Covid-19 cases rise marginally, Tamil Nadu goes for local containment||With the daily Covid-19 cases showing a marginal increase in the past few days, the Tamil Nadu government has empowered district collectors to go in for local containment efforts, including imposing additional restrictions in their area if the need arises.  The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR & CE) department has ordered the closure of famous temples in many parts of the state to avoid overcrowding during several local festivals falling this week. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has shut down crowded markets till August 9, while the administration in Coimbatore, one of the worst-affected districts in the second Covid-19 wave, has gone for additional restrictions.  The Health Department is also proactive in creating awareness about people’s participation in preventing the third wave of Covid-19 infections. Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday released a video explaining the precautions that one should take to keep the virus away. The government is asking people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by wearing a face mask and washing hands regularly.  The number of fresh Covid-19 cases daily which was hovering around 1,800 has witnessed a marginal increase over the last couple of days, prompting the administration to step in and ensure that containment efforts are launched immediately. From 1,756 fresh cases on July 28, the number rose to 1,859 on July 29, further to 1,947 on July 30 and 1,986 on July 31.  Tamil Nadu was one of the worst-affected states during the second wave of Covid-19 infections in April-May this year, with the daily cases touching a peak of 36,000. However, sustained efforts and ramping up of vaccination drive ensured that the numbers came down gradually.  “We don’t want to take any chance this time. More than the numbers, it is the timing of the marginal increase reported in the number of cases that bothers us. The increase has come two weeks after we opened relaxations in a major way. Though the increase is marginal, we are not letting the guard down,” J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary (Health), told DH. He said the district collectors have been asked to go for local containment efforts as the situation demands after learning from prior experience. The authorities thought people will take enough precautions before the second wave taking the advice from the government seriously, but it was not the case, Radhakrishnan added. “We are taking steps to ensure nothing goes wrong this time,” he said. Health Minister Ma Subramanian had told DH in an interview in early July that the state has decided not to dismantle the temporary Covid-19 infrastructure till December this year as part of preparations to handle any exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.  Public health expert Dr K Kolandaswamy told DH that aim of the local containment measures is to delay or blunt the third wave of infections in the state. “Closing down closed and contained spaces is a very good move that will allow us to buy time for an effective vaccination strategy. If we delay the third wave by six months, we can administer another 3 crore-plus doses at the current rate. The time that we but will help us increase immunization cover,” Dr Kolandaswamy said.  The state has so far administered over 2 crore vaccine doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-rise-marginally-tamil-nadu-goes-for-local-containment-1015278.html
01-08-2021||South||Maldives style water villas soon in Lakshadweep||India's popular island destination Lakshadweep will soon have three premium Maldives style water villas, claimed to be the first of its kind in the country. The three premium projects will come up in Minicoy, Kadmat and Suheli islands at a cost of Rs 800 crore, for which the administration floated global tenders on Saturday. With a vision to establish a robust base for maritime economic growth with tourism development at its core, the administration said it is engaged in developing high end eco- tourism projects at these islands as anchor projects under the aegis of NITI Aayog. The scientific approach adopted in each stage of the projects finalisation ensures that it strikes a balance between protection of the fragile corals' ecosystem and the need to improve livelihood opportunities of the islanders, the administration claimed in a statement. "In a first of its kind initiative in the country, three premium water villa projects are identified in Minicoy (150 keys, project cost of Rs 319 crore), Suheli (110 keys, Rs 247 crore) and Kadmat (110 keys, Rs 240 crore) islands, based on comprehensive location suitability analysis, technical and financial feasibility and project structuring", it said. A joint survey, comprising representatives from National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), MoEF and CC and NITI Aayog, visited Lakshadweep during November 2018 for site assessment and confirmation. The total number of keys for water villas to be developed conferred to the carrying capacity numbers assessed by NCSCM, which was further strengthened by the holistic development master plan, the administration said. It is unique to note that all the applicable clearances required for the projects prior to the construction are given upfront, including that of CRZ clearances. The National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) was engaged to prepare the Environment Impact Assessment Report (EIA) required for CRZ clearance, the administration said. In February, 2020, LCZMA gave its recommendations for the three projects, based on which the MoEF and CC appraised and granted CRZ clearance for the ambitious water villas projects in its 274 th EAC (CRZ) meeting held on September, 30, 2020. The administration claimed that while finalising the projects, it conducted meaningful consultations with all the concerned stakeholders including public representatives and the concerned Panchayats of Kadmat, Kavaratti and Minicoy. In September 2019, the local Panchayats issued NOC for the proposed eco-Tourism projects at Kadmat, Minicoy and Suheli islands in totality, even for the bar licence, it said. The Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPAC) recommended the Minicoy project on May 11, 2021 and the Standing Finance Committee did so for Kadmat and Suheli projects on June 25, 2021, the administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maldives-style-water-villas-soon-in-lakshadweep-1015310.html
01-08-2021||State||Motor Vehicle Inspector in ACB net||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths took Motor Vehicle Inspector Prabhakar of the Mysuru East RTO into custody while accepting a bribe. According to the authorities, he had demanded an Rs 80,000 bribe from a driving school owner to issue a driving license for 70 persons. Finally, the Inspector agreed to issue DL for Rs 77,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/motor-vehicle-inspector-in-acb-net-1015168.html
01-08-2021||State||Kollegal MLA N Mahesh to join BJP on August 5||Kollegal MLA N Mahesh will be joining BJP at the party office in Bengaluru on August 5. MLA N Mahesh and State BJP SC Morcha vice president G N Nanjundaswamy announced this during the joint press conference on Sunday. Nanjundaswamy said that Mahesh had agreed to join BJP without any conditions. "He has been in a cordial relationship with the BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and others for the last two years. He will join hands with the government for the development of the taluk and welfare of the people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kollegal-mla-n-mahesh-to-join-bjp-on-august-5-1015289.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pilferage of diesel suspected, case booked||The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and Petronet MHB have filed a complaint at the Bantwal rural police station, alleging pilferage of diesel from their underground pipeline, between Mangaluru-Bengaluru at Arbi on Sornadu-Kuppepadavu Main Road. The pipeline passes through the land owned by Ivan Pinto. A HPCL gas pipeline also passes through the same spot. A gate valve was found installed at the spot where the pipeline was punctured to pilfer the diesel. The locals alleged that even officials were involved in the racket. Officials dug the area and found the gate valve installed near the pipeline. They have suspected the involvement of Ivan Pinto. The amount of petroleum products pilfered from the pipeline is yet to be ascertained, officials from the HPCL Petronet MHB said. Rajanna of Petronet MHB Limited (PMHBL) said based on their complaint, a case was booked at the Bantwal police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pilferage-of-diesel-suspected-case-booked-1015066.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai back in Delhi; ministry formation likely this week||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai travelled to Delhi for a second time within a week to finalise the list of Cabinet ministers with the BJP high command in Delhi. The CM will hold talks with BJP national president J P Nadda and return on Monday, following which induction of new ministers is likely to happen within a couple of days. The party leadership is expected to follow a similar strategy, as in 2019 under B S Yediyurappa, when most of the new Cabinet ministers were selected by the high command. However, sources say that BJP leadership could allow some room for Bommai to induct some names in his Cabinet to ensure the smooth functioning of the government. Bommai had returned from Delhi on Saturday after meeting the party leadership following his elevation as CM. Since Lingayat (Sadar) was made the CM, leaders from the Panchamasali community are expected to get more representation in the Cabinet. Moreover, the high command is reported to be keen on appointing young faces to the Cabinet with its sight on the 2023 general elections. There are talks that the new Cabinet will have three or four deputy CMs, due to pressure from various caste groups over-representation in the state Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-back-in-delhi-ministry-formation-likely-this-week-1015174.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet expansion: Uneasy calm prevails among senior BJP leaders||Uneasy calm prevails in the BJP Karnataka state unit leaders' camp as they have got the news that the party is keen on replacing the elderly leaders with new faces, sources said. According to sources in the party, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the party top brass are said to have agreed upon giving chance to 6 new faces in the cabinet. It is said that Bommai has proposed the creation of five deputy chief ministers to give representation to scheduled castes, tribes, other backward communities, Lingayat and Vokkaliga castes. Bommai's proposal has been agreed upon by the high command as well as former chief minister Yediyurappa, sources explained. RSS leaders are said to be hesitant on forming a cabinet on caste lines and are also of the opinion that the creation of posts of deputy chief ministers will create unnecessary rivalry among themselves. The senior BJP leaders, who enjoyed plum postings, are said to be disturbed after the news of being laid off in the new cabinet reached them. Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar, S. Sureshkumar, R. Ashok and former deputy chief minister Govind Karajol are lobbying hard to retain their prominence in the party. The party has decided to induct 21 to 25 ministers into the cabinet in the first phase. After seeing reactions, decisions will be made in future, sources claimed. Most of the legislators who joined BJP from the Congress are likely to make it to the cabinet. Yediyurappa has been continuously issuing sympathetic statements about them, party sources say. Meanwhile, former ministers Umesh Katti, C.C. Patil, C.P. Yogeshwar, former deputy chief minister Lakshman Savadi and MLA Aravind Bellad are camping in New Delhi and are meeting senior leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-uneasy-calm-prevails-among-senior-bjp-leaders-1015178.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 1,875 Covid infections, 25 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,875 fresh Covid-19 infections and 25 deaths taking the total cases and toll to 29,06,999 and 36,587 respectively, the Health department said. There were 24,144 active cases in the state while as many as 1,502 patients recovered in the state taking the total recoveries to 28,46,244. Dakshina Kannada district in coastal Karnataka emerged as the number one Covid-19 hotspot on Sunday with the maximum 410 fresh infections and six fatalities. With 409 fresh Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru Urban district stood second. However, with eight fatalities, the city topped among the rest of the districts of the state. The city has so far reported 12,27,748 infections and 15,880 deaths. There were 8,553 active cases. Other districts in the state too reported infections including 162 in Udupi, 146 in Mysuru, 108 in Hassan, 83 in Kodagu and 65 each in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru. According to the media bulletin, there were fatalities in nine districts including Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Kolar. There were zero fatalities in 21 districts in Karnataka on Sunday. There were zero infections and zero fatalities in Bagalkote. The state conducted 1,55,048 Covid tests including 1,24,295 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 3.88 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. There were 1,02,120 inoculations done on Sunday taking the total vaccination to 3.06 crore. The positivity rate for the day was 1.20 per cent and case fatality rate was 1.33 per cent, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-1875-covid-infections-25-deaths-1015276.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai to convene all-party meet on Mekedatu||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he would convene an all-party meet in the coming days on the Mekedatu dam issue, a bone of contention between the state and Tamil Nadu. “In the coming days, I will convene an all-party meet. When it comes to the land and water-related issues, all political parties become one. We will take everyone along and proceed further,” he told reporters here. Bommai said he was aware of the agitation by JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on the issue. The row between both the states has seen Karnataka asserting last month that work on the reservoir would start and protests in several parts of the Cauvery delta region in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry against the initiative. The Rs 9,000 crore Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project across the Cauvery river in Ramanagar district aims at utilising 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking purposes in Bengaluru and neighbouring areas, besides generating 400 MW power. However, Tamil Nadu is opposed to it, saying that it will hamper the interests of the state and deprive its farmers of water for irrigation purposes. In July, former CM Yediyurappa had written to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin, asking him not to stall the project as it was in the interest of both states to store water to meet the needs during distress years and offered to hold a bilateral meeting to resolve the differences. Bommai had on Friday said the state would go ahead with the Mekedatu project at any cost. “Karnataka has rights over Cauvery and the Mekedatu dam project will be taken up at any cost. The detailed project report (DPR) is ready and will get approval soon, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-to-convene-all-party-meet-on-mekedatu-1015291.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Seminars galore, ground work lacking on environment, says NGT||The National Green Tribunal has said despite a lot of seminars, lectures held in the name of protection of the environment, the work on the ground was lacking. The NGT said that the torch-bearer for the protection of the environment in the last about 40 years is only the judiciary. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made these observations while quashing the environmental clearance granted to a high-rise luxury project in Bengaluru. “A lot of seminars, lectures and debates are held in the name of protection of the environment by Executive, political and otherwise but on the ground level substantial work is wanting,”  the bench said. The tribunal said that the Executive sometimes feels satisfied by framing some laws without being serious about the execution and implementation thereof. The tribunal said that even when orders are passed on the judicial side, the real problem comes with regard to the implementation and execution of the orders. “Sooner is the better that the Executives understand and show more responsibility and accountability towards nature and ecology before it is too late rendering the things improbable and impossible to be reversed,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seminars-galore-ground-work-lacking-on-environment-says-ngt-1015294.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt releases Rs 660 crore for flood relief, restoration works||The Karnataka government on Sunday released Rs 660 crore for relief and restoration works in flood-hit regions of the state. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who chaired a review meeting on the flood situation, said that of the funds released, Rs 510 crore will be for the immediate restoration of roads and bridges, and Rs 150 crore will be released as per National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) norms. Bommai said that though rainfall had stopped, water was yet to recede from residential areas and fields -- especially along the banks of River Krishna, and in parts of Uttara Kannada and Udupi district. A total of 466 villages in 13 districts of the state have been affected by floods. The deluge has claimed 13 lives and one person is missing. “As soon as water recedes, works of bridges and connecting roads will begin,” the chief minister said. Directions were issued to officials to ensure surveys of houses damaged and crops lost are completed in 15 days. He said that the government had released Rs 10,000 for those who lost houses. “According to NDRF norms, only Rs 95,000 is given as relief for those who lose houses in floods. (Former CM) Yediyurappa had increased it to Rs five lakh. The same will continue,” he said. The chief minister said that he had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah to send a team (from the Centre) to review the extent of crop loss and other damages caused by floods. “When I visit Delhi next, I will meet him again and press for the visit,” Pending payments of those who lost houses in floods last year will be made soon. Karnataka had spent Rs 625 cr for flood relief from its own funds last year under various norms, which was reimbursed by the Centre this year, he said. On allegations by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah that victims of the 2019 floods were yet to receive the relief announced, Bommai said that the BJP government has provided immediate relief to those affected by floods. “I too can give details on how there were delays (in providing relief) during his tenure as CM,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-releases-rs-660-crore-for-flood-relief-restoration-works-1015296.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ponnuraj appointed secretary to Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai effected his first transfer in the Chief Ministers' Office (CMO), replacing S Selvakumar -- a 1997 batch IAS officer, with V Ponnuraj -- a 2000 batch officer, as Secretary to Chief Minister. Ponnuraj was serving as Managing Director, Karnataka Power Corporation Limited prior to his transfer. Selvakumar is posted as Secretary to Government, Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood. Apart from this, 19 others employed at the CMO under Yediyurappa were relieved of their services. These include M Lakshminarayana, advisor to the former chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ponnuraj-appointed-secretary-to-karnataka-cm-1015297.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 16.6K pregnant women receive Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka||More than 2.27 lakh pregnant women across India have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine under the ongoing national Covid vaccination drive. Karnataka accounts for 16,673 vaccinated pregnant women with no reported adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) in either them or lactating mothers. D Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, said that at eight health facilities in the BBMP limits, 444 women have been vaccinated: 432 pregnant women and 12 lactating mothers, and none have reported any side effects. The BBMP, however, has a long way to reach its target of vaccinating 87,989 pregnant women and 1,36,971 lactating mothers in the city. Dr Geetha Shivamurthy, medical superintendent, Vani Vilas Hospital, one of the eight facilities exclusively vaccinating such women, has vaccinated 130 pregnant women and one lactating mother so far. “We are recommending vaccination 12 weeks after conception, in the second trimester of pregnancy. Among those vaccinated so far, they have tolerated it well,” she said. Ballari district has a target of vaccinating 40,000 women registered for Antenatal check-ups (ANCs). Among them, 5,582 pregnant women and 432 lactating mothers have been jabbed. Manohar K N M, consultant, Reproductive and Child Health Office, Ballari, said, “We are extracting lists from primary health centres of those registered for ANCs. An Asha and ANM is sent to motivate them to come to the vaccination centre.” “If it’s an HRP (with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension), only after a gynaecologist or a medical officer gives a consultation, vaccination is done). ANMs are given AEFI kits to give first aid in case of side effects.” Barring urban areas in Ballari and Hosapete where Covaxin is given, all other taluks are giving only Covishield. D Nagalakshmi, general secretary, Karnataka Asha Workers’ Association, said, “Beneficiaries may be queueing up in cities for vaccination. But it is only on the insistence of Asha workers in villages that women are coming forward for vaccination. They are pivotal in convincing not only them but their family members too that vaccines are safe both for the mother and the unborn baby.” Chikkamagalur district has a target of vaccinating 6,253 pregnant women and 12,947 lactating mothers out of which 876 pregnant women and 3363 lactating mothers have been vaccinated. Dr Hema Divakar, former president of the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI), has tied up with some NGOs to vaccinate pregnant women in Hemmargala village in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district. “As a general rule of thumb, we don’t recommend anything in the first trimester. But if the third wave hits hard and unvaccinated pregnant women are affected, then we may probably suggest vaccination even in the first trimester,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-166k-pregnant-women-receive-covid-19-vaccine-in-karnataka-1015298.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'OBC quota in medical education won't hit reservation matrix in Karnataka'||The Centre’s decision on providing reservation to other backward communities (OBCs) and economically weaker section (EWS) in undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses has caught many by surprise. While the decision has left many aspiring students worried, officials in Karnataka clarified that the announcement will not disturb the existing reservation matrix at the state-level. According to the experts, the reservation that was announced last week is for the all-India quota (AIQ). “Already 15% of the AIQ is available in all the state government-run institutions. The reservation of 27% for the OBC and 10% for the EWC, as announced by the Centre, is available only under the existing AIQ. The announcement has nothing to do with the existing state reservation policy,” said a senior official from the department of medical education. Officials revealed that all these years candidates falling under the OBC and EWS category were not allowed to claim reservations under the 15% AIQ. “These students had to compete for the seats under the General category. Now they can claim under the AIQ only if they have an annual income below Rs 8 lakh and also compete for the seats at the all-India level,” the officer clarified. Dr P G Girish, Director, Department of Medical Education, said, “This is the reservation provided within the already existing reservation.” Yet to implement EWS Despite the Centre announcing the implementation of reservation for EWS in higher education in 2018, both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are yet to implement the scheme. The implementation of the EWS quota calls for a separate policy at the state-level which the Karnataka government is yet to formulate. “We had requested the Union government, during 2018, to increase 25% seats in medical and dental colleges and accordingly provide the 10% EWS quota. However, to date, there is no response from the Centre on our request and hence the issue has stopped at the same level,” explained an official. If the Centre agrees to the request, Karnataka will gain additional 620 MBBS seats. According to sources in the department, previous CM B S Yediyurappa had taken a decision to implement the 10% EWS quota in Karnataka in one of the last Cabinet meetings and directed officials to frame a state policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/obc-quota-in-medical-education-wont-hit-reservation-matrix-in-karnataka-1015304.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai holds discussion with BJP top brass on cabinet reshuffle||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who arrived in Delhi on Sunday night held discussions with BJP top brass about the expansion of his Council of Ministers. The CM, who came along with Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi from Bengaluru, went to an undisclosed location for talks. Bommai, Joshi, and BJP National General Secretary (Organisation)  B L Santosh held discussion till late night on finalising the list. "The list of ministerial candidates will be finalised tonight. The CM will meet BJP National president J P Nadda and take his final approval on Monday morning," sources said. The CM will return to Bengaluru on Monday, sources said. The expansion is likely to take place in a couple of days, they added.    On Saturday, the BJP top brass told the CM to prepare his own list and they will also prepare a list. The list will be discussed and finalised after giving representation to caste, region, and leaders' contributions to the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-holds-discussion-with-bjp-top-brass-on-cabinet-reshuffle-1015307.html
01-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada overtakes Bengaluru in daily Covid cases||For the first time, Dakshina Kannada has overtaken Bengaluru Urban in the number of new cases posted on a single day. On Sunday, Dakshina Kannada posted 410 new cases while Bengaluru Urban registered 409 fresh infections. This represents a 75.7% increase in cases in Dakshina Kannada over the past week. Last week, the district had registered 2,502 cases, as opposed to the 1,424 cases reported previous week, between July 19 to 25. The development comes amid strident increases in the number of new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka since mid-April when the second wave was still climbing towards its peak. In the past seven days, 12,442 new cases were recorded in the state, representing a 17.2% increase over the 10,610 new cases found the week before, between July 19-25. Perhaps unsurprisingly, more cases were found because the state increased its quantum of testing. In the past seven days, the state conducted 9.81 lakh tests, which represents the highest testing rate in three weeks. This represents a 1.34% increase from the 9.68 lakh tests conducted the week before. Case increases were also spotted in Bengaluru Urban, where, data shows, there was an increase of 16.2% in cases from last week and the week before. In numerical terms, this means that whereas 2,571 cases were found between July 19 and 25, some 2,988 cases were found this past week. This increase, however, comes amid declining test rates. The BBMP conducted 4.13 lakh tests this past week, which is 0.48% less than the 4.15 lakh tests conducted the week before. The city’s case increases also came with a slightly elevated demand for beds. The BBMP issued directions to mitigate further spread of the virus. All Covid-19 cases will be strictly triaged, plus labs and private hospitals have been directed to share their reports to BBMP and ICMR first. In addition, special teams are to enforce RT-PCR checks for Kerala and Maharashtra travellers. Beyond Dakshina Kannada and Bengaluru Urban, 162 new cases were registered in Udupi district on Sunday followed by 146 cases in Mysuru district and 108 cases in Hassan district.  The state also discharged 1,875 people on Sunday, and together with the new cases, the state’s active caseload stood at 24,144. Twenty-five new fatalities were also disclosed. Four had happened on Sunday. The lion’s share of the new fatalities was from Bengaluru Urban (8) and Dakshina Kannada (6). However, Bengaluru Urban has had no new fatalities since July 30, as per the data. The youngest of the new fatalities disclosed was a 25-year-old man who died in Kolar on July 27, five days after being diagnosed with the disease. He did not have any recorded co-morbidities.  The oldest fatality was a 90-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban who died at a private hospital on July 18, 12 days after diagnosis. He was suffering from symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), and also suffered from diabetes and hypertension.  Vaccination scene The state dispensed 3.56 lakh doses on Sunday. This elevated the state’s first dose coverage to 47.09%, with second dose coverage now standing at 12.86% of the target population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-overtakes-bengaluru-in-daily-covid-cases-1015323.html
01-08-2021||West||Grant ex-gratia to meet difference in interest: Hoteliers||the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), India’s apex hospitality association, has urged the government to reintroduce the scheme granting ex-gratia payment of the difference between compound and simple interest for six months to borrowers from the hospitality sector in view of the second wave of the Covid-19. The industry hopes for this payment which was done during the first wave, especially since the sector has faced a more severe economic turmoil during the second wave as hositality establishments faced curbs and even closures.   The scheme was formally announced in October last year which granted ex-gratia payment for six months to borrowers in specified loan accounts from March 1 to August 31, 2020. Borrowers with loan accounts having sanctioned limits and outstanding amounts not exceeding Rs 2 crore were eligible under the scheme. The FHRAI has submitted a formal memorandum to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman. The FHRAI has stated that 20 to 30 per cent of the hotels and restaurants in the country have permanently shut down due to financial losses, and over 20 per cent of hotels and restaurants have still not opened since the first lockdown which was imposed in March 2020. The remaining 50 per cent that may have reopened are continuing to run in losses and revenues are below 30 per cent of the pre-Covid-19 levels. “In states where the lockdown, either complete or partial was imposed, all the restaurants and bars were directed to shut down. As per the restrictions, only home delivery and takeaways from restaurants were allowed and in some states, even takeaways were prohibited. The interstate trade movement too came to a halt due to the imposition of restrictions or requirements of RT-PCR tests,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI. “This discouraged a lot of travellers and resulted in a significant drop in occupancy across all hotels. We would like to request the government to take cognizance of the disruptions caused. Under these circumstances, we request the Finance Minister to reintroduce the scheme for grant of ex-gratia payment of the difference between compound interest and simple interest for six months to borrowers from the hospitality sector,” said Kohli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/grant-ex-gratia-to-meet-difference-in-interest-hoteliers-1015126.html
01-08-2021||West||Dial 112 will soon be launched across the state: Satej Patil||The Maharashtra government will soon launch the ‘Dial 112’ project across the state to enable police to reach out to complainants in case of emergency.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the project.  The technology-driven project will ensure response time from Police within 10 minutes in urban areas and 15 minutes in rural areas, Minister of State for Home and Information & Technology, Satej Patil said. The project will have state-of-the-art control rooms with the help of Big Data Analytics at all 45 police Commissionerates and district police offices across the state. Around 1,500 four-wheelers and 2,269 two-wheelers used by police will have a Mobile Data Terminal and GPS system. Of them, 849 four-wheelers and 1,372 two-wheelers have already been installed with the system. “We are training 15,000 police personnel and officers for use of this technology. The ‘Dial 112’ powered with the high-end technology will enable people to contact Police and other emergency agencies by using mobile applications, SMS service, e-mail or through chat. Once rolled out, the project will help police to respond in 10 minutes in urban areas and in 15 minutes in rural areas,” said Patil. The review meeting was chaired by Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar at Mantralaya to take stock of the progress of the project.  Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Satej Patil and key officials from various departments attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dial-112-will-soon-be-launched-across-the-state-satej-patil-1015128.html
01-08-2021||West||Building roads within tiger corridors a matter of concern: Conservation expert||Development of roads within the tiger landscapes of India is a major cause of concern, wildlife conservation experts have warned. “India already has the highest road density within tiger habitats. By 2050, road development within tiger landscapes in India is projected to increase by 14,000 km, several orders of magnitude higher than other tiger-bearing countries,” Dr Pranav Chanchani, National Lead for tiger conservation at the World Wide Fund for Nature-India said. India’s population is projected to grow by nearly 300 million people between now and 2050, and pressure on land and corridors will only increase dramatically. “Other research reveals that while tigers have the propensity to move through agriculture and plantations, roads with high traffic volume and dense settlements are significant barriers to movement,” said Dr Chanchani, whose portfolio includes designing and steering science, policy and program development initiatives and providing technical leadership for a team of about 25 biologists in six tiger conservation landscapes within India.  Roads are thought to have depressed numbers of tigers, other wildlife and their ungulate prey by as much as 20 per cent across the species' range, and adversely affected survival in some areas. “Projections from some recent studies suggest that under future scenarios of land use change and infrastructure development will drastically increase extinction probabilities of tigers in small and isolated habitat patches,” said Dr Chanchani, who holds a PhD in Ecology from Colorado State University, USA, and a master's in wildlife science from the Wildlife Institute of India.  Road and linear infrastructure is clearly a pressing development imperative, but it must not be a foregone conclusion that infrastructure development will come at the cost of wildlife habitats. Reconsidering the location, width and other specifications of roads, such as realignment and building in appropriate mitigation measures can mitigate their impacts. While such measures and alternatives are considered, they are often afterthoughts, and sometimes viewed as costly excesses impeding development.  There is something to be hopeful about too. Growing evidence of the ability of tigers and other wildlife to move through agro-ecosystems suggests that ecological connectivity for some wildlife species can still be maintained in some landscapes where forested corridors are absent or degraded.  “But corridors in agriculture-forest mosaics will only remain permeable for wildlife movement if they are buffered from poorly-planned land use change, urbanization, mining, industrial development and accelerated road and highway development,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/building-roads-within-tiger-corridors-a-matter-of-concern-conservation-expert-1015133.html
01-08-2021||West||Unemployed tribal youths in Maharashtra's Raigad to get tourist guide training||In a unique initiative with multiple aims, 31 local tribals unemployed youth from two sanctuaries in Raigad district would be trained to become tour guides.  This initiative will be a catalyst for the growth of the tourism industry in Maharashtra. The programme covers the Karnala Bird Sanctuary and Phansad Wildlife Sanctuary, situated in Raigad district in the neighbourhood of the financial capital of Mumbai. The Directorate of Tourism (DoT), Government of Maharashtra, in association with Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management (IITTM), an autonomous under Ministry for Tourism, Government of India, is conducting ‘Special 5 days Guide Training Programme’ for the tribal communities, at Karnala Sanctuary and Phansad Sanctuary, from 2-6 August. This is the first-ever offline tourist guide training programme being conducted by DoT. A total of 31 local tribal unemployed youth, including 20 from Karnala Sanctuary area and 11 from Phansad Sanctuary area between the age group of 20 and 35, will be provided a 5-day training programme and awarded certificates on completion of the programme. The session is divided into two parts - theory and practical. The topics include the introduction of tourism and basics of tourism, challenges in the tour guide profession, roles and responsibilities of tour guides and how to become a good tour guide. It also includes the concept of biodiversity, nature trail, wildlife in the sanctuaries, how to practically conduct walking tours, handling difficulties, difficult tourists and stress management. Minister of Raigad Aditi Tatkare said that this initiative by DoT for the unemployed youth of tribal area will definitely prove to be helpful for them. “This training programme will further be useful in spreading the glory of our state, as an excellent tourism guide, in different corners of the world. With the help of this programme, high-quality tourist guides related to respective destinations in the State, will be ready,” she said. Dhananjay Sawalkar, Director, DoT said, “There is a lot of scope for tourism in Maharashtra and a huge demand for trained guides in places with diverse tourist destinations. To understand the tourist destinations as well as to make the visit enjoyable and unforgettable, tourists need good guides to provide authentic and relevant information about the tourist destinations." “At the same time, proper implementation of the local rules and regulations of tourist destinations as a local guide will be possible. This will also help in creating employment opportunities at the local level. Given the need of the hour, local students/candidates will get an opportunity to study and undergo the training of tourist guides,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unemployed-tribal-youths-in-maharashtras-raigad-to-get-tourist-guide-training-1015136.html
01-08-2021||West||Language of intimidation won't be tolerated: Thackeray warns BJP||A war-of-words between political allies-turned-rivals Shiv Sena and BJP has broken yet again with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray leading the charge saying that his party would not take the language of intimidation lightly and would hit back with full force.  Referring to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) as a "triple seat government” - a statement that BJP often makes because of three allies - Thackeray said he has become so used to criticism that praise scares him sometimes. Recalling a film dialogue from Dabbang, Thackeray said: “There is dialogue in a film ... ‘thappad se dar nahi lagta’.... nobody should speak the language of slapping us. We would give one tight slap to that person so that he will not be able to stand on his feet again,” said Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President.  However, Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that his party does not believe in the “thod-phod” and “destructive politics” was not its culture.  “We don’t attack anybody first. But if somebody attacks us, we don’t take it lying down. It is countered effectively,” he said. The back-to-back statements come after last week’s good vibes when Thackeray and Fadnavis, who were separately touring flood-affected areas of Kolhapur district, met and decided to work together. Fadnavis was accompanied by his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar and state BJP President Chandrakant Patil.  However, close Fadnavis’s aide and BJP MLC Prasad Lad’s comment has not gone down well within the Shiv Sena rank and files. “The Shiv Sena Bhavan would be demolished if needed,” Lad has reportedly said, however, he later expressed regret saying that his statement was presented out of context by the media and withdrew the statement. “Now, we have Narayan Rane and Nitesh Rane with us. Our power has increased,” he reportedly said. In a video statement, Lad stated: “I have the highest regard for the late Balasaheb Thackeray and see Sena Bhavan as a sacred abode. How can I speak against the Sena Bhavan? What I meant was that the BJP is a major power and it will prove its might against political rival Sena in the upcoming BMC polls. Last month the Sena had attacked our activists outside the Sena Bhavan. So it was a political reply. It was certainly not directed at the Sena supremo or the Bhavan”. Reacting to this, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said: “There is an urgent need to undertake a drug de-addiction program in Maharashtra. Otherwise, Marathi manus on the sidewalk of Shiv Sena Bhavan will not spare these drug addicts. Shiv Sena Bhavan is a shining symbol of Marathi identity….samajne walo ko ishara kafi hai.” महाराष्ट्रात तातडीने नशा मुक्ती कार्यक्रम हाती घेणे गरजेचे आहे. नाहीतर राजकीय गांजाडयांना मराठी माणूस शिवसेना भवनाच्या फुटपाथवरबेदम चोपलयाशिवाय राहणार नाही.( समझनेवालोंको इशारा काफी है..)शिवसेना भवन हे मराठी अस्मितेचे ज्वलंत प्रतीक आहे.बाटगयांना हे कसे समजणार? However, Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane’s son and BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said: “You are right Raut saheb….Maharashtra needs to be drugs-free…and this should start from ‘Kalanagar’…so that function at the ‘Dino’ too ends.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/language-of-intimidation-wont-be-tolerated-thackeray-warns-bjp-1015215.html
01-08-2021||West||Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav makes a comeback with Covid norms||The Lalbaugcha Raja, one of the most-visited Ganesh idols during the Ganesh festival in Mumbai, would make a comeback albeit with Covid-19 norms and protocols. The Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal of Lalbaug in central Mumbai, made a formal announcement on Sunday.  Last year, the trust cancelled the Ganesh festival, which would have been the 87th year in succession, and held blood and plasma donation camps in the wake of the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  “As the spread of  Covid-19 is controlled this year, the celebrations will take place following all Covid protocols,” Balasaheb Kamble, president of Lalbaugchba Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Mandal said.  Every year, the trust installs an over 15-feet-tall idol of Lord Ganesha which sees a footfall of 80,000 to one lakh people in a day, and besides commoners, several celebrities and who’s who of India visit the pandal. The mandal, formerly known as Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal, Lalbaug was founded in 1934 at Lalbaug Market by locals.  Since that day, this idol became popular as 'Navsacha Ganpati’, the one who fulfils the wishes.  People across the country come to Mumbai and seek blessings of Lord Ganesha during the Ganeshutsav.  It may be mentioned that last month, for the second year in a row, the Maharashtra government had put a cap on any mega-celebrations, processions and crowding during the Ganesh festival and restricted the height of public Ganesh idols to 4 feet and those installed at households to 2 feet. The Lalbaugcha Raja management trust has decided to install a 4-feet-tall idol and there would not be any physical darshans and instead the rituals would be live-streamed. “Majority of the people living in the vicinity of the pandal and all the volunteers have been vaccinated,” the trust said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lalbaugcha-raja-ganeshotsav-makes-a-comeback-with-covid-norms-1015227.html
