02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC prepares draft list of nominated members for ward committee||As a step to constitute ward committees (WCs) in 60 wards of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), the corporation has prepared a tentative list containing the names of all nominated/qualified members. This list will be put on display on the corporation’s website and on notice board on Monday, said MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar. Citizens are requested to file their objections and grievances within a period of 15 days at zonal offices addressed to zonal commissioners and inventory officers at Central Office or email them to mccwardcommittee@gmail.com . In fact, the civic groups had been demanding formation of the WCs in Mangaluru for the past several years. Following the directions from High Court of Karnataka, the MCC initiated the process of appointing members to the WCs in its 60 wards in November 2020. It invited applications from eligible candidates. Following a PIL filed in the High Court by members of Karnataka Ward Samithi Vedike, the court in its order, dated August 8, 2019, had directed authorities to notify area sabhas before ward elections and form ward committees after the elections to the MCC council. The 74th Constitutional amendment and amendment of Karnataka Municipal Corporation (KMC) Act in 2011 mandates formation of WCs and area sabhas in all city corporations, to ensure citizens’ participation. The MCC had adopted an agenda on formation of the ward committees at its meeting held on August 13, 2020. As a prelude to the formation of ward committees, the MCC had invited applications for ward committee members in November 2020. The MCC had received over 1,200 applications. The officials had prepared a list of applications received as per the reservation in each ward in the month of March, 2021. The MCC commissioner said that owing to the second wave of Covid-19 and the lockdown, the officials could not carry out any works related to the formation of ward committees from April to June. On June 18, a meeting to review the applications were convened by the officials. A draft list of eligible members has been prepared, the commissioner added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-prepares-draft-list-of-nominated-members-for-ward-committee-1015345.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Night patrolling intensified at BRT Tiger Reserve limits||The Forest department has intensified night patrolling at Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve limits to curb poaching and smuggling activities. The officials were able to stop an attempt for poaching and also smuggling on account of intensified patrolling. In all, nine people were arrested in two incidents. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest BRT Tiger Reserve, G Santosh Kumar said, "The staff crunch has slightly eased after the appointments of deputy range forest officers. Vehicles have also been provided. Night patrolling has been intensified.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/night-patrolling-intensified-at-brt-tiger-reserve-limits-1015349.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt failed to provide enough Covid-19 vaccines for Dakshina Kannada: Former MLC||Failure on the part of the state government to supply enough quantities of Covid-19 vaccines has led to an increase in positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district, said former MLC Ivan D’Souza charged on Monday. On average 40 to 50 people succumb to Covid-19 infection in the district in a week. If all had been vaccinated, the mortality rate would have been checked. The Covid-19 cases are on rise, he told mediapersons at Congress Bhavan. There are 1.10 lakh college students in DK district. Vaccination is mandatory for students to attend offline classes. But only 63,000 students had been vaccinated so far with the first dose. The government had failed to administer vaccines to remaining students, he said. The state government had promised to pay Rs one lakh for family of those died of Covid-19. But DC has not yet received directions from government. The district administration should reveal how many people are eligible for the compensation amount. Former MLC said coupons issued for Covid vaccines are allegedly with BJP workers. They distribute it to their own people. The district administration has failed to act against such acts. He said that government will collapse after six months. The BJP led government will not last long after the elections to Zilla Panchayat and Taluk panchayats are held, he predicted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-failed-to-provide-enough-covid-19-vaccines-for-dakshina-kannada-former-mlc-1015538.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police officer arrested in sexual harassment case in Mysuru||A police constable was arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a woman in Mysuru. Nazarbad Police arrested Mehaboob, 36, who is working at Hebbal Police station. A woman filed a complaint with the police against Mehaboob on June 15. The police, who conducted an investigation, arrested him and produced him before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-officer-arrested-in-sexual-harassment-case-in-mysuru-1015575.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Another arrest in SIM box fraud case in Mysuru||Mysuru City police arrested another person in connection with SIM box fraud and the police have intensified the investigation. According to the sources, the police arrested another Ashraf in connection with the case. Two days back, Narasimharaja police arrested one Shamim of Kerala for operating unauthorised telephone exchange and converting ISD calls into local calls, which caused a huge loss to the exchequer and mobile service providers. The police have seized equipments from three places in the city, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/another-arrest-in-sim-box-fraud-case-in-mysuru-1015578.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Health workers brave rain to reach Dakshina Kannada's remote villages for Covid testing||Despite heavy rain, four female health staff of the Kollamogru primary health centre (PHC) of Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada district undertook a treacherous journey to reach an interior village of Kalmakar with the help of a temporarily constructed bamboo bridge over a swollen river to test four primary contacts of Covid patients. Despite the challenges that the monsoon brought with it, Sullia taluk’s six PHCs have collected 4,203 swabs, averaging 74 swabs per day, in the months of June and July, in contrast to 1,450 swabs, averaging 16 swabs per day, over the summer months of March, April and May. Sullia taluk health officer Dr Nandakumar B told DH, “This happened last month where our lady health visitor (LHV), auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), lab technician, and accredited social health activist (ASHA) walked on a ‘hanging bridge’ over a river. Because of heavy rainfall, the river levels have risen significantly. “When roads are cut-off, we undertake such outreach programmes where we use bypass roads to reach villages. With a transport system lacking, we have to go by walk as our vehicles can’t reach there.” 50-year-old Hemalatha J A has been working as an LHV in the health department for 23 years. She told DH, “Pre-monsoon, the river water levels were only ankle deep and we could just wade through the water barefoot and go to the other side. But in the past few days, due to heavy rain, there’s no other way than to use the makeshift structure.” 31-year-old Navya Koppadka, a lab technician donning a PPE suit head to toe with three of her colleagues behind her, crossed the bridge on June 15. It had been seven days since four primary contacts had been exposed to three Covid patients in Idyadka area of the taluk. “It’s protocol to test primary contacts on day 0 and day 7. Since they could be Covid positive, we could not call them to the PHC for swab collection. On day 7, we had to go and test them, even though this bridge was quite shaky,” she said.  Apart from the difficult terrain, she says their main problem is the lack of a strong mobile network. “It’s an interior area that can be accessed only by walk. We have to stop the jeep by the roadside and continue on foot from there. Last year, during the first Covid wave, we didn’t have to do this as there were no cases in interior areas,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-workers-brave-rain-to-reach-dakshina-kannadas-remote-villages-for-covid-testing-1015600.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will back Bommai govt during crisis, says Deve Gowda||Former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda on Sunday said his party would “cooperate” with the state government “in times of distress” as nobody wanted to fight Assembly elections before 2023. He was responding to queries at a media briefing following his meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The meeting between the two gains significance amid speculation that the JD(S) could extend external support to the Bommai government, in case of a full-blown rebellion following Cabinet expansion. “I am of the view that we should cooperate with the (state) government in times of trouble. We don’t have any great desire to contest (Assembly) polls before 2023...... I don’t think anyone is keen on mid-term polls,” Gowda said. Since Bommai was picked by the high command, he might not face any problem, he said. “I don’t know,” he said, to a query on whether the government would face a crisis without Yediyurappa’s backing. “It is difficult (to administer) by sidelining Yediyurappa. He has blessed this government. I don’t know whether Bommai will (administer) by keeping him at bay,” Gowda said. Bommai, he said, would not face any problem from the JD(S) during his term. Bommai told reporters after his meeting with Gowda that he was assured of full support from Gowda over issues concerning the state. “We are all one when it comes to issues of land and water,” he said. Previously, according to sources, some JD(S) leaders are learnt to have met a top BJP leader from Delhi just prior to the BJP Legislature Party meeting that selected Bommai as its leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-back-bommai-govt-during-crisis-says-deve-gowda-1015341.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Long journey ahead: Ananthkumar’s daughter on pro-JD(S) tweet||Senior BJP leader, the late HN Ananthkumar’s daughter Vijeta Ananthkumar on Monday clarified that her recent tweet on JD(S) was a “political observation and not my ideological endorsement”. Vijeta’s clarification came days after her tweet - "Why Karnataka politics is really interesting? JDS is still a very strong political force” - was widely shared, prompting former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy to invite her and her mother Tejaswini Ananthkumar to join the regional party. Here is my statement on a recent tweet of mine that led to many speculations. I hope this will clear all the confusion and put an end to this discussion. I love interacting with you all here and will continue to do so. “There is an ideology and then there is political analysis or observation, these are often confused to be one and the same,” Vijeta, a policy researcher, said in a statement, adding that her tweet was her political observation “as a keen learner”. She said it would be “iniquitous to connect my ideas and opinions to that of my family members”. Vijeta’s statement also discusses the question of her political ambitions. “Many have asked me if I will get into politics now. I believe that the political journey of any individual does not begin like this, it must start by serving the party and working as a karyakarta. It is their support and teaching that makes you a leader,” she said. Ananthkumar, who passed away in 2018, was widely seen as the BJP’s south India face in New Delhi’s power corridors. “Appa built BJP in Karnataka brick by brick along with lakhs of karyakartas over the span of 35 years. Amma has been tirelessly working for the society in the areas of hunger, nutrition and environment and the party with the utmost integrity,” Vijeta said, adding that her father taught her that nobody was an enemy and mutual respect was fundamental in democracy. “My expression of respect should not be misunderstood as me joining any party,” she said. “I have a long journey ahead and want to enhance my learning to serve my Motherland,” she said, ending her statement with “desha modalu” (nation first). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/long-journey-ahead-ananthkumar-s-daughter-on-pro-jds-tweet-1015450.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet expansion and not Covid-19 is BJP govt's priority: Siddaramaiah||Taking a dig at the BJP government in Karnataka, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said it was focusing only on cabinet expansion and not Covid-19. "Thousands have died in absence of adequate hospitals, beds, ventilators, and oxygen. It must be prevented from recurring but Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is running around for cabinet expansion instead of focusing on Covid-19," Siddaramaiah told reporters in Karwar, the headquarters town of Uttara Kannada district. Wondering why Bommai should go to Delhi every now and then, the Congress stalwart said the BJP high command must also understand the problems of the state. He alleged that the BJP legislators have camped in Bengaluru to lobby for a ministerial berth instead of visiting their constituency to work there. He cautioned the government that it should ensure that the situation should not lead to imposing a lockdown. "The number of infections in the past two days has been close to two thousand...," the leader of the opposition in Karnataka assembly said. Siddaramaiah said the primary task of the state government is to prevent the third wave of Covid-19 in the state, which, he claimed, has already hit neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala. He asked the government not to relax the norms for those who have taken both the shots of Covid-19 vaccine and make negative test reports mandatory for those entering the state from neighbouring states with high Covid prevalence. Regarding a few public representatives going to court to seek an injunction against the telecast of their objectionable videos, Siddaramaiah said what was the need for them to move the court when they were clean. Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,875 fresh cases and 25 deaths while the state has over 24,000 active cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-expansion-and-not-covid-19-is-bjp-govts-priority-siddaramaiah-1015469.html
02-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Legislators flock to B S Yediyurappa's home in search of Cabinet berths||Several BJP legislators met former chief minister B S Yediyurappa in the hope of securing a place in the new Cabinet for which the incumbent Basavaraj Bommai is working out an “acceptable” formula with the party’s top brass in New Delhi. However, Yediyurappa reportedly did not assure a Cabinet berth to these legislators, maintaining that the decision was left to the party high command. According to sources, he refrained from making promises considering his "dicey" position with the BJP top brass. MLAs SR Vishwanath, Preetham Gowda, Masala Jayaram and Doddanagouda Patil were among those who met Yediyurappa. Kumaraswamy and Patil arrived at the former CM's residence with their supporters to press for ministerial berths. Following his meeting with Yediyurappa, Thirthahalli legislator Jnanendra said that he was certain of being inducted to the Cabinet. There were three legislators representing Shivamogga district who were part of the government until now, he said, due to which he had not sought a ministerial berth in the past. However, in the last two years this government, an opportunity will be provided for people like him who had backing from leaders like Yediyurappa, Bommai as well as the RSS, he said. Several legislators, including Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, have been camping in Delhi for Cabinet berths under Bommai. Another aspirant, MLC CP Yogeeshwar also flew to Delhi on Monday morning. Meanwhile, confusion has prevailed among BJP legislators over uncertainty in the formula the high command will apply in picking ministers for the Cabinet, keeping them on tenterhooks. Whether all the migrant MLAs - those who joined the BJP from the Congress and JD(S) - will make it back into the Cabinet is also unclear. There is talk that some Cabinet berths will be kept vacant for a possible expansion after a few months into Bommai's term. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/legislators-flock-to-b-s-yediyurappas-home-in-search-of-cabinet-berths-1015574.html
02-08-2021||National||Survey indicates travel plans by 28% amid third Covid wave fears||Conjuring up fears of a third Covid-19 wave, a nationwide survey has revealed that 28% of the respondents have travel plans in August-September. A substantial 54% of these travellers indicated that they would visit their friends and family, while 26% want to head to holiday destinations, the survey report said. Conducted by LocalCircles, a pollster on governance issues and community social media platform, the survey findings were based on responses from over 18,000 citizens residing in 311 districts across India. While 68% of the respondents were men, 42% were from Tier-I 29% from Tier-II 2 and 29% from Tier-III, IV and rural districts. LocalCircles will now submit these findings both to central and state Governments as an input in policy decisions to mitigate the risk of a third wave.  “The government must continue to create awareness amongst people about limiting non-essential travel till the time the risk of a third Covid wave greatly reduces,” an official of the platform informed. Tracking travel trends in March and April, the platform found that the biggest challenge was faced during the Kumbh Mela when devotees went back to their hometowns. Many had returned with the infection. Currently, a perceptible fall in daily Covid-19 cases has seen states ease travel restrictions and relax the need to carry a negative RT-PCR test result. A few states are letting in only vaccinated travellers, while many others insist on a valid Covid ePass. However, compared to the second wave peak, airlines are reporting an increase in traffic since the last week of May. Many citizens had cancelled their travel plans after the second wave went out of control in April and May. A LocalCircles official notes a definite shift in their behaviour now. “Online search interest amongst travellers for accommodation across India has increased significantly since June 1. An online search on destination insights also suggests that travel demand has been on the rise since May-end.” Airliners, hoteliers, travel agencies and related stakeholders hope that July and August would cover their loss accrued during the lockdown induced by the second wave. Many International destinations such as Switzerland, South Africa and Egypt have also started allowing Indians on tourist visas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/survey-indicates-travel-plans-by-28-amid-third-covid-wave-fears-1015350.html
02-08-2021||National||Over 1,000 Gujarat hospitals lack fire NoC: Govt to SC||As many as 1,101 hospitals in Gujarat still do not possess any valid fire safety certificates issued under the Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, as per the affidavit submitted by the state government in the Supreme Court recently. The apex court is hearing a suo motu PIL on the issue of proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies, which will come up for hearing on Monday. In the affidavit, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development and Urban Housing Department, Mukesh Puri said that as of date, there were 5,705 hospitals in Gujarat, of which 4,604 possess fire NOCs (No Objection Certificates) under the 2013 Act but 1,101 hospitals do not possess these NoCs. Show-cause notices The NoC is issued by authorities concerned after applicant hospitals comply with fire safety measures. Detailing the action taken, the government said authorities had issued show-cause notices to over 1,500 non-compliant hospitals, disconnected the water supply of 30 hospitals, partially sealed 185 hospital premises for want of fire safety certificates. These premises were reopened only after ensuring their due compliance, it said. As per the affidavit, only 47 hospitals are currently treating Covid-19 patients in Gujarat, and all of them possess the requisite fire NOCs. “Though the Hon’ble Court vide its order dated December 18, 2020, had issued directions in the context of Covid hospitals, as on date, there are 5,705 hospitals in the state, of which 4,604 are possessing fire NOC under the 2013 Act,” the affidavit said, adding fire safety certificates to more than 2,500 hospitals have been issued or renewed since December 2020. As of January 15, 2021, there were 328 dedicated Covid hospitals in Gujarat, of which 261 were found to possess valid fire NOCs. The government also said that “due to measures like mock drills, inspection of hospital premises by fire officers, training etc nine incidents of fire were controlled and (fire) extinguished at the incipient stage preventing the loss of property and lives during the peak of second Covid wave in Gujarat.” Two of these fires were reported in Ahmedabad on May 7 and May 17, two in Surat on April 25 and May 10, two in Rajkot on May 7 and May 20, two in Jamnagar on May 14 and May 18, and one in Bhavnagar on May 12, it said. The Gujarat government has also clarified a notification issued by it on July 8, 2021. The notification directed that no coercive action should be taken against the buildings having no Building Use (BU) permission till three months from December 31, 2021, which is the last date of applicability of the Gujarat Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulation, 2020. Fire safety certificate The government said this notification didn’t mean any relaxation in the issuance of a fire safety certificate and the statutory compliance with the fire safety norms under the Fire Safety Act, 2013. The top court in the order dated June 19 had asked the Gujarat government to clarify whether its notification granting BU relaxation is in breach of the directions issued by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1000-gujarat-hospitals-lack-fire-noc-govt-to-sc-1015354.html
02-08-2021||National||Heavy police force in Goa CM's town as Congress tries to take out march against him over rape remarks||Heavy police deployment was witnessed at Sankhalim in Goa on Sunday as Congress tried to take out a protest march against state Chief Minister Pramod Sawant over his recent remarks about rape victims, while workers of the ruling BJP gathered outside the CM’s residence in the town in his support. Sankhalim town is part of Sawant’s Assembly constituency. Four men had allegedly raped two girls on Benaulim beach last Sunday. Addressing the state Assembly three days later, Sawant had said that parents need to introspect on why their children were on the beach late at night. He had also said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children and hinted that they should not let their children, particularly minors, out at night. However, as his remarks kicked up a row, he later issued a statement saying that his comments were taken out of context and that he was deeply pained by the incident. But continuing to target the chief minister over his remarks, the Congress tried to take out ‘Sadbuddhi Yatra’ at Sankhalim town on Sunday. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar, who was leading the march, alleged that the police did not allow the peaceful protest to be held. He also claimed that the police manhandled the party workers, due to which the dress of a woman activist got torn. “The CM has caused damage to humanity, tarnished Goa's image, damaged tourism and derailed the process of women empowerment through his insensitive statement justifying rape and blaming rape survivors and their parents,” Chodankar said. The Congress leader condemned the “high-handed” behaviour of the government. A senior police official said, “Heavy police force was deployed in the town to ensure that no untoward incident takes place.” Meanwhile, hundreds of BJP workers gathered outside the chief minister’s residence to show their support to him. Shubadha Savoikar, a BJP leader, said that Congress party should not dare to take out a protest march to the CM’s house as hundreds of people are there to support him. “The Congress is indulging in petty politics, which would not be tolerated at Sankhalim,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-police-force-in-goa-cms-town-as-congress-tries-to-take-out-march-against-him-over-rape-remarks-1015360.html
02-08-2021||National||PM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose specific digital payment solution, on Monday via video conferencing, his office said. Underlining that Modi has always championed digital initiatives, the Prime Minister's Office said over the years, several programmes have been launched to ensure that the benefits reach its intended beneficiaries in a targeted and leak-proof manner, with limited touch points between the government and the beneficiary. The concept of electronic voucher takes forward this vision of good governance, it said. In its statement, the PMO said e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment. It is a QR code or SMS string-based e-voucher, which is delivered to the mobile of the beneficiaries, the statement said. The users of this seamless one-time payment mechanism will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider, it said. It has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India on its UPI platform, in collaboration with the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and National Health Authority. The statement said e-RUPI connects the sponsors of the services with the beneficiaries and service providers in a digital manner without any physical interface. It also ensures that the payment to the service provider is made only after the transaction is completed. Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without involvement of any intermediary, the statement said. The PMO said it is expected to be a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a leak-proof delivery of welfare services. It can also be used for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support under Mother and Child welfare schemes, TB eradication programmes, drugs and diagnostics under schemes like Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, fertiliser subsidies etc. Even the private sector can leverage these digital vouchers as part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-digital-payment-solution-e-rupi-1015370.html
02-08-2021||National||Forecaster who predicted India’s Covid peak sees new wave coming||India is likely to see a rise in Covid-19 infections building into a new -- though smaller -- virus wave that may peak in October, according to a mathematical model by researchers who accurately predicted the tapering of a brutal surge of cases earlier this year. The country may see a worsening of its outbreak as soon as this month, with the next wave peaking in the best-case scenario with less than 100,000 infections a day, or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, according to estimates by researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at Indian Institute of Technology in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively. States with high Covid rates, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture,” Vidyasagar told Bloomberg in an email. The next wave is likely to be far smaller than the second wave that peaked at a record 400,000-plus daily cases on May 7 and declined sharply thereafter. But the forecast still underscores the need for India to accelerate its vaccination campaign, deploy surveillance methods to catch emerging hotspots and stay vigilant through genome sequencing given the potential for new variants to emerge. The delta strain now causing renewed outbreaks across the world was first identified in India last October. Experts are concerned about complacency setting in as people resume social and business activity in the face of waning infections. India’s first outbreak last year ebbed with limited damage, leading to a quick resumption of local travel and large-scale festivals that drove the emergence of a devastating second wave in March. With hospitals and crematoriums overwhelmed, researchers estimate that as many as 5 million people may have been killed in that outbreak. The government estimates of total Covid-related fatalities so far is 424,351. That last wave also lead to high levels of natural immunity in the country’s nearly 1.4 billion people -- a factor that could blunt the impact of the next surge. A national antibody survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research study last month found that two-thirds of Indians above the age of six had been exposed to the coronavirus. Next Hotspot Five months after the last wave started, daily infections in India have plateaued at around the 40,000 daily mark. For the past five days, roughly half the new cases are coming from the southern state of Kerala, making it potentially the next hotspot. Daily cases have grown persistently through July in Kerala and a few smaller north-eastern states, said Paul Kattuman, professor in the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge, which has developed a Covid-19 tracker for India. But a few states also saw “short-lived flare-ups in July which abated relatively quickly,” putting the country overall in “a steady state” for now. “If infection begins to increase in a few large states, the present balance will tip, and cases are likely to begin growing again in the country as a whole,” Kattuman said. “We might expect to see a slow-burn in the country for a duration -- this can be expected to last till vaccination coverage is sufficiently high to induce herd immunity.” India has so far administered 470.3 million vaccine doses, but only 7.6% of the population is fully vaccinated, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. The relatively slow uptake has added to concerns that the country may not be fully geared for the next wave. The central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi says it is now better prepared for further outbreaks and that future waves will not have the same impact on the economy as before. Public health authorities need to conduct air and sewage water surveillance to detect virus clusters across city neighborhoods, according to Ram Vishwakarma, an adviser at India’s Council of Scientific & Industrial Research. This would catch potential infections before they escalate to hospital emergency rooms. “Sewage water surveillance is the first indication that you start getting from a particular area,” he said at a conference on July 28. Stepping up public health efforts and avoiding past mistakes will be key if India wants to save lives and livelihoods when the next wave descends. “This is the period which is the most critical because the next wave is imminent,” Vishwakarma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forecaster-who-predicted-india-s-covid-peak-sees-new-wave-coming-1015371.html
02-08-2021||National||India reports 40,134 new Covid-19 cases, 422 deaths||India registered 40,134 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing its virus tally to 3,16,95,958, while the number of active cases recorded an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,24,773 with 422 daily fatalities. The number of active coronavirus cases has increased to 4,13,718 and comprises 1.31 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,766 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,28,984 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 46,96,45,494, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.81 per cent . The weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.37 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,57,467, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.22 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore Covid-19 cases on May 4, and 3 crore on June 23. The 422 new fatalities include 157 from Maharashtra, 64 from Odisha and 56 from Kerala. A total of 4,24,773 deaths linked to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 1,32,948 from Maharashtra, 36,587 from Karnataka, 34,102 from Tamil Nadu, 25,054 from Delhi, 22,763 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,149 from West Bengal and 16,794 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-40134-new-covid-19-cases-422-deaths-1015384.html
02-08-2021||National||Supreme Court notice to states, UTs on cases filed under scrapped section 66A of IT Act||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to all States on continued use of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, despite the top court declaring the provision as unconstitutional in 2015.  Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 made posting "offensive" comments online a crime punishable by a jail term of three years. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman sought a response from all States and Union Territories and Registrar General of all High Courts within four weeks in the matter.  The top court said this cannot continue like this, there has to be one proper order in the matter, the bench said. The court had earlier said that it is "shocking, distressing, and terrible" that Section 66A of IT Act was still being used against citizens for offensive online post, though it was struck down in 2015. The court was then hearing an application by PUCL, highlighting abuse of the provision. Responding to apex court's notice on the plea, the Centre told the court that it was the primary duty of States and Union territories to stop registering cases under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act after the provision was quashed by the top court in 2015.  It said 21 states and Union territories have reported compliance with the 2015 judgment in their letters to the Ministry of Information and Technology. However, the law enforcement agencies under the state governments have to ensure no fresh cases were lodged under Section 66A of the IT Act.  It also pointed out ‘police’ and ‘public order’ are State subjects as per the Constitution and prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of crimes and capacity building of police personnel as primarily responsibility of States. The affidavit by the Union government was filed on July 27.   The government also said the Home Ministry last month asked state governments and police chiefs to immediately revoke cases registered under Section 66A of the IT Act.  In its plea, the NGO stated that as many as 745 cases were still pending and active before the Districts Courts in 11 States, wherein accused persons were being prosecuted for offences under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act. The plea pointed out that 1,307 new cases were registered after the law was declared unconstitutional. Maharashtra registered the highest number of cases at 381, followed by Jharkhand 291, and Uttar Pradesh 245. Karnataka registered 14 such cases after 2015 and three were were pending over there. The top court had on March 24, 2015 held that “Section 66A is struck down in its entirety being violative of Article 19(1)(a) (freedom of speech) and not saved under Article 19(2) (reasonable restrictions).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-notice-to-states-uts-on-cases-filed-under-scrapped-section-66a-of-it-act-1015405.html
02-08-2021||National||Kerala underreports least Covid-19 cases, Bihar underreports most: Report||Quoting the latest ICMR serosurvey which said that all states have underreported cases, it mentioned that Kerala has an underreporting factor of six, which means that for each infection detected, six remain undetected. For Bihar, this figure stood at 134 – over 22 times higher than that of Kerala's. The southern state has been seeing over 20,000 cases over the past week largely due to its high testing rate and has been known to detect cases better than other states in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. The story added that Uttar Pradesh underreported one in 100 cases, while Maharashtra, which was hit hard by the pandemic earlier this year, underreported one in 12. India on Monday reported 40,134 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing its virus tally to 3,16,95,958, while the number of active cases recorded an increase for the sixth consecutive day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-underreports-least-covid-19-cases-bihar-underreports-most-report-1015411.html
02-08-2021||National||Above normal rains in Aug-September in peninsular India: IMD||Southern peninsular regions of the country are expected to receive bountiful monsoon showers in August-September, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Releasing the monsoon forecast for August and September, IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said western Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Rajasthan, some parts of interior Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, some parts of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh were likely to receive below-normal rainfall. The IMD defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96% and 104% of a 50-year average of 89 cms for the four-month season beginning in June. “As changes in sea surface temperature conditions over the Pacific and Indian Oceans are known to influence the Indian monsoon, the IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these ocean basins,” he told reporters in a virtual press conference. Currently, the Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs) and the atmospheric conditions over the equatorial Pacific Ocean indicate neutral ENSO (El Nino) conditions, while forecasts indicate warming of the Indian Ocean leading to negative Indian Ocean Dipole conditions. The monsoon forecast is expected to help farmers plan their crops effectively for the Kharif season. The sowing for summer crops such as paddy, maize, cotton, soybeans, groundnuts, sugarcane begins in June and continues till early August. According to the agriculture ministry, till July 23 farmers had sown summer crops in 721.36 lakh hectares, down from 791.84 lakh hectares in the corresponding period of Kharif season 2020. The area sown to paddy, the main Kharif crop, was down 7% at 207.65 lakh hectares as against 222.88 lakh hectares in the said period. The Southwest Monsoon had a delayed onset over Kerala on June 3, but it progressed very rapidly and covered the east, west, south and parts of north India by June 19. The monsoon entered a break phase and covered parts of west Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi in the second week of July. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/above-normal-rains-in-aug-september-in-peninsular-india-imd-1015419.html
02-08-2021||National||LS proceedings adjourned till 12 noon amid Opposition protest||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 12 noon on Monday amid protest by Opposition members over the Pegasus snooping controversy and other issues. Speaker Om Birla asked the protesting members to raise issues of public interest rather than sloganeering and urged them to go back to their seats. "You all are respectable members representing lakhs of people… This House is for discussion... I will give you time (for discussion)," Birla said. Notwithstanding Opposition protests, the Question Hour went on for over 30 minutes and more than seven questions were taken up along with supplementaries. As Opposition members continued with their protest, Birla adjourned the House for about 25 minutes till 12 noon. As soon as the House met for the day, Speaker Birla, on behalf of the House, congratulated shuttler P V Sindhu on winning a medal at the Tokyo Olympics. The Speaker noted that she is the first Indian woman athlete to win two individual medals at Olympics. He congratulated her for the "historic achievement" and also expressed hope that Sindhu's win will be an inspiration for youngsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ls-proceedings-adjourned-till-12-noon-amid-opposition-protest-1015436.html
02-08-2021||National||Covaxin effective against Delta Plus variant: ICMR study||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin (BBV152) is effective against Delta Plus (AY.1) variant of the coronavirus, according to a study published in biorxiv by the Indian Council of Medical and Research (ICMR). "Here, we have evaluated the IgG antibody titer and neutralising potential of sera of Covid-19 naive individuals full doses of BBV152 vaccine, Covid-19 recovered cases with full dose vaccines and breakthrough cases post-immunisation BBV152 vaccines against Delta, Delta AY.1 and B.1.617.3.," the study said. The recent emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 Variant B.1.617.2 (Delta) with its high transmissibility has led to the second wave in India. Covaxin, a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine used for mass immunisation in the country, showed a 65.2 per cent protection against the Delta variant in a double-blind, randomised, multicentre, phase 3 clinical trial. Subsequently, Delta has further mutated to Delta AY.1, AY.2, and AY.3. Of these, AY.1 variant was first detected in India in April 2021 and subsequently from 20 other countries as well, the study said. The study is a pre-print and has not been peer reviewed. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech had said while concluding the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials on July 3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-effective-against-delta-plus-variant-icmr-study-1015437.html
02-08-2021||National||Congress politicking Assam-Mizoram border issue: Rijiju||BJP MPs on Monday gave a memorandum to PM Modi about parties like Congress politicking Assam-Mizoram border issue & making proactive statements, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju said.  "Series of confidence-building measures have taken place over last few days. Yet actions of Congress remain as devious & mischievous," the memorandum said.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-politicking-assam-mizoram-border-issue-rijiju-1015440.html
02-08-2021||National||5% royalty from Covaxin sales to ICMR a cause for concern among experts: Report||Experts told the publication that the payout on a half-yearly basis and logic behind the calculation are being questioned. The royalty affects the affordability of the vaccine, experts were quoted saying. Though the price of the vaccine for the government was revised, Covaxin is the most expensive Covid-19 vaccine in the private market at Rs 1,410 for one dose. “The government should also verify the investments made by Bharat Biotech. If ICMR gets a royalty of 5 per cent on Rs 35 crore funding, can the government verify that BB invested upwards of Rs 650 crore for development of Covaxin?” Murali Neelakantan, principal lawyer at Amicus told the daily. Amulya Nidhi of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan said that a nexus between the government and Bharat Biotech seemed apparent for earning profits. Nidhi added that the Centre should order technology transfer and compulsory licence to be given to potential manufacturers and government-owned companies instead of giving 5 per cent royalty to ICMR. Since the start of Covid-19 vaccination on January 16, India has administered over 5.64 crore doses of Covaxin out of a total 47 crore administered doses, according to the Co-WIN dashboard. ICMR and Bharat Bitoech have also drawn criticism from the scientific community. Covaxin, was approved earlier this year for emergency use before final trials were completed, a move doctors and public health experts said was premature and fueled widespread hesitancy. The company, the Centre and the ICMR have been further criticised for not making the details of the intellectual property rights to the Covaxin public. Bharat Biotech in a statement last month said it will pay unspecified royalties to the ICMR and India’s National Institute of Virology. (With inputs from PTI and Bloomberg) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-royalty-from-covaxin-sales-to-icmr-a-cause-for-concern-among-experts-report-1015441.html
02-08-2021||National||India rejoices as women's hockey team reach maiden Olympic semi-finals||"A dream moment", said the country's sports fraternity in unison as it celebrated the resurgence of Indian hockey at the Olympics after the women's team advanced to its first ever semi-final at the Games in Tokyo on Monday. A day after the Indian men's team entered the Olympic semi-finals following a 49-year gap, the world no. 9 women's side also produced a phenomenally gritty performance against the world no. 2 Australia in an intense quarter-final. It triggered an outpouring of emotions as people from all walks of life, including former and current sportspersons and politicians, congratulated the team. Describing it as "a dream moment", former India hockey captain Viren Rasquinha said: "Impressed with the way the Indians defended post the goal. They didn't just defend the lead, they almost attacked the lead. They were not afraid to go up and press the Australians. "The men's game made us much more uncomfortable yesterday than the Australian women. Credit to the Indian women's team. "One biggest improvement in the team is the sheer physical presence, the fitness, endurance levels. In today's modern format unless the fitness level isn't at the highest level it is hard to survive." Drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur rose to the occasion and converted India's lone penalty corner in the 22nd minute to surprise the Australians. "To score a goal against one of the best teams in hockey is amazing. She hasn't been in best form, it took a bit of luck, as it took two deflection but who cares, what matters it was a goal for India," Rasquinha said. India will next take on Argentina in the semi-finals on Wednesday. Congratulating the team, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur wrote on his twitter handle: "Splendid Performance!!! Women's Hockey #TeamIndia is scripting history with every move at #Tokyo2020 ! We’re into the semi-finals of the Olympics for the 1st time beating Australia." Splendid Performance!!! We’re into the semi-finals of the Olympics for the 1st time beating Australia. Wishes also came in former sports minister Kiren Rijiju. "India's dream is coming to reality! Our Women's Hockey Team has defeated Australia! India's Men's and Women's teams have reached semi-finals at #Tokyo2020 Olympics! I have no words to express my excitement and happiness!," he tweeted. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, who has been at the forefront in supporting the hockey teams through sponsorship as well, said glory awaits. Glory awaits! " Congratulate Indian Women’s #Hockey Team on registering a thumping victory in the quarter-final against Australia at #Tokyo2020. May the team continue its winning streak & bring glory to the country. Wish the team all the best," he said. India's first-ever individual silver at the Olympics, shooter Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore, who was also the sports minister in the past, wrote: "Congratulations to the Flag of India Women’s Hockey Team for entering the #Olympic semi-finals. You've made India proud! Best wishes for the next match." The country's lone individual Olympic gold medallist shooter Abhinav Bindra too sent his best wishes. "Incredible Morning. So proud of our women’s hockey team. Nothing unites us the way sport does !!!," he wrote. Rio bronze medallist wrestler Sakshi Malik tweeted: "THESE GIRLS HAVE DONE IT! THEY HAVE DONE THE UNTHINKABLE! The #IND women's #hockey team are into the SEMI-FINALS after beating #AUS 1-0." THESE GIRLS HAVE DONE IT! THEY HAVE DONE THE UNTHINKABLE! 🙌 Multiple-time world champion cueist Pankaj Advani also took to the social networking site to wish the Rani Rampal-led side. "Chak De India! Indian hockey has been super impressive at the #OlympicGames Imagine if both men and women came back with Gold medals #Cheer4India," he tweeted. India football team skipper Sunil Chhetri wrote: "If you thought Sunday was good then our women have just gone and made Monday exceptional with a performance for the ages! First semi-final appearance in an Olympic Games and that's how you do it - with a big, solid fight. Had us glued throughout. #TeamIndia #Tokyo2020." Former batsman VVS Laxman too congratulated the team. "Our girls have created history. Beaten #AUS in the quarter-final match of women’s #hockey by 1-0 to seal their spot in SEMI-FINAL for the first time ever! Best wishes for the semis. #Tokyo2020," he tweeted. In a tweet, BCCI secretary Jay Shah said: "What a start to the day! It’s a historic moment in Indian Hockey with our women’s team reaching the semis after beating Australia in the quarter-final 1-0. #GoForGold #Cheer4India #Hockey."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejoices-as-womens-hockey-team-reach-maiden-olympic-semi-finals-1015442.html
02-08-2021||National||Bengal FM writes to Sitharaman against privatisation of insurance companies||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her not to go ahead with the privatisation of public insurance companies. He said the move to privatise has brought a great sense of insecurity and distress among the people of the country. "May I express my shock and alarm at the policy decision of the Government of India venturing to privatise public sector insurance companies which are the pillars of the economy," Mitra said in the letter. The government plans to privatise public general insurer United India Insurance Company in the first instance as well as sell-off Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), considered to be the fulcrum of financial security for most of the Indians, he said. Privatisation of LIC, which has a massive quantum of investments in the economy running into Rs 36.76 lakh crore, will open up a 'Pandora's Box' and throw into insecurity 30 crore policyholders, he said. The privatisation of United India Insurance will cause major disruption and destabilise the future of almost two crore retail insurers, Mitra added. The privatisation will initiate hydra-headed financial problems while undermining the confidence of the common retail insurers of the poorer sections of the society, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-fm-writes-to-sitharaman-against-privatisation-of-insurance-companies-1015444.html
02-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha lauds Sindhu's bronze at Olympics||The Rajya Sabha on Monday congratulated badminton ace P V Sindhu for winning a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, saying that she has scripted history by becoming the country's first woman to win two individual Olympics medals. When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu congratulated Sindhu for her gritty performance on behalf of the House and himself. The members responded by thumping tables when references were made to Sindhu and her family. "With her spectacular performance, Sindhu has scripted history by becoming the first Indian women to win two Olympic Medals and that too in successive editions," Naidu said. "This feat of Sindhu highlights the consistency at international levels that are expected of our sportspersons in the international arenas." "Personally known to me, I have been witness to her hard work, perseverance and sheer dedication towards her passion," Naidu said. "It is appropriate to take note of the role of Sindhu's parents and family in her spectacular rise and achievements in badminton that brought her laurels for our country," he added. He wished Sindhu all success in her future endeavours and hoped that she continues to bring many more laurels to the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-lauds-sindhus-bronze-at-olympics-1015446.html
02-08-2021||National||Tamil Nadu fisherman hurt in firing by Lankan Navy personnel||A fisherman belonging to Nagapattinam district sustained head injuries as Sri Lankan Navy allegedly opened fire when he was fishing along with others off the Kodiakarai coast. A total of 10 fishermen belonging to Akkaraipettai and Keechankuppamhamlets ventured into the sea in a mechanised boat from Nagapattinam port on July 28, Nagapattinam fisheries department officials said. When they were fishing in the sea southeast off the Kodiakarai coast near the International Maritime Boundary Line on the wee hours of Monday, a fast craft of personnel belonging to the Sri Lankan Navy allegedly opened fire at the boats that were fishing in the vicinity, officials added. "Lankan Navy personnel started attacking many boats in the area. First, they threw stones and then opened fire. One of the bullets came towards our boat and it pierced a partition and hit one among us named Kalaiselvan. The bullet scratched his head and he fell down unconscious," Deepanraj, one of the fishermen who was in the boat, said. "We immediately turned our boat towards the coast and rushed Kalaiselvan to Nagapattinam GH. Since the bullet first pierced the boat before hitting him, he has escaped with head injuries," he added. He stressed that the Lankan Navy allegedly opened fire when the fishermen were fishing within the Indian limits. The injured fisherman hailed from Akkaraipettai hamlet in this district. Nagapattinam District Collector Dr Arun Thamburaj visited Nagapattinam GH and interacted with the affected fishermen. He enquired about the incident. The Coastal Security Group police, Q branch, and Fisheries department officials are conducting enquiries. The incident led to tension in fishing hamlets of Nagapattinam district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-fisherman-hurt-in-firing-by-lankan-navy-personnel-1015451.html
02-08-2021||National||SC declines plea by Kerala rape survivor to marry her tormentor||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea for bail to 53-year-old Kerala Catholic priest Robin Vadakkumchery to allow him to marry the girl whom he raped and impregnated when she was a minor. A bench presided over by Justice Vineet Saran refused to entertain a special leave petition filed by the victim to permit her to marry the convicted priest. Senior advocate Kiran Suri said the accused should be released to let him marry the victim. The bench, however, asked him to go to the trial court. Appearing for the accused, Advocate Amit George submitted that he sought bail so that he would be able to marry the petitioner. He also claimed that it was his fundamental right to marry the victim. The bench, however, said the High Court has taken into consideration all the aspects of the matter, therefore we don't intend to interfere in the matter. Vadakkumchery was sentenced to 20 years in jail on February 17, 2019, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was dismissed from priesthood by the Vatican.  Earlier, the Kerala High Court had turned down the plea by the convict.  The priest was arrested on February 27, 2017, near Kochi International airport when he was trying to slip out of the country. The case against him was lodged by a child line agency. The girl, who was a student of class XI, gave birth to a child on February 7, 2017, at a hospital run by the management. During the trial, the victim and her mother had turned hostile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-plea-by-kerala-rape-survivor-to-marry-her-tormentor-1015452.html
02-08-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi to meet Opposition MPs over breakfast on August 3||Increasing his engagement with like-minded parties, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will host a breakfast meeting for Opposition MPs in Parliament on Tuesday in an exercise meant to inject more cohesiveness in the fight against the Narendra Modi government. The meeting comes against the backdrop of the continuing stalemate in Parliament over the demand for a discussion on the controversial Pegasus snooping episode. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion but the government has not agreed to it claiming it is a "non-issue". This is the first time Rahul will be holding such a meeting with Opposition lawmakers. In the last one week, he had two meetings with Opposition floor leaders -- Opposition floor leaders in Lok Sabha on July 27 followed by attending a meeting of floor leaders in both the Houses chaired by the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge the next day. "Sitting with the entire opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom and insight in everyone present," Rahul had tweeted on July 28. Sources said the meeting by Rahul could help in taking forward the next course of action as the government remains adamant over not allowing a discussion on Pegasus. There is a thinking in a section of the Opposition that there is a need to find a way to raise issues other than Pegasus while not taking the focus from it. The Opposition also feels that the government is taking it as an opportunity to pass Bills without discussion and scrutiny by Parliamentary Standing Committees. Sources said Left leaders have suggested holding a 'mock Parliament' outside Parliament to highlight that the government is disrupting the proceedings. This issue could come up for discussion among other things in Tuesday's meeting though a section of the Opposition leaders is not comfortable with the idea. Amid speculation that the government may curtail the Monsoon Session after passing bills to replace ordinances, Opposition leaders said the government has not indicated anything like that. "At present, we are not thinking in that direction," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. The Opposition leaders are also expected to discuss the passing of Bills in din. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "#MASTERSTROKE #Parliament. In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill...Passing legislation or making papri chaat!" Opposition leaders said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Kharge but there has been no headway. Kharge, who has complained to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu that Opposition leaders are not given an opportunity to speak in the House, is learnt to have told Singh over phone that he should call a meeting of all Opposition floor leaders to find a way out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-to-meet-opposition-mps-over-breakfast-on-august-3-1015460.html
02-08-2021||National||No proposal under consideration to waive farmer loans: Centre||The government on Monday said there is no proposal under consideration to waive loans of farmers, including Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe farmers. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said the Centre has not implemented any farm loan waiver scheme since 'Agriculture Debt Waiver and Debt Relief Scheme (ADWDRS), 2008'. "There is no proposal under consideration of the Government of India to waive off the loans of farmers including Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes farmers in the country," the minister said. Karad also listed major initiatives taken by the government and the Reserve Bank of India to reduce the debt burden of farmers and for welfare of the people engaged in agriculture, including those belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He cited schemes like interest subvention for short-term crop loans of up to Rs 3 lakh, RBI's decision to raise the limit for collateral-free agriculture loan from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.6 lakh, and direct income support of Rs 6,000 per year to farmers under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-under-consideration-to-waive-farmer-loans-centre-1015462.html
02-08-2021||National||SC advises mediation to AP, Telangana for settling Krishna water sharing dispute||The Supreme Court Monday suggested “mediation” to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for settling their dispute over sharing of Krishna river water, saying it did not want to interfere “unnecessarily”. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana was hearing the plea of Andhra Pradesh which has alleged that the Telangana has deprived it of its legitimate share of drinking and irrigation water. "I don't want to hear this matter legally. I belong to both the states. If the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that. We can help with that. Otherwise I will transfer this to another bench," the CJI, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, observed during the hearing. "I wish that both of you (lawyers representing the two states) convince your governments and settle the matter. We do not want to interfere unnecessarily," said the CJI who was heading the bench also comprising Justice Surya Kant. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh along with lawyer Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, sought time for seeking instruction. The bench then kept the plea for further consideration on Wednesday and senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for Telangana, agreed to this. In July, Andhra Pradesh government had moved the top court claiming that the Telangana government refused to follow the decisions taken by the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, the directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) formed under this Act, and the Centre's directives. The petition said the fundamental rights including right to life of the people living in Andhra Pradesh was "seriously impaired and infringed" upon as they were being deprived of their "legitimate share of water" due to "unconstitutional, illegal and unjust" acts of the Telangana government and its officials. "The present petition is being moved because the state of Telangana is refusing to follow decisions taken in the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, directions of KRMB, and directions of government of India," it said. "This has caused immense hardship for people of Andhra Pradesh as availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project," it added. The petition urged the top court to direct the Centre to take control of the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoirs along with all their outlets and operate them as per the rules in vogue as per the binding award. If necessary, with the help of police protection, operate both the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoir without causing prejudice to Andhra Pradesh, it urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-advises-mediation-to-ap-telangana-for-settling-krishna-water-sharing-dispute-1015465.html
02-08-2021||National||Police files charge sheet against Olympic wrestler Sushil Kumar, others in murder case||Delhi Police on Monday filed a charge sheet against Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar and 19 others in connection with the alleged murder of a former junior national wrestling champion at Chhatrasal Stadium here. The final report, which named Kumar as the main accused, has been filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba. Fifteen accused have been arrested in the case, while five are on the run. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. Police had earlier called Sushil the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar with sticks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-files-charge-sheet-against-olympic-wrestler-sushil-kumar-others-in-murder-case-1015467.html
02-08-2021||National||SC orders immediate inclusion of Paralympian shooter for Tokyo Paralympics||The Supreme Court Monday ordered Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) to immediately include the name of five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma as an additional participant for the upcoming Tokyo games. In an urgent hearing, a bench comprising justices A M Khanwilkar, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari directed the PCI to sent the Arjuna awardee shooter to take part in the sporting event. The bench took note of the submissions of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the shooter, that August 2 was the last day for the selection and three shooters can be sent together. The Central government said it had no objection to such orders as the team selection has to be done by the committee and the government would be happy if medals increase. Tokyo Paralympics is starting from August 24 and the shooter was aggrieved due to his non-selection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-immediate-inclusion-of-paralympian-shooter-for-tokyo-paralympics-1015479.html
02-08-2021||National||28% Indian home PC users at high risk of cyberattack: Report||Nearly one third (28.22 per cent) of PC home users in India are at high risk of cyberattacks, according to a report by digital security and privacy provider Avast. Avast's latest Global PC Risk Report also looked into the possibility of users facing advanced threats -- defined as more sophisticated or threats never seen before, designed to bypass common protection technologies included in security software, such as signatures, heuristics, emulators, URL filtering, and email scanning. For this type of threat, Indian home users have a 5.78 per cent risk ratio, which is higher than the global average. Home users around the world have a 29.39 per cent chance of encountering any type of PC malware, which represents an increase of around 5 per cent compared to the previous year.Geographies with more conflictive socio-political situations, such as the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Eastern Europe, seem to be facing more risk in the online world as well. "The risk ratio has increased worldwide for all malware attacks, and we can see that India is no exception. In the pandemic, the internet has been kind of a 'life saver' for many, empowering them to stay connected with loved ones during the lockdown, to attend virtual workout sessions, get-togethers, classes, and work remotely," said Michal Salat, Director of Threat Intelligence at Avast, in a statement. "But cybercriminals have also taken notice of this, and so we have seen a variety of tailored campaigns taking advantage of increased online activities, such as Covid-19 related attacks, sextortion campaigns, spyware, and ransomware," Salat added. The data included in this report is collected from Avast's threat detection network and represents a data snapshot, constructed with the threats Avast protected its PC users between March 16 and April 14, 2021. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-indian-home-pc-users-at-high-risk-of-cyberattack-report-1015483.html
02-08-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes Bill to amend public sector general insurance law||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 is aimed at generating required resources from the Indian markets so that public sector general insurers can design innovative products. As per the statement of objects and reasons of The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, it seeks to remove the requirement that the central government should hold not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer. To provide for greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies, to enhance insurance penetration and social protection, to better secure the interests of policyholders and contribute to faster growth of the economy, it has become necessary to amend certain provisions of the Act, according to the Bill. The Bill was introduced on Friday by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Finance Minister in the Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda which included two public sector banks and one general insurance company. "We propose to take up the privatisation of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments," she had said at the time. As of date, there are four general insurance companies in the public sector - National Insurance Company Limited, New India Assurance Company Limited, Oriental Insurance Company Limited and the United India Insurance Company Limited. Now, one of these will be privatised for which the government is yet to finalise the name. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-public-sector-general-insurance-law-1015486.html
02-08-2021||National||Lalu, Mulayam Singh Yadav meet in Delhi||RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav and Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav met here on Monday. SP president and Mulayam Singh Yadav's son Akhilesh Yadav was also present in the meeting. In a tweet in Hindi, Lalu said, "Met the country's senior most socialist friend Shri Mulayam Singhji and enquired about his wellbeing. We have common concerns and fight about farmers, inequality, the poor and the unemployed." देश के वरिष्ठतम समाजवादी साथी आदरणीय श्री मुलायम सिंह जी से मुलाकात कर उनका कुशलक्षेम जाना।खेत-खलिहान,ग़ैर-बराबरी, अशिक्षा,किसानों,गरीबों व बेरोजगारों के लिए हमारी सांझी चिंताएँ और लड़ाई है। He also tweeted pictures of the meeting, and said, "Today, the country is in dire need of equality and socialism, not capitalism and communalism." Akhilesh Yadav also tweeted pictures of the meeting. Sources in both parties said the meeting took place in the national capital. Earlier in the day, Akhilesh Yadav attended Lok Sabha proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lalu-mulayam-singh-yadav-meet-in-delhi-1015493.html
02-08-2021||National||India, China agree to resolve remaining border dispute||India and China agreed to resolve remaining border issues in an 'expeditious manner' in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations, the Indian Army said on Monday in a joint statement after the 12th Round of India-China Corps commander level meeting. On July 31, India and China military delegates deliberated for almost nine hours to resolve border crisis at Moldo in the Ladakh region. The Indian Army stated that this round of meeting was held following the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of India and People's Republic of China on July 14 in Dushanbe and the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) held on June 25. "The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of India-China border areas," said Indian Army in the statement. The force further stated that the two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations. "The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the Western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquility," the force added. The talks between two countries happened after a gap of three months. Indian military delegates discussed disengagement at friction areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and 900 square km Depsang plains. Indian delegation was led by Leh-based XIV Corps chief Lt Gen P.G.K. Menon and Additional Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs, Naveen Srivastava.The Chinese military delegation was led by Commander of the PLA's Western Theatre Command Xu Qiling, who was appointed earlier this month. The build-up in Depsang was not being considered part of the current standoff that started in May last year as escalation here took place in 2013. India has insisted during recent military commander meetings to resolve all issues across the Line of Actual Control. In April, during 11th round of Corps Commander level talk, the focus was also on disengagement on friction points at Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang. Till now, apart from 12 round of Corps Commanders-level talks, the two forces have also held 10 Major Generals level, 55 Brigadiers-level talks and 1,450 calls over the hotlines. So far, the troops of two Himalayan giants have disengaged from both the banks of Pangong Tso in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-to-resolve-remaining-border-dispute-1015513.html
02-08-2021||National||Man moves SC seeking directions to extradite daughter from Afghanistan who joined ISIS||A man from Kerala has approached the Supreme Court for the extradition of his daughter, along with his grandchild, lodged in Afghanistan's jail after she had left India to join the terrorist group ISIS. He feared that after the exit of the US from Afghanistan, foreign terrorist fighters could be hanged. The petition filed by VJ Sebastian Francis said necessary action should be taken by authorities concerned to extradite his daughter Sonia Sebastian Ayisha and his granddaughter, who is a seven-year-old.   "Internationally, a lenient approach has been taken against the women foreign terrorist fighters...owing to the stand taken by the countries that women only played ancillary roles and therefore could not pose any significant threat to national security," his plea stated. He claimed the issue was urgent as many substantial changes politically and administratively were on in Afghanistan, after exit by the US troops. The plea contended that the Centre was not facilitating extradition of the detenues which was illegal and unconstitutional. It also violated fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. A case stringent anti-terror law UAPA was registered against Ayisha, after she left India and Interpol had also issued a Red Corner notice against her in March 2017. The plea said after reaching Afghanistan, Ayisha’s husband was killed in the war. After his death, the woman and the child had to surrender to the Afghan forces on November 15, 2019, along with some other women, said the plea. The petitioner claimed that his daughter repented the decision to join ISIS and she wanted to return to India and face a fair trial before a court. Ayisha had made this statement during an interview with Stratnews Global, which was uploaded as a documentary titled “Khorasan Files: The journey of Indian Islamic State Widows” on YouTube on March 15, last year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-moves-sc-seeking-directions-to-extradite-daughter-from-afghanistan-who-joined-isis-1015516.html
02-08-2021||National||CBSE to conduct improvement exams for class 12 between Aug 16 and Sept 15||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold improvement/compartmental exams for class 12 students from August 16 to September 15. The said exams for Class 12 students will be held in 19 subjects and candidates who have cleared the exams under the ‘tabulation policy’ but not satisfied with their declared results can appear in one or more subjects to improve their performance. “The marks obtained by a candidate in this examination will be treated as final, as mentioned in the Policy for Tabulation,” a CBSE statement said. The CBSE will issue a datesheet for the exams soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-conduct-improvement-exams-for-class-12-between-aug-16-and-sept-15-1015520.html
02-08-2021||National||Myth that stray dogs are dangerous by nature: Kerala HC||A dog is made ferocious by the circumstances and it is a myth that a stray canine is dangerous by nature, the Kerala High Court said on Monday while dealing with the issue of poisoning of street dogs in Thrikkakkara municipality area of Ernakulam district. A bench of Justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and P Gopinath said killing or maiming the street dogs was not the way to make people safer and the better option was to capture the canines and rehabilitate them at animal shelters. It also said, "This kind of dog catching using hammers cannot be done." The court said a balance has to be maintained between the interests of the residents of the area who feel threatened by the street dogs and the welfare of the animals. It was also sceptical with regard to the municipality's claims that one of its junior health inspectors paid for the poisoning of the canines from his own pocket. The court directed the municipality to identify in its area any animal shelters run by private organisations that would be able to capture the street dogs and shelter them in their premises. It issued the direction while observing that it understands that presently the municipality would not be able to spend funds for setting up such shelters. The Kerala government was asked to give details of the animal shelters -- run by the state and private ones -- in all the districts. With these directions, the court listed the matter for hearing on August 6. The court had taken up the issue of the poisoning of the dogs after a video on the same was brought to its attention. While seeking the stand of the municipality over its role in the entire matter, the bench had also directed the civic body to ensure no such incident takes place within its territorial limits in future and to put in place suitable machinery to ensure the same. On Monday, the municipality told the court that it had no role in the matter. Last week, the junior health inspector -- arrayed as an accused in the case with regard to killing of the canines -- moved the High Court, seeking anticipatory bail and claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case to divert the probe from the Chairperson and Secretary of the municipality and the chairperson of its standing committee on health. He alleged in his plea that the Chairperson and Secretary of the municipality and the chairperson of its standing committee on health were the ones who allegedly hired the gang which had killed the street dogs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/myth-that-stray-dogs-are-dangerous-by-nature-kerala-hc-1015531.html
02-08-2021||National||Rajnath reaches out to Kharge, Sudip Bandyopadhyay to end Parliament stalemate||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday telephoned Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha and Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay to break the deadlock in Parliament over the discussion on Pegasus snooping episode but no breakthrough was achieved. Sources said Singh spoke to both Kharge and Bandyopadhyay in the morning but both the leaders told the senior BJP leader that the Opposition wanted Pegasus to be discussed first. Opposition parties decided that they wanted discussions on Pegasus, farm laws and state of economy, including price rise, fuel price hike and unemployment. Sources said Singh told both Kharge and Bandyopadhyay to cooperate with the government for the smooth functioning of Parliament, to which the leaders said that the Opposition too wanted discussion. However, they said they cannot be flexibile on their demand for a discussion on Pegasus. While Trinamool Congress is adamant on discussing Pegasus, sources said a section in Congress are of the view that they should adopt a more pragmatic approach in allowing a discussion either economy or farm laws keeping in mind Assembly elections early next year, including in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, but those opposing this line says that the government would not conduct a debate on the snooping episode in such a scenario. Sources said floor leaders of Opposition in Rajya Sabha held a meeting during which the finer contours of the strategy was discussed following which Kharge told Singh that Pegasus should be discussed first and the government could decide whether Prime Minister or Home Minister would participate in the proceedings in both the Houses. On the other two subjects, the Opposition left it to the government to decide which issue they want to take it up. Sources also said that the Opposition parties will also discuss in a day or two on the list of Bills it wanted to send to Parliamentary Standing Committees. The Opposition leaders will also discuss a suggestion from Left MPs, including RSP's NK Premachandran, to hold a 'mock Parliament' to highlight that the government was disrupting the proceedings. They are also uncomfortable with the idea of the government rushing to pass Bills amid disruption. In Rajya Sabha, around two hours were spent for passing seven Bills while Lok Sabha took just 60 minutes to clear eight bills, including two Appropriation Bills, sources said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-reaches-out-to-kharge-sudip-bandyopadhyay-to-end-parliament-stalemate-1015536.html
02-08-2021||National||Coronavirus likely to lock India's women out of job market for years||Savitri Devi has been searching for work since she lost her job at a garment factory in New Delhi, along with half her co-workers, when sales plummeted at the start of the coronavirus pandemic last year. The 44-year-old has tried her luck repeatedly - and unsuccessfully - near her home in Okhla, an industrial hub with thousands of small factories and workshops, where there was previously plenty of unskilled jobs for women. "I am ready to take a salary cut, but there is no work," Devi said outside her one-room home in a slum of about 100 families, just a few miles away from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office. Devi is one of around 1.5 crore Indians who have been made redundant in an economic slowdown that has hit women disproportionately, trade union and industry leaders said. Most employed women in India are in low-skilled work, such as farm and factory labour and domestic help, sectors that have been hit hard by the pandemic. Worse, an anticipated slow economic recovery, the closure of thousands of factories and a sluggish vaccination rate, especially among women, is expected to undermine their attempts to return to the workforce. "Whatever social and economic gains Indian women had made in the last decade, it has been largely wiped out during the Covid period," said Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of the All India Trade Union Congress, one of the largest trade unions in India. The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic is expected to deepen economic stress in India, which was already in its worst recession for seven decades. With the vast majority of Indians working in the informal sector, precise estimates of job losses are difficult. But in a country without a comprehensive welfare system or pandemic-related support for small businesses, several industry bodies have reported widespread redundancies over the past year. The Consortium of Indian Industries (CIA), which represents over one million small firms, said women make up 60 per cent of the job losses. A report by the Centre for Sustainable Employment at Azim Premji University found that 47 per cent of women workers who lost their job between March and December - before the second wave of the virus hit in April - were made permanently redundant. That compared with around 7 per cent of male workers, many of whom were able to either return to their old jobs or take up independent work like selling vegetables. Women's Work Reuters spoke with more than 50 women in Delhi, the industrial state of Gujarat and, by phone, in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. All had lost their jobs in small garment factories, food processing units, travel agencies and schools, leading them to scrimp and save. "We have cut down spending on milk, vegetables, clothes …everything," said Devi, who, along with her day-labourer husband supports an unemployed son and an aged mother. In Okhla, home to makers of garments, auto parts and food packaging, employers say they have almost halved their workforce following a dip in orders and a rise in input costs like transport and steel. Chetan Singh Kohli, a printing material manufacturer and an official of Okhla's factory owners' association, said the auxiliary nature of a typical woman's role meant they were not priorities for reemployment. "The majority of female workers who work in low-skilled categories like packaging, and on assembly lines at lower wages would be the last ones to get employed, as first we want to restart operations," he said. India’s informal service sector, including on-demand services like transportation and food delivery, has been one of the few bright spots during the pandemic, said Manisha Kapoor, researcher at the Institute for Competitiveness think tank, but were dominated by men. "Those informal sector jobs are not something that women will be taking up," Kapoor said. Kaur warned it could take two or three years for women to return to the workforce - if at all - and urged the government to offer incentives to lure them back. "Migrant women workers, who have left for their villages with families after job losses, are unlikely to come back," she said. Childcare Conundrum Traditional household roles in India are further expected to impede women's return to the workforce. India's female-to-male share of housework is among the highest in the world, and women are bearing the majority of childcare with schools still closed due to the pandemic. "The work is available in faraway factories but I can't go as there is no one at home to take care of my children," said Chineya Devi, 32, who lost her job in an Okhla packaging firm earlier this year. Many of the women Reuters spoke to stressed the damage from job loss to their self-esteem, leading to mental and physical health issues. "Our men at home or government officials could never understand the impact of job losses on women," said Ritu Gupta, who owns a playschool in Najafgarh, on the outskirts of Delhi, that has been closed for over a year. "I am feeling worthless sitting idle at home. This is not just a monetary loss but the whole meaning of my life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-likely-to-lock-indias-women-out-of-job-market-for-years-1015553.html
02-08-2021||National||12 MPs from eight parties ready to testify against Hardeep Puri: TMC||Upping the ante against Petroleum Minister Hardeep Puri, whom they accuse of hurling abuses at and threatening its now suspended MP Dr Santunu Sen inside Rajya Sabha, Trinamool Congress has sought a probe into the incident and promised to depose 12 MPs from eight parties as witnesses in front of Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. The 12 MPs whom the Trinamool Congress has listed as witnesses include its bete noire CPI(M)'s Bikas Ranjan Bhattacharya and Elamarom Kareem, Congress' P Chidambaram, Digvijay Singh, Amee Yagni and Shakti Singh Gohil, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, Manoj K Jha (RJD), Vaiko (MDMK), B S Bhunder (Akali Dal) and Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena). Sources said Trinamool Congress Chief Whip Sukhendhu Shekhar Roy has written to the Chairman on July 27 in this regard as well as revoking the suspension of Sen, who was punished for snatching the statement on Pegasus issue from Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tearing it off in Rajya Sabha on July 22. Sen was suspended on July 23. Puri could not be reached for his comments. According to Roy's letter, soon after the House was adjourned after the incident, Puri allegedly hurled abuses at Sen and aggressively advanced towards him. Roy claimed that the timely intervention of marshals prompted Puri to leave but did that only after threatening Sen with dire consequences. Roy said in his complaint that the Chairman should order a thorough probe against Puri for his "abuses, heckling and causing mental suffering" to Sen and initiate appropriate action against him. Referring to the incident, Naidu said in Rajya Sabha on July 23 just minutes before Sen's suspension that MPs should not lower the country's standing on the democratic world stage. He had described the action of Sen as Parliament hitting a "new low". When Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien and Roy referred to the incident allegedly involving Puri, Naidu had said that it happened after the House was adjourned. However, sources later said that the Chairman would look into the issue if a formal complaint is made. Sources said Naidu also told a group of Opposition MPs that there is no precedent of the Chairman taking cognizance of such incidents but he was willing to look into it provided there is a written complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-mps-from-eight-parties-ready-to-testify-against-hardeep-puri-tmc-1015556.html
02-08-2021||National||Poll-timed bill to provide legal cover to illegal homes faces opposition in Goa||Amid rising resentment against the Goa government's hurriedly passed legislation, the controversial Bhumiputra Adhikarini Bill 2021, which aims to provide legal cover to illegally constructed houses in the state, Goa's Art and Culture minister Govind Gaude has backed a tribal association's demand to drop the word 'bhumi-putra' from the legislation's nomenclature. The bill was passed amid commotion during the Monsoon Session of the state legislative assembly that concluded last week. It aims to give ownership right to the self-occupied dweller of a small housing unit if they have been living in the state for 30 years or more as a ‘Bhumiputra (son of the soil)’. "My stand is that the Chief Minister and the Revenue Department should consider and do the needful. If you are asking regarding United Tribal Alliance Association, I can say they have given me a representation. They want the word Bhumiputra to be replaced and the legislation be called the Bhumi Adhikarni bill instead... They have also given a memorandum to the CM," Gaude said. Gaude, who is one of the two cabinet ministers who are of tribal origin, however, faulted the criticism of the bill, claiming the legislation was not aimed at appeasing migrants in the state, adding that thousands of Goan homeowners, whose dwellings had been deemed as irregular would stand to benefit from it. "In my constituency alone, there are many Goans, bhumi-putras, who have built a home on others' property for so many years. They do not have a house number. They use power, water, but the panchayat does not get any revenue," Gaude said. The Opposition as well as tribal groups and civil society activists have described the law as one aimed at appeasing migrant voters ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls. Goa Forward Party president and opposition MLA Vijai Sardesai has already met Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai and urged him not to grant his formal assent to the legislation. On Monday, office bearers of the Gauda, Kunbi, Velip Association, who represent the three main tribal communities in the state, also met Pillai and expressed their opposition to the bill, stating that those who have lived in Goa only for 30 years could not be designated as bhumi-putras (sons of the soil).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poll-timed-bill-to-provide-legal-cover-to-illegal-homes-faces-opposition-in-goa-1015557.html
02-08-2021||National||Prasar Bharati has invited EoI for establishing international channel: Centre ||Prasar Bharati intends to enhance its global footprint further for better projection of India abroad and has invited expression of interest towards consultancy service for providing a detailed project report on establishment of an international channel, Rajya Sabha was informed on Monday. The expression of interest (EOI) was published on June 18 with last date for submission being July 29, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur said in a written reply to a question as to whether Prasar Bharati is "seriously thinking to launch a channel with international presence". "Prasar Bharati intends to enhance its global footprint further for better projection of India abroad and has invited expression of interest towards consultancy service for providing detailed project report on establishment of an international channel," the minister said. Prasar Bharati, India's public broadcaster, has been expanding its global outreach though DD India and external services division of All India Radio "with the objective to build bridges of communication with Indians living abroad and to showcase India’s diverse culture, values and rich heritage to the world", Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prasar-bharati-has-invited-eoi-for-establishing-international-channel-centre-1015560.html
02-08-2021||National||Why is it difficult for govt to answer whether it's NSO Group's client: Chidambaram||The former home minister said the NSO Group had 40 governments and 60 agencies as its clients. "A simple question: was the government of India one of the forty? Why is it so difficult for the government of India to give a straight answer to that simple question?" Chidambaram said. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-it-difficult-for-govt-to-answer-whether-its-nso-groups-client-chidambaram-1015566.html
02-08-2021||National||One-year-old girl who received Rs 16 crore injection for rare genetic condition dies||A one-year-old girl's fight against a rare genetic disorder, which had evoked an outpouring of sympathy as well as donations so that doctors could administer her an injection worth Rs 16 crore in a Pune hospital, ended abruptly, her father said on Monday. Shockingly hours before the death of Vedika Shinde, her family members had uploaded photographs and videos on social media informing about her progress. Vedika, suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Type I, died around 6 pm on Sunday at a private hospital in Bhosari in the Pimpri Chinchwad area after experiencing breathing trouble while she was at home. Her rare ailment and the quest for treatment had created a huge impact on social media with netizens and others donating an amount of Rs 14 crore, following which she was administered the vital injection in Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital here in June. According to Vedika's kin, her condition was improving of late and some hours before her death, they had even uploaded a couple of photographs and videos on social media to inform about her progress. A doctor who had earlier treated her at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said Vedika died due to "feed aspiration", a medical term for an irregularity arising in the feeding process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-year-old-girl-who-received-rs-16-crore-injection-for-rare-genetic-condition-dies-1015573.html
02-08-2021||National||President Kovind unveils Karunanidhi’s portrait in Tamil Nadu Assembly||Hailing the Madras Legislature established in 1921 of “sowing seeds” for a representative democracy form of governance, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday said the legislative body became the “fountainhead of many progressive legislations” which were subsequently replicated across the country. Inaugurating the centenary celebrations of the Madras Legislative Council under the British regime, Kovind also unveiled a portrait of five-time Chief Minister and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi at the historic Assembly hall. Chief Minister M K Stalin presided over the gala event which the principal Opposition AIADMK boycotted.  Dwelling into the history of the MLC, Kovind said the Legislative Council enacted many forward-looking legislations and also underwent many changes in its early decades and noted that the spirit of democracy remains the guiding light of the state legislature.  “It would not be wrong to say that this legislature became the fountainhead of many progressive legislation which were subsequently replicated across the country to empower the weaker sections of society and strengthen democracy,” Kovind said in his address. The Madras legislature had sown seeds of a fully representative democracy form of governance which were realised after Independence, he said, adding that people had a platform to turn their dreams into reality in the Justice Party, which won popular mandates in the initial phase.  Kovind also spoke about some of the landmark ideas like the abolition of the Devdasi system, widow remarriage, mid-day meals in schools and distribution of agricultural land to the landless that transformed the society. “The concept of the welfare state has taken deep roots in this legislature irrespective of who rules here,” he said. On Karunanidhi, Kovind said his mother tongue, Tamil, was the object of worship for him. “Tamil, of course, is one of the greatest and the oldest languages of humankind. The whole world takes pride in its rich heritage. But it was Karunanidhi who ensured that it was granted official recognition as a classical language. Kalaignar was a leader in a class of his own. He was among the last links we had with the stalwarts of our national movement,” Kovind said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-unveils-karunanidhi-s-portrait-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-1015580.html
02-08-2021||National||Assam, Mizoram issue to be settled in stipulated time frame: PM tells BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday assured a group of MPs from the north-eastern states that the Assam-Mizoram border issue would be settled within a stipulated time-frame. A delegation of MPs from the northeastern states, including Union Ministers Sarbananda Sonowal, Kiren Rijiju, Pratima Bhoumik, Rameshwar Teli among others met the Prime Minister to discuss issues concerning their states and the ongoing border dispute between Assam with other neighbouring states. “The Prime Minister is very keen and he has assured us that he will take up the issue in a positive way and resolve it within a stipulated time frame,” BJP Lok Sabha member from Assam Dilip Saikia told reporters after the meeting. In a memorandum submitted to the Prime Minister, the MPs said they were pained by the violence that had taken place on the Assam-Mizoram border and expressed disapproval of the attempt by the Congress to indulge in politics and one-upmanship over the issue. The MPs pointed out that a series of confidence-building measures have also taken place over the last few days. “Yet, the actions of the Congress Party remain devious and mischievous. We would like to strongly convey to all those elements who view the Assam-Mizoram issue as a means of spreading chaos in India that their shenanigans will not work. India is united and will continue to move ahead on the path of progress,” the memorandum said. The BJP MPs mentioned that under the NDA government led by Modi development work in the northeast has been historic and unparalleled. “No Prime Minister has been as sensitive to the aspirations of the Northeast as Prime Minister Modi. The people of our region are deeply touched by his description of the Northeast as the ‘Ashtalakshmi’ of India’s progress and the rapid development in the region as a part of the ‘Act East Policy’,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-mizoram-issue-to-be-settled-in-stipulated-time-frame-pm-tells-bjp-mps-1015583.html
02-08-2021||National||No breakthrough in talks between Indian, Chinese military commanders||The latest round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders did not yield a breakthrough, contrary to speculation that the two sides might agree on withdrawing troops from at least two of the remaining face-off points – Gogra and Hot Springs – along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides failed to make any headway in the talks to resolve the 16-month-long stand-off, because the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had backtracked on the proposed agreement for withdrawing troops from Hot Springs and the Indian Army had reservation about clinching a deal only for disengagement from Gogra. The Indian Army also insisted on some progress in negotiation for similar disengagement from other face-off points along the LAC. But the Chinese PLA was not ready to discuss withdrawal of troops from Demchok and Depsang Plains. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a meeting last Saturday. It was the 12th round of talks between them since the stand-off started in April-May 2020 in the wake of the Chinese PLA’s move to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – and the counter-deployment by the Indian Army to resist the attempt. The two sides issued a joint press-release both in New Delhi and Beijing on Monday – two days after the talks between the military commanders were held amid speculation that it might end with two sides clinching a deal for withdrawing troops at Gogra and Hot Springs. The press-release, however, had no mention about any agreement on the two face-off points, which were perceived to be the “low-hanging fruits” in the complex negotiation for resolving the stand-off, after the disengagement on northern and southern bank of Pangong Tso earlier this year. The two sides stated that they had “a candid and in-depth” exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC. They noted that the meeting had been “constructive”, which had “further enhanced mutual understanding”. A source in New Delhi said that the 12th round of talks between the military commanders of the two nations did not yield a breakthrough as the Chinese PLA was not ready to hold discussion with the Indian Army for disengagement in Demchok and Depsang Plains and even refused to pull out troops from Hot Springs. The Indian Army decided against clinching a deal only on Gogra, without an agreement on Hot Springs and some positive signals from the Chinese PLA on Demchok and Depsang Plains, said the source. After External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had met his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, in Dushanbe on July 14, New Delhi had claimed that India and China had agreed that when the military commanders of the two nations would hold the next round of talks, they should discuss about all remaining face-off points. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA however on Saturday agreed to continue effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity till the stand-off could be completely resolved Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-breakthrough-in-talks-between-indian-chinese-military-commanders-1015584.html
02-08-2021||National||Another day, same script: Opposition protest, Bills passed in din in Parliament||The third week of the Monsoon Session started with little promise of Parliament returning to normal functioning over the Pegasus issue even as the government got two Bills, including one on allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers, passed in minutes on Monday. The stalemate continued as the government remained unmoved by the Opposition demand for an immediate discussion on the Pegasus issue and both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha witnessed similar scenes as in the nine sittings in first two weeks of the Monsoon Session. There were frequent adjournments following high-decibel sloganeering by the Opposition on Pegasus, farmers' issue and price rise but the government went ahead with passing one each in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, which is aimed at generating required resources from the Indian markets so that public sector general insurers can design innovative products, without a debate in some six minutes in Lok Sabha. Already, the Opposition has raised concerns about the Bill but it was passed amid din. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill said that it seeks to remove the requirement that the central government should hold not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer." Moving the Bill for consideration and passage, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman accused the Opposition of disturbing the proceedings of the House and avoiding discussion on the Bill and said, "if they are serious, they should sit down, debate and ask questions. Since you are afraid that the truth will come out, you don't want discussion." Earlier, the Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had described the bill as "anti-people and anti-national". The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 saw some MPs participating in the debate amid Opposition protest. It was passed earlier in Lok Sabha. Earlier in the day in Rajya Sabha, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he was willing to consider a discussion on farmers' problems provided members do not disturb proceedings and cooperate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-day-same-script-opposition-protest-bills-passed-in-din-in-parliament-1015585.html
02-08-2021||National||Krishna waters row: KCR says Centre's stand 'anti-Telangana', terms AP's projects as 'dadagiri'||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has accused the Centre of taking an “anti-Telangana stand” over the sharing of river waters between the two Telugu states. Rao also termed the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh government's construction of “illegal” lift irrigation projects drawing Krishna waters as "dadagiri" (strong-armed action). Rao visited Nagarjuna Sagar on Monday to thank the assembly constituency voters who elected TRS candidate Nomula Bagath in the April by-poll and also to review the development works there. “Because of the central government's anti-Telangana attitude and AP's dadagiri, we could face problems in future with availability of Krishna waters,” said Rao. Rao and Jaganmohan Reddy administrations are bickering over the Krishna waters and the matter has even reached the Supreme Court. Amid the row, the centre had last month notified the river management boards of Godavari and Krishna for the equitable management of the projects on the two rivers in the two states. However, the two governments continue to wrangle. In a public meeting in Nagarjuna Sagar on Monday, Rao said that his government is exploring ways to stabilise irrigation of the Nalgonda region by channelling Godavari waters. In continuation of his election-time promises, Rao announced funds for a Degree college in the constituency and a mini stadium at Halia. Rao assured that the 15 lift irrigation projects sanctioned for the area would be completed in about one and half years time. The CM has also announced Rs 15 crore for the development of Halia. The CM's visit came after the opposition allegation that Rao ignored the constituency following his party's victory. The Nagarjuna Sagar tour also comes ahead of the Huzurabad by-poll, where the ruling TRS is facing former ally Eatala Rajender, now with the BJP. Rao has stated that the Dalit-bandhu scheme, to be launched from Huzurabad soon, would be implemented all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/krishna-waters-row-kcr-says-centres-stand-anti-telangana-terms-aps-projects-as-dadagiri-1015588.html
02-08-2021||National||India to send 4 warships to South China Sea for drill with nations having maritime disputes with China||India is sending its warships to the South China Sea even as its soldiers remain engaged in a stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the disputed boundary between the two nations in the Himalayas. A task force of the Eastern Fleet of the Indian Navy will soon proceed on an overseas deployment to South East Asia, the South China Sea and the Western Pacific for over two months. The task force comprising four Indian Navy warships will have bilateral drills with the navies of Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Australia and Indonesia, which all have maritime disputes with China. It will also sail to Western Pacific to take part in the ‘Malabar 21’, a multilateral drill by the navies of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition forged by India, Australia, Japan and the United States to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian Navy task force will comprise its guided-missile destroyer ‘Ranvijay’, guided-missile frigate ‘Shivalik’, anti-submarine corvette ‘Kadmatt’ and guided-missile corvette ‘Kora’. The ‘Shivalik’, ‘Kadmatt’ and ‘Kora’ are indigenously designed and ‘Made in India’ and equipped with a versatile array of weapons and sensors, according to a press release issued by the Indian Navy on Monday, adding that the warships were being sent to enhance “military cooperation with friendly countries” in the Indo-Pacific region in accordance with the ‘Act East’ policy of India. “The deployment of the Indian Navy ships seeks to underscore the operational reach, peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain and to strengthen existing bonds between India and countries of the Indo-Pacific region.” The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over $ 5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of a territorial conflict between China and many of its maritime neighbours. The Indian Navy stated that its warships undertook regular deployments to friendly foreign countries and Indian and the Pacific Ocean regions. “Such engagements build ‘Bridges of Friendship’ and strengthen international cooperation. These maritime initiatives enhance synergy and coordination between the Indian Navy and friendly countries, based on common maritime interests and commitment towards Freedom of Navigation at sea.” The Indian Navy vessels have been holding joint drills with the US Navy’s warships returning from deployment in the South China Sea – more regularly since the Chinese PLA’s aggressive move to unilaterally change the status quo along the China-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and counter-deployment by the Indian Army in April and May 2020 resulted in a stand-off. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-send-4-warships-to-south-china-sea-for-drill-with-nations-having-maritime-disputes-with-china-1015591.html
02-08-2021||National||Initial batches of Covaxin were not of right quality: Centre's vaccine advisory group chief||"Initial batches were not of the right quality. But the 3-4th batch has now moved forward. We hope that in the next four-six weeks, Bharat Biotech will ramp up their production," the publication quoted Dr N K Arora, Chairperson, National Vaccine Advisory Group as saying. However, he added that those initial batches of the vaccine were never used. In response to Covaxin falling short of supply targets, Arora reportedly made the remark, adding that the production was affected due to the quality issues in the initial batches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/initial-batches-of-covaxin-were-not-of-right-quality-centres-vaccine-advisory-group-chief-1015593.html
02-08-2021||National||Popular singer Kalyani Menon passes away ||Popular playback singer Kalyani Menon died on Monday at a private hospital here due to age related illness, sources close to her family said. She was 80. Kalyani, mother of noted cinema director and founder of Mindscreen Film Institute, Rajiv Menon, developed symptoms of stroke and was immediately rushed to the hospital here, where she breathed her last, the sources added. The last rites and cremation would be held in the city's Besant Nagar area on Tuesday afternoon. Kalyani Menon began her career in singing in the 1970s as a classical singer. Menon's famous songs with noted singer K J Yesudas in Malayalam include 'Rithubheda Kalpana Charutha Nalkiya' of 1983 movie 'Mangalam Nerunnu' and 'Pavanarachezhuthunnu Kolangalennum' of Mohanlal-starrer 'Vietnam Colony' released in the year 1992. Born in Ernakulam, she started singing at the age of five in the 'Navaratri sangeeth utsav' organised in the famous TDM hall there. She began her career as a playback singer by singing in Thoppil Bhasi-directed Malayalam movie 'Abala'. Besides Malayalam, she has sung in a number of Tamil movies for top musicians Ilayaraja and A R Rahman. While she crooned for Ilayaraja in 'Nallathoru Kudumbam', among others, she gave hits under Rahman. including in 'Vinnai Thandi Varuvaya' in 2010. Kerala Governor Arif Mohamed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the demise of Menon. "Sad to hear about the demise of Smt.#KalyaniMenon, playback singer who has sung over 100 songs in Malayalam &Tamil films. My condolences to the bereaved family. May her soul attain Mukti", Khan said in a tweet. In his condolence message, Vijayan recalled that she was an active presence in the field of playback singing. The songs sung by her in Malayalam and Tamil will always remain in the minds of the people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/popular-singer-kalyani-menon-passes-away-1015594.html
02-08-2021||National||Anxious calls from 'threatened' parents greet archer on return from Tokyo||Returning from his maiden Olympics, Indian archer Pravin Jadhav received anxious calls from his family members, who were warned against renovating their tin house by "jealous neighbours". The 25-year-old grabbed eyeballs in an otherwise dismal campaign in Tokyo, finishing ahead of his senior India teammates, Atanu Das and Tarundeep Rai, in the ranking round. The performance earned him a surprise call to partner world number one Deepika Kumari in place of her regular partner and husband, Das, in the mixed pair event, where they made a last-eight exit. But all was not well back home in the small village of Sarade, where his neighbours "were jealous of his new-found stardom and started giving threat calls, Jadhav claimed on his return. "About five-six members of the family came in the morning and started threatening my parents, my cousin and aunt as we wanted to renovate tin house," Jadhav, who lost to world number one Brady Ellison to make a second round exit in the individual section, told PTI. The four members of the Jadhav family used to live in a hut but after he was enrolled in the Army, they built a concrete house with a tin roof. "In the past too, they had created problems and wanted a separate lane which we had agreed to. But now they are crossing all the limits. How can they stop us from renovation? "They are just being jealous of us. The property belongs to us, we have been living there for generations. We have all the land records in place."  On return, the Indian contingent travelled straight to Sonepat, Haryana, for an India camp for next month's world championships. They will have to attend fresh trials beginning Wednesday. "My family is really disturbed and I'm also not able to be with them. I've informed this to the officials in the Army and they are looking into it," he said. SP of Satara district, Ajay Kumar Bansal, has promised all assistance to the Jadhav family. "We have not received any written complaint. There is some land issue apparently. Based on a call from the Army Colonel, I'm sending my local in-charge to investigate the matter. Definitely he will get all the support legally," Bansal told PTI. Son of a daily wage labourer in the drought-hit Satara district of Maharashtra, Jadhav's journey to represent India at the biggest stage has been a remarkable one. He almost joined his father as a daily wage labourer before things changed for the better for the Jadhav family. Struggling to make ends meet, his father had told him that he had to drop out after class seven and join him at the construction site, where he himself worked. But, on the insistence of a sports teacher at his Zilla Parishad School, he switched to athletics in search of better living before archery came his way by accident at the Krida Prabodhini hostel in Ahmednagar. Afterwards, he was picked by the Army Sports Institute in Pune and has not looked back since. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anxious-calls-from-threatened-parents-greet-archer-on-return-from-tokyo-1015595.html
02-08-2021||National||Apprehension of law and order breach no ground for preventive detention: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said mere apprehension of law and order breach cannot become a ground to put a man under the preventive detention law. The court said there should in fact be apprehensions regarding the concerned person being a threat to "public order" affecting the community at large. "There can be no doubt that for ‘public order’ to be disturbed, there must, in turn, be public disorder. Mere contravention of law such as indulging in cheating or criminal breach of trust certainly affects ‘law and order’ but before it can be said to affect ‘public order’, it must affect the community or the public at large," a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said. The bench, also comprising Justice Hrishikesh Roy, quashed a detention order issued by the Telangana government against a man who was alleged to have duped people by claiming he was a High Court advocate and convincing them to invest money promising good returns from the stock market. The state government passed the detention order as the man who faced five cases of cheating and criminal breach of trust obtained anticipatory bail in all cases. It contended that the man was involved in white-collar offences and his free movement would hinder public order. “There can be no doubt that the harm, danger or alarm or feeling of security among the general public spoken of in Section 2(a) of the Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act is make-believe and totally absent in the facts of the present case," the bench said. The court if a person is granted anticipatory bail wrongly then the state can always appeal against the bail order granted or apply for cancellation of bail. But granting of anticipatory bail cannot be a ground for preventive detention. The court passed its judgement on an appeal filed by Banka Sneha Sheela, wife of the man against the Telangana High Court's order of March 31, 2021, dismissing a writ petition against the detention order. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apprehension-of-law-and-order-breach-no-ground-for-preventive-detention-sc-1015597.html
02-08-2021||National||Will continue as MP but not be politically active: Babul Supriyo||Within 48 hours after announcing that he will quit politics and resign as an MP, BJP leader and former Union Minister Babul Supriyo said that he will complete his term as an MP but will not change his decision of leaving politics. He was speaking to reporters following a meeting with BJP president J P Nadda. “I cannot back down from my decision of quitting politics. No one will ever see me in any kind of political activities. But I will continue as an MP as a constitutional responsibility,” said Supriyo. He also said that he will continue to take his salary as an MP as he does not have any alternate source of income. The Central BJP leadership swung into action in a bid to retain him in the party. BJP sources said that the singer-turned-politician has already spoken to the top party leadership although the outcome of the meeting was yet to be clear. "Supriyo met party president J P Nadda in Delhi late on Saturday night. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has also urged him to reconsider his decision,” a senior State BJP leader said. He further revealed that in a bid to address Supriyo’s grievances, the Central BJP leadership may give him a crucial organisational post in the party. However, Supriyo is yet to quit his post, raising eyebrows both in the BJP and the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The situation became such that State BJP president Dilip Ghosh asked journalists to check whether Supriyo "has actually resigned as such decisions cannot be announced on Facebook." Without directly mentioning Ghosh, the BJP MP said that he wants nothing to do with such people and save a lot of "positive energy" by doing so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-continue-as-mp-but-not-be-politically-active-babul-supriyo-1015599.html
02-08-2021||National||Jaishankar to attend Raisi's swearing-in ceremony in Tehran||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will travel to Tehran to represent the Government of India when Iran’s former Chief Justice, Ebrahim Raisi, will take over as the West Asian nation’s new President on Thursday. This will be Jaishankar’s second visit to Tehran after Raisi’s victory in the presidential elections in Iran. He had visited Tehran on July 7, called on Raisi and handed over to him a congratulatory message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Jaishankar was in fact the first foreign dignitary to meet Raisi. New Delhi is keen to engage with Raisi’s government in Tehran and arrest the slide in India-Iran relations, particularly in view of the resurgence of Taliban with the withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan and the possibility of Pakistan gaining a strategic advantage against India. Jaishankar is likely to convey to the new Iranian President an invitation from the Prime Minister for an early visit to India. New Delhi’s relations with Tehran came under stress over the past one-and-a-half decades as the US sanctions on Iran often forced India to curtail trade and economic links with the Persian Gulf nation. But the prospects of President Joe Biden’s administration recommitting to the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran already prompted New Delhi to signal that it would restart importing crude oil from Iran and return to investing in infrastructure and hydrocarbon projects as and when the US would lift or ease sanctions on the West Asian nation. India is worried over the proposed deal Iran is planning to sign with China securing a whopping $400 billion investment pledge by communist country in its infrastructure and energy sectors over the next 25 years. What also sent alarm bells ringing in New Delhi is Iran’s purported move to invite China and Pakistan to take part in the development of its Chabahar Port. Beijing and Tehran are learnt to have discussed a proposal to link the Chabahar Port with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor – a flagship component of President Xi Jinping’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative and a project opposed by India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-to-attend-raisis-swearing-in-ceremony-in-tehran-1015604.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition to hold parallel Parliament session to discuss Pegasus issue: Report||A proposal regarding this was brought up during a meeting of Opposition parties a few weeks ago where they decided that they should host a "Parallel Parliament" since they were being denied the opportunity to raise the Pegasus matter in either House, in which the phones of journalists, activists and political leaders were allegedly tapped. Quoting sources, the story added that Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge told Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the Upper House, Piyush Goyal, that the Opposition would not cede their demand for a discussion on the alleged use of the Israeli spyware and that the government should jointly address 14 opposition leaders on this issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-to-hold-parallel-parliament-session-to-discuss-pegasus-issue-report-1015386.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||CM Basavaraj Bommai to meet Nadda today to seek approval for Cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who arrived to Delhi on Sunday night, is expected to hold talks with BJP National president J P Nadda for seeking approval of names of legislators for induction as his Council of Ministers. "I will hold talks with Nadda today evening and prepare the formula for expansion. The formula would include the number of previous ministers who would be reinducted and new faces that should be taken into consideration based of their caste and regional balance," he said. He said the party top leaders are expected to give approval to the list either today or tomorrow. Cabinet expansion will likely take place on August 4 if the list party leaders gets approved by tomorrow, he added. In the meeting, a decision would also be taken on how many deputy chief ministers should be there in the government and in how many phases the expansion would take place, he said. He also said some of ministers in the previous Yediyurappa Cabinet will be reinducted. The CM on Sunday night held detail discussion with Union Parliamentary Affiars Minister Pralhad Joshi and  BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh and prepared the list. "The list of ministerial candidates has been discussed. The CM will meet BJP National president J P Nadda and take his final approval today," a source said. On Saturday, the BJP top brass had told the CM to prepare his own list and they would also prepare a list. Discussions on both list would be held and the list would be finalised taking into account member's representation, caste, and their contribution to the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cm-basavaraj-bommai-to-meet-nadda-today-to-seek-approval-for-cabinet-expansion-1015403.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Passing legislation or making 'papdi chaat': TMC MP Derek O'Brien slams Centre||TMC MP Derek O'Brien on Monday slammed the Centre over quick passage of legislation in Parliament without any discussion. "In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill 😡(See shocking chart👇) Passing legislation or making papri chaat!" O'Brien said in a tweet. In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill 😡(See shocking chart👇) The productivity, which has touched just 21.60 per cent in nine sittings in two weeks since July 19, could have been much lower if both sides did not have agreed to hold a discussion on Covid-19 on July 20, which lasted for 4.37 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/passing-legislation-or-making-papdi-chaat-tmc-mp-derek-obrien-slams-centre-1015410.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned on Monday for almost an hour after opposition parties, including Congress and TMC, pressed for a discussion on the use of Israeli-made, military-grade Pegasus spyware, and farmers' agitation against farm reform laws. While Congress MPs sought a discussion on the farm agitation, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Left parties sought a debate on the Pegasus snooping issue. No sooner had the House complimented shuttler P V Sindhu for winning a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics and listed official papers laid on the table, the opposition MPs were up on their feet raising their demands. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he is willing to consider a discussion on farmers' problems provided members do not disturb proceedings and cooperate. But as the Opposition MPs continued to raise the issues, he adjourned the proceedings till 1200 hours. Before adjourning the proceedings, Naidu said Ramgopal Yadav of Samajwadi Party, Sanjay Singh (AAP), Mallikarjun Kharge, Pratap Singh Bajwa and K C Venugopal (all Congress), Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC), CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan and Binoy Viswam of CPI have given notices under rule 267 seeking suspension of business to take up discussion on issues they want to raise. "I am ready to discuss. Even Business Advisory Committee has decided to hear about the farmers' problems and also about other problems, provided if the House is in order," he said. As MPs stood up to raise their issues, he said, "Members do not cooperate, stand up." "If the House cooperates with me, I can hear people," he said before adjourning the proceedings till 1200 hours. He also ordered publishing of names of the MPs who held placards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-12-noon-1015445.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||PM Modi lauds multiple developments which 'heartened every Indian'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday noted a number of developments, from record vaccination to high GST collection and the performance of P V Sindhu and Indian hockey teams in Olympics, to laud multiple happenings that are heartening to every Indian as the 'Amruta Mahotsav' begins.  The government has launched 'Amrut Mahotsav' to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence in 2022. The prime minister tweeted, "As India enters August, which marks the beginning of the Amrut Mahotsav, we have seen multiple happenings which are heartening to every Indian. There has been record vaccination and the high GST numbers also signal robust economic activity." Not only has PV Sindhu won a well deserved medal, but also we saw historic efforts by the men’s and women’s hockey teams at the Olympics. I’m optimistic that 130 crore Indians will continue to work hard to ensure India reaches new heights as it celebrates its Amrut Mahotsav. "Not only has PV Sindhu won a well deserved medal, but also we saw historic efforts by the men's and women's hockey teams at the Olympics," he said. Modi said he was optimistic that 130 crore Indians will continue to work hard to ensure that India reaches new heights as it celebrates its 'Amrut Mahotsav'.  In signs of acceleration in economic activity, India's tax collections on goods sold and services rendered returned to over Rs 1 lakh crore in July after the second wave of Covid-related restrictions caused a blip in the previous month. Goods and Services Tax (GST) mop-up grew 33 per cent year-on-year in July to over Rs 1.16 lakh crore, indicating that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. In July 2020, the collection was Rs 87,422 crore.  Over 13 crore vaccine doses were administered in July and the vaccination programme will be speeded up further this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-lauds-multiple-developments-which-heartened-every-indian-1015457.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav eyes Mayawati's Dalit vote bank, woos former BSP leaders||With their short-lived bonhomie over, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has set his eyes on the Dalit vote bank of (Bahujan Samaj Party) BSP supremo Mayawati and has been wooing former BSP leaders, who had either quit the party or were expelled. According to the sources in the SP, Akhilesh has promised to nominate the former BSP leaders, who are MLAs, from their home constituencies in the upcoming assembly polls, which are due in around eight months. Barely a couple of days back, the son of Sukhdeo Rabhar, one of the founding members of the BSP, joined the SP. Rajbhar, who was an MLA from Didarganj assembly seat in Azamgarh district, announced his retirement from politics. In an open letter, Rajbhar launched a subtle attack on Mayawati saying that the BSP had 'deviated' from its ideology and that SP was a better choice for his son. Sources in SP said that the party was also wooing expelled BSP leaders Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar, who too were members of the assembly. ''We are in talks with them...we have no problem in nominating them from their respective assembly seats,'' said a senior SP leader while speaking to DH on Monday. ''These former BSP leaders command respect among their communities...we will give them the respect they deserve,'' the SP leader added. SP leaders think that the strategy of inducting the former BSP leaders may help the party reap rich electoral dividends, especially in the eastern UP region, where SP's traditional voters (Yadavs and Muslims) are in sizable numbers. At least six BSP legislators have already joined that SP. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that BSP and SP could fight the 2022 assembly poll in UP together. The bonhomie between the two arch-rivals, however, was short-lived and they parted ways soon after the LS polls. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-eyes-mayawatis-dalit-vote-bank-woos-former-bsp-leaders-1015461.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||CJI Ramana suggests mediation to resolve Andhra-Telangana Krishna water dispute||Chief Justice of India  N V Ramana on Monday suggested resolving the dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on sharing Krishna river water through mediation, saying he could not legally adjudicate on the matter as he belonged to both the states. Andhra Pradesh alleged that the Telangana government has deprived it of its legitimate share of water for drinking and irrigation purposes in an “unconstitutional and illegal” manner. Taking up a plea by Andhra Pradesh, Chief Justice, leading the bench, said, "I don't want to hear this matter legally….I belong to both the states. If the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that”. “We can help with that. Otherwise, I will transfer this to another bench," the CJI said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the Andhra Pradesh government, sought time to seek instructions in the matter. He cited recent conflagration between Assam and Mizoram and said he did not want to put people against people. "I wish that both the states convinced your governments and settle the matter. We don't want to interfere unnecessarily," the CJI said, posting the matter for consideration on Wednesday. Andhra Pradesh in its plea, contended that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted under this Act and directions of the Centre.   "In view of no progress on notification of the jurisdiction of KRMB, Telangana by its acts of commission is seriously affecting the water supply to Andhra Pradesh for irrigation and other purposes," it said. The plea contended that in the Srisailam Dam project, the reservoir’s quantity has seriously depleted on account of the use of water therefrom for generation of power in Telangana, which has been established by “daily readings” submitted by dam authorities. The Andhra Pradesh government said this has caused immense hardship for its people, as the availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in the Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project.   “More significantly, State of Telangana is clearly in violation of a binding Award, popularly known as “Bachwat Award” made on 31.05.1976 and express provisions of the 2014 Act, whereby State of Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," the petition filed through advocate Mahfooz A Nazki alleged.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cji-ramana-suggests-mediation-to-resolve-andhra-telangana-krishna-water-dispute-1015471.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Explained | What is Rajya Sabha's Rule 267?||With the Monsoon Session of the Parliament underway, the Opposition has been consistently asking for a discussion surrounding the Pegasus snooping row, farmer’s issues, rising fuel prices, and other matters. Sessions have also been getting adjourned due to ‘ruckus’ in the House. However, the Opposition is determined to challenge the ruling BJP government on issues of ‘national importance’. Amid all this chaos has been a new term that is catching the attention of people – Rule 267 of the Rajya Sabha. The Rajya Sabha defines Rule 267, under ‘suspension of rules’, as an instance where “any member, may, with the consent of the Chairman, move that any rule may be suspended in its application to a motion related to the business listed before the Council of that day and if the motion is carried, the rule in question shall be suspended for the time being.” Therefore, it is simply the provision for a House member to request the Chairman to suspend issues listed out for discussion on a particular day in order to deliberate a separate issue. The website adds: “Provided further that this rule shall not apply where specific provision already exists for suspension of a rule under a particular chapter of the Rules”.  Usually, such requests are not accepted by the chairman, with 3 exceptions in 2015 and 2016. The last time the rule was used to request a discussion was in November 2016 – the issue in question being ‘demonetisation'. Naidu, who has chaired the House since 2017, rejected them all. He has previously shot down hundreds of such requests in the past. They include topics like GST and the Rafale deal, A TMC member, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, was one of many MPs submitting notices under Rule 267 — unsuccessfully trying to initiate a discussion around the Pegasus case. “If matters of national importance are not discussed in Parliament, where will they be discussed? Will they be discussed in coffee houses?”, he was quoted telling the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/explained-what-is-rajya-sabhas-rule-267-1015485.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Maharashtra BJP's end is near, warns Shiv Sena||Fuming over a Bharatiya Janata Party legislator's threat to 'raze the Shiv Sena Bhavan', the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA)'s saffron ally on Monday warned that the "BJP's end is near" and those who cast an evil eye at the party headquarters, "will be found floating in the Worli gutters". A BJP MLC Prasad Lad raked up the row by commenting on the posse of police presence outside the Sena nerve-centre in south-central Dadar, and said, "if needed, the Sena Bhavan could be demolished", sparking an ugly verbal spat with its former ally. Though Lad apologised later and expressed regards for the Sena founder the late Balasaheb Thackeray, but as the controversy snowballed, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis quickly detached himself from the fracas, saying the BJP doesn't believe in "the culture of destructive politics". Shiv Sena President and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray himself launched a veiled "Dabangg" Sainik-style fighter attack on Sunday, saying they "are not scared of a slap" but those who dared to do it would be paid back in the same coin and in double measure. While the divide between the two ex-allies just became deeper, the Sena scoffed at the BJP, saying "people who threaten the party are light-weight lowly ruffians, who simply just cannot digest the Sena Flag fluttering atop the Sena Bhavan". In sharp edits in the party newspapers, Saamana and Dopahar Ka Saamana, the Sena said the "chindi-chors" (small-time crooks) who talk of attacking the Sena Bhavan are actually targeting the empire of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and the 'Marathi Pride' of the 'sons of the soil', cemented by the Hindu HridaySamrat Balasaheb Thackeray. It pointed out how the BJP was once a party of "loyal grassroots workers working for the Hindutva ideology, but now it is full of outsiders (defectors from other parties), who have sidelined the original activists to the dump yard -- That is why this party (BJP)'s end is looming near..." Lampooning the BJP, the Sena said during the post-Babri riots of 1992-1993, the Sena Bhavan was the true protector of the Hindus and Marathis who believe in Hindutva, while these "rioters of today were scared of Pakistan and wetting the mattress at home". The edit said that Shiv Sena represents justice, hope and aspirations, while the BJP was a traitor party which did not live up to its promise, but despite this, "today, Sena has become the ruling party in Maharashtra". Throwing the final gauntlet, the Sena said that those who showed the daring to reach the Sena Bhavan on their feet would not return likewise, "so they should ensure they come with a few who can carry them back on their shoulders". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-bjps-end-is-near-warns-shiv-sena-1015546.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Rs 150.51 crore electoral bond sales in July first week||Electoral bonds worth Rs 150.51 crore were sold and the whole was redeemed by political parties during the latest round of bond sales in early July, according to an RTI response. In the previous phase in April, bonds worth Rs 695.34 crore were sold and only two bonds worth Rs 1,000 each were not redeemed. According to the RTI response provided by the SBI to transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired) on Tuesday, the highest sale was in the Kolkata branch of the SBI where bonds worth Rs 97.31 crore were sold between July 1 and 10. Chennai branch came second with Rs 30 crore sale followed by Hyderabad where the bond sale was Rs 10 crore. There were sales of bonds in Chandigarh, Mumbai, Delhi and Panaji branches also. When it comes to redeeming the bonds, the Kolkata branch topped the list with Rs 107.56 crore while the New Delhi branch had bonds worth Rs 42.95 crore redeemed. No parties approached any other branches for redeeming bonds bought during this period. Since 2018 when the electoral bond came into being, there were 17 phases of sales during which bonds worth Rs 7,380.63 crore have been sold while Rs 7,360.35 crore were encashed. The bonds which were not encashed amounting to around Rs 20.28 crore were transferred to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-15051-crore-electoral-bond-sales-in-july-first-week-1015562.html
02-08-2021||National Politics||Activists reject Muslim Women's Rights Day||“We collectively, as citizens of India – Muslim and non-Muslim women, men and trans persons across castes and regions – reject the cynical optics of a ‘Muslim Women’s Rights Day’ by a government intent on reducing all Muslims to second-class citizens,” said a statement signed by more than 650 activists, students and academics. On August 1, 2019, the Triple Talaq Bill, which criminalises instant divorce by Muslim men to their wives, was passed by Parliament. On Saturday, the Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi announced that August 1 would be observed as Muslim Women's Rights Day to celebrate the second anniversary of the law. “The Triple Talaq law was an abomination. It was then, and still is, nothing but a charade,” the statement said, adding that the law had a “sinister” purpose – “to show Muslim men their place in new India”. It said no such law was needed to “protect Muslim women, or secure their rights” since the Supreme Court had already struck the Triple Talaq down. The statement, signed by Farah Naqvi, Syeda Hameed, Kavita Krishnan, Annie Raja, Shabnam Hashmi, Teesta Setalvad, among others, called the Triple Talaq law an abomination, and contended that constitutional rights of Muslims in India have been decimated in recent years in a systematic way. “Such a government has no moral right to declare any national day in the name of Muslim women,” the statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/activists-reject-muslim-womens-rights-day-1015587.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Students who can't even collect swabs conducted Covid tests at Kumbh Mela: Report||While the government had faced a lot of flak for allowing Kumbh Mela early this year when the country was struggling with the second Covid wave, new allegation of untrained students being given the responsibility of conducting Covid test during the event is likely to call for more criticism. The report also said that around one lakh fake Covid tests were conducted during the event and the officer alleged that while the students conducted "only a handful" of tests, the number of tests recorded against each student was "highly exaggerated". Just a few weeks ago, the director of Delphia labs was sent to police custody for allegedly uploading forged test results on the ICMR portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-who-cant-even-collect-swabs-conducted-covid-tests-at-kumbh-mela-report-1015438.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Great show of resilience: MP CM on Indian women hockey team's maiden entry into Olympic semifinals||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated the Indian women's hockey team for advancing to its first ever semifinal in the Olympic Games on Monday, and described the team's win in the quarter-finals as a “great show of tenacity, resilience and confidence”. A brave and determined Indian women's hockey team etched its name in the history books by entering the Olympic Games semifinals for the first time, stunning three-time champions and world no.2 Australia 1-0 in an intense last-eight tie in Tokyo on Monday. It triggered an outpouring of emotions as people from all walks of life congratulated the team. “Great show of tenacity, resilience and confidence! I congratulate the Indian Women's Hockey team for cruising into the semifinal of of #Hockey in #Tokyo2020. I am sure you will succeed in the next game too. My best wishes!” Chouhan tweeted. A day after the Indian men's team entered the Olympic semifinals following a 49-year gap, the world no. 9 women's side also produced a phenomenally gritty performance against the world no. 2 Australia in an intense quarter-final match.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/great-show-of-resilience-mp-cm-on-indian-women-hockey-teams-maiden-entry-into-olympic-semifinals-1015455.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India may see new smaller wave soon||The country may see worsening of its outbreak as soon as this month, with the next wave peaking in the best-case scenario with less than 100,000 infections a day, or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, according to estimates by researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at Indian Institute of Technology in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively. States with high Covid rates, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture,” according to Vidyasagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-wrap-up-india-may-see-new-smaller-wave-soon-1015472.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||MP rains: 60 people stranded in flooded building in Sheopur; rescue ops on||Nearly 60 people were stranded in a flooded building following heavy rains in Madhya Pradesh's Sheopur district and efforts were underway to rescue them, an official said on Monday. These people had gone to attend a wedding in the two-storey building located near the Vijaypur bus stand on Sunday night, but got stuck as flood waters entered the premises, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Neeraj Sharma told PTI. The entire ground floor of the building was submerged and people moved to the first floor, he said, adding that the structure's boundary wall had collapsed. Several areas of Sheopur, located around 400 km from the state capital Bhopal, were inundated after the Parvati river breached its banks following heavy showers. On Monday also, heavy rains pounded Vijaypur tehsil in the district. “Fifty to sixty people had gone to attend a wedding in the building near the Vijaypur bus stand. They got stuck there due to flooding. We have launched a rescue operation. A few people have been moved to a safer place,” Sharma said. He said some other areas in Vijaypur tehsil were also flooded and seven-eight people were rescued from there. The Vijaypur tehsil in the district received 160.5 mm rain in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) office in the state capital Bhopal. The IMD on Sunday had issued a 'red alert', warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.5 mm or above, along with thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in 10 MP districts - Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena, Bhind, Neemuch and Mandsaur. Guna's Barod area received the highest 286 mm rainfall in west Madhya Pradesh in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Monday, the IMD said. Intermittent rains have been lashing most parts of the state since Sunday, it said. The IMD's Bhopal office on Monday received reports of waterlogging in low-lying areas of various cities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-rains-60-people-stranded-in-flooded-building-in-sheopur-rescue-ops-on-1015475.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||High, inter schools in UP to resume classes from Aug 16 with 50% attendance||High and intermediate schools in Uttar Pradesh will resume classes from August 16, but with 50 per cent attendance, according to an order issued by the state government on Monday. Apart from this, instructions have also been issued for commencement of classes in higher educational institutes from September 1, the UP government said in a statement. "Students of high school and inter classes will participate in the 75th Independence Day celebrations on August 15. And on August 16, teaching will commence in the schools with half capacity, while adhering to the Covid-19 protocol," Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-inter-schools-in-up-to-resume-classes-from-aug-16-with-50-attendance-1015477.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots case: HC refers ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain's bail plea to another bench||The Delhi High Court Monday did not hear the bail application moved by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in a case arising out of the northeast Delhi riots of 2020 on account of similar cases being pending before another bench. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar ordered that the bail application be listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna on August 6. “List before said bench on August 6 subject to obtaining order of the Chief Justice,” the judge said. Senior advocate Mohit Mathur, appearing for Hussain, informed the court that as many as 11 FIRs have been registered against his client in connection with the riots and bail applications in three such FIRs from police station Dayalpur were already coming up for hearing later this month before another bench. He informed that all FIRs have a common allegation of conspiracy and Tahir Hussain purportedly being the mastermind behind the violence. Apprehending “dilatory tactics” by the prosecution if one matter is kept isolated from the other pending pleas, Mathur submitted that the present bail application be also sent to Justice Khanna. “The charge is the same (that) I am the mastermind and people gathered at my house. All others have been released,” said the senior advocate who appeared along with advocate Rizwan Nizami. Advocate DK Bhatia, appearing for the prosecution, opposed sending the present bail to the other bench on the ground that the FIR, as well as the role ascribed to Hussain, was also different from other cases. The present FIR pertains to the alleged commission of rioting and other offences under the Indian Penal Code in Dayalpur area. The other two cases pertain to the injuries suffered by two people on account of a riotous mob pelting stones, throwing petrol bombs and firing gunshots from the terrace of Hussain's house and allege the commission of offences of attempt to murder and rioting, and violation of Arms Act. Notice in one of two bail applications was issued by Justice Khanna on July 13. The third pending bail application pertains to FIR for rioting and destruction of public property and notice was issued on July 29.   Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-case-hc-refers-ex-aap-councillor-tahir-hussains-bail-plea-to-another-bench-1015491.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||BJP MP Dharmendra Kashyap booked for misbehaving with priests at Uttarakhand temple||A case has been registered against BJP MP from Aonla in Uttar Pradesh Dharmendra Kashyap and his associates in Uttarakhand's Almora district for allegedly creating a ruckus at the Jageshwar Dham temple and misbehaving with the priests, officials said on Monday. This comes a day after a video purportedly showing Kashyap and his associates engaging in a heated argument with the temple priests went viral on social media. Facing criticism from opposition parties, the state BJP said it is gathering details of the incident and will apprise the central leadership of it. "The FIR has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code against the MP (Dharmendra Kashyap) and his friends," Sub-Inspector Gopal Singh Bisht said. Kashyap and his associates visited the temple on Saturday afternoon to perform a puja. The temple is closed for visitors after 6 pm every day in compliance with the Covid guidelines. However, the MP and his friends stayed inside the temple even after 6.30 pm, Jageshwar Dham Mandir Samiti manager Bhagwan Bhatt said. When the MP and his associates were requested to leave, he got angry and began abusing the priests and misbehaving with them. Some of the priests were even pushed, he alleged. The incident drew sharp reactions from opposition parties, who termed it an insult to the priests and the 'Devbhoomi'. State Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal said the insult of priests will not be tolerated and that this incident reflects Kashyap's arrogance. Senior Congress leader and Jageshwar MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal staged a sit-in, demanding a public apology from Kashyap for insulting the priests. He also sought action against the BJP MP. Congress and Aam Aadmi Party workers also burnt effigies of the BJP at a number of places to protest Kashyap's misconduct. State BJP chief Madan Kaushik said details of the incident are being gathered and the party's central leadership will be informed about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-dharmendra-kashyap-booked-for-misbehaving-with-priests-at-uttarakhand-temple-1015496.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar seeks inquiry into Pegasus controversy||Lending his weight behind the Opposition demand for probing the Pegasus scandal, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday batted for a "thorough probe" into the matter, becoming the first NDA ally to do so. The demand led to a flurry of reactions with Lalu Prasad's RJD welcoming his comments and hoping he does not withdraw it while LJP's Chirag Paswan linked Kumar's taking stands contrary to that of BJP on various issues to the Bihar Chief Minister's "Prime Ministerial ambition." Speaking to reporters in Patna, Kumar said in Hindi, "We have been hearing about phone tapping for so many days. Hence a discussion on it must be held (in Parliament). I have asked for it the very first day. You all know nowadays anybody can do these kinds of things in so many ways. Hence in my view, proper steps should be taken, examining each and every aspect of this whole episode. What has happened, what has not happened is being talked about by some people in Parliament and it is also coming out in newspapers and we see only all that. "But whatever is the matter should be examined thoroughly to find out in what manner some people are tapping the phone of somebody or whatever they are doing it, hacking it. The entire thing should come out in the open. In my opinion, when people are talking about it for so many days, this should definitely be investigated," Kumar said. Opposition RJD did not hide its glee over Kumar's comments with its Rajya Sabha MP and party spokesperson saying that he will request Kumar to stick to his demand and he hopes that the Chief Minister does not come under pressure and say that his statement was misinterpreted. LJP Chirag Paswan earlier said the ambition of the PM is once again raising its head. "He (Kumar) has always had this desire for PM material. This is his Mann Ki Baat," Paswan said after remarks of another JDU leader Upendra Kushwaha hailing Nitish Kumar as PM material. Paswan predicted a midterm poll for Bihar saying Kumar will try to become the face of Opposition in this midterm Assembly poll before the 2014 general election in which he will later present himself as a face against Modi. "PM material has started implementing his secret plan against the BJP. He has started the move by taking a different stand from BJP on issues like population control bill, caste census, CAA-NRC and others. Be cautious," Paswan tweeted. JDU leaders have, however, maintained that the party taking a different stand from BJP on these issues will not have bearing on the coalition in Bihar and the alliance is intact. Nitish Kumar's JDU, which has shared an uneasy relationship with BJP, which is the leading coalition partner with more MLAs in the Bihar government headed by Kumar, has time and again taken a stand contrary to the BJP in the last six months. On Monday a delegation of Janata Dal (United) MPs led by new party president Lalan Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah pushing for the caste-based census even as the government headed by Modi at the Centre has reservations against it. Some Bihar BJP leaders have openly expressed reservation against such a move. On July 31, JDU also passed a resolution voicing its opinion against any coercive measures like the enactment of laws to control population growth even as some BJP-ruled states Uttar Pradesh and Assam have come out with such proposals. Assam has in fact also proposed a "Population Army" to check population growth in some areas. Nitish Kumar, himself, had openly expressed his disagreement with such a measure when the neighbouring UP government headed by Yogi Adityanath had introduced it. Earlier Kumar, even after coming back to NDA in 2017, had voiced his disapproval of BJP's growing pitch on NRC, Uniform Civil Code and Triple Talaq Bill and Article 370 but had taken a u-turn on the last two issues in Parliament. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-seeks-inquiry-into-pegasus-controversy-1015533.html
02-08-2021||North and Central||Left-leaning NGO slams MP government for varsity pull out of webinar||A Left-leaning NGO on Monday condemned the Madhya Pradesh police’s alleged attempts to prevent a central university in the state from hosting a webinar on the topic ‘cultural and linguistic hurdles in achieving scientific temper.’ “We believe that this event represents a twin attack on the scientific temper as well as on the autonomy of the academic institution,” a statement by Anhad said. The statement came after Dr. Hari Singh Gour University in Sagar in Madhya Pradesh pulled out of a webinar organised by the anthropology department after the state police wrote to the vice-chancellor saying action could be taken “if religious and caste sentiments are hurt”. According to reports from Madhya Pradesh, the ABVP unit at Sagar had written to the state police that some participants in the webinar were of “anti-national mentality and involved in such activities”. The webinar was being conducted in collaboration with Montclair State University, New Jersey. The statement, which Anhad claimed was signed by more than 1,000 individuals, said that they believed that the incident at the Gour University was not “isolated” as there had been attacks on academics in Ujjain, Bhopal and Mandsaur in the recent past. “The atrocious argument that someone’s feelings will get hurt if ‘hurdles in achieving scientific temper’ are discussed by academicians and scholars is only a smoke screen to intimidate free speech and academic discourse,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/left-leaning-ngo-slams-mp-government-for-varsity-pull-out-of-webinar-1015592.html
02-08-2021||Opinion||A new age of anger awaits India and Brazil||Two decades ago, a Goldman Sachs executive coined the label BRICs to describe four big emerging nations: Brazil, Russia, India and China. Rapid growth and expansion of the ranks of the wealthy in these countries vindicated the faith of investors. Their leaders started to hold annual summit meetings and even established their own development bank. They invited South Africa to become a member in 2011, conveniently completing the catchy acronym. But conceits devised by Western boosters of globalisation had become obsolete well before the pandemic dramatically altered global realities this past year. China, for instance, long ago graduated from “emerging” status. With its hydrocarbon-dependent and isolationist economy, Russia never belonged in the group. Today, the heedless celebration of fast growth and wealth creation seems to belong to a naive and unreflective age. Meanwhile, evidence that post-pandemic inequality will be lethal to everyday social order, let alone democracy, in emerging economies is mounting. This became blindingly clear last month as South Africa, by some measures the most unequal country in the world, descended into its worst violence since the end of apartheid. Looters, vandals and arsonists rampaged across the country, destroying shopping malls and industrial warehouses, and burning lorries. Hundreds of people died. Property and business losses amount to hundreds of millions of dollars, and recovery will take years.    The immediate provocation for the rioting was the sentencing of former president Jacob Zuma to 15 months in prison for refusing to cooperate with an inquiry into corruption during his nine years in office. The pandemic that has killed more than 70,000 South Africans and plunged many more into destitution played its part. But rage had long been building up in the country, where unemployment stands at record levels (33 per cent), and where many people lack food, power and running water as well as jobs. Those same factors will play a central role when — and there is no “if” here — similarly extensive breakdowns occur in India and Brazil. The necessary ingredients — extreme social divisions of race, religion, class and caste; widening gaps between city and country; and a baleful, incompetent, if not corrupt, ruling class — have been present for many years in both countries. They’ve only become more toxic in recent months. Inequality has grown more concentrated in India, home to two out of the three richest tycoons in Asia — Mukesh Ambani (whose wealth is now estimated at $78 billion) and Gautam Adani ($53 billion). Meanwhile, in probably the largest-ever implosion of the middle class, the heart of any modern consumer economy, more than 200 million Indians have gone back to earning less than $5 a day. India already accounted for nearly a third of the world’s malnourished people. Aiding the wealthy with tax cuts for corporations, India’s Hindu nationalist government presently presides over an increase in hunger, even in urban areas, and among middle-class Indians.  In Brazil, where half a million people have lost their lives to the pandemic, the rich increased their share of national wealth by 2.7 per cent last year; they now possess almost half of it. At the same time, the poorest 40 per cent of Brazilians lost a fifth of their income, while average income per capita fell to its lowest level in a decade. As in India, widespread immiseration has been accompanied by an assault on democratic institutions. Deepening his country’s Covid nightmare with his virus-denial and vaccine-baiting, Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro has undermined governance with a series of arbitrary decrees. In March, he fired his defense minister, evidently for resisting the president’s efforts to get the military to back him politically. Much attention since Brexit and Donald Trump’s election in 2016 has been focused on the ruinous political consequences of unchecked inequality in the world’s most advanced economies: permanent and rancorous polarization, a collapse of trust in democratic institutions, the rise of conspiracy theories and entrenchment of demagoguery.  This process of social and political disintegration was always far advanced, though little noticed, in emerging economies. Moreover, it seems to have no corrective. The pandemic has now accelerated it. South Africa provides a glimpse of what might lie ahead for the onetime stars of globalization.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-new-age-of-anger-awaits-india-and-brazil-1015390.html
02-08-2021||Opinion||The importance of being small in UP||It's rather a situation of the tail wagging the dog in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Om Prakash Rajbhar of the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) rejects feelers from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and even refuses to answer a phone call from party president J P Nadda. Shortly after losing Lotan Ram - a prominent leader of the Nishad (fishermen) community, Samajwadi Party (SP) president makes an urgent dash to Unnao to garland the statue of community icon Manohar Lal. Bihar NDA partner Mukesh Sahni of the Vikassheel Insaan Party decides to independently contest 165 assembly seats in UP to avenge the Yogi Adityanath administration's decision to detain him at the Varanasi airport and refuse him permission to install a bust of bandit queen and Mallah leader Phoolan Devi. Leaders of other smaller parties and groups, including the Mahaan Dal, Anjaan Party, Apna Dal or the Jansatta Party, are flexing their muscles too, demanding their pound of flesh in return for their support to the bigger political players. Each subsequent Assembly election in UP has seen a compounding rise in the number of contesting parties - from 111 unrecognised political parties in 2007 to 202 such parties in 2012 and 288 parties in 2017. By all accounts, the number of contesting parties will witness a significant rise again in 2022. The politics of India's most populous state has been getting increasingly splintered.  Crossing ideological barriers Ahead of the Assembly elections, political ideologies are apparently getting thrown by the wayside. The SP and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which owe their existence to movements against the Hindu hierarchical order, are seemingly turning religious. The BSP cadres led by Satish Chandra Mishra were lately seen chanting mantras and pouring hundreds of litres of milk in the River Saryu in the holy city of Ayodhya. Seeking a repeat of the party's experiment of 2007 in stitching together a "rainbow coalition" of Brahmins and Dalits, the BSP will be organising similar "Brahmin Conferences" at other religious centres, including Mathura and Varanasi. Anti-incumbency Incumbent governments since 2007 have not got a repeat term in UP. But this is hardly the only reason that the BJP or the Yogi Adityanath government is on the backfoot. The Covid mismanagement; the situation of the spiralling unemployment; the custodial deaths and encounter killings of persons accused of even petty crimes; the placement of Rajputs (the chief minister's caste) at critical positions of the state apparatus and the BJP's failure to address concerns of farmers - these are among factors leading to the anti-incumbency wave against the Adityanath government. What has complicated matters is the much talked about Narendra Modi - Amit Shah versus Adityanath tussle. Adityanath, party insiders say, wants to distribute 175 party tickets, while the party central leadership's position is that he should have a say in deciding no more than 75 seats. The messaging from the central BJP leadership is that - even if the BJP does get the majority in 2022 - Adityanath will not be the natural choice for the chief ministership.  Notwithstanding Prime Minister Modi's fulsome endorsement on the performance of the Adityanath government at this month's rally at Varanasi, the disagreements have far from resolved. While the central BJP leadership has been pressing for the expansion of the UP Cabinet since May, Adityanath has not yielded. Four vacancies arose in the state Assembly's upper house in July, and names of new incumbents have also been forwarded to the chief minister. But Adityanath has kept this issue pending as well. Given the situation of the Modi-Yogi standoff, the Rashtriya Swamsevak Sangha (RSS), the parent body of the BJP, has stationed its third-highest functionary, Dattatreya Hosabale, in Lucknow for the period of the elections.  The endgame The BJP is in turmoil, while the Opposition space is crowded and divided. The entry of players such as AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi has complicated matters, while the Congress, although a minor player in UP, is likely to eat into the so-called "secular vote bank". Therefore, the efficacy of the poll strategy of a party or formation will largely determine the poll outcome.  Government formation in UP becomes possible for whichever party or formation securing over 30 per cent of the state's vote share. In the 2017 Assembly elections, both the BSP and the SP performed miserably but still managed to secure a 20-22 per cent vote share against 39 per cent of the BJP. For the BJP to be displaced from power, either the SP or the BSP will need to increase its vote share by ten percentage points.  Conversely, the BJP vote share will need to come down by at least 10-12 per cent points. In the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary elections and the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP scored big by consolidating in its favour the non-Yadav votes of the SP and the non-Jatav votes of the BSP. In the last four and a half years, the Adityanath government's focus has been on love jihad, triple talaq or the Ram temple construction and not on Dalit empowerment. One factor alone will determine whether the BJP does get a second successive term of office: The preferences of the smaller sub-castes and farmers groups on voting day.  (The writer is a journalist)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-importance-of-being-small-in-up-1015402.html
02-08-2021||South||UDF MLAs raise banner seeking Kerala education minister's resignation in Assembly||The opposition Congress-led UDF members on Monday raised placards and a banner in the Kerala Assembly seeking the resignation of General Education Minister V Sivankutty in a case related to the infamous ruckus incident in the Assembly in 2015. As soon as the minister began speaking during the question hour, the opposition members stood from their seats with slogans like "resign and go out" and showed protest placards and a banner. It is for the first time that the Minister was arriving in the House after the Supreme Court had dismissed a government plea last week seeking withdrawal of a criminal case against LDF MLAs, including Sivankutty, in connection with the ruckus six years ago. The banner could be read "the Chief Minister should be ready to remove the Education Minister, who is facing trial in the case, from the cabinet." Despite the sloganeering, the minister continued to gave his reply to the questions raised by the members. Intervening in the issue, Speaker M B Rajesh alerted the Opposition Members that raising banners and placards in the House was a violation of Assembly rules. The decision of the Supreme Court on the ruckus in the Kerala Assembly in 2015 has come as a jolt to the two-month- old second Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in the State. The court had dismissed the appeals, including the one filed by the Kerala government against the High Court order dismissing its plea seeking withdrawal of a criminal case lodged against LDF MLAs in connection with the ruckus. The apex court had said allowing the prosecution to be withdrawn would amount to interference in the normal course of justice for illegitimate reasons. Though the UDF had been pressing for the resignation of Sivankutty in the wake of the court verdict, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan categorically rejected their demand last week itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udf-mlas-raise-banner-seeking-kerala-education-ministers-resignation-in-assembly-1015458.html
02-08-2021||South||Allegations rise over Kerala govt settling score with job aspirants||While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan maintained that the validity of the ranks lists could be extended beyond three years only in exceptional circumstances, a former chairman of KPSC told DH that the pandemic and calamities were adequate reasons for extending the validity of rank lists. The indefinite stir by KPSC rank holders just ahead of the Assembly elections earlier this year had put the Vijayan government in a tight spot as the candidates resorted to various modes of protest ranging from crawling on the hot tar roads and tonsuring heads. The over one-month-long stir was called off following a host of assurances from the government. But even as the Vijayan government retained power in the elections, most key assurances still remain on paper only. The hopes of around three lakh candidates in the rank lists were dashed as the government now decided not to give further extension to 493 rank lists expiring on August 4 even as fresh rank lists were yet to be prepared. Many candidates are on the brink of upper age limits for appearing for KPSC exams and hence curtains will be drawn permanently on their government job aspirations. The job aspirants have again relaunched the protest and a section staged a demonstration by cutting hair in front of the government secretariat. As the Opposition party Congress raised the issue in the Assembly on Monday, the Chief Minister said that the norms permit extending KPSC rank lists' validity beyond three years only in circumstances like recruitment freeze or exceptional situations where reporting of vacancies were affected. However, the former chairman of KPSC K S Radhakrishnan said that the pandemic and calamities were adequate reasons for extending the validity of ranks lists beyond three years. There were instances in which the validity of PSC rank lists was extended for more than four years. Moreover, a fresh rank list should have been prepared by the time the existing one gets expired, he pointed out. Opposition leader V D Satheesan alleged that the government was taking a vindictive stand against the job aspirants for the protest they staged earlier. He said that reporting of vacancies were hit due to the calamities and lockdowns and hence there was genuine grounds to extend the lists. He said that not even 40 per cent of the rank holders got placement. The Opposition also staged a walkout from the house after permission for an adjournment motion on the matter was rejected. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allegations-rise-over-kerala-govt-settling-score-with-job-aspirants-1015551.html
02-08-2021||South||School teachers to get Covid-19 vaccine on priority in Andhra Pradesh||School teachers in Andhra Pradesh to receive their Covid-19 vaccine shot on priority now, as the Jaganmohan Reddy government plans to reopen the education institutions from 16 August. During a review meeting on Monday on the prevailing Covid-19 situation and vaccination, the Chief Minister asked the officials to be on alert in the coming two months and for widening the awareness among people on the further threats posed by the virus. The state has been reporting over 2,000 daily cases lately and the active cases stand at 20,582 as of Monday. While ordering the machinery to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are strictly followed everywhere, the CM said that not more than 150 people for marriages etc events should be allowed. There should be no crowds at any religious event. Reddy wants priority to be given to the teachers and their vaccination completed soon “as schools are set to reopen on August 16.” The health officials have decided to impose heavy fines on people flouting Covid-19 rules. Shops and establishments allowing people without masks would be fined Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000, and they could be closed for 2-3 days. Individuals spotted without a mask would be imposed a fine of Rs 100.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/school-teachers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-on-priority-in-andhra-pradesh-1015590.html
02-08-2021||State||Karnataka govt to further reduce deemed forest land||The extent of deemed forests in Karnataka is set to shrink further from 3.3 lakh hectares to about 2 lakh hectares as the government has decided to drop more areas from the list. The issue came up following a Supreme Court order in the landmark case of Godavarman Vs Union of India, where it asked the government to identify forests regardless of protection status as well as areas with degraded forests. The state expert committee identified 10.11 lakh hectares in 1997 which has been reduced by subsequent governments which are filing affidavits in the matter. The latest move comes a year after the then forest minister Anand Singh announced in the Assembly that the government will reduce the original extent of deemed forests from 10 lakh hectares to 3.3 lakh hectares. In March-April, deputy conservators of forests in all districts received a letter from the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (APPCF) in the Working Plan division, advising them to remove from the list the areas notified under Section 4 of the Karnataka Forest Act, 1963, as such lands already enjoy protection. Sources in the department said 1.21 lakh ha of land has been notified as Section 4 forest but most of the area is yet to make it to the next stage of notification under Section 17, which makes it a ‘reserved forest’. “The ownership of more than 1 lakh ha of Section 4 forest is not with the Forest Department. In this regard, files have been sent to the government more than 30 years ago but to no avail. The Revenue Department, which is supposed to protect it, has not only failed to protect these lands under Forest Conservation Act but also granted ownership of thousands of hectares to private persons illegally,” a senior official said. APCCF (Working Plan) Jag Mohan Sharma said he was aware of the issues. “Notification of forest areas involves procedures at several stages, including those conducted by the settlement officer. The department is pursuing the matter with the state government. Further measures will be taken as per the rules,” he said. Aside from 1.21 lakh hectares of ‘protected’ area, district level committees are busy chipping away at the 1.18 lakh hectares of land classified as ‘thickly wooded areas’. “From district in-charge minister to zilla panchayat members, everyone wants a piece of this unprotected area. It would be a surprise even if half of it remains on paper in the next affidavit,” an official said.  Deliberate mismanagement A retired official said the government has also dropped more than 1.6 lakh hectares from the deemed forest because it didn’t have enough trees. “An arbitrary rule was made to denotify areas which do not have 50 grown trees in 2 hectares,” the official said. State Wildlife Board member Joseph Hoover said the government needs to reclaim such land for afforestation. “At the Centre, the prime minister reiterates the need to protect forests and environment. At the state level, we have a government that is doing away with whatever greenery has been left. The time has come for the forest department to put its foot down in such matters,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-further-reduce-deemed-forest-land-1015338.html
02-08-2021||State||Vidhana Soudha sound engineer Mukundan no more||Mukundan, a sound engineer at Vidhana Soudha, who ensured all MLAs are heard in the Assembly, passed away last week in Bengaluru due to post-Covid complications. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Hailing from Chalakudy in Thrissur in Kerala, the 79-year-old Mukundan joined the Electrical sub-division at Vidhana Soudha way back in 1971 as an electrical engineer. Since then, Mukundan had been controlling the acoustics system of the Assembly hall that was imported from the United Kingdom. The passion and commitment of Mukundan were such that the state government retained Mukundan at the job even after his retirement through special order as there were none who could handle the system as effectively as Mukundan. The acoustics system of the Vidhana Soudha was designed by Tannoy Products Ltd of England at the special request of then chief minister Kengal Hanumanthaiah.  Starting as early as 8 in the morning, Mukundan and his colleagues managed the mikes and speaker system till 7 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vidhana-soudha-sound-engineer-mukundan-no-more-1015351.html
02-08-2021||State||Bandipur Tiger Reserve gets Global CA/TS tag||Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Chamarajanagar district has received the accreditation of the Global Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CA|TS) for tiger conservation. The Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupendra Yadav announced the CA/TS on the occasion of Global Tiger Day. The CA/TS has been agreed upon as an accreditation tool by the global coalition of Tiger Range Countries (TRCs) and has been developed by tiger and protected area experts. Officially launched in 2013, it sets minimum standards for effective management of target species and encourages assessment of these standards in relevant conservation areas. CA/TS is a set of criteria which allows tiger sites to check if their management will lead to successful tiger conservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bandipur-tiger-reserve-gets-global-ca/ts-tag-1015352.html
02-08-2021||State||Siddaramaiah demands early formation of Cabinet||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah alleged that instead of addressing the woes of the public in their respective constituencies during the Covid crisis, BJP MLAs were fighting for ministerial berths sitting in Bengaluru. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said, only the chief minister cannot handle both the Covid crisis and flood-related issues single-handedly. Hence, the Cabinet should be formed at the earliest, he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-demands-early-formation-of-cabinet-1015353.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Travellers caught off guard by Karnataka's new Covid-19 rules||Karnataka's latest Covid-19 rules, which mandate a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test for those arriving from Maharashtra and Kerala, have blindsided travellers with many having to reschedule their trips, as they couldn't get a test done at the last moment.  The state's new rules came into effect Saturday in light of rising coronavirus infections in the neighbouring states. Any person arriving in Karnataka is now required to produce a negative Covid test not older than 72 hours, irrespective of their vaccination status. Earlier, those who have received a single dose could travel without the requirement of a Covid test report.  Weekend lockdowns in Kerala meant swab tests were hard to come by. Thus, many travellers made frantic calls to airlines to check if their ticket was valid without a negative report. Moreover, the Saturday order also asked airlines to not issue a boarding pass to those without a test.  “Since Kerala remains under weekend lockdown, I couldn’t find a lab to take a Covid test on time and I had to postpone my trip to Tuesday,” he said.  Following inconvenience to people, several airlines eased rules, extending vaccination certificate norms till the weekend and allowing those without an RT-PCR test to travel. However, from Monday the rules are being implemented strictly and no passenger will be issued a boarding pass without a negative report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/travellers-caught-off-guard-by-karnatakas-new-covid-19-rules-1015454.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet expansion possible on August 4: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said cabinet expansion can take place most likely on Wednesday if the list is finalised in a meeting with the BJP central leadership later during the day.  The chief minister, who reached the national capital late on Sunday night, said the cabinet exercise will be done in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. His meeting with BJP president J P Nadda is scheduled in the evening.  "The list may get finalised either today or tomorrow. If it gets finalised tonight, the cabinet expansion can take place on Wednesday," Bommai told reporters before leaving for Parliament to meet Home Minister Amit Shah. A comprehensive discussion will be held with the BJP chief in the evening about the cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in several stages or one go, he said. Even balancing of regional and social representation will be kept in mind while deciding names, he added. "Based on these factors, the numbers and names will be decided. Even how many deputy CMs should be made will also be decided in the meeting," Bommai said. The chief minister further said that in the current political situation efforts will be made to take every one together.  "We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said. The CM also said some aspirants have met met him here and held discussions. "They also know not everyone can become ministers," he added. "We will do in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous cabinet team," he said. Bommai took oath as the chief minister on July 28 after the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa on July 26. He is the lone Cabinet member in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-expansion-possible-on-august-4-cm-bommai-1015456.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only those with negative RT-PCR report allowed in Dakshina Kannada||Following the Karnataka government’s direction to strengthen surveillance at the border areas after Kerala registered a spike in Covid-19 cases, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has stepped up vigil. Only those with negative certificates were allowed inside the district on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V and City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar visited the border in Talapady to check the enforcement of government directions. Authorities stopped collecting swabs from those arriving from Kerala at Talapady check post. Earlier, when rules were relaxed for the arrivals from Kerala, the district administration had made arrangements to collect swabs for RT-PCR  test and Rapid Antigen test from the commuters. As the testing centre has been suspended, people from Kerala expressed displeasure at the border as they weren't aware of the suspension of the facility. Many demanded to allow those who have availed two vaccines to enter Dakshina Kannada without negative reports.  Students from Kerala studying in various colleges coming under Mangalore University jurisdiction who had their UG exams, were allowed to enter the district by showing their hall tickets. As the bus services between Kasargod and Mangaluru remained suspended, Kerala RTC buses were returning to Kasargod from Talapady after alighting passengers. The health officials have also started collecting swabs from those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra via trains at the Mangaluru Central Railway Station and Mangaluru Junction Railway Station. Degree exams Mangalore University conducted its exams for UG students by adhering to Covid-19 guidelines of the government. Those infected with Covid-19 were allowed to write the exam in an isolation room of the colleges. There are 207 affiliated colleges coming under Mangalore University jurisdiction in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-those-with-negative-rt-pcr-report-allowed-in-dakshina-kannada-1015473.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All migrant MLAs may not get ministerial berths this time: Eshwarappa||Former minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday said that the state cabinet would be formed in two days, but all Congress and JD(S) legislators who quit their parties to help BJP form government in Karnataka may not get ministerial berths this time.  Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said only God and the BJP high command would know who will be part of the cabinet. The cabinet will have both new and old faces. The leadership is chalking out strategies eyeing the next assembly polls. BJP has to get a complete majority in the next assembly polls. So it won't yield to lobby.   Replying to a query on a divine prediction made at a Hindu centre of faith that Bommai-led government would last only for six to seven months and the next chief minister will be a person sporting a beard, he said it may become true or false. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has the blessings of B S Yediyurappa and also met former prime minister Deve Gowda. The meeting with Gowda has nothing to do with politics, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-migrant-mlas-may-not-get-ministerial-berths-this-time-eshwarappa-1015525.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees dip in Covid-19 cases, toll crosses 20,000 mark||Karnataka recorded a dip in new Covid-19 cases on Monday, logging 1,285 cases, taking the total tally to 29.08 lakh, while the death toll crossed the 20,000-mark with 25 more deaths. The state had reported 1,875 cases on Sunday. The 25 deaths took the total toll to 20,021. The active cases stood at 24,021, while 1,383 patients recovered, taking the total recoveries to 28,47,627. Bengaluru Urban district reported 290 infections and five deaths, both of which were the highest in the state. Dakshina Kannada was next with 219 cases and four fatalities. Udupi recorded 135 cases, Mysuru 102, and Hassan 91. Fatalities were reported from 10 districts, while 20 had none. The state conducted 1,33,030 Covid tests on Monday, taking the cumulative number of samples tested so far to 3.89 crore. A total of 4,42,330 people were vaccinated Monday, taking the overall figure to 3.11 crore. The positivity rate was 0.96% and the Case Fatality Rate was 1.94%. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-dip-in-covid-19-cases-toll-crosses-20000-mark-1015559.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||A month on, Karnataka board students wait for textbooks||A month after the commencement of classes for the current academic year, the students studying at state board schools are still waiting to get their textbooks. According to the Karnataka Textbook Society officials, only 30% of the books has reached these schools and it will take till September for textbooks to reach 100%. “The lockdown has impacted the textbook printing process. We were planning to provide textbooks on day one of the commencement of the academic year and we could not do it due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” said an official said.  Even the private unaided and aided schools affiliated to the state board are waiting for the textbooks and also the Kannada textbook for schools affiliated to other boards to teach compulsory Kannada as first or the second language has to be provided by the Textbook Society. “Currently in the absence of textbooks, we are sending to children the scanned copies of each lesson while teaching,” said a teacher with a private unaided school in Bengaluru. “We have paid 10% advance along with the indent for textbooks. Despite the financial crisis, the schools are undergoing, the department did not spare us from paying the advance. Now, even after a month, there is no clue of textbooks arriving,” a management representative of a private school said. “When they are saying books will reach by September-end, that means the books will be available only after Dasara vacation,” said a teacher. The state government has set aside Rs 153 crore for supplying textbooks in the state budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-month-on-karnataka-board-students-wait-for-textbooks-1015602.html
02-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stir at Karnataka border against curbs on Kerala vehicles||People from Manjeshwara in Kasargod staged a protest at Talapady on the Karnataka-Kerala border on Monday morning, against the fresh restrictions imposed by Karnataka for entry from Kerala, in view of the high number of Covid cases in Kerala. Representatives from various political parties and a section of local people blocked the entry of vehicles from Karnataka to Kerala to protest against the restriction of entry from Kerala to Karnataka. The protest lasted for about one hour and was withdrawn after police interfered, sources said. The protest was staged mainly against the authorities in Karnataka insisting on RTPCR negative certificates from those entering Karnataka from Kerala, including those who have taken both doses of the Covid vaccine. Karnataka imposed fresh restrictions as Covid cases in Kerala remain high and the border areas in Karnataka (close to Kasargod), are also witnessing an increase in Covid cases. Sources in Talapady said the movement of people for essential services, like those travelling to hospitals in ambulances and students with hall tickets going to attend examinations, were not affected by the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stir-at-karnataka-border-against-curbs-on-kerala-vehicles-1015603.html
02-08-2021||West||We don't deserve media trial: Shilpa Shetty on Raj Kundra's arrest in pornography case||Breaking her silence since the arrest of her husband for masterminding a sensational pornography racket, Bollywood actor-model Shilpa Shetty on Monday said they do not deserve a media trial. The 46-year-old prominent celebrity and fitness enthusiast also requested her and her family’s privacy.  "Yes! The past few days have been challenging, on every front. There have been a lot of rumours and accusations. A lot of unwarranted aspersions on me cast by the media and (not so) well wishers as well,” Shetty said in an Instagram post. Stating that she is a "proud law-abiding citizen and a hardworking professional for the last 29 years", Shetty said, "We don't deserve a media trial. Please let the law take its course." Kundra had been sent to judicial custody till Aug. 10 in connection with the porn films case. "As a family, we are taking recourse to all our available legal remedies. But, till then I humbly request you - especially as a Mother - to respect our privacy for my children’s sake and request you to refrain from commenting on half-baked information without verifying the veracity of the same," the actor, who shares son Viaan (nine) and daughter Samisha (one) with Kundra, wrote in a post. Shetty's comments come days after the Bombay High Court refused to gag media as requested by the actor against alleged defamatory articles published against her and family after the arrest of her husband. In an interim application, Shetty had sought for media to be restrained from publishing any "incorrect, false, malicious and defamatory" content, on which the court noted that passing a blanket gag order on the media against reporting anything on the matter shall have a "chilling effect on the freedom of press". Justice Gautam Patel said there is a judicial limit on what can be construed as good or bad journalism, also observing that the articles referred to by Shetty in her suit do not seem to be defamatory. The actor, who serves on the jury panel of the "Super Dancer Chapter 4", has not appeared on the Sony TV's dance reality show since Kundra was taken into custody. Shetty was questioned by the police on the matter, who told the officials that she had no idea about the content of the 'Hot Shots' app through which her husband allegedly distributed pornographic films, according to sources. In her statement on Monday, the actor also said that she is a "proud law-abiding Indian citizen" and a hardworking professional for the last 29 years. "People have put their faith in me and I’ve never let anyone down. So, most importantly, I request you to respect my family’s and ‘my right’ to privacy in these times. We don’t deserve a media trial. Please let the law take its course. Satyamev Jayate," she added. Shetty, 46, said the past few days have been "challenging on every front" and the family has battled a "lot of rumours and accusations." "A lot of unwarranted aspersions on me cast by the media and (not so) well wishers as well. A lot of trolling/questions posed… not only to me but also to my family. My stand, I have not commented yet. And will continue to refrain from doing so on this case as it is subjudice, so please stop attributing false quotes on my behalf. "Reiterating my philosophy of, as a celebrity 'Never complain, never explain.' All I will say is, as it’s an on-going investigation, I have full faith in the Mumbai Police and the Indian judiciary," she added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-dont-deserve-media-trial-shilpa-shetty-on-raj-kundras-arrest-in-pornography-case-1015422.html
02-08-2021||West||Maharashtra: Anil Deshmukh skips ED appearance again||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday skipped the Enforcement Directorate hearing in the money laundering case registered against him. Deshmukh has skipped at least three summonses of the federal probe agency in the past for questioning in the case. His son and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear.The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency had last month raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The Enforcement Directorate's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-anil-deshmukh-skips-ed-appearance-again-1015426.html
02-08-2021||West||Gujarat govt to maximise use of faceless tech system to curb corruption: Rupani||The Gujarat government is working to maximise the use of technology and create a faceless system to remove corruption and bring in transparency in governance, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Monday. On the second day of the nine-day celebrations to mark the completion of his five years as chief minister, Rupani, while addressing a gathering here, said Gujarat is at the forefront of extending benefits of internet services to villages in the state under the BharatNet project. From the 'Seva Setu' programme -- under which camps were held four-five times a year at taluka and municipality levels to help citizens avail the benefits of various government schemes -- the government is now moving towards the 'e-Seva Setu,' to offer services to people on a daily basis using technology, the CM said. Rupani said his government is committed to remove corruption and bring in transparency in governance. “For this, we are planning maximum use of technology to create a faceless system. For this, we plan to move ahead by shifting services online in different departments,” he said. The CM said the government recently made services pertaining to non-agriculture land approval online, which helped in removing corruption. Other services like e-tendering for mines and minerals have also reduced corruption, he claimed. Rupani became the chief minister of Gujarat on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. The second day of the nine-day programme to mark his completion of five years in office was celebrated as 'Samvedna Divas', wherein the CM transferred a financial aid of Rs 4,000 (as part of a monthly scheme) into the accounts of each of the 978 children in Gujarat who lost both their parents to Covid-19. He also launched the government's scheme for providing Rs 2,000 per month to each of the 3,963 children who lost one of their parents due to the pandemic. The state government last year launched the Digital Seva Setu programme by which 55 public welfare schemes of various government departments are made available at the panchayat level using internet through optical fibre networks. Referring to it, Rupani said crores of people have benefited from the government's Seva Setu programme, which is held four-five times in a year. Now, the government is moving towards the e-Seva Setu, which will provide the people benefits of various schemes on a daily basis (rather than through special camps under the 'Seva Setu' programme), he said. “Gujarat has become the first state to connect the villages directly through internet. The BharatNet's e-connectivity with high frequency has helped people in villages and gram panchayats to avail 55 services through computer without them requiring to visit taluka or collector office,” he said. Rupani said his government will create a facility in the coming days where people can submit an e-application and immediately receive the required certificates. "Gujarat will be the first state where people will avail all services sitting back in their villages...we are using technology to move in the direction of providing the e-Seva Setu," he said. On the occasion, he also launched the government's 433 Seva Setu camps across the state and launched a new scheme encouraging remarriage of widows through financial support from the government. Rupani also re-launched a host of projects for citizens of Rajkot, like online booking of city bus services and a GIS-enabled portal for various services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-maximise-use-of-faceless-tech-system-to-curb-corruption-rupani-1015470.html
02-08-2021||West||Why aren't those vaccinated allowed to travel by local trains? Bombay HC asks Maharashtra government||The Bombay High Court asked the Maharashtra government on Monday why people who had received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine could not be permitted to travel by local trains in Mumbai. What was even the purpose of taking both doses of the vaccine if citizens were expected to stay inside their homes even after taking the Covid-19 jabs, a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni asked. The bench was responding to a submission made by Maharashtra Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state disaster management authority was "reluctant" to permit all lawyers, judicial clerks and court staff to resume local train travel. Currently, only frontline health workers and government staff are permitted to use local trains, which are considered as the lifeline of Mumbai. The HC was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations filed by lawyers and private persons through senior counsel Milind Sathe, advocates Shyam Dewani and Alankar Kirpekar, among others, seeking that lawyers be permitted to travel by local trains and Metro rail to commute to courts and their offices. Advocate Sathe told the HC that since physical hearings have now been resumed by the high court and subordinate courts, all lawyers needed to travel by trains. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the Railways, told the HC that the Western, Central and Harbour Railway authorities had agreed to issue monthly, quarterly or six-monthly travel passes to lawyers and court staff. Singh said lawyers and other court staff will need a letter from the bar council and the state disaster management authority, certifying that they are required to travel by trains and a pass will be issued accordingly. "The disaster management authority, however, is a bit reluctant. This time (during the second wave of Covid-19) only frontline health workers and government staff is permitted the use of train," Kumbhakoni said. "A meeting of the authority, presided over by the chief minister, will be held soon to take a decision," he added. Advocate Kirpekar, whose plea also seeks that all citizens who have received both doses of the vaccine be permitted to resume a "normal life", cited a study issued by the Christian Medical College, Vellore. He said as per the study, the frontline health workers who had received both doses of the vaccine, contracted milder symptoms of Covid-19 when compared to those who were yet to receive the vaccine. The HC then directed the state to take the above issues into consideration. "The difference between the first situation and now is that the situation has improved because of the vaccine," the high court said. "All lawyers are above 18 years of age and permitted to receive the vaccine now. So, a decision needs to be taken. Otherwise, what is the benefit of the vaccine? One is not supposed to sit at home even after taking the vaccine. Lawyers need to come to court at some point," the HC said. It asked if the state government had a comprehensive plan yet to relax restrictions for fully vaccinated citizens. "The Railways is also cooperating, so please use your good office. We must make a beginning. Spread the net wide. Not only for lawyers, but also people coming from other walks of life," the HC said. "A comprehensive plan is needed, otherwise it is affecting everyone. It is affecting one's finances, work. Look at the condition of roads. One takes three hours one-way to travel to Dahisar. Why this population using roads can't be permitted to shift back to trains?" the HC asked. The court will continue hearing the plea on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-arent-those-vaccinated-allowed-to-travel-by-local-trains-bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-government-1015484.html
02-08-2021||West||Zika virus: Centre rushes high-level team to Maharashtra||Days after Maharashtra reported a case of Zika virus, the Centre on Monday sent a multidisciplinary team to the state to monitor the situation and support the state government in the management of cases. On Saturday, a 50-year-old woman from Purandar tehsil in Pune district had tested positive for the Zika virus, putting the health authorities on a high alert. The three-member central team consists of a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune; a gynaecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi, a Health Ministry statement said. The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union Health Ministry's action plan for Zika management is being implemented. It will also recommend necessary public health interventions for the management of Zika virus cases in the state, the statement said. Zika virus disease is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes which bite during the day. A person infected with this virus is most likely to experience mild symptoms like fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise, or headache. Zika is a moderate disease as 80% of patients do not get any symptoms and the remaining 20% have moderate flu-like symptoms. The World Health Organization states that the Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause infants to be born with microcephaly and other congenital malformations known as congenital Zika syndrome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/zika-virus-centre-rushes-high-level-team-to-maharashtra-1015498.html
02-08-2021||West||Now, KMF's Nandini brand in Vidarbha||Karnataka Milk Federation's Nandini brand has now expanded in the Vidarbha region and further extends its reach into the states of Maharashtra and Goa. It has announced its plan for the investment of Rs 1,000 crore for acquisition of the dairy processing units. KMF’s Managing Director BC Sateesh said that they are planning to buy two plants in Mumbai and one each in Goa and Pune.  “The tenders for the acquisition in Mumbai have been issued. We have drawn a Rs 1000 crore expansion plan by acquiring the dairy processing units,” he said. KMF on Sunday launched its milk and milk products marketed under its brand Nandini in Vidarbha market.  Nandini Pasteurized Special Toned Milk,  Standardised Milk, Full cream milk and Curd was launched by Maharashtra’s Leader of Opposition and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Nagpur Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari.  Among those present on the occasion were S Balachandra L. Jarkiholi, Chairman, Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF),  Sambhaji S Misale, President  Vijayapura Milk Union, Board of Directors of KMF and Vijayapura Milk Union, B. C. Sateesh KCS, Managing Director, KMF and other senior officers. The milk processed at its dairy in Bijapur will reach Chandrapur, after travelling for about 650 kms, where it will be packed in collaboration with Swapnapurti, a local dairy brand. The KMF has aimed to leverage markets in Nagpur, Wardha, Yavatmal and Chandrapur. KMF is currently operating in liquid milk segment over the entire state of Karnataka, Goa and other cities of the country including Mumbai, Pune, Solapur, Chennai, Hyderabad, Vijayawada and taking the fleet further now to Vidharbha region of  Maharashtra  including  Nagpur, Wardha, Yavatmal, Chandrapur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/now-kmfs-nandini-brand-in-vidarbha-1015502.html
02-08-2021||West||Shiv Sena workers vandalise Adani Airport signboard in Mumbai||Shiv Sena workers on Monday vandalised a signboard mentioning the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport as the Adani Airport. Last month the Adani Group headed by billionaire businessman Gautam Adani took over the management of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, which is run by Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) - earlier controlled by the GVK Group. Adani Airport Holding Ltd (AAHL) is currently running the management of the Mumbai Airport. Shiv Sena, which is a constituent of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has been protesting against the renaming of the airport. Bharatiya Kamgar Sena Secretary Sanjay Kadam led the protests at the airport. “The AAHL has merely only been permitted to manage the Mumbai Airport and they cannot make any changes to the name, etc… This is an insult to the people of Maharashtra. People will not tolerate it,” he said. Raising slogans of ‘…Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj ki jai…’, the Sainiks trooped onto the landscaped garden, planted saffron flags and uprooted the Adani Airport name-hoardings. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena’s Mumbai South MP and chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said that it was just a spontaneous reaction against an attack on Maharashtra’s pride. “I welcome Sanjay Kadam and his activists,” he said, adding that the signboard is just off the Western Express Highway in front of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.  “Earlier, there was a small logo of GVK Group…but now a big board of Adani Airport has been put up…have you purchased the country…are we your slaves,” he lambasted. Meanwhile, an AAHL spokesperson said: ”In light of the incidents around Adani Airports branding at the Mumbai International Airport, we firmly assure that Adani Airports Holding Limited (AAHL) has merely replaced the previous branding with Adani Airports branding and that no change has been made to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport’s branding or positioning at the terminal.” “The branding at CSMIA is in compliance with the norms and guidelines of the Airport Authority of India (AAI). AAHL will continue to adhere to all the guidelines laid out by the government in the interest of the aviation community at large,” the statement added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-workers-vandalise-adani-airport-signboard-in-mumbai-1015506.html
02-08-2021||West||Film critic Rashid Irani passes away at 74||Veteran film critic Rashid Irani passed away in Mumbai. He was 74. One of the country's foremost film critics and a very senior Mumbai Press Club member, he likely passed away on July 30 night at home.  He was not seen for 2-3 days. A search by friends, Mumbai Press Club officials, and police led to his house in Marine Lines, where his mortal remains were found. Irani was one of the Press Club Film Society pillars and a core member of the club, who didn't miss a day at the media centre writing his reviews and watching films. He was a long-time movie reviewer for leading newspapers like The Times of India and The Hindustan Times among others. A voracious reader, Irani would spend most of his time watching movies and reading books and had a home library with over 5,000 books. Last year in an interview to Mid-Day, he said the lockdown has turned him into an automaton. “Like most people, I am disoriented and have become borderline depressive. While I live alone, I do not thrive on this loneliness; I need human contact.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/film-critic-rashid-irani-passes-away-at-74-1015542.html
02-08-2021||West||People will have to wait to catch local trains: CM Thackeray||The suburban train services in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) is considered the lifeline of India’s financial capital. “As of now, the general public would not be allowed as there is a possibility of a third wave,” Thackeray told reporters in Sangli district, where he has been to review the flood-affected regions. Thackeray also urged the management of workplaces to alter or change the timings accordingly for their employees so as to avoid crowding on roads and public transport. However, Thackeray has assured some relaxation to shops and other establishments. Meanwhile, a PIL has been filed by the Mumbai Marathi Patrakar Sangh in the Bombay High Court seeking to declare journalists and other media personnel as essential workers and allow them to travel by Mumbai’s suburban locals. The PIL states that 12 states have declared journalists and media personnel as frontline workers but Maharashtra has not done the same. Various journalists associations and clubs have been demanding that journalists be treated as frontline workers and be allowed to travel in local trains. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/people-will-have-to-wait-to-catch-local-trains-cm-thackeray-1015552.html
02-08-2021||West||Restrictions on political, social events to continue in Maharashtra||Political, religious and cultural events, elections and elections campaigning, rallies and protest marches will continue to be prohibited in Maharashtra even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government came out with a set of relaxations vis-a-vis Covid-19 pandemic. In the Mumbai metropolitan region, status quo remains as suburban local trains are concerned and the general public has not been allowed.  Places of worship would remain closed till further orders.  However, the shopping malls would remain open with timing regulations. “As of now, the general public would not be allowed in local trains as there is a possibility of a third wave,” Thackeray told reporters in Sangli district, where he has been to review the flood-affected regions. The government on Monday evening came out with a new set of guidelines.  According to the order signed by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, all government and private offices can be functional with full capacity.  However, where work-from-home is possible, it should be continued.  The order was released, hours after Thackeray urged office managements to alter or change the timings accordingly for their employees so as to avoid crowding on roads and public transport.  The order said that shopping malls would remain open till 8 pm on weekdays and till 3 pm on Saturdays, however, on Sundays, they would remain shut. Only essential shops will remain open on Sundays. All public gardens and playgrounds can remain open for exercise, walking, jogging and cycling.  Gymnasiums, yoga centres, saloons, beauty parlours and spas can remain open without the use of ACs with 50 per cent capacity till 8 pm on weekdays and 3 pm on Saturdays. Cinema halls - single screens and multiplexes and drama theatres would not be operational.  Restaurants would remain open with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays. Parcel and takeaway services to be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/restrictions-on-political-social-events-to-continue-in-maharashtra-1015565.html
