03-08-2021||First Edit||Deposit protection bill, a welcome move||The Union cabinet has done well to clear the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Bill, 2021, which provides for enhanced protection for bank deposits in case of failure of a bank. The bill has been introduced in the Rajya Sabha. If it becomes law, depositors will be able to withdraw up to Rs 5 lakh in 90 days after the Reserve Bank of India imposes curbs on banks on detection of irregularities. The government had increased the deposit cover from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh last year. The Rs 1 lakh limit was in existence since 1993. The case for increasing the cover and ensuring that depositors get the benefit early and in time became strong after the collapse of some banks in the recent past. The latest failures were of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank and the Lakshmi Vilas Bank. After restrictions were imposed on withdrawals from these banks, long queues of depositors were seen trying to withdraw their money. The wait continued for days. Many have still not got their money.  The change in the law will help most of the depositors in the country because over 98% of all deposit accounts will be covered by it. The provision will not be applicable retrospectively but will cover cases in banks that are at present under moratorium. The deadline of 90 days for payment is important in this context. In the past, depositors have had to wait for many years for their claims to be settled. In most cases, the deposits would not have served the purpose for which the depositors kept them in the bank, and the money would have lost much of its value when they got it back. The new law provides for submission of claims by depositors within 45 days of the declaration of moratorium and review and settlement of the claim within the next 45 days.  While the measure will give relief to the victims of bank failures and some confidence to those who keep their money in banks, it is not enough. It is a step to soften the impact of a failure, but it is necessary to ensure that bank failures do not happen. The RBI needs to strengthen its regulatory oversight and prevent the collapse of banks. The reasons for such collapses are mostly fraud or failure to observe rules and regulations. Continuous and rigorous supervision by the regulator and timely action can avert such situations. Cooperative banks should receive greater attention because they are more prone to failure, and most of their depositors are from rural areas or from the less affluent sections of society. It is also necessary to link the insured deposit limit to inflation to protect their value.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/deposit-protection-bill-a-welcome-move-1015606.html
03-08-2021||In Perspective||Covid response has to be disability-inclusive||According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 15% of the global population experience some form of disability, and there is ample evidence to suggest that the prevalence of disability is higher in developing countries. Lack of data on persons with disabilities has resulted in their invisibility and exclusion from development policies and programmes of national and sub-national governments. Covid-19 has disproportionately impacted people with disabilities as they are at a higher risk of being exposed to the virus and to experience complications due to their socio-economic background and underlying health conditions. The UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs estimates that 46% of the world’s population above 50 years of age experience disabilities. Lack of disaggregated data is one of the key barriers in inclusion of persons with disabilities in responses to Covid-19. It is vital that the government collects data that is disaggregated and also makes use of the data from civil society organisations that are working at the grassroots level in reaching out to people with disabilities. Persons with disabilities (PwDs) face physical, communication, attitudinal and financial barriers in accessing health services, which has further marginalised and excluded them from being recipients of the socio-economic response to the current pandemic. Local governments have a critical role to play in the inclusion of persons with disabilities and to ensure they have access to services such as vaccination and medical treatment. Starting from the village administration to the district level, there is a need to sensitise officials about the need to accord priority to citizens with disabilities. Under Section 25 (c) of the Right to Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of India 2016, appropriate authorities must take measures to ensure that PwDs have priority in attendance and treatment, which includes access to Covid-19 vaccines. India has a robust network of Organisations of Persons with Disabilities (OPDs). In line with the guidelines for ‘Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Humanitarian Action’ developed by the Inter-Agency Standing Committee comprising experts from international organisations in 2019, it is of critical importance for the district administration to coordinate with OPDs during the times of crises to ensure that PwDs are not left behind. The OPDs, as representative bodies of PwDs, should be consulted and given an opportunity to participate in all coordination efforts of the local government response to the pandemic. Monitoring inclusion of PwDs in the national and state socio-economic response to the pandemic will go a long way in ensuring they have equal access to health and other social protection services. The RPWD Act of India has created the office of the Chief Commissioner for Disabilities at the national level and state commissioners in each of the states to promote and protect the rights of PwDs guaranteed under the Act. One of the key functions of the chief commissioner and state commissioners is to inquire suo motu, or otherwise, deprivation of rights of PwDs and safeguards available to them in respect of matters falling in the domain of the central or the state governments, as the case may be, and take up the matter with appropriate authorities for corrective action. Proactive role of the office of the chief commissioner and state commissioners for disabilities can ensure that PwDs are included in the response to the pandemic, such as risk communication and community engagement. The national disability law also provides for the annual reports of the Chief Commissioner for Disabilities and state commissioners to be discussed in Parliament and the state legislatures, respectively, regarding the realisation of the rights of PwDs. Now is the time for civil society organisations and organisations of PwDs to advocate with the chief commissioner and state commissioner’s office to include information on the impact of Covid-19 on PwDs in their annual reports. India is a State-Party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and, in accordance with Article 11 of the international convention, is obliged to take measures to ensure protection and safety of PwDs in situations of risk and humanitarian emergencies. India’s role in formulation of the UN Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 is well recognised by the international community and Niti Aayog’s initiative in the development of SDG India Index-Baseline Report 2018 is all about measuring the implementation of SDGs. It is to be noted that SDGs will not be achieved unless they are disability-inclusive and uphold the 'leave no one behind' principle. (The writer is a former UNDP Chief Technical Adviser to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Lao PDR)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-response-has-to-be-disability-inclusive-1015607.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rise in Covid-19 positivity rate raises concerns in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||Amid the threat of the third wave, Covid-19 cases have been rising in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts for the past 15 days. The positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada has increased from 3.05 % to 6.04 %. In Udupi too, the positivity rate increased to over 5%. The increase in positivity rate raised concern in both districts. From July 15 to August 1, Dakshina Kannada registered a total of 4,789 positive cases and 90 deaths. In the past five days alone, the district has recorded 1,853 positive cases and 33 deaths, according to the statistics from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. On the other hand, Udupi district recorded 2,027 Covid-19 cases since July 15. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that the rise in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kasaragod district might be one of the reasons for increase in cases in the district. However, people should also adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour while in public places, he added. The Kasaragod district had registered 707 cases on August 1 (8.3% positivity rate), 715 on July 31 (10.7 %), 618 on July 30 (9.2%), 753 on July 29 (11.1%), 895 on July 28 (10.9 %), 813 on July 27 (12.7 %), 762 on July 26 (16.2 %) and 644 on July 25 (12%). Covid cases in DK The DK district registered 337 cases on July 28 (4.38 %), 396 on July 29 (5.7%), 345 on July 30 (5.11%) 365 on July 31 (5.59%) and 410 on August 1 (6.04%). Covid cases in Udupi Udupi district registered 109 cases on July 28 (5.19%), 156 on July 29 (7.5 %), 174 on July 30 (8.28%), 148 on July 31 (7.04%) and 162 on August 1 (7.71%). With the unlock, tourists and devotees have been visiting Kukke Subrahmanya, Dharmasthala, Udupi Krishna Mutt, Kollur Mookambika Temple, Mandarthi Durga Parameshwari temples and other tourist spots in undivided Dakshina Kannada district. Many have failed to adhere to the direction of wearing masks. Even shopkeepers too have failed to adhere to the directions, officials said. Visitors to beaches in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have also increased during the weekends. Though water sports have not commenced, the number of people visiting Malpe beach has increased. Many have been found violating the guidelines of wearing mask and maintaining social distance, said Sudesh Shetty of Malpe Beach Development Committee. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha rued that organisers of various programmes are responsible for the rise in Covid-19 cases in the district. Despite guidelines, the rules are not followed strictly. “People should behave responsibly by adhering to the guidelines,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rise-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-raises-concerns-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts-1015741.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||46% of NWKRTC buses fit to be scrapped||Around 2,300 or 46% of the total North-Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation buses have run more than nine 9 km, and are eligible to be ‘scrapped’. However, due to paucity of funds, the NWKRTC has not ‘recruited’ any new buses for the last two financial years. In 2019, the NWKRTC had sent a proposal to purchase 500 new buses, including 50 battery-operated electric buses for Hubballi-Dhrawad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS). However, so far, not a single bus has come the NWKRTC way. The last fleet of 456 buses came to NWKRTC depots in 2019. However, since then, 203 buses, which had run more than 9 lakh km, and were not fit for road, were scrapped in 2021, and 385 buses scrapped in 2020. NWKRTC, which operates 4,859 buses from six districts and nine divisions, has been running under huge losses for last many years now. The lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid did help the corporation to cut its losses, but also hurt its revenue. More old buses NWKRTC Central Office, Hubballi, Public Relation Officer P R Kiranagi said, the NWKRTC operates on 4,500 scheduled routes everyday. Of the 4,859 buses, including 71 Rajahamsa, 31 A/C Sleeper, 62 Sleeper non-A/C, four Volvo single axel, 35 multi-axel, and 80 Chigari buses, nearly 2,300 of them have completed 9 lakh km. The KSRTC, to ensure better quality, scraps its buses after 7.5 lakh km. However, NWKRTC has extended that scrap mark to 8 lakh km. However, Mechanical Department officials of NWKRTC claimed that there was no harm in running these vehicles as they are ‘fit for road’. “Every year, the NWKRTC gets a certificate from RTO stating these buses are fit for road. Only then they are allowed to ply on the roads,” said one of the senior officials, who did not wish to be named. These buses could ply on roads as we have maintained them properly, he said. Experts said, every bus has a shelf-life after which their performance starts deteriorating. If NWKRTC continues to operate these buses, then they will end up spending more on fuel and on spare parts, they say. Another major reason as to why the NWKRTC is not scraping its buses is the ‘poor response’ by the contractors, who are quoting low prices for the aged buses. On an average, the NWKRTC pays Rs 45 lakh per bus. However, the contractors are quoting anywhere between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh per bus. A senior officer requesting anonymity informed DH that NWKRTC had to discard the scraping process once as the contractor had quoted just Rs 65,000 per bus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/46-of-nwkrtc-buses-fit-to-be-scrapped-1015902.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Licences of 11 quarries, 33 crushers cancelled in Mandya||The Mandya district task force, headed by the deputy commissioner and the district stone crushers’ regulation committee, issued orders on Monday, cancelling the licences of 11 quarries that were operating without an environment clearance certificate and 33 crushing units in the district, for violation of norms. As per the decision taken in the task force meeting, presided over by Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, on July 28, the lease contracts of 11 quarries that failed to produce environment clearance (EC) certificate have been cancelled with effect from July 31. The district stone crushers regulation committee has cancelled the permits of seven crushing units, coming within 100 metres of the main road, violating the ‘safety zone,’ as per the Karnataka Stone Crusher Act. Besides, the licences of 26 crushers which were operating on the basis of a document with the signature of a scientist of the mines and geology department have also been cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/licences-of-11-quarries-33-crushers-cancelled-in-mandya-1015913.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC offers package tour to Hampi||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate a package tour to Hampi and Tungabhadra Dam starting from August 6. The corporation will deploy a non-AC sleeper bus for the single-day tour during which passengers will visit Vijaya Vitthala Temple, Virupaksha Temple, Sasive Kalu Ganesha and other temples, Elephant Stable, Lotus Mahal. The bus will depart from Bengaluru at 10 pm and charge Rs 2,500 for adult passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-offers-package-tour-to-hampi-1015915.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bengaluru youth drowns in Gokarna||A 20-year-old youth drowned while another youth was rescued at Paradise beach in Gokarna on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Advaita Dibab Jain, a resident of Bengaluru. According to police, Advaita and his friend K Shimone Barde (23), a resident of Mumbai, had ventured into the sea for swimming on Tuesday evening. However, due to huge waves, Advaita drowned. The Coast Guard and Gokarna police personnel, who came to know about the incident, rushed to the spot and managed to rescue Shimone.  Paradise beach is located in tough terrain and can be reached only after trekking four kms. Despite several notice boards and warning signs, tourists venture into the rough sea here. The Gokarna police have taken up a case of unnatural death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengaluru-youth-drowns-in-gokarna-1015923.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka fails to make a cut in rural tourism circuit||More than five years after the launch of much-hyped Rural Circuit tourism under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme, the rich cultural hotspots of rural Karnataka are yet to make it to the Centre’s list of places that can benefit from the scheme. A recent statement by the Centre that the state government has not submitted any plan for building a Rural Tourism Circuit came as a big surprise for experts in the sector, who noted that Karnataka is losing a big opportunity. Replying to a question by Mysore-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, the Union Ministry of Tourism said that projects for the development of rural circuits are identified in consultation with the state governments. “No proposal has so far been received from Karnataka,” it said. With this, the state government is missing out on crores of rupees which can help the rural sector to utilise its heritage constructively to build infrastructure and generate employment. The Centre has sanctioned Rs 44.64 crore to develop ‘Gandhi Circut’ in Bihar and Rs 80.37 crore to Kerala for a cruise tourism project, experts have said. “Karnataka has handloom, khadi, several tribal cultures, art and craft, including toys, besides places like Shivamogga’s Arasalu (of ‘Malgudi Days’ fame) that have their own story. These can be showcased to the world provided the government invests its energy,” an expert, who has worked with the government, said. To a question, Tourism Secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey, who was transferred to the department in March, said the Centre had only sought comments on the policy. “Under Swadesh Darshan, we had sent for a coastal circuit which could not be approved due to delays including clearances under Coastal Zone Regulations. Recently, the Government of India had only asked for our comments on the draft rural tourism policy. We have given our comments,” he said. The owner of a private tourist agency operating in Kodagu and Uttara Kannada districts said the government should join hands with local entrepreneurs. “The government is reluctant to work with the private agencies. It should encourage entrepreneurs to come up with such proposals to realise the potential of the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-fails-to-make-a-cut-in-rural-tourism-circuit-1015924.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bengaluru youth drowns in sea at Gokarna's Paradise Beach||A 20-year-old youth drowned in the sea, while another youth was rescued at Paradise Beach in Gokarna on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Advaita Dibab Jain, a resident of Bengaluru. According to police, Advaita and his friend K Shimone Barde (23), a resident of Mumbai, had ventured into sea for swimming on Tuesday evening. However, due to rough waves, Advaita drowned. Coastal Protection Force and Gokarna Police, who came to know about the incident rushed to rescue and dragged out Shimone in time and administered first aid at the beach. Paradise beach is located in a tough terrain and can be reached only after trekking four kilometres. In spite of several notice boards and warning signs, many tourists venture into the rough sea here.  A case of unnatural death has been reported and an investigation is being taken up by the Gokarna police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengaluru-youth-drowns-in-sea-at-gokarnas-paradise-beach-1015931.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||15.3% rise in death rate in 28 days in Dakshina Kannada stumps experts||An alarming spike in the mortality rate in Dakshina Kannada district has left experts worried. The mortality rate rose by 15.3% (189 deaths) between July 3 and July 31, higher than the state average. In contrast, Bengaluru's mortality rate shot up by 1% (207 deaths). While Bengaluru added 12,030 cases, Dakshina Kannada added 6,717 cases during the same period. The high mortality rate is a cause for concern and needs to be investigated, say experts. Mysore Sanjeev, the convener of Project Jeevan Raksha who conducted the analysis, said, "Dakshina Kannada, which has had around one lakh total Covid cases so far, witnessed 197 deaths in July alone, whereas Bengaluru Urban which has had 12.28 lakh cases till now (12 times more cases than Dakshina Kannada) witnessed 207 deaths in July." "Across Karnataka, Covid deaths increased by 3.6% in July. The government should conduct an effective root-cause analysis of the sharp variance in district-wise deaths," Sanjeev said. This could be due to under-reporting of cases, delayed testing, ineffective testing or lack of competence to treat critical patients, leading to a sharp increase in the death toll, he explained. Dr Jagadeesh, Dakshina Kannada district surveillance officer, said, "We have a lot of cases coming from outside. Not only from Dakshina Kannada, but we get cases from other districts also, as also from Kerala. We are treating everyone. There is no question of delayed testing or defective tests. There is no problem in the availability of beds at all." Dr Ashok H, Covid nodal officer, Dakshina Kannada district, said, "There is no dearth of critical care infrastructures like ICU, ventilators or oxygen. DK did not have oxygen shortage even when Bengaluru was struggling for the same. As per the government's instructions, all patients even with other ailments like neurological disorders are counted as Covid deaths if found positive." "Also, if they hail from other districts and merely the RT-PCR test is done here, the death is counted as that of our district," he added. Dismissing the possibility of under-reporting of cases, he said, "Dakshina Kannada is declaring every case and death. Patients themselves may have reported late to a health facility, which is revealed in our verbal autopsies, as each death is analysed by the death audit committee."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/153-rise-in-death-rate-in-28-days-in-dakshina-kannada-stumps-experts-1015937.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Cabinet expansion discussed in detail with BJP chief; final list expected today: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said a detailed discussion was held with BJP president J P Nadda on the expansion of his Cabinet and the final list is expected on Tuesday. Once the list of new ministers is finalised, the day of the oath-taking ceremony will be decided after discussion with Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, he said. The new Cabinet will be selected balancing all factors, including regional and social representation. Those who migrated to the BJP from other parties need not worry, Bommai said. Union Minister Prahlad Joshi and Kateel also attended the meeting. "We had a detailed discussion with Naddaji. We are expecting the final list tomorrow evening," Bommai told reporters after a close to an hour-long meeting. "One list was discussed with the BJP chief and he has said that he will re-look and finalise it by tomorrow evening. We will get to know the number of new ministers and their names tomorrow," he said. Bommai said that two to three lists with different combinations have been submitted to the party chief for consideration. Asked if the BJP will consider those who have migrated from other parties, the chief minister said, "I want to tell clearly that they are not immigrants, and they are our own people. A decision will be taken from the party's side. No need to worry about that... We will take care of everyone." The BJP central leadership will have another round of discussion within themselves before releasing the final list, Bommai said. Since Parliament is in session, the party central leadership may take a call in the evening or night, he added. "We explained the ground situation in the state. They have also expressed certain things. We want to give a proactive and credible cabinet," Bommai said. The meeting with Nadda was rescheduled four times. During the day, the chief minister also met BJP national general secretary B L Santosh and Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. However, Bommai's meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah could not take place. Sources said that one round of discussion on cabinet expansion between Bommai and senior party leaders took place on Sunday night. In Karnataka, senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah took a dig at the BJP government, saying the new CM was running around for cabinet expansion instead of focusing on Covid-19. "Thousands have died in the absence of adequate hospitals, beds, ventilators and oxygen. It must be prevented from recurring but Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is running around for cabinet expansion instead of focusing on Covid-19," Siddaramaiah told reporters in Karwar, the headquarters town of Uttara Kannada district. Earlier in the day, Bommai said the expansion will be done in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. He also said that cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in several stages or one go, would be discussed with Nadda. Even balancing of regional and social representation will be kept in mind while deciding names, he said. "Based on these factors, the numbers and names will be decided. Even how many deputy CMs should be made will also be decided," Bommai had said. The chief minister said that in the current political situation, efforts will be made to take everyone together. "We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said. The chief minister said some aspirants have met him here and held discussions. "They also know, not everyone can become ministers," he said. "We will do it in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous cabinet team," he had said. Bommai took oath as the chief minister on July 28 after the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa on July 26. He is the lone Cabinet member in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-discussed-in-detail-with-bjp-chief-final-list-expected-today-cm-1015650.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||New Karnataka CM Bommai lets go of advisors picked by B S Yediyurappa||The Basavaraj Bommai administration has relieved BJP legislators and other experts who were appointed to key advisory positions by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa. In a notification issued by the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR), ten people have been relieved from various positions they held in the previous government. Educationist MR Doreswamy will no longer serve as the government’s advisor on education reforms. Similarly, Beluru Sudarshan has been relieved as the chief minister’s e-governance advisor. Startup investor Prashant Prakash, the CM’s advisor on policy and strategy, was let go. Former MLC Mohan Limbikai, who was the CM’s legal advisor, will go. Media advisor N Bhrungeesh and media coordinator GS Sunil have been relieved. Three of Yediyurappa’s political secretaries - MP Renukacharya, DN Jeevaraj and NR Santosh - have been withdrawn. Shankargouda Patil, Karnataka’s special representative in New Delhi, is relieved. The notification came days after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai picked 2000-batch IAS officer V Ponnuraj as his secretary, replacing S Selvakumar who was Yediyurappa’s choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/new-karnataka-cm-bommai-lets-go-of-advisors-picked-by-b-s-yediyurappa-1015838.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai puppet in hands of BJP high-command: Ugrappa||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman V S Ugrappa said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is a puppet in the hands of the BJP high-command and cannot even form his Cabinet. Addressing a media conference, here, on Tuesday, he said, Bommai has sacrificed his independence and the dignity of the post of chief minister. “The CM says that he has given a couple of lists to the BJP high-command and is waiting for its approval and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have the final say in this issue. The BJP leaders, who used to ridicule the Congress, stating that the Congress has a high-command culture, have now become helpless before their own high-command,” he said. The national leaders of the BJP have no faith in either the Constitution or democracy. There is nothing wrong with seeking the approval of the high-command. But, the BJP high-command has curtailed the rights and privileges of the chief minister to form his council of ministers, Ugrappa said.  “Even though 11 districts are reeling under floods, all BJP leaders are worried about getting a berth in the Cabinet, rather than providing relief to victims. All BJP leaders are busy lobbying for ministership. They are camping in Bengaluru and Delhi, instead of coming to the rescue of people of their respective Assembly segments. The Centre is also discriminating against Karnataka by not releasing sufficient funds for flood relief,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-puppet-in-hands-of-bjp-high-command-ugrappa-1015912.html
03-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah sets target of 25 seats for Congress in Bengaluru||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday that his party should aim at winning 25 out of 28 Assembly constituencies in Bengaluru in the next election while gunning for the defeat of BJP leader R Ashoka in Padmanabhanagar.  The former chief minister was speaking at an event where ration kits were distributed in Padmanabhanagar, Ashoka’s pocket borough.  “Ashoka has won six times here. That’s enough. I request you with folded hands, make a change,” Siddaramaiah said. “Last time, we won 16 out of 28 seats in Bengaluru. This time, we should win at least 25 out of 28,” he said, adding that the Congress would field “a good candidate” in Padmanabhanagar for the next election.  Attacking the ruling BJP, Siddaramaiah said Karnataka’s financial situation was worrisome.  “When we ask for funds to be given for development works, Covid-19 is cited as an excuse. I asked B S Yediyurappa to step aside, so that we can show it can be done,” he said. “I even said we should go for an election, but then they appointed Basavaraj Bommai as the CM. The BJP itself is a corrupt party. Can we expect anything from them? Nothing,” he said.  Taking a dig at Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah said the former chief minister had gotten used to shortcuts to come to power. “He doesn’t know front-door politics. Through Operation Lotus (defection of MLAs), he only knows back-door entry,” he said, adding that it was Yediyurappa who made Bommai the CM. “Can we expect Bommai to work independently and not as a rubber stamp?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-sets-target-of-25-seats-for-congress-in-bengaluru-1015920.html
03-08-2021||Main Article||An attempt to obliterate Bapu, erase his legacy||For the past two years, frequent press reports have suggested that the Government of India, through the Government of Gujarat, is set to redevelop Sabarmati Ashram and build a 'grand, world-class' monument there. There are many loud rumours but there is scant official information; it seems officially, they prefer secrecy. During this time, whenever I have visited Sabarmati Ashram, I have met many of the long-term residents of the Ashram precinct. These are descendants of those who lived in the Ashram since Ba and Bapu first established it in 1917 -- families who have continued to live there for over a hundred years. When Bapu left on the Dandi March on March 12, 1930, he vowed not to return to the Ashram till India won freedom, and in 1933, he decided to disband it, but was dissuaded from doing so. In the wake of the Dandi Kooch and the subsequent nation-wide Namak Satyagraha, the colonial regime unleashed a brutal reprisal to crush the non-violent revolt. Farmers and satyagrahis bore the brunt of the tyrannical oppression. Their properties and possessions were seized by the State and they were rendered destitute. This anguished Bapu and he decided that he would surrender Sabarmati Ashram to the colonial power as a mark of protest against the brutal methods employed by it.   When Bapu's associates were informed about his decision, there was much consternation and a lot of voices were raised against this. Eventually, Thakker Bappa, one of Bapu's senior associates, convinced him not to take such a drastic step. Bapu relented, and handed over the Ashram to the Harijan Sevak Sangh. He instructed them to use the Ashram for the upliftment and benefit of Harijans in perpetuity. As he bid farewell to his home of 13 years, he instructed Maganlal Gandhi, who was managing the Ashram, to ensure that all those who were occupying Ashram properties were allowed to do so as long as they lived according to the ideals of the Ashram, which were practised when Ba and Bapu lived in the Ashram. Ever since then, families and descendants of the residents have continued to live in these tenements, some for over a hundred years continuously. Now, they are faced with the possibility of being evicted, uprooted, displaced. So, for the past two years, whenever I visit the Ashram, the current occupants of these properties, who feel threatened by the government's proposal, meet me with a plea to safeguard their Ashram and, of course, their residences. I have grown up knowing many of them as belonging to the extended Ashram family. The thought of them being displaced is disturbing, and naturally they are anxious. Media reports suggest that the government is in a very advanced stage of planning the 'takeover' and revamping the Ashram. Stories have circulated about the architect being appointed and detailed plans of the redesign of the Ashram keep appearing in the media and are in circulation; many of the reports are conflicting. One says that the government possesses a photograph of the Ashram as it was in 1947 and it intends to restore the Ashram to that state. The sinister implication of this move is that even the acclaimed and award-winning Sanghrahalaya, designed and built by the eminent architect Charles Correa, will also be removed. Why? Because it was commissioned and inaugurated by Jawaharlal Nehru? Another report claims that a 'grand', 'world-class' tourist attraction is planned. Bapu, in his bequest, clearly stated that Sabarmati Ashram has to work for the upliftment and benefit of Harijans. How will the proposed revamp achieve this? There are Harijan families living in the Ashram precinct, they too face eviction because of the 'proposed' revamp. How does that benefit them? The colonial government forcefully seized homes of farmers and Satyagrahis causing much distress to Bapu. Why is an Indian government acting like the authoritarian and tyrannical colonial administration? All this and much more about the plans and intentions of the government are unofficially known, but nothing has been officially said. One thing is certain: that it is a 'PM's project' and like all the other 'PM's projects', it is going to be steam-rolled through, and shoved down our throats. His men in Gujarat are driving the bulldozer. The present residents have given me many details, but when I talk to the trustees of the several trusts associated with the Sabarmati Ashram, who are its custodians and caretakers, they say they have no 'official' information or intimation from the government even now. Tenants and residents say they have been approached, some say threatened, to accept compensation and move out amicably or face being evicted. But yet, the trustees have no official intimation. The whole thing smells bad, rotten and reeks of hidden and ill intentions. Otherwise, why this shroud of secrecy? What is the government hiding? This is the background of what is happening to Sabarmati Ashram. Soon, it may be irrevocably lost! Bapu said, “My life is my message”, that is his legacy. In today's times, it is difficult to imagine the simplicity, frugality and openness of that man. His was a truly transparent life, there was no public man and a hidden, private person. In present times, it is difficult to imagine, let alone believe that such a person ever lived. Sabarmati Ashram and Sevagram Ashram at Wardha are the visual symbols of the man's simplicity, his frugal existence, his transparency. On visits to Sabarmati Ashram, at Hridaykunj, I have often heard children ask their parents incredulously, “Such a great man lived in such a small and simple hut?! He sat and worked in such an open place?” It is when they see Hridaykunj at Sabarmati Ashram and Bapu Kutir at Sevagram that Bapu becomes believable to the present generation. When these are lost, Bapu will become a myth. Mythology is so convenient to live with and tweak as required. Sabarmati Ashram today enshrines the ideals of Bapu's life and legacy. It is sparse, it is simple and it is starkly frugal. Those who understand Bapu's ideals and life know that this is his true legacy and that Sabarmati Ashram portrays them truly. It is only those who have never understood Bapu and are not bothered about understanding him, let alone emulating him, who feel that it needs to be made 'grand'. Their intention is not to preserve or conserve the Ashram or make it more attractive; their intention is to obliterate it and the legacy it enshrines. To convert a shrine of our independence movement and the life of the couple who lived there into a tourist plaza, an amusement park. That is their real intention. The question now is not about saving Sabarmati Ashram, it is about saving the legacy of Bapu and Ba. (The writer is a peace activist who heads the Mahatma Gandhi Foundation which is involved in advocating and spreading Gandhian values). (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/an-attempt-to-obliterate-bapu-erase-his-legacy-1015608.html
03-08-2021||National||Plea in Supreme Court for full disclosure of PM-CARES Fund||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union government to make full disclosure of accounts, activity and expenditure details of the PM-CARES Fund and make it open for audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. It contended that the creation of funds such as the PM-CARES Fund sans transparency and accountability and treating them as ‘private’ trusts, by exempting them from public scrutiny under the RTI Act and accountability was unconstitutional, unethical, immoral, undemocratic, and bad in both law and facts.  The plea filed by social activist and advocate Divya Pal Singh said that PMNRF and PM-CARES being public trusts, and both run and controlled by the government, entrusted with the task of providing immediate relief from natural calamities, major accidents, serious ailments, riot, etc, should adopt utmost transparency and accountability. The petition filed through advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai and settled by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat challenged validity of the Allahabad High Court's judgement of August 31, 2020. The HC had dismissed the PIL relying upon the Union government's contention that the subject matter was covered by the apex court's decision of August 18, 2020, declining a plea by NGO CPIL for the CAG audit of PM-CARES Fund. The plea said the top court in its judgment in CPIL relied upon the central government’s affidavit and observed that the "PM-CARES Fund consists entirely of voluntary contributions from individuals/organisations and does not get any budgetary support and that no government money was credited in the PM-CARES Fund." "However, it is a matter of great pity that this court was misled by the central government into making the said observations, by blatantly lying, concealing and suppressing the material facts that an ocean of public money is surreptitiously being poured into the PM-CARES Fund by the government ministries, agencies and instrumentalities," the petition alleged. The plea further claimed unfathomable amounts of public money was pumped unabatedly every day into coffers with people having no clue about it. This was a brutal assault on democratic soul and spirit of the Constitution and gross violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-for-full-disclosure-of-pm-cares-fund-1015652.html
03-08-2021||National||Karnataka cannot build Mekedatu dam without Tamil Nadu’s nod: Annamalai||Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai is the new poster boy of Tamil Nadu BJP after being appointed as its president. In an interview with DH’s ETB Sivapriyan, Annamalai says Karnataka cannot build a reservoir in Mekedatu across Cauvery without the permission of Tamil Nadu. He also spoke on his appointment, the challenges for BJP in the state, and the future of BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK. Edited excerpts:  Q: You have not even completed a year in BJP, but you have been appointed as the chief of the state unit. How do you see your elevation especially as Tamil Nadu seems to be on BJP’s priority list? A: I am indeed less than a year old in the BJP and our party believes Tamil Nadu is very critical in terms of our growth in southern India. More importantly, Tamil Nadu is also a state which has received a lion’s share in the Union Budget and in several welfare schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Prime Minister personally likes Tamils, their culture, and their indomitable spirit. In this context, the responsibility given to me is very huge and I am conscious of the fact that we have a lot of work to do. Nothing is easy in Tamil Nadu and our goal is to reach out to every segment of the Tamil society by taking our ideology to them. We are confident that people in the state will vote for the BJP in large numbers in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. In 2019, we could not translate the Prime Minister’s popularity to votes in the state because of false propaganda and structural deficiencies within the party unit. Our primary goal is to popularise the BJP and get people’s endorsement in terms of votes.  Q: Is the BJP strong enough to face such a challenge? It is widely believed that the four seats that the party won in the April 6 assembly election are largely due to the alliance with AIADMK. Your comments.  A: I will not get into the issue of how the BJP won the four seats because give and take is the hallmark of any alliance. We brought our share of voters to the table and the AIADMK being a bigger party brought their own. Let us understand that Tamil Nadu is not a homogenous state because every region votes in a different manner. We have strengths and weaknesses in each region of the state. I agree we have a lot of structural deficiencies and right now we are not able to reach all the 60,000 to 70,000 booths in the state. We are massively scaling up our reach and our goal is to have the critical last mile communication. We must go to Tamil Nadu’s hinterland where the Prime Minister’s schemes have reached massively. We are devising plans to connect with the rural voters where our cadres go to every village and talk to the people there. Once we establish the last mile communication, the sky is the limit for the BJP in TN. Q: How long does the BJP think it will take for it to reach the masses in Tamil Nadu and how difficult it would be? A: We do not have the pressure of imminent elections for the next three years, though the local body polls are fast approaching. We are confident of doing well in the local body election. Coming to the larger issue of 234 assembly constituencies and 39 Lok Sabha segments, we are looking at the next three years as an opportunity to go all out and build the party very strongly at the grassroots. It is a long and time-consuming process. We got to create leaders in the process, nurture them, and help them grow. At the same time, we want to project BJP as a party that reflects the social identity of the state. The leaders who we create in the process will reflect people’s aspirations on the platforms of nationalism and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda. It is a work in progress. We are confident we will do it in the coming years. Q: You say the Prime Minister respects Tamils and their language. But many TN MPs receive replies from Union Ministers in Hindi to the letters they wrote in English. What do you have to say about this? Will you take it up with the Centre? A: Of course, it is my duty. We will genuinely reflect the aspirations of the people of Tamil Nadu. There have been occasions where non-Tamil ministers have replied in the language. Replies in Hindi is not deliberate, and it could be a bureaucratic mistake. We are taking up the issue with the Centre and ensure that every communication is made in a language that people here understand.  Q: Karnataka, where BJP is in power, says it will construct Mekedatu reservoir across Cauvery come what may. What is TN BJP’s stand on the issue? A: Tamil Nadu BJP’s stand is very clear. The issue is before the Supreme Court since 2017. The directions and guidelines of the apex court are very clear. They say nobody can build a dam without the permission of the lower riparian state. Tamil Nadu is a lower riparian state and Karnataka needs our permission. Moreover, building a dam and the permission for it are not in Karnataka’s hands, the nod must come from the Central Government. Farmers here will be affected if the project is implemented. We are opposed to the project, and this is our stand.  Q: Karnataka says it does not need Tamil Nadu’s permission to build the dam. Your comments. A: From a legal point of view, Karnataka cannot construct the dam without Tamil Nadu’s permission and there is no way that the dam can be built. The Union Water Resources Ministry is very clear that a dam cannot be built without the concurrence of the lower riparian states. This is where we stand. I can give an assurance that the Centre will not let down Tamil Nadu. Q: New Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has reacted sharply to the TN BJP’s day-long fast on August 5 against the construction of the Mekedatu dam. What is your reaction? A: I have made the Tamil Nadu BJP’s stand clear and does not want to comment further on the issue or react to statements in this regard. Q: Your predecessor L Murugan’s biodata which was released by the BJP mentioned that he hailed from Kongu Nadu. Though some of your party leaders appeared to support the demand, the BJP clarified it has no plans of bifurcating Tamil Nadu after a public outrage. Did the BJP test the waters on the issue? A: If you look at the profile of 43 ministers who were sworn in last month, at least 8 of them had mentioned their social identity like Bundelkhand, Poorvanchal, Gharwal, Konkan Maharashtra, Dakshin Kannada, and Kongu Naadu. It is nothing more than a mere mention of social identity for a person who hails from that area. That is how the BJP sees it. And TN is a state which has always thrived in unity among diversity as different regions behave differently. BJP as a party never espoused a single identity. The identity of Bharat is always there which supersedes the identity of Tamil, and the identity of Tamil supersedes the identity of being a Kongu Tamilian. We are never a party that says fuse everybody into a straight-jacketed mechanism. Q: So, you mean to say Kongu Nadu is not the cards?  A: Yes. We have spoken very clearly and very elaborately. Kongu Nadu is not on the table. Q: Despite tall claims by the then ruling alliance, the DMK combine secured a two-thirds majority in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. What went wrong for the AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance in the assembly election?  A: I would like to dig deeper into the numbers. If you take 45 seats that the NDA lost, if you cumulatively add the losing margin, it is just 1.90 lakh votes. This was a close election and the difference in vote share between DMK and AIADMK is just 3 per cent. I agree that in a first past the post system, it tilts massively. It is a democracy that we inherited, and this is a democracy with which we must live. My analysis is that a lot of sub-issues mattered this election. The 10.5 per cent reservation played a role in North, parts of the west and central regions, while AMMK (led by AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran) was a factor in the south. Sub-issues mattered this election which means politics in Tamil Nadu is getting more complicated and tougher. People in the government will have to heed people’s sensitivity and regional aspirations. It is no more a straight-jacketed state where you can make decisions on the go and expect people to accept them. When we have larger than life personalities, these sub-issues don’t matter. But now they matter, and this is what the election result has shown. Q: Are you coming to say that the 10.5 per cent reservation to Vanniyars within the 20 per cent MBC quota and AMMK tilted the elections in favour of the DMK? A: The 10.5 per cent reservation was portrayed wrongly among other communities. More than 155 castes make up MBC and Vanniyars are the majority. Due to false propaganda by many political parties, other castes feared that this reservation will affect them. I do not want to get into a clear-cut analysis on AMMK, but it is a fact that the party candidates did play a spoiler in many constituencies. But these two issues did not have an impact across the state because they were sub-issues. The results show elections in Tamil Nadu are getting more complicated and smaller margins of victory might be the future. Micro issues will matter in the long run. Q: What is the BJP’s stand on its alliance with AIADMK? There were murmurs within the AIADMK that the BJP was the reason behind the alliance’s loss. Will the AIADMK-BJP alliance continue during the local body polls? A: There will be different and conflicting opinions in every political party, but the leader truly represents the party. Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam issued a joint statement maintaining that the alliance between AIADMK and BJP continues. The duo also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and had a fantastic and fruitful discussion. This alliance will continue. Though we are different in terms of our outlook, many of our principles are similar. I don’t see anything adverse to the alliance continuing in the long run as well. Q: After being appointed as TN BJP chief you openly proclaimed that the party aims to come to power in 2026. If you have that kind of a goal, would it not be at the cost of your ally AIADMK? Are we going to witness what happened with the JD (U) or Shiv Sena in TN?  A: Every party aims to grow. We in BJP have an aim to grow the party and make it win about 150 assembly seats. We are working towards achieving the goal. There is nothing wrong with making a statement or expressing our aspirations. We will reach there in terms of our strength. As I mentioned very clearly, it is a natural aspiration. I don’t see anything wrong. Though BJP is in an alliance with AIADMK, we have several disagreements. We can always coexist where we can bring each other’s strength to the table. At the same time, I agree at this point AIADMK is a much bigger and larger party that has ruled the state for a long time. Q: Don’t you think BJP’s growth will be at the cost of the AIADMK? A: AIADMK is a party that has a vote share of about 31 per cent. A large chunk of the remaining population does not oppose BJP. They have been misled by false propaganda. We feel a majority of these people will come to us provided we work hard.  Q: You say the fight in TN is between DMK and BJP. Is it fair to make such a statement when BJP has just four members in the Assembly? A: If you see DMK’s politics, every single political statement is against the BJP. We pilot a Bill in parliament, and they straightaway attack us. Naturally, a counter-opinion will emerge to any opinion. Narrative wise and ideology wise, the fight is between the DMK and BJP. Whether we translate that into votes is a matter of how we build the party in the next few years.  Q: After you took over, there seems to be an emphasis on the term social justice which was hitherto being used only by Dravidian parties. Is the BJP trying to mimic the Dravidian parties by talking about social justice? A: BJP has had its presence in Tamil Nadu since 1982 and we have used the term integral humanism as part of our political discourse. But Tamil Nadu is a different state which was forged in a different circumstance. The term social justice has resonated since the 1917s right from the days of the Justice Party. But the DMK as a party has hijacked a lot of philosophies into a single umbrella of one party and one family rule. Real social justice is bettering the lives of people considering the historical perspective of where they come from. I agree politics is the most important tool in delivering social justice. When you lock everything into a single-family, what social justice would they deliver? More than mimicking the word, I use the term real social justice and BJP is the only party that will ensure that. Q: The DMK moved the court seeking to provide 27% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota (AIQ) seats in medical courses. The BJP implements it only after a ruling by the Supreme Court. How fair is it for the BJP to take credit and hail PM Modi? A: Am not getting into who did what. It is very easy for a party like DMK to just play to the gallery. The DMK was part of the UPA-I and UPA-II and will it bother to explain the steps it took to ensure that the OBC reservation was implemented. Did they speak anything about All India Quota? The BJP had in 2016 filed an affidavit in the Madras High Court agreeing to provide the quota for students from Tamil Nadu. But there were other court cases too. I think the government took this much time to clear all the bottlenecks. The DMK fully understands the reason behind the delay is because of a slew of cases but they play to the gallery. Doing it for namesake and doing it in letter and spirit is the difference between real social justice and lip service to social justice.  It is always easy to comment but the Prime Minister personally took efforts to get this decision made. Let people be the judge of who did that and who delivered on the promise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-cannot-build-mekedatu-dam-without-tamil-nadu-s-nod-annamalai-1015657.html
03-08-2021||National||Indian American girl declared one of brightest students in world||An Indian American girl has been declared one of the brightest students in the world by a top US university. Natasha Peri, 11, a student at Thelma L. Sandmeier Elementary School, in New Jersey has been honoured for her exceptional performance on the SAT, ACT, or similar assessment taken as part of the John Hopkins Center for Talented Youth Talent (VTY) Search, a media release said Monday. Peri was one of nearly 19,000 students from 84 countries who joined CTY in the 2020-21 Talent Search year. CTY uses above-grade-level testing to identify advanced students from around the world and provide a clear picture of their true academic abilities. Peri took the Johns Hopkins Talent Search test in Spring 2021, when she was in Grade 5. Her results in the verbal and quantitative sections levelled with the 90th percentile of advanced Grade 8 performance. Peri made the cut for Johns Hopkins CTY "High Honors Awards". “This motivates me to do more,” she said, adding that doodling and reading J.R.R Tolkien’s novels may have worked for her. As part of Johns Hopkins policy, granular information is not broken down by age or race. Likewise, it is left to the guardian to disclose the prodigy’s name. Within the US, awardees come from all 50 US states. Less than 20 per cent of CTY Talent Search participants qualified for CTY High Honors Awards. Honorees also qualified for CTY's online and summer programs, through which bright students can form a community of engaged learners with other bright students from around the world. "We are thrilled to celebrate these students," said Virginia Roach, CTY's executive director. "In a year that was anything but ordinary, their love of learning shined through, and we are excited to help cultivate their growth as scholars and citizens throughout high school, college, and beyond," she said in a statement. There are more than 15,500 enrolments in CTY Online Programs courses each year. In addition, CTY's in-person Summer Programs for bright students is offered at about 20 sites in the United States and Hong Kong, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-girl-declared-one-of-brightest-students-in-world-1015661.html
03-08-2021||National||PM Modi to chair debate at UNSC on August 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually preside over an open debate on maritime security at the UN Security Council (UNSC) on August 9. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said it will be the first time an Indian Prime Minister will chair an open debate at the UN Security Council. India is holding the presidency of the UNSC for August. "PM @narendramodi will Chair Open Debate on 'Maintenance of  international peace and security: Maritime security' in virtual mode @UN #SecurityCouncil on 9th August," Bagchi said on Twitter. "This will be the 1st time an Indian Prime Minister will preside over Open Debate. #PMChairsUNSC #IndiainUNSC," he said. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1. It is India's seventh term on the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member. India has previously been a member of the UN Security Council in 1950-51, 1967-68, 1972-73, 1977-78, 1984-85, and 1991-92. Following its election to the global body, India said that it will promote responsible and inclusive solutions to international peace and security and would pitch for a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-debate-at-unsc-on-august-9-1015662.html
03-08-2021||National||Explosion in Gujarat chemical factory kills one||A worker was killed and two others were injured in an explosion inside a chemical manufacturing unit in the Dahej industrial area of Gujarat's Bharuch district on Monday evening, police officials said. The blast, which was followed by a fire, occurred in the premises of SRF Ltd's chemical manufacturing unit in Dahej, they said. Though the explosion was followed by a fire, it was brought under control in time, said Bharuch District Superintendent of Police, Rajendrasinh Chudasama. "The blast occurred in a chemical tank in the premises of SRF company. One person working near the tank was killed, while two others received burn injuries and shifted to a hospital for treatment. The fire was quickly brought under control," said Chudasama. Another police official said both the injured workers were later on shifted to a private hospital in Vadodara for further treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explosion-in-gujarat-chemical-factory-kills-one-1015671.html
03-08-2021||National||Talk of Nitish being PM material shows his ambition to snatch top post: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Monday fired a fresh salvo at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his political bete noire, whom he charged with harbouring the “ambition” to “snatch” away the top post in the country from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Paswan, who has been cornered within his own party following a recent split, sought to warn the BJP of the JD(U) de facto leader’s alleged plan through a flurry of tweets in Hindi. “A fresh surge in the ambition of PM material is apparent. If an alliance partner of the Prime Minister expresses such an ambition, it becomes obvious he is aiming to snatch away the post from the incumbent,” he tweeted, avoiding mentioning Kumar by name. His remarks came in the backdrop of an averment by Upendra Kushwaha, the JD(U)’s parliamentary board chairman, that the Bihar CM was a “Prime Minister” material. Kumar, who was once seen as a “secular” alternative to Modi, has distanced himself from Kushwaha’s remarks, saying he had no such aspirations and his only wish was to “keep serving Bihar as long as possible”. Chirag, who succeeded the late Ram Vilas Paswan as the LJP national president only to be sidelined upon his father’s death, said in another sarcastic tweet, “Our PM comes up with Mann Ki Baat. Another Mann Ki Baat has come from PM material though the latter is driven by self-interests”. पीएम मटेरियल ने भाजपा के दम पर भाजपा के ही खिलाफ अपनी गुप्त योजना को अंजाम देना शुरू कर दिया है। जातीय जनगणना, जनसंख्या नियंत्रण कानून, सीएए-एनआरसी जैसे मुद्दों पर बीजेपी से अलग राह अपनाकर पीएम मटेरियल ने अपने सपने को सच करने का अभियान शुरू कर दिया है। सावधान !!! Seeking to twist the knife, Chirag, whose decision to pull out of the NDA cost the JD(U) dearly in the assembly polls, added, “The PM material is busy striking at the roots of the BJP on the mercy of which he is enjoying his tenure as Chief Minister”. Kumar is serving his fourth term in office though his party had finished with a tally less than 45, far lower than that of the BJP, which bagged more than 70 seats. The Jamui MP insisted that by having adopted a stance at variance with the BJP on various issues, Kumar was working on his “gupt yojana” (secret plan). “The PM material is working on his secret plan against the BJP with the power he has come to enjoy owing to the party’s support. By striking notes of discord on caste census, population control and CAA-NRC, the PM material has embarked on the journey to realise his ambitions. Beware!” tweeted Chirag. He has been professing his loyalty to the saffron party and Modi, but left licking his wounds in the wake of the faction led by Paras getting recognition and his rebellious uncle’s induction into the Union cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talk-of-nitish-being-pm-material-shows-his-ambition-to-snatch-top-post-chirag-paswan-1015675.html
03-08-2021||National||India can't have terrorist camps going back into Afghanistan, this will have direct impact on India: Tirumurti||The situation in Afghanistan is of deep concern to all members of the UN Security Council, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN and President of Security Council for the month of August T S Tirumurti said, underlining that “we cannot have terrorist camps" once again going back into the war-torn country and this will have a “direct impact” on India. India, currently a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the 2021-22 tenure, assumed the rotating Presidency of the powerful UN organ for the month of August. “The situation in Afghanistan is of deep concern to all members of the Security Council and we have seen that in recent days, the violence is only increasing,” Tirumurti said at the UN Headquarters Monday. Briefing reporters at the UN Headquarters on the Council’s Programme of Work Monday, Tirumurti cited a UN report that said the number of casualties in Afghanistan during May-June exceeds the number between January and April. Responding to a question on the situation in Afghanistan and what the Security Council can do to prevent further escalation in the war-torn country, Tirumurti said he expects that “probably the Security Council will be looking at this aspect sooner rather than later” on Afghanistan. As far as India is concerned, he said New Delhi has mentioned very clearly that “we want to see an independent, peaceful, democratic and a stable Afghanistan. India has supported every opportunity that can bring peace, security and stability in Afghanistan.” “We are convinced that...we should address the question of violence and the targeted attacks and these are very serious concerns and all violence must come to an end. Ties with international terrorism should also be cut. We cannot have terrorist camps once again going back into Afghanistan. And this will have a direct impact on India,” Tirumurti said. Noting with concern that targeted killings are increasing and women, girls and minorities are being systematically targeted, Tirumurti stressed that a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process is extremely important. He underlined that it is also “important for us to protect the gains which we have had in the last nearly 20 years,” adding that aspirations of the Afghan women, youth and minorities must be respected. “They need a safe and a democratic future. I think this is where we believe that any government that comes to power in Afghanistan has to be seen as legitimate in the eyes of the people. So consequently we cannot have the unilateral imposition of will by any party. Peaceful negotiation should be taken seriously by all the parties. The dialogue, which they are having, there is a need for that to be accelerated,” Tirumurti said. He further noted that these are concerns, which are common to all the members of the Security Council. “We have supported a leading role for the UN since it will definitely help in a lasting and durable outcome to the discussions which are going on.” Tirumurti said durable peace in Afghanistan is important because the security and stability of Afghanistan have “direct implication on the region itself.” Underscoring that durable peace requires a “genuine double peace” -peace within and around Afghanistan, Tirumurti expressed hope that whenever “we start looking at this in the Security Council, which I expect sooner rather than later, that we will look into all these aspects and see how best to support the peace talks which are going on.” In response to a question on a large number of women's rights supporters and faith leaders calling on the Security Council to authorise a peacekeeping force for Afghanistan under the Women, Peace and Security Resolution and whether this is an idea that India supports, Tirumurti said at this point of time, “we are looking at how the talks shape up. "At this point of time, we are hoping that the peace talks will yield results and we are also hoping that there will be no military solution and people are not going to have a military solution to this. “I think it's extremely important for us to have the legitimacy to anyone who comes in power. And so we don't want a unilateral imposition of will by any particular party on Afghanistan. That is where the focus has been right now. I don't think we have quite come to the idea of a peacekeeping force in Afghanistan." Whether the US withdrawal from Afghanistan was a timely and good idea, Tirumurti said he would not comment on a country's sovereign decision. “It is the prerogative of the United States to decide what they want to do and they have taken a decision. And I think it is important for us as a Security Council to ensure that we jointly support Afghanistan in bringing a democratic and a stable society, which will respect women and minorities.” The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces from Afghanistan and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. He added that there is a “requirement for a certain legitimacy” for the people who come to power. “That is important for every, not just every member of Security Council, but for all the neighbours or the regional countries and for all the others.” Tirumurti stressed that “you cannot get” this legitimacy through unilateral actions.” He said the question of a peacekeeping force in Afghanistan down the line has not been formally raised. Tirumurti said that in discussions with the Secretary-General and other top UN officials, “their main concern is the safety and security of the UN mission there,” especially after the recent attack on the UN’s main compound in Herat, Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cant-have-terrorist-camps-going-back-into-afghanistan-this-will-have-direct-impact-tirumurti-1015677.html
03-08-2021||National||Muslim sculptors in India descendants of Lord Vishwakarma: BJP Rajya Sabha MP||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra said that the Muslim sculptors in India are descendants of Lord Vishwakarma as emperor Babur did not come to India with craftsmen. "Every craftsman is descendant of Lord Vishwakarma. Babur didn't come to India with sculptors. There're only sand dunes in Iraq, Iran & UAE so this craft can't exist there. Hence, all Muslim sculptors are descendants of Lord Vishwakarma," Chander Jangra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-sculptors-in-india-descendants-of-lord-vishwakarma-bjp-rajya-sabha-mp-1015678.html
03-08-2021||National||‘By 2030, India might lead in almost every category'||By 2030, India might lead the world in every category, a former top America's diplomat has said asserting that the two largest democracies of the world can do much together. “I look out at the year 2030, for example, and I see an India that may lead the world in almost every category…the most populous nation, the most college graduates, the largest middle-class, the most cell phone and Internet users, along with the third largest military and third largest economy, all coexisting in the world's largest democracy, with 600 million people under the age of 25,” Richard Verma said on Monday. “That's on top of the massive development that is taking place in India today right before our eyes. Some $2 trillion will be spent on infrastructure in just the next decade. The bulk of the infrastructure needed for 2030 is yet to be built. That's why some 100 new airports are under planning or construction today alone,” he said. In his commencement address to the Jindal University School of Banking and Finance, the former US Ambassador to India told young students that India has the youngest workforce in Asia. “…and you'll hold that advantage until 2050. That's pretty formidable,” he said in his remarks on 'Driving Shared Prosperity — A 21st Century Priority for US-India Ties'. The first ever Indian-American envoy to India said the modern US-India relationship was quite young. “We mark the start of this era with President Clinton's visit to India in the year 2000. It was a breakthrough visit after decades of being somewhat distant, and even at times, estranged,” he said. In his address, Verma asserted that it was now time for the relationship to deliver. “We can no longer look decades into the future. The time to deliver results for our people is now – it's today – that's a big challenge, but it's also exciting, for us here in America, and for all of you in India, especially as you start out on your studies and then careers,” he said. “The reason I care about this subject so much and want to talk to you about it today is that I do think this is the most consequential relationship of this century. We can do so much together," he added. "Whether it's battling a pandemic, countering terrorism and proliferation, or bringing to market all those new innovations and solutions that will make people's lives easier, safer, greener, more prosperous, more inclusive and more secure. We can do that. We are not there yet, but can we get there,” he explained. Verma also said he first-hand witnessed the picture of India on the dramatic rise when he travelled to every Indian state. “It is why I am so excited for all of you. You have the world at your fingertips. Your country will have a leading seat in international institutions, your businesses will continue to power economic growth and innovations globally, and all of you can choose what role you want to play today and in the future.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/by-2030-india-might-lead-in-almost-every-category-1015680.html
03-08-2021||National||India reports 30,549 new Covid-19 cases, 422 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,17,26,507 on Tuesday with 30,549 more people testing positive for the disease while the active caseload declined after six days, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,25,195 with 422 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases came down to 4,04,958, which comprises 1.28 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate increased to 97.38 per cent, it showed. A decrease of 8,760 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,49,295 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 47,12,94,789. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.39 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,96,354 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 47.85 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The caseload crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 422 new fatalities include 118 from Kerala and 90 from Maharashtra, the data stated. So far, 4,25,195 deaths have been recorded in the country, including 1,33,038 from Maharashtra, 36,612 from Karnataka, 34,130 from Tamil Nadu, 25,054 from Delhi, 22,763 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,161 from West Bengal and 16,294 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-30549-new-covid-19-cases-422-deaths-1015689.html
03-08-2021||National||Sushil Kumar wanted to re-establish supremacy: Delhi Police charge sheet in murder case||The brawl at the Chhatrasal Stadium that allegedly led to the death of a former junior national wrestling champion was the result of a conspiracy hatched by Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, who wanted to re-establish his supremacy among younger wrestlers, the Delhi Police has said in its charge sheet filed in the murder case. There were "murmurs" that Kumar was scared of the two tenants living in a house he owned and he "nursed a deep grudge" about the loss of respect in the eyes of his students, it said. Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar, his friend Sonu and three others at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Later, Sagar succumbed to his injuries. "The present incident is the result of a criminal conspiracy hatched by accused Sushil Kumar along with his associates to take revenge from Sonu and Sagar," the police said in its over 1,000-page charge sheet filed on Monday. The Crime Branch, which is tasked with investigating the case, said Kumar wanted to teach a lesson to Sagar and Sonu and re-establish his supremacy in the stadium through muscle power. It also listed reasons why Kumar and his associates took revenge. The police investigation established that it was due to the initial reluctance shown by Sagar and Sonu to vacate Kumar's flat and "murmurs" in the stadium that the Olympic wrestler was scared of the duo and couldn't withstand them. Another reason, according to the police, was that Kumar had a strong suspicion that wrestlers training under him were passing information about his movements to Sagar and Sonu and the latter could harm him as he had an extensive criminal background. "When he realised that some of his own trainees were passing information about him to Sonu and Sagar, he felt betrayed and thus nursed a deep grudge against Sonu and Sagar for loss of respect in the eyes of his students," the charge sheet stated. Notorious criminal Kala Jathedi, who was recently arrested, told the police that Kumar's ego was hurt after Sagar and Sonu refused to vacate his flat because of which he felt a loss of respect. The charge sheet names 13 accused, including Kumar, who is named as the main accused. The police said they relied on the oral dying declaration of Dhankar, scientific evidence including locations of the accused, CCTV footage, weapons and vehicles recovered from the spot. "From the material collected during the investigation so far precisely mentioned above, there is sufficient material against the accused persons," it stated, seeking their prosecution under 22 offences of the Indian Penal Code. The charge sheet mentions the names of 155 prosecution witnesses, including four persons who were injured during the brawl. The Delhi Police had filed the FIR against the accused for offences such as murder, attempt to murder, culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery and rioting, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushil-kumar-wanted-to-re-establish-supremacy-delhi-police-charge-sheet-in-murder-case-1015693.html
03-08-2021||National||5.9 magnitude earthquake hits Nicobar islands||A series of earthquakes with magnitudes of 5.9, 6.1 and 4.6 on the Richter Scale hit Nicobar Islands today at 9:13 am, 9:12 am and 7:21 am respectively, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) said. More to follow||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/59-magnitude-earthquake-hits-nicobar-islands-1015697.html
03-08-2021||National||CBSE to announce class 10 results at 12 noon today||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce class 10 results today at 12 noon. "The results will be announced at 12 noon today," a senior official said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19. The result will be announced on the basis of an alternate assessment policy. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-announce-class-10-results-at-12-noon-today-1015698.html
03-08-2021||National||Wins & losses are part of life: PM on Indian hockey team's semifinal defeat in Olympics||After the Indian men's hockey team lost to Belgium in the Olympics semi-final, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said wins and losses are a part of life and India is proud of its players. The Indian men's hockey team's dream of entering the Olympics final after 41 years remained unfulfilled as it lost 2-5 to world champions Belgium in the last-four stage but the side is still in the hunt for a bronze in the Tokyo Games. "Wins and losses are a part of life. Our Men's Hockey Team at #Tokyo2020 gave their best and that is what counts," Modi tweeted. Wishing the Team the very best for the next match and their future endeavours, he said, adding that "India is proud of our players". The prime minister also spoke with Manpreet Singh, the captain of the hockey team, after the semi-final match, officials said. Modi appreciated the team's good performance throughout the tournament and wished them luck for the next game, they said. When the match was in progress, Modi tweeted, "I'm watching the India vs Belgium Hockey Men's Semi Final at #Tokyo2020. Proud of our team and their skills. Wishing them the very best!" The Indians still have a chance to secure an elusive medal from the Olympics as they will feature in the bronze medal match on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wins-losses-are-part-of-life-pm-on-indian-hockey-teams-semifinal-defeat-in-olympics-1015701.html
03-08-2021||National||Covaxin shortage due to quality issues at newest plant: Govt task force expert||To meet its ambitious target of vaccinating all adults by December this year, the government was expecting a much higher supply from the vaccine maker, but Arora said that quality issues set the company back. "Vaccine manufacturing is almost like rocket science. We were expecting a much sharper rise in the production of Covaxin. They have started a new facility in Bengaluru. In addition, three public sector undertakings are also working together to augment the total output. Ultimately, we are expecting 10-12 crore doses from Bharat Biotech," Arora told the news portal. Bharat Biotech's Bengaluru plant, which is the company's biggest facility, recently started producing better quality batches, the expert said, and it will now be able to ramp up production to match the need. The subpar batches of vaccines were not released by the company for the Centre's inoculation campaign, Arora said. When asked if Bharat Biotech can scale up its production to meet India's demand of 30 crore vaccine doses a month, he said an "exponential increase" in production can be expected. As a possible third wave is expected in the next two months, the government is focusing on vaccination as the main tool in the fight against Covid-19. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 47.85 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-shortage-due-to-quality-issues-at-newest-plant-govt-task-force-expert-1015703.html
03-08-2021||National||'India will continue to keep spotlight on terrorism'||India will keep the spotlight on terrorism, New Delhi’s Permanent Representative to the UN and President of the Security Council this month Ambassador T S Tirumurti has said, emphasising that terror financing and increased use of sophisticated methods by terrorists to attack are causing a “great deal of concern." India, currently a non-permanent member of the Security Council for 2021-22, assumed the rotating Presidency of the powerful UN organ for the month of August. Briefing reporters at the UN Headquarters on the Council’s Programme of Work on Monday, Tirumurti said India will host signature events on maritime security, counter-terrorism and peacekeeping. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a virtual high-level open debate on maritime security on August 9. President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, who is also African Union President, Felix Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo will participate in the event, given the importance that the topic of maritime security has for Africa. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will chair an open debate on August 18 on technology and peacekeeping under the overarching theme of ‘Protecting the Protectors’. He will also chair a high-level event on August 19 to discuss UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ report on ISIS. In response to a question by PTI on whether the Secretary General’s report on ISIS should also cover banned terror outfits like Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba, Tirumurti said the very fact that India is having a signature event on counterterrorism is a “very clear indication” that “we want to keep the spotlight on terrorism.” “And this is on all aspects of terrorism. It is not just about cross-border terrorism,” he said, adding that terrorists now using very sophisticated means and technology to attack and financing of terrorism is “causing a great deal of concern.” “Our intention is to keep the spotlight on counterterrorism… And ISIL has its reach all over the world,” he said. Noting that increase in terrorism in Africa is of concern to all Security Council members, Tirumurti stressed that: “I've said very clearly that you only ignore it at your own peril.” “There are proscribed terrorists who have linkages. As long as these linkages exist, it is important for the Secretary General's report to be a comprehensive one, which covers these linkages," he said. In his opening remarks, Tirumurti said counterterrorism was a national priority for India. “We are firmly against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and believe that there could be no justification whatsoever for terrorism. We will continue to keep the spotlight on this matter, as we have in the past, both inside the Council and outside as well. “We have not only strengthened efforts to combat terrorism, especially for example, in the financing of terrorism. We have also prevented efforts to dilute the focus on terrorism,” he said. On maritime security, Tirumurti said India feels it is time that various dimensions of maritime security and crime were discussed in a holistic manner and addressed through international cooperation. He said issues such as piracy, use of the sea to conduct crimes, illicit trafficking in narcotic and psychotropic substances, trafficking in persons and illicit firearms and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing have implications for the livelihood and security of coastal communities, international trade, energy security and the global economy. “Safeguarding the legitimate uses of the oceans and the lives of the people at sea requires a comprehensive approach that ensures our common prosperity and security while countering the threat of hostile or illegal acts within the maritime domain,” he said. The open debate on maritime security will “seek answers from member states to questions such as what could be done to address the drivers of maritime crime and insecurity, how could member states enhance their capabilities and improve operational coordination to access maritime security-related threats and how to advance the implementation through international cooperation," he said. Tirumurti emphasised that the objective of the high level-debate is to make a case for equal access for all nations to the use of global commons so that sea lanes are rendered as pathways to mutual prosperity and corridors of peace. In response to a question on the view of the Council’s permanent members on maritime security, he said the issue as a holistic concept was being discussed for the first time in the UN body. "This is something which I have received support from every member of the Security Council,” he said, adding that the engagement is not aimed at any one member or the other of the Council. “We may have different views on what maritime security means for us, but I don't think anyone says that it is not important,” Tirumurti said. India will also host a signature event on peacekeeping, an “issue which is very close to our hearts” as India is proud of its long and rich tradition of contribution to UN peacekeeping operations, including the involvement of women peacekeepers, he said. "Considering the fact that peacekeepers continue to function in volatile and complex situations to implement the Security Council mandates, we will be strongly advocating for enhanced measures to ensure the safety and security of the ‘protectors of peace’,” he said. India will focus on two specific aspects pertaining to peacekeeping - how to ensure safety of peacekeepers by use of technology and to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers. “We believe that infusion of appropriate technology can play a significant role in improving the safety and security of peacekeepers. Use of field focus, reliable and cost-effective new technologies in peacekeeping operations that are driven by practical needs of end users on the ground are the need of the hour,” he said. Tirumurti said India was looking at discussing with other Council members a stronger framework that addresses impunity against peacekeepers and is looking at adopting a resolution on this issue. He noted that according to UN statistics, from 2013 onwards the conviction rate is "alarmingly low” of people who have committed crimes against peacekeepers. “It is a matter of irony that peacekeepers are mainly in conflict situations and in fragile states and it is difficult for us to expect the same state to also have a strong legal framework to convict the people who commit crimes. So, it is important for us to look at it in a manner in which we are reaching out to these countries and give them the necessary wherewithal, necessary framework as well as necessary funds and the capacity building to address this,” he said. On whether there will be any outcome documents following the three signature events, Tirumurti said at this point, India is discussing this with the other Council members. “We are looking at the outcome documents. Let's see whether we can get that,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-continue-to-keep-spotlight-on-terrorism-1015721.html
03-08-2021||National||Tokyo refuses to allot additional slot for Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma, SC informed||The Supreme Court was informed on Tuesday that "Tokyo has refused to allot additional slot" for Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma, who was to be included as additional participant for the upcoming Paralympics in Japan as per the apex court's order to the PCI. The top court granted liberty to Sharma to approach the Delhi High Court and request it to expeditiously take up his appeal against its single-judge order which had refused to interfere with his non-selection for Tokyo Paralympics, scheduled for later this month. A bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna passed the order after senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Sharma, said it is a classic case as "Tokyo has refused to allot additional slot" to the petitioner as there were 10 slots - eight for men and two for women participants. The apex court had Monday ordered the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to immediately include the five-time Paralympian as an additional participant for the sporting mega-event in Japan which is scheduled to commence from August 24. At the outset, Singh told the bench on Tuesday that Sharma's appeal pending before a division bench of the high court could be heard Wednesday and it could be decided whether Sharma or the other player should go. He said the high court can also decide whether Sharma can go as a reserve for the Paralympics. Referring to the issue of players being already in bubble, Singh said, "35 persons have tested positive after reaching there". “Accordingly, we dispose of this Special Leave Petition (SLP) with liberty to the petitioner to approach the division bench of the high court and request for taking up the appeal expeditiously,” the bench said in its order. The top court was hearing Sharma's plea challenging the July 30 order of a division bench of the high court which had posted his petition relating to his non-selection for the upcoming games for hearing on August 6. In his plea filed in the apex court, Sharma, an Arjuna awardee, had said that last date of selection for shooting in Tokyo Paralympic is August 2 and if the matter is heard by the high court on August 6, it would make his petition for selection infructuous. Sharma had said that a division bench of the high court had on July 30 sought responses of the PCI and the Centre on his appeal against its single-judge order and posted the matter for hearing on August 6. In his plea in the apex court, he had said that his counsel had tried for an early date of hearing before the high court since, as per policy of PCI, the deadline for sending names of final selected candidates for participation in the games is August 2. "The petitioner humbly seeks intervention of this court in the present matter as the legitimate opportunity of the petitioner to participate in Tokyo Paralympics in R7 event and consequently bring laurels to the country will be lost if the arbitrary, discriminatory and capricious selection of the shooter in R7 event by the selection committee of PCI is allowed,” said the plea filed in the top court. During the July 30 hearing before the high court, Sharma's counsel had submitted that the event will start from August 24, and August 2 is the deadline for Tokyo 2020 organising committee to receive sports entry forms submitted by the National Paralympic Committee (NPC). The counsel had urged the high court to list the matter on an early date, however, the bench had said the petitioner should have approached the court a little earlier and not at the last moment. On July 27, the high court's single-judge order had said that PCI's conduct in relation to the selection of another player over Sharma was “unbecoming of a public sporting body” which has to maintain a fair, transparent and inclusionary approach. The court had, however, refused to interfere with the selection of the other player over Sharma at this belated stage, noting that the shooting team was already in a bubble. It had however asked the Union Sports Ministry to examine the aspect and take action, if necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tokyo-refuses-to-allot-additional-slot-for-paralympian-shooter-naresh-kumar-sharma-sc-informed-1015733.html
03-08-2021||National||In a first, primitive tribe girl passes matric exam in Jharkhand's Hazaribagh||A 16-year-old girl of the Birhor tribe, which is on the verge of extinction, became the first female from the primitive tribe in Jharkhand's Hazaribagh to pass the matriculation examination, an official said on Tuesday. Birhor is one of the primitive tribes who trace their origin to Jharkhand and reside for ages in different parts of the state. Payal Birhor, daughter of Andhnu Birhor, became the first Birhor girl amongst the 36 Birhor tandas (groups) in the district to pass the matriculation examination -- the results of which were declared on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Hazaribag Aditya Kumar Anand said it was a great achievement for the district as Birhor girls and boys despite best efforts are unwilling to attend classes but Payal took great interest in studies. "We will provide all assistance to this girl and other Birhor girls to pursue education," he said, adding that the state government is providing financial grants and stipends to them for higher education. As far as Payal is concerned, who passed in the second division, the district administration will see that she gets admitted to the best institution, he said. "I am feeling proud for being the first girl student amongst the 36 tandas of Hazaribag district to pass matriculation examination," Payal told PTI. She was a student of Pariyojna Ucha Vidyalay in Kandsar in the remote Katkamsandi block of the district from where she passed her matriculation examination. Her mother Sundari Devi thanked principal of the school Upendra Narayan Singh, saying his guidance inspired the girl to continue with her studies and achieve success. Payal said her ambition was to continue with higher studies. She said she will encourage other Birhor girls, who are mostly dropouts, to carry on studies for making their future. The mukhiya of the Kandsar village, Ram Kumar Mehta, expressed happiness and rewarded the girl. The population of Birhors in the district is 11,000. Vinod Ranjan, who teaches tribal education in the Vinobha Bhave University in Hazaribag, said the state government has provided several incentives and facilities to the Birhors to send their wards to the school but despite that, they are least interested and go for their traditional rope-making, hunting, etc in the jungles. Block Education Officer of Katkamsandi Jagannath Prasad said this success will definitely encourage other Birhor girls to pursue studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-primitive-tribe-girl-passes-matric-exam-in-jharkhands-hazaribagh-1015747.html
03-08-2021||National||Free ration helping lakhs of poor amid Covid-19 pandemic: PM Modi||The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) is helping lakhs of poor people during the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. Free ration is being distributed to lakhs of families under the scheme and it has helped lessen the worries of poor during the pandemic, Modi said, during a virtual interaction with beneficiaries of the food security scheme. The government is making efforts to provide all possible help to citizens during the pandemic, he said. Since independence, almost every government has talked about providing cheap food to the poor, he said. “The reach of cheap ration schemes and budget increased during these years, but the effect remained limited. Food storage kept increasing, but starvation and malnutrition did not decrease in that ratio," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-ration-helping-lakhs-of-poor-amid-covid-19-pandemic-pm-modi-1015750.html
03-08-2021||National||Poor haven't fully benefited from ration due to inefficient delivery systems since independence: PM Modi||The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes rose since Independence but the effect it should have had on the poor remained limited due to ineffective delivery systems and selfish elements, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. Over the years, food storage kept increasing, but starvation and malnutrition did not decrease in that ratio, Modi said, after a virtual interaction with the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) beneficiaries in Gujarat. The PM-GKAY food security scheme is helping crores of poor people during the coronavirus pandemic which has helped lessen the worries of the poor, Modi said in his address marking the completion of five years in office by Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. He said free ration has been made available to more than 80 crore people under the PM-GKAY scheme during the coronavirus pandemic with an expenditure of more than Rs 2 lakh crore. The government used new technology to make the food grain delivery system to the poor more effective, the PM added. "After independence, almost every government had talked about providing cheap food to the poor. The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes increased year after year, but the effect it should have had remained limited. The country's food reserves increased, but hunger and malnutrition did not decrease in that proportion. "Some sickness came into the system, some selfish elements entered. To change this situation, after 2014, work started in a new way, and the help of new technology was taken to remove crores of fake beneficiaries and link ration cards with Aadhaar cards and encourage digital technology in government fair price shops," he said. Citing the measures taken by his government, the PM said they ensured that no citizen went hungry despite the biggest calamity of the century striking when livelihood was threatened and business suffered due to lockdowns. "The world has acknowledged the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Free ration has been made available to more than 80 crore people during the pandemic with an expenditure of more than 2 lakh crore rupees," he said. Modi said the empowerment of the poor is a top priority of his government. "Today, the country is spending lakhs of crores on infrastructure, but at the same time, it is also setting new benchmarks to improve the quality of life of the common man,” he said. The government is making efforts to provide all possible help to citizens during the pandemic, he said. "Schemes of the Central government are helping the poor attain empowerment through better access to health and education that in turn help them live a dignified life. Empowerment is also attained by increasing the health, education, facilities, and dignity," the PM said. Modi said schemes like the Ayushman Yojana, Mudra Yojna, Svanidhi Yojna and measures like granting reservations for Economically Weaker sections, construction of roads, providing free gas and electricity connections "are giving direction to a dignified life for the poor and becoming a medium of empowerment". He said free medical treatment being provided under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana will empower them with better health. "When a reservation is ensured for weaker sections, it empowers them through education. Better road connectivity, gas and electricity connection empower such people who then think about their progress and the country's progress," he said. Referring to the coronavirus pandemic, Modi said that despite the "biggest crisis of the century" affecting the entire humanity, his government did not let people sleep hungry. "Despite hunger becoming a massive problem in many countries of the world, India identified the crisis and worked on it from the very first day of the pandemic," he said. "This is why Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana is being praised across the world, and big experts are praising that India is providing free foodgrains to more than 80 crore people during the pandemic. The country is spending more than Rs 2 lakh crore on this. Our only aim is: none of our Indian brothers and sisters remains hungry," he said. Modi said unlike the past development is no longer limited to big cities and to select areas like flyovers, roads and metros now. In Gujarat, nearly 3.5 crore people are benefiting by free ration, he said. The prime minister also lauded the Gujarat government for giving priority to lakhs of labourers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic from other states working in Gujarat though many of whom did not possess ration cards or the cards of their native states, to avail of benefits of this scheme. "Gujarat is among those states that implemented the One Nation-One Ration Card scheme first of all," he said. "Gujarat understands very well how life changes when the common man gets opportunities and facilities reaching their homes. From facing a water crisis, Gujarat is now closer to taking tap water across all the houses under the 'Jal Se Nal' scheme," he said. He said Gujarat continues to get the benefits of the "double engine" governments. (Gujarat is also ruled by the BJP). Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also attended one such programme in Dahod along with his deputy Nitin Patel. A public participation programme was launched in Gujarat to create awareness about the scheme. During his interaction with beneficiaries of the PM-GKAY via video conferencing, Modi spoke to one Narsinhbhai from Vadnagar, the hometown of the PM. Modi asked Narsinhbhai whether he was satisfied with the scheme. "I am totally satisfied. This meets our family's needs. And the money that is saved on foodgrains is used in other works," Narsinhbhai said. When Modi asked whether he was getting other benefits of the scheme, Narsinhbhai replied saying he was getting benefits under the Garib Kalyan Yojana. Nayanaben Joshi, a widow who works as a sweeper at a government school in Rajkot, told the PM that she was getting all the benefits. When Modi asked if she faced any trouble in availing of the benefits and whether there are any middlemen, Joshi said she was satisfied with the scheme. Under the scheme, the government is providing five-kg free wheat and rice in addition to the quota of wheat at Rs 2 per kg, rice at Rs 3 per kg, which is almost double the amount of the ration being provided to card-holders before this scheme. He said this scheme will continue till Diwali. Modi said lakhs of families in Gujarat are getting free ration under the PM-GKAY. "Free ration reduces distress of the poor and gives them confidence. The poor should feel that whatever the calamity, the country is with them. Many such works are going on in the entire country including Gujarat due to which the confidence of every countryman and every region is increasing today. And this self-confidence is the formula to overcome every challenge, to achieve every dream," Modi said. He said as the country is moving rapidly towards the vaccination milestone of 50 crore, Gujarat is also nearing the milestone of 3.5 crore vaccine doses. In his speech, Modi appealed to people to get vaccinated, wear masks and avoid the crowd as much as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-havent-fully-benefited-from-ration-due-to-inefficient-delivery-systems-since-independence-pm-modi-1015752.html
03-08-2021||National||Wrestler murder case: Probe reveals victims beaten for 40 minutes by Sushil Kumar, others||Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar and his associates beat up former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar and others with sticks, hockey and baseball bat for 30-40 minutes after bolting the gate of Chhatrasal Stadium from inside, according to the Delhi Police charge sheet in the murder case. Dhankar and his four friends were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Sagar succumbed to injuries later. Police investigation showed that Sagar and his friends were abducted from two different locations in Delhi and brought to the stadium, following which its gate was locked from inside, and the security guards were asked to leave.  “At the stadium, all the victims were confined and beaten mercilessly by all the accused. All the victims were beaten for around 30-40 minutes with 'lathi', 'dandas', hockey, baseball bat, etc,” the police said in the final report, which runs into over 1,000-pages.  The Crime Branch, which is tasked with investigating the case, also revealed that some of the accused persons carried firearms and threatened the victims with dire consequences.  Meanwhile, one of the victims managed to escape from the spot and made a call to the police, following which the local Police and PCR van staff reached the stadium.  “As the accused listened to the voice of the police siren, they took the deceased Sagar and injured Sonu to the basement of the stadium. Accused persons left both the victims injured there and ran away from the spot,” the probe reveals.  According to the postmortem report, the cause of Dhankad's death was “cerebral damage resulting from blunt object impact”.  Five vehicles were seized from Kumar and his associates. A double-barrel gun and five live cartridges were also recovered from the back seat of one of the vehicles.  On Monday, the Crime Branch filed a charge sheet against Kumar and 12 others in the murder case, in which it named the Olympic wrestler as the main accused.  In the charge sheet, the police relied on the oral dying declaration of the deceased, scientific evidence including locations of the accused, CCTV footage, weapons, and vehicles recovered from the spot.  “From the material collected during the investigation so far precisely mentioned above, there is sufficient material against the accused persons,” it stated, seeking their prosecution under 22 offences of the Indian Penal Code.   The charge sheet mentions the names of 155 prosecution witnesses, including four persons who were injured during the brawl.  The Delhi Police had filed an FIR against the accused for offences such as murder, attempt to murder, culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery, rioting among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-murder-case-probe-reveals-victims-beaten-for-40-minutes-by-sushil-kumar-others-1015753.html
03-08-2021||National||No proposal to bifurcate Tamil Nadu under consideration: Centre||The Central Government on Tuesday told Parliament that there was no proposal under its consideration to bifurcate Tamil Nadu. “Presently, no such proposal is under consideration,” Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai told the Lok Sabha in response to a question from members from Tamil Nadu. Lok Sabha members T R Paarivendhar and S Ramalingam had asked whether the government had any proposal to bifurcate any state in the country, including the state of Tamil Nadu. The question was raised amid speculation over carving out the 'Kongu Nadu' region in western Tamil Nadu as a separate state after the BJP mentioned it as the region to which Minister of State L Murugan belongs to, instead of Namakkal, his hometown. Kongu Nadu, which comprises Namakkal, Salem, Tirupur and Coimbatore, is considered as the stronghold of the Gounder community, a powerful Other Backward Class (OBC) in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-bifurcate-tamil-nadu-under-consideration-centre-1015756.html
03-08-2021||National||PM Modi to invite Olympic contingent to Red Fort on August 15, to interact with them at his residence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will invite India’s Tokyo Olympics contingent as special guests for the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort as a gesture to acknowledge their performance at the top sporting event. Modi, who has been following India’s sporting events at the Tokyo Olympics, is also expected to host the contingent at his residence for a tete-a-tete. The Prime Minister showered encomiums on the sportspersons saying their self-confidence at the Games was now becoming the identity of new India and reaching every nook and corner of the country. India has sent a 228-member contingent, including over 120 athletes, at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. The Prime Minister has spoken to Indian medal winners Mirabai Chanu (weightlifting) and P V Sindhu (badminton), as also the hockey captain Manpreet Singh after the team lost the semi-final match to Belgium. “Our Olympics players and teams are giving a tough fight to their competitors having better rankings. The conviction and confidence of Indian players are at their peak,” Modi said at an event on Tuesday. He said Indian players were more confident because of the transparency in the system and the identification of right talent. “This self-confidence comes naturally when the right talent is identified and promoted, when the system gets changed and transparency is brought in,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-invite-olympic-contingent-to-red-fort-on-august-15-to-interact-with-them-at-his-residence-1015759.html
03-08-2021||National||Female labour participation rate falls to 16.1% as pandemic hits jobs||Female labour participation rate in India fell to 16.1% during the July-September 2020 quarter, the lowest among the major economies, a government report said, reflecting the impact of pandemic and a widening job crisis. The percentage of women in the labour force had fallen to a record low of 15.5% during the April-June 2020 quarter, when India imposed strict lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 virus, said the report, released late Monday by the Ministry of Statistics. According to World Bank estimates, India has one of the lowest female labour force participation rates in the world. Less than a third of women – defined in the report as 15 or older – are working or actively looking for a job. The female labour participation rate in India had fallen to 20.3% in 2019 from more than 26% in 2005, according to World Bank estimates, compared with 30.5% in neighbouring Bangladesh and 33.7% in Sri Lanka. Most employed women in India are in low-skilled work, such as farm and factory labour and domestic help, sectors that have been hit hard by the pandemic. The unemployment rate among women touched 15.8%, compared with 12.6% among male workers during three months that ended in September 2020, the latest quarter for which data was released. Most economic activities have resumed in the country after state governments eased pandemic curbs in response to a decline in coronavirus infections from May peaks. That is likely to help create more jobs for all workers, government officials said. India’s July unemployment rate fell to 6.95% from the June figure of 9.17%, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showed on Monday. Many private economists have warned that the slow pace of vaccination and a slump in consumer demand could hurt growth prospects, and the economy is unlikely to attain its pre-COVID size before March 2022. Asia's third-largest economy, which shrunk 7.3% in the fiscal year ending in March, the worst recession in last seven decades, is expected to grow at 8-9% year-on-year in the current fiscal year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/female-labour-participation-rate-falls-to-161-as-pandemic-hits-jobs-1015760.html
03-08-2021||National||Just 6 instances of ceasefire violations along LoC since India-Pak agreement in February||Only six incidents of ceasefire violations have been reported ever since India and Pakistan agreed in February to observe all pacts related to cross-border firings along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said as many as 5,133 incidents of ceasefire violations were reported in 2020; 3,479 in 2019; and 2,140 in 2018. In written reply to a question, Rai said following scheduled talks between the Directors General of Military Operations of India and Pakistan over hotline, a joint statement was issued on February 25, 2021 in which both India and Pakistan agreed to the strict observance of all agreements, understandings and ceasefire along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from the February 24-25 midnight 2021. While there were 380 incidents of ceasefire violations in January and 278 in February, there was not a single incident of ceasefire violation in March, just one in April, three in May and two in June. The minister said immediate and effective retaliation by the Indian Army and the BSF personnel is carried out during instances of unprovoked firings and ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB). Rai said the government's consistent position has been that India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence. The onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner. India and Pakistan continue to maintain regular channels of communication through the respective High Commissions and other established mechanisms, he said. The minister also said that according to reports, representatives of various political parties in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have welcomed the joint statement and several countries have issued statements welcoming the development as an important and positive step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/just-6-instances-of-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-since-india-pak-agreement-in-february-1015765.html
03-08-2021||National||Fact-check: AAP hoarding morphed to show party celebrating installation of dustbins||A photograph of an AAP billboard has been shared by BJP leaders and members on social media. The billboard purportedly reads, “Congratulations Delhi, 10 new dustbins have been installed at Kirtinagar Industrial Area. (बधाई हो दिल्ली कीर्तिनगर इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया में दस नए डस्टबिन की व्यवस्था.)” Below is a tweet by BJP Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma.  A close look at the billboard reveals subtle red flags that prove the picture has been digitally morphed. For instance, two different shades of blue can be spotted on the left. The blue used on top is darker. This indicates that colour has been to cover what was printed on the original billboard. The person editing did a close enough job but it is not an exact match.  In the following image two observations need to be made – 1) Reflection never abruptly stops but always gradually fades out. There is no reflection of the light right on top of the word ‘हो’ and beyond. 2) Furthermore, the reflection of the light should be on top of the matra on ‘हो’ instead, the matra is over the reflection.  Lastly, there are remnants of text on the left.   From what it looks, this billboard was placed in a metro station or a railway station. Advertisements of the Covid financial assistance scheme have also been put up by the AAP in other areas.  On July 6, CM Kejriwal discussed the scheme and its benefits to families who have lost members to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-aap-hoarding-morphed-to-show-party-celebrating-installation-of-dustbins-1015770.html
03-08-2021||National||348 died, 1,189 tortured under police custody in last 3 years: Government||As many as 348 people died in police custody in different parts of the country in the last three years, while 1,189 others were found to be tortured during detention, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said based on the information received from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), 136 people died in police custody in 2018, 112 in 2019 and 100 in 2020. Moreover, 542 people were tortured in police custody in 2018, 411 in 2019 and 236 in 2020, he said replying to a written question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/348-died-1189-tortured-under-police-custody-in-last-3-years-government-1015786.html
03-08-2021||National||No one arrested for 2020 violence at JNU: Govt in Lok Sabha||The Delhi Police has not arrested anyone in connection with the 2020 violence at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) even though several people were examined, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the Delhi Police has reported that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Crime Branch has been constituted to investigate three cases registered at Vasant Kunj (North) police station with regard to the violence on the JNU campus in January, 2020. "The investigation conducted includes examination of witnesses; collection and analysis of footages; and examination of identified suspects. As reported by the Delhi Police, no arrest has been made in these cases,” he said, replying to a written question of DMK member Dayanidhi Maran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-arrested-for-2020-violence-at-jnu-govt-in-lok-sabha-1015789.html
03-08-2021||National||Mere harassment won't amount to abetment of suicide: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has said mere harassment without any positive action on the part of the accused does not amount to abetment of suicide under the Section 306 of the IPC. A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said: "Mere harassment without any positive action on the part of the accused proximate to the time of occurrence which led to the suicide would not amount to an offence under Section 306 IPC. Abetment by a person is when a person instigates another to do something". The bench emphasised that instigation can be inferred where the accused had, by his acts or omission created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no option except to die by suicide. The top court's order came in a matter where a man had died by suicide by consuming poison and left four suicide notes. The man allegedly committed suicide originating from a matrimonial dispute, where his wife moved back to her paternal home. In the notes, the man had blamed his wife and others for pushing him to commit suicide. The High Court had allowed the revision petition filed by the accused and set aside the trial court order framing charges against them. In the appeal before the apex court filed by deceased's brother, it was contended that the abetment of the offence of suicide by the accused is prima facie made out as the harassment by them. The plea further added this harassment facilitated by the accused led to the act of suicide by the deceased. The petitioner insisted that his brother was harassed by his wife, due to which he took his own life. The bench observed that in order to bring a case within the provision of Section 306 IPC, there must be a case of suicide. "In the commission of the said offence, the person who is said to have abetted the commission of suicide must have played an active role by an act of instigating or by doing a certain act to facilitate the commission of suicide", noted the bench. Dismissing the petition, the top court said: "In the instant case, the allegations against Respondent Nos. 2 and 4 is that they harassed the deceased. There is no other material on record which indicates abetment. The High court did not commit any error in allowing the Criminal Revision".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mere-harassment-wont-amount-to-abetment-of-suicide-supreme-court-1015790.html
03-08-2021||National||4 more Indian pharmaceutical firms expected to start vaccine production by Oct-Nov, says Mansukh Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said in Parliament that four more Indian pharma firms are expected to start coronavirus vaccine production by October-November that will accelerate the inoculation drive. During the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, Mandaviya said India has administered 47 crore doses of vaccine so far and the Centre is making efforts to inoculate the entire country at the earliest. Even 7 to 9 per cent of the doses that remain unutilised by private hospitals are being used by the government vaccination centres, he added. Mandaviya was speaking amid a din in the house over the Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue and the farm laws. "Vaccination drive is going on smoothly... It will get more accelerated in the coming days with the ramping up of production by four more Indian companies," the minister said. The government expects that by October-November, four more Indian pharmaceutical companies will start production of indigenous vaccines that will help meet the domestic demand, he said. Biologicals E and Novartis vaccines will also be available in the market in the coming days, while Zydus Cadila will soon get an emergency-use nod from an expert committee, the Union Health Minister said At present, two companies (Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute) are supplying the vaccine to the government. Sputnik vaccine is also available and production of which has begun, he added. To a query by BJD member Amar Patnaik about the vaccine rollout plan for 12-18-year-old and the need for a third or fourth dose, Mandaviya said, "The government's target is to vaccinate the entire population at the earliest and constant efforts are being made to achieve this." Unlike BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) and polio vaccines that came to India much later after its launch in other parts of the world, the vaccine against coronavirus was made available in India at the same time in the world due to the efforts of the Narendra Modi government, he said The prime minister took steps, supported scientists and companies to ensure vaccines were available in the country at the earliest, the minister said. "Thus vaccination drives began in India which has administered 47 crore doses so far, the maximum in the world. We are going to accelerate it further in the coming days," he said. Responding to BJP member Susheel Kumar Modi's query on the government's plan to reduce the vaccine quota to private hospitals, the minister said it was not necessary as the unused vaccine quota of the private hospitals is taken by the government. "In a month, we saw seven to nine per cent unused vaccines by private hospitals. So, we decided to take those unutilised doses in the government quota. Therefore, it is not necessary to reduce the quota for the private. The vaccination is happening smoothly," he said. The Centre is buying 75 per cent of the vaccine produced to give free jabs to people, while 25 per cent is allocated for the private sector, the health minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-more-indian-pharmaceutical-firms-expected-to-start-vaccine-production-by-oct-nov-says-mansukh-mandaviya-1015791.html
03-08-2021||National||Editors Guild moves SC for probe into Pegasus snooping||The Editors Guild of India approached the Supreme Court for an SIT (Special Investigation Team) probe into the alleged Pegasus snoopgate and a disclosure from the Union government on the alleged use of spyware for hacking and electronic surveillance between 2017 and 2021. The journalists body also sought a direction to monitor the investigation into the procurement and use of spyware, hacking or electronic surveillance tools such as ‘Pegasus’ in India. It also sought issuance of guidelines on surveillance against Indian citizens and safeguarding journalists from electronic surveillance, spying and hacking. The plea said surveillance, besides being unconstitutional and illegal, impeded the free flow of ideas and information, and has a chilling effect on public actors holding the government accountable. "This has a severely detrimental impact on the ability of politicians and public officials to freely exercise their freedom of profession," it said. The petitioner also demanded laying down of guidelines for safeguarding women who worked as journalists from gendered crimes through surveillance, including electronic surveillance, spying and hacking. Besides, the plea also asked the top court to declare provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, and the Information Technology Act, allowing tapping of phones, as unconstitutional, illegal and void. So far, five petitions have been filed in the matter namely by advocate M L Sharma, Rajya Sabha CPI-M MP John Brittas, senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar and one by Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and others. The top court has listed the matter for hearing on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-moves-sc-for-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-1015799.html
03-08-2021||National||India still not out of danger zone as Covid-19 reproductive number above one in eight states||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is “still raging” as eight states are showing high reproductive numbers of infections, indicating a faster spread of the disease in these regions, the health ministry cautioned on Tuesday. The case trajectory of Covid-19 has registered a substantial decline from over four lakh daily cases at the peak of the second wave in May to 30,549 on Tuesday, but the increase in the reproductive numbers or the R-factor was an indication that the pandemic was still not over. “Delta variant is a dominant problem. The pandemic is still raging and the second wave is persisting,” V K Paul, Member (Health) NITI Ayog told reporters here. He also expressed concern about the R-factor or the reproductive rate of a virus in Jammu & Kashmir (1.4), Himachal Pradesh (1.4), Lakshadweep (1.3), Tamil Nadu (1.2), Mizoram (1.2), Karnataka (1.2), Puducherry (1.1) and Kerala (1.1). A month ago, the R-factor in India was at 0.88, which meant that one infected person was spreading the infection to fewer persons during his period of illness. As of Tuesday, the R-factor for India was 1.2, at par with the US, Australia and Canada, which means that one person was spreading the infection to more than one contact. The ministry said 49.85% new cases reported in the past one week were from Kerala with 10 districts showing an increasing trend in infections. A central team that visited Kerala found that the state had a poor record of contact tracing at a ratio of 1:1.5, meaning that the exercise was limited to just about one person who may have come in contact with an infected person. “The central team recommended that instead of 1:1.5 tracing, it should be 1:20,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry said. He said that in Mallapuram district 91% patients were in home isolation and suggested vigourous containment and contact tracing measures to curb the spread of the infectious disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-still-not-out-of-danger-zone-as-covid-19-reproductive-number-above-one-in-eight-states-1015801.html
03-08-2021||National||BJP MPs get detailed note to take on critics of government's response to Covid, vaccination||With the government's handling of Covid-19 being a major public issue, BJP MPs on Tuesday were given a detailed note on the government's response to the pandemic and the ongoing vaccination drive in an attempt by the party to arm its lawmakers with information to take on the critics. The booklets, prepared by the Health and Family Welfare Ministry, claim all efforts to counter the disease cannot be attributed to just the Union or state governments but to "Team India" which acted with a "whole of government and whole of society" approach in a preemptive, proactive and graded manner. Opposition parties have been attacking the Narendra Modi dispensation and the BJP governments in poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa for their handling of the pandemic. They have also accused the central government of not doing enough to vaccinate people at a fast pace. The ministry's note argues that India has delivered the highest vaccine doses compared to other countries for which "transparent" data is available in the public domain. China has claimed to have given 160 crore doses, it added. India has by July-end administered over 45 crore doses compared to 34.3 crore in the US and 13.7 crore in Brazil and 8.4 crore in the UK, it said. India took 166 days to reach the mark of 34 crore vaccine doses against 221 days by the US, the note stated. India has so far administered over 10 per cent of the doses given globally. Referring to India's handling of the pandemic, the note claims that the country managed to "evade" the catastrophic effects of the pandemic which had wreaked havoc in the world. It also highlights the government's efforts to distribute required medicines and medical oxygen, besides the measures to ramp up the supply of the life-saving gas. PM Modi, it notes, held 21 meetings with states, addressed the nation 10 times and chaired a total of 40 meetings. India's Covid-19 cases at 22,726 per million and fatality at 305 per million at are among the "lowest" in the world, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mps-get-detailed-note-to-take-on-critics-of-governments-response-to-covid-vaccination-1015811.html
03-08-2021||National||After a year in jail, Jharkhand activist facing sedition charges granted bail||After languishing in Surat jail for over a year on sedition charges and "waging war against the nation," the Gujarat High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Jharkhand resident and tribal activist Babita Kachchap, said to be associated with the Pathalgadi movement. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had arrested her along with two other associates- Samu and Birsa Oreya- in July 2020 from Tapi and Mahisagar districts in south Gujarat for allegedly inciting locals tribals "to wage war" against the government to asset tribal rights over resources. High Court judge S H Vora pronounced the order on Tuesday granting relief to Kachchap, 34. The court allowed the petition and ordered to release her on bail on executing a bond of Rs20,000 with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of trial court. Kachchap was arrested by ATS officials on July 24, 2020. She moved high court in February this year through advocate AA Zabuawala after a sessions court rejected her bail plea. While considering her plea for bail, justice Vora noted that the FIR against her is primarily based on cases registered in her home state Jharkhand. "No actual violence or breach of peace occurred at any point of time and more particularly during her presence in the state of Gujarat and the FIR in question is registered only on account of other similar offences registered in the state of Jharkhand," the order states. It says that the state government hasn't challenged her submission that cases against her were withdrawn by the Jharkhand government.   The order also says that material seized from her is anyway available on internet and no other incriminating material was pointed out "to infer that an attempt is made on the part of the applicant to make out an offence punishable under section 121 (A) (waging war against the nation), 124 (A) (sedition) of IPC on the face of the material itself." The order also mentions that witnesses' statements "do not indicate that on account of raising voice by the applicant in the line of her interpretation of fifth schedule, there is any overt act or any response from anyone in public and therefore, presence of mens rea which is essential element to make out an offence under section 124 A and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between different groups) of IPC is not available on record." Last year, Gujarat ATS officials had arrested Kachchap and two others, said to be activists of "Pathalgadi movement", for allegedly conspiring to instigate followers of Satipati cult for violent uprising against the state government. The FIR stated that an intelligence input was received that "Babita Kachhap is involved in instigating the followers of Satipati cult to violent means in pursuit of their objectives. The intelligence input further indicated that her area of activity is Kevadia (seat of Statue of Unity), Dahod and Chhota-Udepur.” Her two other accomplices Samu and Birsa Oreya were active in Vyara. The FIR alleged that the trio were "instigating" the tribal followers of Satipati cult by wrong interpretation of the Vth Schedule of the Constitution of India and Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 (PESA)." This act provides for the rights to territorial integrity to tribal panchayats whose permission is required for any development on the land. This law prevents land transfer to non-tribals but there have been several instances of misuse of the law in the state. Satipati movement denounces the government of India and doesn't believe in its laws. The followers believe that they have the sovereign right over the forest and other natural resources. Satipati movement has remained non-violent in the state which originated from Vyara in Tapi district led by Kunwar Keshri Singh. On the other hand, Pathalgadi movement, which also seeks Adivasi rights over the resources by self-rule and prohibits outsiders, has turned violent several times. Pathalgadi has originated from Khunti district in Jharkhand, the birthplace of tribal icon Birsa Munda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-a-year-in-jail-jharkhand-activist-facing-sedition-charges-granted-bail-1015823.html
03-08-2021||National||Sebi disposes off disclosure lapses case against Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra||Market regulator Sebi has disposed of adjudication proceedings against actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra and her businessman husband Raj Kundra in a case related to alleged disclosure lapses. It was alleged that the couple had violated the provisions of Sebi (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations) or SAST rules in the matter of Viaan Industries. "The change in the shareholding of the noticees (couple) did not require any disclosures to be made by them in terms of... SAST Regulations and the allegation levelled in the showcause notice (SCN) that noticees have violated the provisions of... SAST Regulations is not sustainable," Sebi said in an order dated July 30. The regulator had conducted an investigation into the dealings in the scrip of Viaan Industries (formerly known as Hindustan Safety Glass Industries Ltd), during the period September, 2013 to December, 2015. Shilpa Shetty Kundra and Ripu Sudan Kundra, who is also known as Raj Kundra, became the promoters of Viaan Industries pursuant to their individual acquisition of 25.75 per cent shareholding in the company during the period March 2015. It was further observed that, in October 2015, the company came out with a preferential allotment of 5 lakh equity shares. The shares were allotted to four persons including the couple who were allotted 1,28,800 shares each in the preferential allotment made by the company. Pursuant to the allotment of the shares, it was alleged that the shareholding of the couple in the company had undergone change and therefore, they were required to make the necessary disclosures to the stock exchange, BSE, and to the company under the SAST norms. However, they had allegedly failed to make the necessary disclosures within the stipulated time period. Consequently, adjudication proceedings were initiated against Kundras and SCN was issued to them in April 2021. Sebi noted that change in the collective shareholding of the couple after the preferential allotment was only 0.02 per cent and it had changed by 0.01 per cent when seen in the context of the individual acquisition of shares by Shilpa Shetty Kundra and Raj Kundra. Thus, the change in their shareholding after the preferential allotment was well within the threshold limit prescribed under the rules and this change in shareholding did not warrant any disclosures to be made by them, the regulator added. Accordingly, the regulator has disposed of "the adjudication proceedings initiated against the noticees viz. Ripu Sudan Kundra and Shilpa Shetty Kundra vide SCN dated April 26, 2021". On July 28, Sebi slapped a fine of Rs 3 lakh on Shilpa Shetty Kundra, Raj Kundra and Viaan Industries for disclosure lapses and consequent violation of insider trading norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sebi-disposes-off-disclosure-lapses-case-against-shilpa-shetty-raj-kundra-1015827.html
03-08-2021||National||Honey Singh's wife files domestic violence case, seeks Rs 10 cr compensation||Wife of Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh has filed a domestic violence case against him and sought Rs 10 crore compensation under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, saying she felt like a "farm animal...being treated cruelly". Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh has issued notice to Singh, directing him not to alienate or create any third party rights in their jointly owned property in Noida or dispose of his wife's jewellery and other articles, said her lawyer. Shalini Talwar, Singh's wife, said that she was subjected to numerous incidents of physical, verbal, mental, and emotional abuse at the hands of her husband and his family. Talwar, 38, claimed that Singh beat her many times in the last few years and she is constantly living under fear as he and his family have threatened her with physical harm. “Due to mental harassment and cruelty imposed upon her over a period of time, she also suffered from symptoms of depression and sought medical help,” she stated in the plea, filed through advocates Sandeep Kapur, Apoorva Pandey, and G G Kashyap. Hirdesh Singh, known professionally as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011. In the plea, Talwar has stated how she was physically assaulted by Singh over the last 10 years. She revealed how Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally so much so that she almost started identifying herself as a “farm animal, shepherded from here to there while being treated cruelly”. Talwar also levelled cheating allegations against her husband, saying that he used to frequently have casual sex with multiple women, not wear his wedding ring, and mercilessly beat her for releasing their marriage pictures online. Besides this, she also claimed that once her father-in-law walked into her room in inebriated condition while she was changing her clothes and grazed his hands over her chest. Singh's wife further said that there is evidence to show various acts of domestic violence perpetrated upon her, requesting the court to issue orders against him under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. Talwar sought direction from the court to her ask her husband to pay Rs 10 crore as interim compensation for perpetrating domestic violence on her. Furthermore, she prayed the court to order the singer to pay a rent of Rs 5 lakh every month for fully furnished accommodation in Delhi so as to enable her to live by herself and not remain dependent on her widowed mother. Besides this, she also sought to restrain the singer from selling or creating any third person interest in their shared household and from selling her dowry articles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/honey-singhs-wife-files-domestic-violence-case-seeks-rs-10-cr-compensation-1015844.html
03-08-2021||National||Covishield, Covaxin production to be ramped up by 4.3 crore doses a month: Mandaviya in RS||The monthly production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased to more than 12 crore doses and of Covaxin to around 5.8 crore doses by December, the government told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, citing information from the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya was responding to a question on the current capacity to manufacture Covaxin and Covishield in the country, and the expected capacity going forward from August to December 2021. "As communicated by the manufacturers, the monthly vaccine production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased from 11 crore doses per month to more than 12 crore doses per month and the production capacity of Covaxin is projected to be increased from 2.5 crore doses per month to around 5.8 crore doses per month," the minister said in a written reply. Further, the Department of Biotechnology under the Ministry of Science and Technology launched 'Mission Covid Suraksha - the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission'. The mission is being implemented by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a public sector undertaking of the Department of Biotechnology, the reply stated. Under the mission, the facility augmentation of Bharat Biotech and one state public sector enterprise and two central public sector enterprises - Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai; Indian Immunologicals Limited, Hyderabad, and Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Limited, Bulandshahr, - for production of Covaxin have been supported. In addition, technology transfer of Covaxin production to the Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium, including Hester Biosciences and OmniBRx Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd, led by Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of Gujarat, had also been facilitated, the reply said. Further, the Centre had also extended financial assistance to one of the domestic manufacturers for 'at-risk manufacturing', advance payment against the supply orders placed with the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, besides streamlining regulatory norms for approval of vaccines, the reply added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-covaxin-production-to-be-ramped-up-by-43-crore-doses-a-month-mandaviya-in-rs-1015845.html
03-08-2021||National||Hiring rate around 42% above pre-Covid levels in India: Report||India's recruitment activity has been recovering steadily as the hiring rate in June 2021 was around 42 per cent above the pre-pandemic levels in 2019, says a report. According to LinkedIn India – Labour Market Update for June 2021, there was a deepening hiring dip in April 2021, corresponding to a second wave of Covid-19 cases in India. Since then, it has been recovering steadily, compared to the pre-Covid levels in 2019. Hiring rate was 35 per cent higher at the end of May 2021, and 42 per cent higher at the end of June 2021. Hiring rate is a measure of hires divided by LinkedIn membership. This analysis looks at the changes in hiring rate between this month and the same month in 2019. The uptick is possibly due to a release of pent up hiring, as companies took a more cautious stance towards hiring in 2020, the report said. The report further noted that competition for jobs was lower compared to 12 months ago, but applicants are applying more aggressively. "Last year, we saw the applications per job double in the middle of 2020, during the height of global lockdowns. Right now, it is going in the opposite direction - average applications per job is 0.6x compared to the same month last year. Meanwhile, the applications per applicant has been slowly increasing and has reached 1.2x compared to last year," it said. Taken together, this suggests that the supply of jobs has increased in the market, and also that workers are more actively seeking jobs. "In this environment, professionals who upskill will likely to have a wider spectrum of jobs available to them," it said. Moreover, relative to their peers, young workers with hardware and software skills are more in-demand. "Our data shows that between January 2018 to June 2021, the share of Gen Zs entering the workforce has increased by over 4.2 times. "And when we take a closer look at the different levels of digital skills, we find that relative to others in their age group who only have basic or applied digital skills, Gen Z who have either software/hardware skills or disruptive digital skills are between 1.3 to 1.5 times more likely to be hired," the report noted. ‘Generation Z is the youngest cohort in the workforce – 18 to 24-year-olds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hiring-rate-around-42-above-pre-covid-levels-in-india-report-1015847.html
03-08-2021||National||Ayyub Thakur channelled ISI funds to Kashmir: Report||While on the face of it, Ayyub Thakur was ‘lobbying' for the Kashmir cause, he allegedly also provided significant support to terror activities against India, channelling ISI funds to Kashmir through various of his fronts and affiliates. DisinfoLab reported that Thakur was alleged to have funnelled funds to militant organisations in J&K via his charity "Mercy Universal". In June 2002, J&K police arrested a businessman, Imtiaz Ahmed Bazaz, on charges of funnelling funds sent by Ayyub Thakur from the UK to Kashmiri separatists, including Asiya Andrabi and her organisation Dukhtaran-e-Millat. During his interrogation, Bazaz confessed to contacting Ayyub Thakur for channelling funds sent by Pakistan's ISI. In response, Ayyub Thakur claimed that he had sent the money for purchasing sewing machines for the women of Kashmir. However, while Ayyub Thakur might have denied his role, his son Muzzammil seems to have a different opinion. During an interview with a J&K based media channel, ‘Only Kashmir' (in 2015), he admitted that his father "funded terrorism in Kashmir" and that he also believed it was justified as "Jihad". Registered in 2000 by Ayyub Thakur, its current board members include Javed Iqbal Aziz, A Hussain, Atif Hussain and Nazir Ahmed. Mercy International was also alleged to be the front used by Ayyub Thakur for funding militants and separatists. The Justice Foundation was set up in 2003 by Ayyub Thakur, but within a year he passed away. After his death on March 10, 2004, Ghulam Nabi Fai took over the leadership of Justice Foundation alongside his close acquaintance Nazir Ahmad Shawl as Director. During 2011, when FBI issued an affidavit against Fai, Nazir Ahmad Shawl (Executive Director) was active in the UK circuit and was attending events with Pak leaders and Kashmiri separatists. Interestingly, Harsh Mander, former IAS officer and Director of Centre for Equity Studies, was also one of the advisors of The Justice Foundation (details now removed from website). It is worth noting that Mander's name had also appeared in the earlier story on USCIRF (Un-ending War-II) in the context of fabricated database of minority atrocities in India being peddled through DOTO and Quill Foundation. Mander was in the Advisory Board of Quill Foundation. DOTO is also partners with Justice For All, DisinfoLab reported. Ayyub Thakur was dismissed from service at the Kashmir University in August 1980 because of political activism while working in government service, and was imprisoned for five months. Immediately after his release, at the invitation of Gulam Nabi Fai, his friend-cum-associate at Kashmir University, Ayyub Thakur moved to Jeddah in 1981 where with Fai's help he became the Faculty of Engineering in the Department of Nuclear Physics. Subsequently, he shifted to the UK in 1986, on a Fellowship arranged by his friend Fai. Fai and Thakur had started their Kashmir activism during their association with Jamaat-e-Islami. It is not clear whether Fai was already engaged by the ISI during that time, or was he doing it of his own will.The duo envisaged and strategised to ‘internationalise' the Kashmir issue. They decided to target 50 to 60 foreign students who enrolled at the Kashmir University, Regional Engineering College, and Government Medical College. The plan was to convince the foreign students to become ‘unpaid ambassadors' of the ‘Kashmir cause'. During this time, Ghulam Nabi Fai managed to get the Imam of the holy mosque at Makkah to attend the Seerat Conference in Kashmir. This was also evidence of the level of liaison and influence which Fai had managed to cultivate with the Saudi authorities. An influence he would use to get his friend Ayyub Thakur to Saudi in 1980s, and get him a job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayyub-thakur-channelled-isi-funds-to-kashmir-report-1015864.html
03-08-2021||National||Insolvency process: Parliamentary panel suggests benchmark for 'quantum of haircut'||A Parliamentary panel has suggested having a benchmark for the "quantum of haircut" in an insolvency process amid instances of financial creditors taking steep haircuts on their exposure to stressed companies. Besides, the committee has pitched for measures to prevent protracted litigations with respect to an insolvency resolution process. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which came into effect in 2016, provides for a market-linked and time-bound resolution of stressed assets. Emphasising that the fundamental aim of the Code is to secure creditor rights which would lower borrowing costs as the risks decline, the panel said there is a need for greater clarity in purpose with regard to strengthening creditor rights through the mechanism devised in the Code. The committee particularly mentioned about the "disproportionately large and unsustainable 'haircuts' taken by the financial creditors over the years". In some insolvency resolution processes, the haircuts taken by creditors were more than 90 per cent. "As the insolvency process has fairly matured now, there may be an imperative to have a benchmark for the quantum of 'haircut' comparable to global standards," it noted. Generally, haircut refers to losses incurred by creditors on resolution of a stressed asset. The suggestions have been made by the Standing Committee on Finance in its report on the 'Implementation of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code - Pitfalls and Solutions'. The report was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday. It is a matter of grave concern for the committee that the insolvency process has been stymied by long delays far beyond the statutory limits. It is disconcerting that even admission of cases in NCLT has been taking an unduly long time, which thus defeats the very purpose of the Code, the panel noted. The committee also pointed out that there have been instances of frivolous appeals, which further drags the resolution/ recovery process leading to severe erosion of asset value. The panel said it would therefore recommend that misuse/ abuse of well-intended provisions and processes should be prevented by ensuring an element of finality within the statutory stipulated period without protracted litigation. There have been six amendments to the Code so far. According to the committee, any legislative enactment and implementation need to constantly evolve to meet the challenges in the ever-changing ecosystem. However, the panel said it is of the opinion that "the actual operationalisation of amendments made so far may have altered and even digressed from the basic design of the statute and given a different orientation to the Code not originally envisioned". Further, the committee flagged that "the low recovery rates with haircuts as much as 95 per cent and the delay in resolution process with more than 71 per cent cases pending for more than 180 days clearly point towards a deviation from the original objectives of the Code intended by Parliament".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insolvency-process-parliamentary-panel-suggests-benchmark-for-quantum-of-haircut-1015865.html
03-08-2021||National||Raj Kundra is accused of offense detrimental to society's 'health', says Court||The alleged offense for which businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe were arrested last month was "detrimental" to society's health, and society's interest in such cases can not be "overlooked", a magistrate's court has said. While rejecting their bail pleas on July 28 in a case related to alleged production and streaming of pornographic content through apps, the court also said that the police had followed the legal procedure. The detailed order passed by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate S B Bhajipale became available on Tuesday. Kundra and Thorpe were arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch on July 19, and are presently in judicial custody. The alleged offense is "detrimental to the health of our society", and "socital interest in the prosecution of a crime which has a wider social dimension cannot be overlooked", the magistrate said. The accused have also moved the Bombay High Court challenging their arrest, pleading that the police did not issue a notice as required under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure before the arrest. The HC has reserved its order. But the magistrate noted that the investigating officer (IO) had recorded reason for the arrest, as required. "This court on July 20 (during a remand hearing) came to the conclusion that the arrest of the accused is as per law," the judge said. "The IO has already mentioned the reasons for the arrest of both the accused. In such circumstances, it cannot be said that the accused are entitled to bail," the magistrate said. As per the IO's reply, Pradeep Bakshi, an accused who is a relative of Kundra, was absconding. Also, a huge amount of data was collected by the police and its analysis was still going on, the court said. Remanding the accused in judicial custody (as against police custody) does not mean that the probe is over, it said. The accused had deleted some incriminating data, and there was every possibility that they may tamper with evidence if released on bail, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raj-kundra-is-accused-of-offense-detrimental-to-societys-health-says-court-1015866.html
03-08-2021||National||Income Tax department extends deadline for various tax compliances||The income tax department on Tuesday extended the deadline for various compliances, including the filing of statements related to equalisation levy and remittances. The deadline for filing the equalisation levy statement in Form-1 for the Financial Year 2020-21 has been extended till August 31, from the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for the April-June quarter can now be filed by August 31. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that on consideration of the difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in the electronic filing of certain forms, it has been decided to further extend the due dates for electronic filing of these forms. Further, considering the non-availability of the utility for e-filing of certain forms, the CBDT has decided to extend the due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Intimation to be made by the pension fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31, can now be furnished by September 30. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said considering the technical glitches in the new Income tax portal, taxpayers were facing a lot of problems in meeting such timelines and many taxpayers could not even make compliance within the due date. "The extension will provide much-needed relief to taxpayers for making the compliances and will also save them from the penal consequences of not being able to comply with the earlier timelines, due to technical glitches in the IT portal," Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-department-extends-deadline-for-various-tax-compliances-1015873.html
03-08-2021||National||Pakistan accuses India of scuttling any efforts for constructive dialogue in neighbourhood||Pakistan on Tuesday accused India of consistently scuttling any efforts for a constructive and meaningful dialogue in its neighbourhood. Foreign Office Spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri made the remarks in response to media queries on External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's tweet regarding India's priorities during the Presidency of the UN Security Council. Jaishankar spelled out three key priorities for India during its presidency: voice of moderation; advocate of dialogue; and proponent of international law. India, currently a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the 2021-22 tenure, has assumed the rotating Presidency of the powerful UN organ for the month of August. "As we take over UNSC Presidency for August, look forward to working productively with other members. India will always be a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law," Jaishankar tweeted on Sunday. As we take over UNSC Presidency for August, look forward to working productively with other members. Reacting to Jaishankar's tweet, FO spokesperson Chaudhri said, "Before preaching moderation to the world, India must set its own house in order." He claimed that India has consistently scuttled any efforts for a constructive and meaningful dialogue in its own neighbourhood. Chaudhri said that India’s actions since August 5, 2019 were in “blatant violation of international law, including the UN Charter, UNSC resolutions and the fourth Geneva Convention”. The Indian government abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. India has maintained that the issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country. On Monday, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN and President of Security Council for the month of August Ambassador T S Tirumurti said India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and the onus is on Islamabad to create a conducive atmosphere that is free of terror, hostility and violence. "This should be resolved in an atmosphere which is free of terror, hostility and violence and therefore right now, the onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible and verifiable action not to allow any territory under their control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India. Pakistan must prove its consistency between its words and its actions. This is our stand,” he said. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-accuses-india-of-scuttling-any-efforts-for-constructive-dialogue-in-neighbourhood-1015881.html
03-08-2021||National||E-vehicles exempted from registration certificate fees||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Tuesday said it has issued a notification to exempt battery operated vehicles from the payment of fees for issue or renewal of registration certificate.         In a statement, the ministry said it has also exempted battery operated vehicles from the payment of fees for assignment of new registration marks. This has been notified to encourage e-mobility, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/e-vehicles-exempted-from-registration-certificate-fees-1015884.html
03-08-2021||National||Government pushes key Bills in LS, RS amid Opposition protests||Amid opposition protests, Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed two Bills, including the Essential Defence Services Bill that empowers the government to ban strikes, agitations and lockouts in defence establishments. The other Bill that was passed without any significant discussion was the Tribunals Reforms Bill that seeks to abolish nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), a move that faced opposition from the film industry. Both Houses continued to witness protests by opposition members on issues ranging from the Pegasus revelations of alleged snooping, rising fuel prices and the farmer agitation. The Rajya Sabha passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill that seeks to provide for a pre-packaged insolvency resolution mechanism for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) after a brief discussion. Regional outfits such as BJD, TRS, YSRCP, TDP and NDA partner AIADMK participated in the discussion on the Bill. This Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha last week. Opposition parties continued to raise slogans demanding a discussion on the Pegasus revelations, which Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has already termed as a “non-issue”. In the Lok Sabha, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government was ready to respond to any queries raised by members on the Tribunals Reforms Bill even as opposition members raised slogans against the government in the well of the House. In brief remarks on the Essential Defence Services Bill, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury termed the draft legislation as “draconian”. “There are 41 Ordnance Factories in India. The government is trying to convert this into separate boards and finally, it is an indirect way of privatisation of ordnance factories in our country and the sole purpose of this Bill is to ban strikes,” RSP member N K Premachandran said opposing the Bill. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the Bill has been brought before the House after consultations with the employees' unions of ordnance factories. The Bill seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated by the government on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-pushes-key-bills-in-ls-rs-amid-opposition-protests-1015885.html
03-08-2021||National||IIL may start supplying 20 lakh doses of Covaxin by September, says NITI Aayog||Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL) may start supplying 20 lakh doses of Covaxin by September, the government said on Tuesday. On the production plan of Covaxin at various facilities, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there were some initial hiccups related to standardisation and quality assurances of the batches of vaccines at the Bangalore plant of Bharat Biotech, which delayed the production of the Covid vaccine. "The quantum jump in the production capacity of Covaxin will come as the Bangalore facility has got activated. There was a little delay because of standardisation processes, fine-tuning quality assurances and bringing it to the level of efficient flow. As a new industry was started, validating it, standardising it took some time, so there was a delay," he told reporters. Paul said the company has started an additional facility at Ankleshwar in Gujarat where 60 lakh doses of the vaccine will be manufactured. "...so they did put in the efforts. There were some hiccups which we should respect and not demoralise their efforts," he added. Paul was replying to a question at a press conference on the delay of Covaxin production and over a few initial batches of the vaccine from Bangalore not qualifying. As for IIL, he said it may start supplying 20 lakh doses of Covaxin "by September or late August". Paul said Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Limited, the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre and BIBCOL need substantial infrastructure development to manufacture Covaxin. These public sector undertakings (PSUs) are expected to be activated for supplying Covaxin by December. "Substantive infrastructure is being build, modified or re-purposed, which will take a little time, but we should expect more clarity on the timeline. Broadly, we should look at November-December for the activation of those additional PSUs, but efforts are going on, tech transfer is going on. IIL is located in Hyderabad itself and we are now visualising some degree of contribution," Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iil-may-start-supplying-20-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-by-september-says-niti-aayog-1015887.html
03-08-2021||National||Avoid large congregation on Independence Day: Centre to States||In view of Covid-19, the Centre has directed States to avoid large congregation on Independence Day celebrations. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-large-congregation-on-independence-day-centre-to-states-1015893.html
03-08-2021||National||Manipur's Chandel tops list of aspirational districts in June, reports Niti Aayog||Chandel district in Manipur has topped the list of aspirational districts ranked by government think tank Niti Aayog for the month of June. Sahibganj (Jharkhand) and Firozpur (Punjab) have been ranked at the second and third positions, respectively, Niti Aayog said in a tweet on Tuesday. Dhubri (Assam) and Kiphire (Nagaland) are at the fourth and fifth places, respectively. The delta rankings took into account incremental progress made by over 112 aspirational districts across six developmental areas in June 2021. Health and nutrition, education, agriculture and water resources, financial inclusion, skill development and basic infrastructure were the development areas that were taken into consideration for the ranking. Aspirational districts programme, launched in January 2018, aims to transform districts that have shown relatively lesser progress in key social areas. The ranking of aspirational districts is done every month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipurs-chandel-tops-list-of-aspirational-districts-in-june-reports-niti-aayog-1015916.html
03-08-2021||National||Governor's power on remission not restricted by statute: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Governor's power to grant remission, reprieve and pardon to a convict is not restricted by a statutory provision, though the sovereign act is performed in aid and advice of the state government. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and A S Bopanna said under Section 433 A of the Criminal Procedure Code, the power of the state government to suspend the sentence of life imprisonment in an offence entailing death penalty as the maximum sentence, has been restricted. The provision stated that such a person should not be released from prison unless he has served at least 14 years of imprisonment.  On the other hand, the power conferred on the Governor under Article 161 of the Constitution, though exercised on the aid and advice of the State, is without any restriction of the actual period of imprisonment undergone by the prisoner, the top court noted. "Thus, if a prisoner has undergone more than 14 years of actual imprisonment, the state government, as an appropriate government, is competent to pass an order of premature release, but if the prisoner has not undergone 14 years or more of actual imprisonment, the Governor has a power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites and remissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person de hors (without) the restrictions imposed under Section 433-A of the Constitution," the bench said.  The court explained the legal position while setting aside a single judge order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court which directed the Haryana government to consider the feasibility of drafting a fresh policy to grant remission in respect of power of the Governor given under the Constitution. The High Court also directed the state government to strictly adhere to the restrictions given under Section 433 A of the Criminal Procedure Code. The top court's bench, however, said, "we find that the directions issued by the High Court are not sustainable for the reason that the policies have to be read keeping in view the period of imprisonment undergone by a prisoner." The court reiterated the power of remission is to be exercised by the state government, if the prisoner has undergone 14 years of actual imprisonment in the cases falling within the scope of Section 433-A of the CrPC and in case the imprisonment is less than 14 years, the power of premature release can be exercised by the Governor though on the aid and advice of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/governors-power-on-remission-not-restricted-by-statute-sc-1015933.html
03-08-2021||National||Jharkhand HC asks CBI to start probe into Dhanbad judge death case||The High Court of Jharkhand on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to initiate a probe into the death of Dhanbad district judge Uttam Anand at the earliest. The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad gave this direction after the reply of the CBI counsel during the hearing of the case. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the hit-and-run case of the 49-year-old judge who died after a heavy autorickshaw rammed into him while he was on a morning jog on July 28 in Dhanbad. The central investigating agency informed the court that it has received the state government's letter in this regard on Monday. The CBI may issue a notification for the investigation on Wednesday. To this, the court said that after the notification is issued, the agency should immediately register an FIR. The court also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Earlier, the progress report of the investigation in the case was presented to the high court by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). Taking cognisance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan converted it into a writ petition, and ordered the formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. The bench, dissatisfied with the progress report, questioned why there was a delay in registering an FIR into the case. The incident occurred at 5.08 am, and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court said. "Do the police register an FIR only on the basis of a statement? Do the police not register an FIR on their own? Why did the police take six hours to register the FIR?" it sought to know. The court said that there was fear among judicial officers following the incident and directed that the security of courts, including the high court, and judicial officers be strengthened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-hc-asks-cbi-to-start-probe-into-dhanbad-judge-death-case-1015936.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition leaders attend breakfast meet called by Rahul Gandhi to chalk out joint strategy on Pegasus issue||In a bid to present a united face on the Pegasus spyware issue, leaders of several opposition parties attended a breakfast meeting hosted by former Congress President Rahul Gandhi at the Constitution Club here on Tuesday. Apart from around 100 MPs of the Congress, leaders of several opposition parties including Trinamool Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, CPI-M, CPI, RJD and Samajwadi Party attended the meeting. Leaders of JMM, JKNC besides IUML, RSP, KCM and RSP were also present at the meeting. Trinamool Congress, which had skipped the last meeting of Opposition leaders by Gandhi, was also present at today's breakfast meet. Besides Gandhi, senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh were present at the meeting.  The meeting comes amid continued standoff between the opposition and the government over the Pegasus snooping issue with the opposition demanding a discussion in Parliament and a Supreme Court monitored probe in the matter. The government is, however, saying that this is a non-issue and does not want it to be discussed in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-leaders-attend-breakfast-meet-called-by-rahul-gandhi-to-chalk-out-joint-strategy-on-pegasus-issue-1015696.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Insult to Parliament: PM Modi slams Opposition for tearing papers, making 'derogatory' remark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday fumed at the opposition for “insulting” Parliament by repeated disruptions and “derogatory” references to the legislative process, but asked BJP members to exercise restraint. This was the third consecutive week at the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting that the prime minister has vented his ire at the opposition, particularly Congress and Trinamool Congress, for criticising the government’s Covid-19 response and repeated disruptions of Parliament proceedings. Modi highlighted specific instances – both of Trinamool members – the snatching of papers from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and certain “derogatory” remarks made regarding the passing of bills in Parliament. He also referred to the instance of opposition members tearing papers and flinging them at the presiding officer in the Lok Sabha. At the same time Modi advised BJP members not to get provoked by the opposition, exercise restraint and ensure maximum attendance in their respective Houses. The Prime Minister expressed anger at the conduct of some opposition members and noted that those who tore papers and threw it around have remained unrepentant, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi told reporters. While Trinamool member in Rajya Sabha, Shantanu Sen, had snatched papers from Vaishnaw’s hands, Congress members had torn papers and flung placards in the Lok Sabha. The prime minister was also anguished at the derogatory references to parliamentary procedures, an apparent mention of Trinamool Congress member Derek O’Brien. “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill. Passing legislation or making papri chaat,” O’Brien had said on Monday. In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill 😡(See shocking chart👇) Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi made a reference to O’Brien’s remarks in the Rajya Sabha and demanded an apology. “One member has stated the bills are being passed like 'chaat papri',” Naqvi said, adding this was an insult to the House and demanded an apology. Joshi too supported Naqvi saying the MP from Trinamool should apologise as his comments were “insult of the Parliament, insult of people of India... it is the greatest insult in using such a phrase. Most unfortunate.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/insult-to-parliament-pm-modi-slams-opposition-for-tearing-papers-making-derogatory-remark-1015711.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Oppn MPs pedal to Parliament on fuel price hike after Rahul's meet with 15 parties||Pedalling around Parliament precincts, shouting slogans and waving posters, leaders of 15 Opposition parties, after a breakfast meeting with Rahul Gandhi, protested in the national capital against Pegasus, fuel price hike and farm bills on Tuesday. MPs including Gandhi, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, RJD's Manoj Jha took to a cycle march on Raisina Road to oppose the hike in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas cylinders, the second such protest after Rahul Gandhi last week rode a tractor to Parliament to express solidarity with the protesting farmers against the three contentious  farm laws passed by the government last year. Some, who could not cycle, walked down to Parliament. Television media crews followed the leaders on bicycles, creating quite a spectacle near Parliament. At the meeting, the leaders batted for a joint Parliamentary strategy. Those who attended the meeting included Saugata Roy, Kalyan Banerjee, Mohua Moitra (TMC), Sanjay Raut and Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Manoj Jha (RJD), Kanimozhi (DMK) and Ram Gopal Yadav (SP). "The single motive to invite you is that we should unite.The more this voice unites, the more powerful it will become, the more difficult it will become for the BJP and RSS to suppress this voice," Gandhi said at the meeting. Tweeting photos of the meeting with Opposition leaders numbering more than 100, Rahul Gandhi said, "One priority- our country, our people." "By trying to silence the Opposition, the Modi government is trying to silence the voice of almost 60% of the country. But we stand together as a united Opposition & we will not allow anyone to drown our voice. I am grateful to all the leaders who took the time to attend today's meeting, " Gandhi later said on Instagram. On the cycle march, he said on Twitter, "Neither are our faces important nor our names. What is only necessary is that we are public representatives and each one of these faces reflects crores of faces, who are disturbed due to price rise. Are these good days?" Speaking at the meeting he said, "Within the foundations of unity, we can have a few discussions and arguments but I think it is important for us to come up with the principles of the foundations of our unity.""As far as fuel prices are concerned, people of India are struggling. They have to pay a lot of money... So I thought symbolically if we go from here to Parliament on cycle, it would have an interesting impact, it will also have media impact as well. People will see that Opposition feels the pain of fuel price hike," Gandhi said those Opposition members who are comfortable riding a cycle to do this One priority- our country, our people. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "after a sumptuous breakfast, leaders of eleven Opposition parties spoke briefly about the importance of unity in Parliament and on the ground in the struggle against the anti-people policies and undemocratic actions of the BJP government. We are witnessing something special here". Trinamool Congress, which was keeping away from in-house meetings of the Opposition called by Congress, however, attended both the meeting and the cycle march on Tuesday. This was days after Mamata Banerjee had  a meeting with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at Sonia's residence 10 Janpath during the West Bengal Chief Minister's five day visit to Delhi starting July 26. Members of BSP and APP, which will be contesting elections separately from Congress in UP and Punjab, however, stayed off the meeting and cycle protest on Tuesday. Leaders from "like-minded parties" TMC, DMK, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, Samajwadi Party, CPI-M, CPI, RSP, IUML, JMM, KCM, National Conference and LJD took part in the breakfast meeting hosted by Rahul Gandhi at the Constitution Club. Soon after the meeting, Gandhi led the cycle March with Opposition MPs passing through Constitution Club and Raisina Road and culminating at Parliament gate number-4. Earlier on farmers' issues had led a tractor march to Parliament last week. There was also a proposal to hold a parallel session at Vijay Chowk mooted by RSP MP. But others felt the Opposition should not leave the field open for the government in actual Parliament by holding a parallel Parliament outside. Government has even now managed to push its legislative agenda and passed a number of bills in the din of the House. Disruptions in both Houses on Pegasus planned Immediately after the cycle rally, Rajya Sabha was adjourned. As numbers between the ruling combine and Opposition are closer to equal in the Upper House, the Rajya Saba was more hit by disruptions than Lok Sabha. There was also a proposal to hold a parallel session at Vijay Chowk mooted by RSP MPs. But others felt that Opposition should not leave the field open for the government in actual Parliament by holding a parallel Parliament outside. While the government, which has even now managed to push its legislative agenda and passed a number of bills in the din of the House.The impact of Opposition's united efforts to disrupt the Houses on issues like Pegasus, farm bills and price hike was visible more in Rajya Sabha where both sides have almost equal strength. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, however, said, "we do not want to rush through bills. Rajnath ji Amit Shah is talking to all Opposition leaders daily. when the Opposition leaders go to talk to Singh and Shah, some say we are ready but Congress is not ready to run the House while Congress leaders say they are ready but Opposition leaders are not." He also dismissed Rahul Gandhi's attack on the government saying, "there is no seriousness in what Rahul Gandhi says." Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi hit out at Gandhi accusing of indulging in "gimmicks for cheap publicity" and slammed the "rant and run" tactics of the Opposition to hijack parliamentary proceedings and defame the government. "In their Modi-bashing, the opposition has been resorting to India-bashing," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-mps-pedal-to-parliament-on-fuel-price-hike-after-rahuls-meet-with-15-parties-1015720.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned twice amid Opposition ruckus||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned twice in the first half of Tuesday as opposition MPs continued their protest over the Pegasus snooping controversy and various other issues. Before the second adjournment of the day, the Upper House of Parliament took up seven of the 15 questions that were listed to be asked by members and replied to by ministers amid sloganeering by opposition members in the Well of the House. Several of them were also carrying placards to lodge their protest. The morning session (Zero Hour), during which urgent issues are taken up, was also disrupted due to the protest and the proceedings were first adjourned for about an hour till 12 noon. When the members re-assembled, Deputy Chairman Harivansh proceeded with the scheduled Question Hour, but the protesting MPs again entered the Well and started raising slogans. Amid the uproar, members asked questions and the ministers concerned replied. The Deputy Chairman repeatedly urged the MPs protesting in the Well to return to their seats, but they did not relent. As the disruptions continued, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the proceedings at around 12.40 PM till 2 pm. Similar scenes were witnessed in the morning session too. The House had met for the day at 11 am. Soon after listed official papers were laid on the table of the House, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said several Opposition MPs including Ramgopal Yadav of Samajwadi Party, Sanjay Singh (AAP), Mallikarjun Kharge and K C Venugopal (both Congress), Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC), CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan and Binoy Viswam of the CPI have given notices under rule 267 seeking suspension of business to take up discussion on issues they want to raise. The Chairman, however, said he has not admitted the notices. Unsatisfied by the Chairman's ruling, opposition MPs stormed into the Well of the House, raising slogans. Naidu asked them to return to their seats even as Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi objected to comments by a senior opposition leader over the passage of bills in Parliament without discussion. He did not name the MP but he was apparently referring to a tweet by TMC's Derek O'Brien who had on Monday highlighted that 12 Bills were passed at "an average time of under seven minutes per Bill" in the first 10 days of monsoon session of Parliament and asked "passing legislation or making papri chaat!" Naidu said the majority of the members want the House to run and they want to discuss the issues. "Chair is also willing to permit discussion on these issues but this is the way...you cannot force us, you cannot dictate what to do and what not to do," he said. "Go to your seats otherwise you will be named and action will be taken." He repeatedly asked the protesting MPs to go back to their seats and allow the House to function. As protests got louder, Naidu adjourned the proceedings at around 11.10 am till noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-twice-amid-opposition-ruckus-1015724.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Venkaiah Naidu speaks to Kharge, senior ministers to end Parliament logjam||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has spoken to senior ministers, including Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, and Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge in a bid to find a breakthrough for the smooth functioning of the Upper House in the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament. Naidu's efforts came as Parliament proceedings witnessed another washout with Lok Sabha passing the Essential Defence Services Bill, which bans strikes in defence production sector and has attracted Opposition ire, and Rajya Sabha clearing the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2021 amid din. Naidu discussed the matter with Kharge on Tuesday soon after the House adjourned in the morning session while he held discussions with Singh, Shah, Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday evening. He told both the sides to collectively find a solution to the logjam in Parliament. Naidu asked both the sides to sit together to work out an amicable solution to end the stalemate that has led to the virtual washout of proceedings since July 19 following the government not accepting the Opposition demand for a discussion on the Pegasus episode. The Defence Minister had on Monday reached out to Kharge and Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandhyopadhyay but the Opposition remained adamant on a discussion on Pegasus first. A top government floor manager claimed the Opposition had no clarity on what they wanted while the Opposition leaders accused the Ministers of indulging in the"optics of discussion". On Tuesday in Rajya Sabha, Naidu told members during Zero Hour that the majority of the MPs wanted to run the House and discuss issues. He said he was also willing to permit discussion on issues but "you cannot force us, you cannot dictate what to do and what not to do". "People are watching, children are watching. The entire country is really getting agonised by your continued disruptions. We are sent here for discussion. Discuss, debate and decide. Do not disrupt." As he disallowed motions seeking suspension of business and discussed Pegasus submitted by members, including Kharge, MPs continued their protest. Naidu told them, "nobody can dictate the chair. Nobody can show an accusing finger. Understand. Go to your seats."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/venkaiah-naidu-speaks-to-kharge-senior-ministers-to-end-parliament-logjam-1015757.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||SBSP chief Rajbhar says party will ally with BJP if its CM nominee is from backward caste||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, who leads a front of small parties in Uttar Pradesh, on Tuesday said his outfit will ally with the BJP if it picks a backward caste leader as its chief minister candidate for next year's assembly polls. The SBSP leader, once an ally of the BJP, made the remark after a meeting with BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and vice-president Dayashankar Singh that he initially described as a “courtesy call”. He first said the chances of an alliance with the BJP are “negligible” and vowed to “root out” the party from the state in next year’s elections. But Rajbhar went on to hold out the possibility of an alliance with the ruling party and BJP’s Dayashankar Singh predicted that the two parties will contest the 2022 polls together. Rajbhar, who had recently launched Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha as a political front of small parties, said, "The BJP is keen to forge an alliance with us. They think it is necessary to enter into an alliance with us to form the government again." "If our demands, including announcement of a backward caste person as CM candidate, a census to collate the backward caste population, 33 per cent reservation, common & compulsory free education are met, then we can consider an alliance," the former minister said. The BJP has a government in UP and at the Centre so it should not have problems in implementing our demands, he said. "Till the BJP does not initiate on their part to fulfil our demands, how can things materialise?" he added. Earlier, Rajbhar told reporters after the meeting with the BJP state chief, "Swatantra Dev is a leader of backward classes and also the BJP state president. It was a courtesy meeting with him. We have personal relations. I had some work due to which I went there. There is no political meaning in this meeting." BJP state vice-president Dayashankar, who was present in the meeting, said the talks between the leaders (Rajbhar and Swatantra Dev) were "positive" and claimed that both parties will contest elections together in 2022. When asked about Dayashankar's claim, Rajbhar told PTI that there is "negligible" chance of a tie-up with the BJP. When questioned if AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi will be angered on entering an alliance with the BJP, Rajbhar said, "There is no chance of Owaisi being angry as his decision will be benefitting the Muslim comunity." The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest 100 seats in the polls next year by tying up with Rajbhar-led SBSP and its Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. The SBSP had contested the 2017 Assembly polls in alliance with the BJP but parted ways before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Rajbhar-led party won four seats in the previous assembly polls, when it contested as an ally of the BJP. Rajbhar, who was cabinet minister, resigned before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. The Rajbhars constitute 20 per cent of the Poorvanchal population and are regarded as the second-most politically dominant community after the Yadavs in eastern UP. After launching the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, the SBSP chief had said that it would contest the 2022 assembly polls and that the doors of the front were open for the SP, BSP and Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sbsp-chief-rajbhar-says-party-will-ally-with-bjp-if-its-cm-nominee-is-from-backward-caste-1015771.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar meets UP BJP chief in Lucknow, terms it as only 'courtesy call'||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, who has recently formed the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, on Tuesday met BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh here with the former terming it as a "courtesy meeting". "Swatantra Dev is a leader of backward classes and also BJP state president. It was a courtesy meeting with him. We have personal relations. I had some work due to which I went there. There is no political meaning in this meeting," Rajbhar told reporters. Ruling out possibility of an alliance with BJP again, Rajbhar said, "I can say with guarantee that there would be no agreement of our party with the BJP. I will root out BJP from the state." BJP state vice-president Dayashankar Singh, who was present in the meeting, said the talks between the leaders (Rajbhar and Swatantra Dev) were "positive" and claimed that both parties will contest Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections together in 2022. The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest 100 seats in the polls next year in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led SBSP and its Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties. SBSP had contested the 2017 Assembly polls in alliance with the BJP but parted ways before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sbsp-chief-om-prakash-rajbhar-meets-up-bjp-chief-in-lucknow-terms-it-as-only-courtesy-call-1015787.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition targets HM Amit Shah after Dalit minor raped in Delhi||A nine-year-old Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances with her parents alleging that she was raped and forcefully cremated by a priest in south-west Delhi, triggering criticism from Opposition parties against Delhi Police and Home Minister Amit Shah. The incident was reported from Old Nangal village on Sunday evening and it came to light when police received a call at around 10:30 pm regarding the rape and death of the minor girl. After recording the statement of the victim's mother, police have added rape charges in the FIR and arrested four persons, including the priest. According to police, the girl had gone to get cold water from a cooler at the crematorium after informing her mother at around 5:30 pm on Sunday. Half an hour later, they claimed, the priest Radhey Shyam called the family and informed them that she got electrocuted while getting water from the cooler. The priest along with others showed the mother the girl's body. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow while her lips were also blue, PTI reported. The priest along with his associates persuaded her mother against calling the police saying that doctors will steal the girl's organs during postmortem and it was better to cremate her, police said. The girl was cremated but later the woman and her husband claimed there was some foul play. Police said a preliminary forensic examination showed that there were signs of electrocution. Prima facie, they claimed, a heavy flow of current was observed from the cooler, the official said. The police also went to the spot where the victim was cremated. It was examined and tooth, fractured particles of her skull, along with parts below the ankle were recovered. These were handed over to police which will submit the samples at the lab for further examination, according to the official. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi said the incident was "painful and condemnable". "Think what must be going on for his family? The Home Minister, who is responsible for law and order in Delhi, has gone to distribute the UP certificate, but is unable to handle his own responsibility. From Hathras to Nangal: There is Jungle Raj," she tweeted. दिल्ली, नांगल में नाबालिग बच्ची के साथ हुई घटना दर्दनाक एवं निंदनीय है। सोचिए क्या बीत रही होगी उसके परिवार पर? दिल्ली में कानून व्यवस्था के जिम्मेदार गृहमंत्री जी यूपी सर्टिफिकेट बांटने गए थे, लेकिन खुद की जिम्मेदारी नहीं संभाल पा रहे हैं। हाथरस से नांगल तक: जंगलराज है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-targets-hm-amit-shah-after-dalit-minor-raped-in-delhi-1015852.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Lalu Prasad meets Sharad Yadav, backs Chirag Paswan||RJD president Lalu Prasad Yadav met Sharad Yadav, who is recuperating from a long spell of illness, on Tuesday, and both leaders held talks for over an hour. The RJD leader told reporters later that the absence of socialists leaders like Sharad Yadav, Mulayam Singh Yadav and himself had resulted in neglect of people-related issues in Parliament. He also backed LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who has been deserted by five MPs of his party led by his uncle Pashupati Kuma Paras, saying that the young parliamentarian has emerged as leader despite the feud. People have rallied around him, the former Bihar chief minister said, while favouring an alliance between the LJP leader and his party which is being now led for all practical purposes by his son Tejashwi Yadav. The RJD chief was accompanied by party MPs Prem Chand Gupta and Misa Bharti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalu-prasad-meets-sharad-yadav-backs-chirag-paswan-1015856.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||Would PM be happier if I used 'dhokla' instead: TMC MP Derek O'Brien on 'papdi chaat' remark||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's disapproval of his 'papri chaat' comment on passing of bills, an unfazed TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien on Tuesday said his intention was to use a cultural idiom to connect with the people over the serious issue and asked if the PM would be happier if he used the word "dhokla" instead. He stressed that the real issue was the hurried passing of bills in both the Houses without any discussions and even went on to say that the prime minister's reaction showed that the "TMC is setting the agenda". "Passing laws or making paapri chaat," O'Brien had said on Monday taking a swipe at the government and noting that 12 bills were passed at an average time of under seven minutes in Parliament. On Tuesday, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said that PM Modi was anguished over the comment and found it "insulting to the people who elect MPs". "The TMC is setting the agenda and the PM is replying. Nowhere has the PM disputed the number we have put out of seven minutes. It is a cultural idiom that people understand. Would PM be happier if I used 'dhokla' instead?" the Trinamool Congress leader later told reporters. Dhokla is a popular Gujarati snack. "I speak in the language of the people. I have taken a serious fact and used a popular cultural idiom to spread the message," O'Brien said. The MP and his Lok Sabha colleague Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar served 'chaat' to mediapersons on Tuesday and even had their share of the savoury snack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/would-pm-be-happier-if-i-used-dhokla-instead-tmc-mp-derek-obrien-on-papdi-chaat-remark-1015861.html
03-08-2021||National Politics||No proposal under consideration for bifurcation of any state, including Tamil Nadu, says MoS Home||The Centre has no proposal under its consideration for bifurcation of any state, including Tamil Nadu, even though demands are received from various individuals and organisations from time to time, Union Minister Nityanand Rai said on Tuesday. The Union Minister of State for Home's statement in the Lok Sabha came in reply to a question of Tamil Nadu MPs T R Paarivendhar and S Ramalingam whether the Central government has any proposal to bifurcate any state in the country, including Tamil Nadu. "Demands and representations are received from time to time from various individuals and organisations for the creation of new states. The creation of a new state has wide ramifications and a direct bearing on the federal polity of our country. "Government moves on the matter of formation of new states after taking into consideration all relevant factors. Presently no such proposal is under consideration," Rai said. The two Tamil Nadu MPs also asked whether the government has received any demand from any individual or organisation to bifurcate states like Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-proposal-under-consideration-for-bifurcation-of-any-state-including-tamil-nadu-says-mos-home-1015878.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Pakistani LeT militant killed in J&K’s Bandipora||A Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militant from Pakistan was killed in an encounter with security forces in Chandaji area of north Kashmir's Bandipora district on Tuesday. A police official said the encounter broke out during the wee hours after the army and J&K police cordoned the area on a specific tip-off about the presence of militants there. As the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon the forces, triggering off a gunfight in which one militant was killed. Police identified the slain militant as Babar Ali, a Pakistani, who had escaped on July 25 during an encounter at Chandajji forest area of Bandipora in which three ultras were killed. Pertinently, 90 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July which included several top commanders of the Lashke-e-Toiba (LeT). Among 90 militants killed in J&K this year, only eight are Pakistanis while the rest are all locals. According to the army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K despite the fact that no infiltration has taken place so far this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-let-militant-killed-in-jk-s-bandipora-1015688.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||CBSE class 10 results declared: Girls outshine boys||Girls outshone boys by a slender margin of 0.35 per cent while 99.04 per cent students passed the class 10 exams, the results which were declared by the CBSE on Tuesday. According to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) data, 57,824 students have scored above 95 per cent marks, while 2,00,962 candidates have scored between 90 and 95 per cent. Trivandrum region has achieved the highest pass percentage of 99.99 per cent followed by Bengaluru (99.96 per cent) and Chennai (99.94 per cent) "The result of 16,639 students is till under process. No merit list will be declared this year and no merit certificates will be issued to students," said BSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bharwdaj. A total of 17,636 candidates have been placed under compartment. The number of Children with Special Needs scoring above 95 per cent is 53 while 224 students in the category have scored above 90 per cent. In CBSE-affiliated schools abroad, 99.92 per cent students have passed class 10. Kendriya Vidalayas and the schools under the Central Tibetan Schools Administration have achieved a 100 per cent pass percentage as against 99.23 per cent and 93.67 per cent respectively last year. The Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas have improved their pass percentage from 98.66 to 99.99 this year. The pass percentage of government and government-aided schools is 96.03 and 95.88 pc respectively. The pass percentage of private schools has increased by over six per cent since last year. "The compartment examination will be conducted between August 16 and September 15. The exact dates will be announced in some time," Bhardwaj said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The result has been announced on the basis of an alternate assessment policy. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject were for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks were calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. CBSE Class 10 Result 2021: How to check your marks online Step 1. Visit the official result portal cbseresults.nic.in Step 2. Click on the ‘CBSE 10th results’ link. It will redirect you to the login window. Step 3. Enter your roll number, school number, centre number and admit card ID. Step 4. Submit and download CBSE 10th result. Save your results for future references.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbse-class-10-results-declared-girls-outshine-boys-1015715.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Landslide in Solan, search on for trapped people||A landslide hit Himachal Pradesh's Solan district early Tuesday, trapping three people under the debris, a state disaster management official said.  While one of them has been pulled out of the rubble, an operation is on to rescue the other two.  Teams of the district administration and police are on the spot, he added.  Further information is awaited.  As per a report received from the Solan District Emergency operation Centre (DEOC), the landslide occurred near a hotel in sector three in Parwanoo of Kasauli sub division at around 2:30 AM, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-in-solan-search-on-for-trapped-people-1015716.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Army helicopter crashes in Ranjit Sagar Dam: Pathankot SSP||An Army helicopter crashed in Ranjit Sagar Dam on Tuesday, Senior Superintendent of Police of Pathankot in Punjab Surendra Lamba said. "We have received information that an Army helicopter has crashed in the lake. We have rushed our teams to the spot," Lamba told PTI over phone. There were no immediate reports of any casualty, he said, adding further details were awaited. The dam is located about 30 km from Pathankot in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-helicopter-crashes-in-ranjit-sagar-dam-pathankot-ssp-1015718.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi MLAs' salary, allowances increased from Rs 54,000 to Rs 90,000, AAP govt says still lowest in India||Delhi MLAs will get Rs 90,000 as salary and allowances every month from now on, the first rise in 10 years, with the Arvind Kejriwal government on Tuesday clearing the proposal which was earlier truncated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Delhi government had sought a salary rise of up to Rs 2.1 lakh a month but the MHA limited the rise to Rs 90,000, capping the salary at Rs 30,000 and Rs 60,000 as allowances. Delhi MLAs will continue to remain among the lowest-paid MLAs, the AAP-led Delhi government said in a statement while pointing out that BJP-ruled and other party-ruled states were paying 1.5 to two times the salary and allowances proposed for Delhi MLAs.  Uttarakhand is paying Rs 1.98L for an MLA per month while for Himachal Pradesh it is Rs 1.9 lakh, Haryana Rs 1.55 lakh, Bihar Rs 1.3 lakh and Rajasthan Rs 1.42 lakh, it said, indicating its unhappiness over the MHA not accepting its proposal. Delhi government said the MHA "restricted" its proposal and capped MLAs' salary even as the cost of living in Delhi has risen substantially. It said the salaries were not revised since 2011 and the Delhi government requested the MHA that the salary of MLAs be at par with those of other states. However, it refused to accept the request. While the Delhi Government had proposed a salary of Rs 54,000 at par with other states, the MHA, however allowed only Rs 30,000. Now the salary and allowances — constituency allowance of Rs 25,000, secretarial allowance of Rs 15,000, telephone allowance of Rs 10,000 and conveyance allowance of Rs 10,000 — will add up to Rs 90,000.  The statement said that many states provide other perks and allowances to their MLAs, which the Delhi Government does not provide – like house rent allowance, office rent and staff expenses, allowance for buying office equipment, vehicle for usage and driver allowance, among others. It said the proposal for increase in salary and allowances of Delhi MLAs was pending with the MHA for the last five years. In 2015, the Delhi Assembly had passed a bill to increase the MLAs salary by 400 per cent to Rs 2.1 lakh but it could not be implemented as the Lieutenant Governor returned the Bill saying the government did not take his prior clearance. Following this, the Delhi government prepared a fresh proposal and forwarded it to the MHA, but it was cleared only now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-mlas-salary-allowances-increased-from-rs-54000-to-rs-90000-aap-govt-says-still-lowest-in-india-1015743.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Congress scouting for 'winnable' candidates in UP for upcoming Assembly polls||The Congress, which is striving hard to remain electorally relevant in the state, has started scouting for 'winnable' candidates in the state, with the two other major opposition parties — Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP — making it clear that they will go solo in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, According to the sources in the UP Congress, party general secretary and state unit in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has asked senior party leaders to be ready to contest the forthcoming assembly polls. A senior state Congress leader here conceded on Tuesday that it was going to be a 'tough' task for the grand old party to find 'good' candidates to be fielded from 403 assembly seats in case the party was 'forced' to go solo. ''Priyankaji has asked the senior leaders to contest the polls.....they have even been asked to start the groundwork,'' the leader told DH. The Congress, which had managed to win seven seats in the 2017 assembly polls in UP, faced rebellions and desertions ahead of the elections with several senior leaders, including former union minister Jitin Prasada, joining the BJP.  Even in Raebareli, the Lok Sabha seat from where Congress president Sonia Gandhi was an MP, party MLA Aditi Singh had raised a banner of revolt. Aditi, an MLA from Raebareli Sadar seat, who has been expelled from the party, is likely to join the BJP shortly. Besides, several old guards have also openly voiced their opposition to UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu's style of functioning. They had also written to Sonia seeking her intervention. Sources in the party said that Congress still hoped that it could have some sort of alliance with the SP and some other smaller outfits. Priyanka, who had recently visited the state capital, said that her party had an ''open mind'' on alliance in UP. Although the party high command favoured an alliance, some senior UP leaders wanted the party to go solo in the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-scouting-for-winnable-candidates-in-up-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-1015749.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||3 newly-recruited militants among J&K’s most wanted 10 ultras||The Jammu and Kashmir police have released a fresh list of 10 most wanted militants, which includes three new recruits, operating in the Valley. The list, shared on Twitter by the Kashmir Zone Police on Monday night, also includes seven militants who have been active for some time. “Top 10 #targets: #Old #terrorists- Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani & Ashraf Molvi. #New #terrorists- Saqib Manzoor, Umer Mustaq Khandey & Wakeel Shah: IGP Kashmir @JmuKmrPolice,” the tweet reads. Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) commander Salim Parray of Hajin area in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district is on the top of the list. He had escaped from an encounter on November 12, 2019. Yousuf Kantroo alias Isseh Kantur, whom the police files describe as Lashkar's “operational head, mastermind, planner and main recruiter from Budgam”, is at the second number on the most wanted list. Abbas Sheikh, in his late 40s and one of the oldest surviving militants active in Kashmir, is at the third spot on the list. Sheikh, a recycled militant, was affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen outfit before switching loyalties to newly-formed The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be the frontal organisation of the LeT last year. His sister Naseema Banoo was arrested by the police last year in June from south Kashmir’s Kulgam district under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Several members of Sheikh’s family, including his two brothers and nephews have been killed in the past 25 years. They all had joined militancy at one point or the other. The other four old militants on the list include Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani and Ashraf Molvi. Except for Reyaz Shetergund, the other three had also featured in the top 10 list released by the police in June last year. According to the police, Saqib Manzoor, Umer Mushatq Khandey and Wakeel Shah, who made it to the top ten list this time have recently joined the militant ranks. Pertinently, this year so far, 90 militants have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of whom were commanders of LeT, Jaish-e-Mohammad and the Hizbul. Among the slain militants, the majority (83) were locals while only seven were Pakistanis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-newly-recruited-militants-among-jk-s-most-wanted-10-ultras-1015762.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC dismisses plea to stop use of EVMs, imposes Rs 10k cost||The Delhi High Court Tuesday dismissed, with Rs 10,000 costs, a plea seeking direction to the Election Commission to stop the use of electronic voting machines (EVM) and revert to ballot papers in the forthcoming polls in the country. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the petition by C R Jaya Sukin — a lawyer, was a “publicity interest litigation” based on hearsay and “baseless allegations and averments”. “Nothing is argued by the petitioner (Sukin) concretely on the working of the EVM. We see no reason to entrain the writ petition,” the court said. It noted that the petition was based on four documents, out of which one was a news item and others pertained to his representation and plea before Supreme Court, and Sukin himself had no knowledge about EVMs at all. “The petitioner has read the news item the filed the writ petition without looking at the EVM and working of the EVM...which is approved by the Election Commission as well as the Parliament,” the court said. The court said Sukin may file a fresh petition on the issue after conducting research and making proper averments. “The writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 10,000 to be deposited in four weeks towards Delhi State Legal Services Authority,” the court ordered. Advocate Sidhant Kumar, appearing for the Election Commission, said that different courts in the country have already looked into and decided the issue. Sukin, who appeared in-person, argued that “democracy was in danger” by the use of EVM as the machine was prone to be hacked. He submitted that several countries, including Japan and the US, have chosen the ballot system of voting and shunned the use of EVMs for their election process. “EVM was made by other countries and even those countries are not using. USA last November held elections and even in huge Covid, they used ballot”, Sukin told the court. In his petition, Sukin said, “Article 324 of the Constitution of India states that elections conducted by Election commission need to be free and fair, and reflect the will of the voters. The EVMs must be replaced across India with traditional ballot papers. Voting through ballot papers is a more reliable and transparent method for the electoral process of any country”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-to-stop-use-of-evms-imposes-rs-10k-cost-1015769.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cabinet gives nod to death penalty proposal in spurious liquor cases||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved amendments to the state Excise Act prescribing capital punishment and life imprisonment in the cases related to deaths caused by the consumption of spurious liquor. This amendment proposal, which also imposes a Rs 20 lakh fine, will become a law once approved by the state Legislative Assembly and subsequent assent of the governor. The move comes against the backdrop of the death of at least 11 people after drinking spurious liquor in Mandsaur and Indore recently. “The cabinet has approved the Madhya Pradesh Excise Amendment Act 2021 under which the provisions of life imprisonment and the death penalty have been made in the cases related to deaths due to spurious liquor. A provision of Rs 20 lakh fine in such cases has also been made in the amendment,” Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters after attending a cabinet meeting. He said the amendments are introduced to curb crimes related to the illegal liquor trade and deaths caused due to spurious liquor. Under the current scope of the law, convicts are sentenced to imprisonment of five to a maximum of ten years in cases related to deaths due to the consumption of spurious liquor. The amount of fine is up to Rs 10 lakh, Mishra said. “This law is being made more stringent through this amendment,” he added. Mishra said in cases of "physical damage" caused to victims after drinking spurious liquor, the penalty has been increased ranging from 10 years to maximum of 14 years from the present one year to six years, in addition to fine up to Rs 10 lakh. "In case of seizure of spurious liquor, the jail term has been increased up to six to ten years from the present six months to maximum four years," he said. The amendments also propose that people who attack the police and Excise department teams while they are seizing illicit liquor will be arrested without a warrant. The scope of punishment has been increased in several other provisions in this amendment proposal, he said. “These provisions will discourage people involved in illegal liquor trade and lives of people could be saved,” he said. On Monday, the Madhya Pradesh government decided to fix QR-coded holograms with over 20 security features on liquor bottles to stop smuggling and illegal trade. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to grant the "heritage" status to liquor made from Mahua flowers in a bid to bring it in the mainstream, an official release said. The rules for the controlled manufacture and sale of this liquor will be framed by the department. “This will encourage small-scale Mahua liquor industries. Rights of tribals, as mentioned in Act, will be preserved without change,” it said. Reacting to the cabinet's approval to the death penalty proposal, Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath said the state government should show "strong will" to act against liquor mafia. “Mafia can never be dealt with only by making laws. Implementation of the law is very important and for that the government should be strong-willed. The government has been talking about strict laws regarding the safety of women for years, but even today they are not safe in the state,” Nath said while apparently referring to the provision of death penalty in the cases of rape of minor girls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-gives-nod-to-death-penalty-proposal-in-spurious-liquor-cases-1015772.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||J&K revenue authorities not cooperating in Roshni land scam probe: CBI tells HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the infamous Roshni land scam, has informed Jammu and Kashmir High Court that Revenue authorities in the union territory (UT) were not cooperating with them in investigations. The CBI counsel informed the Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal that despite repeated requests of furnishing records, the Revenue department officials were not cooperating. On the orders of the HC, the CBI is investigating a bunch of cases relating to the conferment of ownership rights of prime state land at low prices to ineligible applicants, which have caused a loss of thousands of crores to the state exchequer. The alleged illegalities have come to be collectively known as the Roshni scam, named after the 2001 Land Act, under which the ownership rights were transferred and which was repealed in 2018. The J&K High Court had on October 9, 2020 declared the Roshni Act “illegal, unconstitutional and unsustainable” and ordered a CBI probe into the allotment of land under the law. On November 1 last year, the UT government cancelled all land transfers that took place under the J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001 — also known as the Roshni Act — under which 2.5 lakh acres of land was to be transferred to existing occupants. The CBI counsel informed the Division Bench that the probe agency has registered 17 FIRs into the scam and investigation into four FIRs has already been completed. “However, the Revenue authorities are not cooperating with the CBI and repeated requests about furnishing of records and information are not being taken seriously,” the CBI counsel submitted. Though J&K Advocate General denied the same, the Chief Justice asked him to inform the court about the steps taken by the J&K government to implement the earlier directions of the Division Bench. “The government has cancelled all the mutations made under the Roshni Act”, the Advocate General replied. The DB directed for the listing of the matter on September 6, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-revenue-authorities-not-cooperating-in-roshni-land-scam-probe-cbi-tells-hc-1015780.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah insensitive to harrowing experiences women face everyday: TMC on alleged rape of Delhi minor||Condemning the alleged rape and forceful cremation of a nine-year-old girl in Delhi, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Tuesday said women face harrowing experiences every day, with the Centre not doing much to change the situation for the better. Training his guns on Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the issue, the TMC's Diamond Harbour MP also said that the law and order situation in this country is in shambles. He also sought to know if newly-appointed Delhi Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana was busy with other pursuits. "The harrowing experiences faced by our women & girls and members from the SC community on a daily basis, show just how INSENSITIVE the HM is," the TMC MP, who is also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee stated. "Recently appointed Delhi CP Rakesh Asthana who is also a close aide of Mr @AmitShah - already failing his duties? Or does his appointment mean taking care of other businesses?!" he added. A nine-year-old girl Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances, with her parents alleging that she was raped and killed and later cremated without their consent. Four people, including a priest at the crematorium, have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-insensitive-to-harrowing-experiences-women-face-everyday-tmc-on-alleged-rape-of-delhi-minor-1015794.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Want to create city where poorest can live with dignity: CM Kejriwal on Delhi 2047 vision||From creating world-class infrastructure to rejuvenation of water bodies, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday spelt out his government's roadmap for the city for 2047, and said the vision was to make a "21st century Delhi" in which everyone can take pride in. He also said that the city envisioned for the next 100 years should be such that even the poorest can live here with dignity. The chief minister shared the vision after launching 'Delhi@2047' initiative online that seeks collaboration with corporate houses and philanthropic organisations to help the city government realise its long-term goals across various sectors. "We have a vision for Delhi when as a free nation we turn 100 in 2047. But that does not mean we are procrastinating our efforts. While we will continue to work in various sectors to offer better services in the next few years, like we wish to offer 24-hour water supply to people, and that is something which should happen before the next elections. We cannot be ready for the Olympic Games bid in a short period of time and it needs long-term planning. We had given a glimpse of this vision in out budget this year, the chief minister said. He lauded the efforts made in education and health sectors, saying both sectors have been revamped in a big way, evidenced in excellent performance by its students, and the improved services at city hospitals with an added "safety ring" of mohalla clinics and other facilities. Kejriwal also underlined the work done in services sector that allows people to access a number of services at their doorstep. "But for 2047 we have planned a broad roadmap, which includes, world-class infrastructure, including sporting facilities at schools to promote talent; rejuvenation of a number of water bodies, many of which had been encroached upon; and sustainable solutions that can benefit all sections of society," he said. Delhi is a "window to the country" that allows visitors to see India, Kejriwal said. "The Delhi we envision is a 21st century Delhi, in which everyone can take pride in. And, it will be a Delhi where even the poorest can live with dignity," he asserted. He mentioned that big roads of Delhi will be eventually upgraded and beautified to European standards. The 'Delhi@2047' initiative is hosted on the website of the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi. The online event was also attended by representatives of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and a few other corporate houses. Kejriwal urged them to lend their support to the government in realising the 2047 vision for Delhi, by sharing ideas and "being a partner" in this growth story as "Delhi government alone cannot achieve it". "During the Covid pandemic, corporate houses have extended us a lot of help in combating the pandemic. And that really showed that we can together do it. So now let's join hands to achieve this larger goal," he added. Industry leaders proposed ideas ranging from setting up of knowledge-based industry hub and tourism hub to making the city more liveable to the poorest section of the society in Delhi. In a tweet later, Kejriwal said, "As India enters its 75th year of Independence, it is time to set our vision for 2047. I invite all corporates and philanthropic organisations to join Delhi@2047 initiative and make Delhi the number 1 city in the world".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/want-to-create-city-where-poorest-can-live-with-dignity-cm-kejriwal-on-delhi-2047-vision-1015796.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||'History Sheeter' made UP BJP youth wing state secretary||BJP was left red faced after one of the secretaries whose name appeared in the list of office bearers of its youth wing turned out to be a 'history sheeter'. To add to the embarrassment of the saffron party, its vice-president of the UP youth wing made headlines after he helped a history sheeter in escaping from police custody a few months back. According to the sources, Arvind Raj Tripathi, a resident of Kanpur town, who has been made the UP BJP Youth wing state secretary, faces as many as 16 cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder and extortion.  Tripathi, who had also been prosecuted under the Goonda Act, is a 'history sheeter' of Kakadeo police station in Kanpur, sources said. Tripathi was sentenced to life imprisonment by a district court in a case of murder of a student leader in Kanpur in 2005. He was however acquitted by the high court in the matter. He was also accused of killing a canteen operator in Kanpur. Tripathi, however, claimed that the cases against were ''politically motivated'' and were registered during the BSP regime.   BJP state Youth Wing vice-president Shibeer Singh, whose name also appeared in the list, was accused of helping another history sheeter escape from police custody, sources said. On being asked, the state BJP leaders here feigned ignorance about the criminal antecedents of the office bearers of the youth wing. ''The criminal history of the newly appointed office bearers may not have been known to persons who appointed them,'' said a state BJP leader here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/history-sheeter-made-up-bjp-youth-wing-state-secretary-1015813.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||1,171 villages hit by floods; 3 people stranded atop tree, 5 others rescued in Madhya Pradesh rains||Three people stranded on a tree for about 24 hours and five others were rescued from flood-hit Shivpuri district in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday following "unprecedented heavy rains", officials said, adding that 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region were affected by the monsoon fury. The Army has been called in for rescue operations in Shivpuri, Sheopur, Gwalior and Datia districts, state Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan informed about the situation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who assured of all help to the state. Five people were rescued from the flood-hit Piproudha village in Shivpuri in the morning, officials said. Besides, three persons were stranded atop a tree in Beechi village of Shivpuri for 24 hours, Rajora said. "A team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rescued them with the help of a boat on Tuesday," Chouhan told reporters in Bhopal. The CM said he will soon conduct an aerial survey of the flood affected areas of the state. "A total of 1,171 villages were affected in the Gwalior-Chambal region due to excessive rainfall, especially Shivpuri and Sheopur, where an unprecedented 800 mm rainfall resulted in flooding," Chouhan said. He said 1,600 people were so far rescued by teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF, while 200 villages are still under the grip of floods, he said adding that boats were being used to rescue people from the affected areas. "I am in touch with collectors and other officials of the flood-affected districts and people were sent on a high-places for safety where relief camps too were started,” he said. On Monday, defence aircraft were pressed into service to evacuate people from some flood-affected villages in Shivpuri. However, because of the heavy rains and bad weather in the district on Tuesday, the aircraft are unable to fly for the rescue operations, officials said. The chief minister said that he is in constant touch with the administrations of rain-affected Shivpuri, Sheopur, Bhind and Datia districts and keeping a watch on the situation, they said. The NDRF and SDRF teams were in action and the chief minister was also taking updates from them on the ongoing rescue operation, the officials said. Shivpuri in-charge minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia, local MLA and state minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia were also camping in the district control room to supervise the rescue operation. The chief minister chaired an emergency meeting at the secretariat in the state capital Bhopal to monitor the rescue operation and to review the flood situation in Gwalior and Chambal divisions, an official said. As the flood situation in the Gwalior-Chambal region worsened, Chouhan informed about it in detail to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone, sources said. "The prime minister has assured Chouhan of all necessary help to the state in dealing with the flood situation," a source said. Chouhan also informed Modi about the ongoing rescue operations and discussed seeking help from the Army to deal with the situation, the sources said. On Monday, heavy rains lashed large parts of the state, especially Shivpuri and neighbouring Sheopur district, leaving two people dead, officials earlier said. Four helicopters had reached Shivpuri to evacuate people from three flooded villages, collector Akshay Kumar Singh said. In Sheopur, nearly 60 people, who were stranded in a flooded building located near the Vijaypur bus stand following heavy rains, were rescued on Monday. They had gone to Vijaypur to attend a marriage on Sunday night, but got stuck as flood waters entered the premises, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1171-villages-hit-by-floods-3-people-stranded-atop-tree-5-others-rescued-in-madhya-pradesh-rains-1015814.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Semi-nude protests by employees to invite disciplinary action, warns MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday strongly disapproved of semi-nude protests by a section of state employees and warned of 'disciplinary action' against them. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has expressed displeasure over such agitations, a senior minister said. On the other hand, the opposition Congress said the BJP government should look into the demands of its agitating employees instead of their mode of protest. A section of government employees had recently staged semi-nude protests across the state in support of their various demands. “During the cabinet meeting today, the Chief Minister expressed displeasure over semi-nude protests by the government employees. They hold such protests despite being government servants,” Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He said such an agitation falls under the purview of "indiscipline" and will not be tolerated. “Disciplinary action will be taken against the employees involved in such acts (semi-nude protests),” Mishra warned. State Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said the state government should consider the demands raised by the employees. “The employees are protesting for their justified demands. They staged semi-nude protests to draw attention of the state government towards their demands. But the CM only saw their clothes and not the justified demands,” Saluja said. Last week, the employees of Panchayat and Rural Development Department had staged semi-nude protests across the state to press for their 15-point demands, including appointment on compassionate ground and filling up of vacant posts, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/semi-nude-protests-by-employees-to-invite-disciplinary-action-warns-mp-home-minister-narottam-mishra-1015849.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||UP govt wants to rename Jhansi railway station to 'Veerangana Laxmibai'||The Uttar Pradesh government has sent a proposal to the Centre for renaming of the Jhansi railway station as 'Veerangana Laxmibai railway station', Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said after receiving the proposal of the UP government to rename the Jhansi railway station as 'Veerangana Laxmibai railway station, the comments and views of agencies concerned have been sought as per the laid down procedures. Further action will be taken after the comments and views are received from all the agencies concerned, he said in a written reply to a question. The Union Home Ministry gives its consent to the change of name of any place or station after taking no-objections from the Ministry of Railways, Department of Posts and Survey of India. These organisations have to confirm that there is no such town or village in their records with a name similar to the proposed name. The renaming of a state requires an amendment of the Constitution with a simple majority in Parliament. Changing the name of a village or town or station needs an executive order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-wants-to-rename-jhansi-railway-station-to-veerangana-laxmibai-1015859.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Cop, civilian injured as militants attack police party in Srinagar||A cop and a civilian were injured after militants attacked a police party near Sheeraz in Khanyar area of Old city Srinagar on Tuesday. An official said militants fired upon a police party in Khanyar resulting in injuries to a cop and a civilian. He said the policeman received a bullet wound in the stomach and both the injured were shifted to a hospital immediately. Reports said the firing incident created a panic in the area. The area has been cordoned off to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-civilian-injured-as-militants-attack-police-party-in-srinagar-1015862.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi Commission for Women initiates inquiry into death of minor Dalit girl||The Delhi Commission For Women has initiated an inquiry into the death of a minor Dalit girl under suspicious circumstances in southwest Delhi and has summoned the city police in the matter. Police said the nine-year-old girl died under suspicious circumstances and her parents alleged she was raped and then cremated without their consent on Sunday. They said four people, including the priest, have been arrested. The DCW has instituted an inquiry into the death of the girl in Delhi Cantonment, the panel said. The commission had received a call on its 181 Women Helpline on August 1 at 12:35 am regarding the incident. It immediately sent a team to the police station and assisted the family in filing an FIR in the matter. While stating that the case is "very serious" and merits "urgent attention', the panel summoned the deputy commissioner of southwest district to be present before it on August 5 and produce the complete case file along with a copy of the FIR. It directed that the senior police officer also produce a copy of the statements of the family recorded under section 164 of the CrPC, details of the accused arrested and a detailed action taken report in the matter. "If you fail to comply with this order without lawful excuse, you will be subjected to the consequences of non-attendance as provided in law," the summon said. The police said the girl lived with her parents in Old Nangal village in a rented house in front of a crematorium. On Sunday around 5.30 pm, she went to get cold water from a water cooler at the crematorium after informing her mother. At 6 pm, the crematorium's priest, Radhey Shyam, and two-three other people, known to the girl's mother, called her there and showed her daughter's body claiming that she got electrocuted while getting water from the cooler. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow and her lips were also blue, a senior police officer said. The priest and the others dissuaded her mother from making a call to the police, saying they will make a case out of it and during post-mortem, doctors will steal the girl's organs, so it was better to cremate her, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-commission-for-women-initiates-inquiry-into-death-of-minor-dalit-girl-1015875.html
03-08-2021||North and Central||Won't allow you to hoist tricolour: Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice threatens Haryana CM||Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice on Tuesday purportedly threatened that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will not be allowed to hoist the national flag on Independence Day, days after a similar warning was issued for his Himachal Pradesh counterpart. The threat was made through a recorded phone call to a number of people, including journalists. The caller identified himself as Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the general counsel for the SFJ. He said the Sikhs for Justice, pro-farmers and supporters of Khalistan will not allow Khattar to unfurl the Tricolour on Independence Day. Asked about the threat, the chief minister replied, "I haven't got any such threat call directly." "But from a security point of view, the arrangements made by the police and our agencies are adequate... If any difficulty arises, we will face it," he told reporters here on the sidelines of a meeting. To another question, Khattar said, "The Pannun issue is an old one, there is nothing new." US-based SFJ pushes for Sikh Referendum 2020 as part of its separatist agenda. The group's primary objective is to establish an "independent and sovereign country" in Punjab. It openly espouses the cause of Khalistan and in that process challenges the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India. The Himachal Pradesh Police has booked Pannun for sedition and other charges for allegedly issuing a threat that CM Jai Ram Thakur won't be allowed to hoist the national flag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-allow-you-to-hoist-tricolour-pro-khalistan-group-sikhs-for-justice-threatens-haryana-cm-1015939.html
03-08-2021||Opinion||BJP's caste pitch outdoing Mandal parties||Politicians have an innate ability to engage the masses. The more successful ones can also change the goalposts at short notice. Desiderata for both include sophisticated skills in man-management and mass communication. A misstep here or a miscalculation there can derail even the most immaculately laid out plans. For instance, in the 2009 Assembly polls for the undivided Andhra Pradesh, the then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy, or YSR, decided to knit his campaign around the government's pro-poor welfare schemes. The campaign worked well in the first phase of the elections for seats now part of a separate Telangana state. In the second phase of canvassing for the coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema region, Reddy effortlessly shifted gears to rake up sentiments against the division of the state. The Congress won that election on both sides of the divide. But not everyone can execute a turnaround with a finesse of a battle-hardened YSR. Every turn in the political-turnstile need not engender a favourable outcome. Even the best exponents of the trade calibrate their moves to the last millimetre to detect any structural flaws. Prognosis and theories are often tested well in advance. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s recent overt and loud Mandal outreach ahead of the crucial Assembly polls in 2022 thus calls for closer scrutiny. It is a tad more than the hot air balloons floated by political outfits at regular intervals for project assessment and feedback. On the face of it, it appears to be part of the build-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. That the BJP has successfully moulded the 1989 Mandal-Kamandal rupture in Indian politics to its advantage is a known fact. Competitive inter-caste politics within the OBC and Dalit ranks is the glue that has helped BJP bind disparate social groups under a larger canopy of Hindu-nationalism and also to paper over cracks between the core upper caste base and other deprived sections. The first phase of the BJP's Mandal project entailed projecting leaders from backward communities at the state level. A parallel series of upper caste leadership was lined up at the Centre to achieve a social balance at the top. So for every Kalyan Singh in Uttar Pradesh, there was one Atal Bihari Vajpayee or Rajnath Singh at the Centre; for a Gopinath Munde in Mumbai, there was one Pramod Mahajan in Delhi. For every BS Yediyurappa in Karnataka, there was an Ananth Kumar in the national team; for every Sushil Modi in Patna, there was one Kailashpati Mishra in Delhi. For every Uma Bharti or Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Madhya Pradesh, there was one Sunderlal Patwa or Kailash Joshi in the national politics. And for every Keshubhai Patel and Narendra Modi in Gujarat, there was one LK Advani on the national horizon. The BJP has, over the years, realised that the sheer numerical strength of the intermediary castes in India makes for a powerful building block in any power structure. The BJP nurtured regional leaders from the intermediary castes. The returns over the years were encouraging. On the other hand, the central leadership remained dominated by the upper castes, especially the Brahmins. A cursory reading of the party's powerful parliamentary board when Nitin Gadkari was the party president ten years back is a point in the case. A subtle yet clear shift in the power dynamics within the BJP was triggered by Modi's rise in Gujarat politics and, thereafter, his projection at the national level. In 2014 and after that, the BJP has not shied away from using the caste card wherever necessary. It found the confidence to woo backwards and Dalits without rubbing the political sensitivity of the core upper caste followers. The overarching umbrella of Hindu nationalism has come in handy to strike this delicate balance. The BJP's reluctance to enter the caste quagmire during its formative years can be gauged because it set up its first OBC front or morcha after winning the 2014 polls. SP Singh Baghel, a political turncoat with a stint in the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), was made its first president. Baghel won his Lok Sabha elections from Agra in 2019 and was recently inducted into the union council of ministers in the recent expansion by the Modi government. The BJP is now in the throes of taking the next ginger step towards making further inroads into the Mandal space. The party has sought to underscore its caste credentials in the recent expansion of the union council of ministers. Like Baghel, a majority of the new entrants are from backward and Dalit communities. In the last month, many administrative and political measures have been taken to reiterate the message. Twenty-seven per cent OBC reservations in the national medical entrance test NEET in AIQ, or All India Quota seats, has been cleared by the union cabinet. In Karnataka, the BJP has sought to replace Yediyurappa with a leader from the same intermediary castes. In Maharashtra, the party is working overtime to contain damage to its OBC vote-bank after the rebellion by caste leaders like Eknath Khadse. In Telangana, the BJP attempts to mobilise backward communities to stitch an electoral combination to challenge the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. As it evolves to accommodate disparate ethnic and social identities, the BJP looks increasingly surefooted. This is a remarkable transformation considering the party not long back was a little edgy in facing the likes of Lalu Prasad Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav on the caste pitch. The curator is now being asked to prepare the ground accordingly. Post demonetisation, post-GST, post-pandemic, the BJP looks a little diffident to approach the elections on economic issues. It has decided to device its version of social justice tempered to keep the upper castes in good humour. A 27-per cent reservations in NEET for OBCs is juxtaposed with a 10-per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections for the same purpose. The 2022 UP Assembly polls will put this BJP's version of social justice to a good test. The outcome will demonstrate the party's ability to pursue aggressive backwards-Dalit politics while retaining the core upper-caste support base. Both the SP and BSP can sense an opening in all this churning. In wooing the Brahmins, the opposition in UP is preparing to engage the ruling party on fronts the BJP thought were already secured. Likewise, in Bihar, its ally Nitish Kumar pushes back any encroachments on his territory by pressing for a caste census. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjps-caste-pitch-outdoing-mandal-parties-1015712.html
03-08-2021||Opinion||India at UNSC: Can we be a force for the global good?||India is set to take over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the month of August, which also comes at a time when there is a year to go for India to mark and celebrate 75 years of independence. India is the first member of the Asia-Pacific Group to be elected as a non-permanent member in the UNSC for 2021-22. Former Permanent Representative to the UN, Syed Akbaruddin, tweeted that this will be the first time an Indian prime minister will preside over the UNSC. The presidency assumes significance because, since time immemorial, India has sought global good. Not just that, but she has modelled her development journey to become a force for global good. A classic example is of Hansa Mehta, who changed the face of international law, without whom, as UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has already acknowledged, "We would likely be speaking of the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Man rather than of Human Rights." We cannot forget MS Subbulakshmi, who, on the invitation of the then secretary-general U Thant, was invited to perform because of the United Nations Day in 1966, where she sang the famous song of peace and hope, Maitreem Bajata. The UN postal administration issued a special stamp on her birth centenary that also marked the 50th year of her 1966 performance. Since it came into existence, the UN has seen some terrific diplomats from India. One name that comes to mind is Vijayalakshmi Pandit, the first woman secretary-general of the United Nations. Her birth anniversary falls on August 18. With a combination of public diplomacy and soft power, India has contributed to the overall vision and mission of the United Nations. While the past is worth recounting, it is the present that will help make sense of the future. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla recently enunciated, a pillar of India's foreign policy is to be a "force for global good". This has probably entered the first time in letter and spirit into the foreign policy discourse and is a welcome change. At the first-ever QUAD summit initiated by the US under the Biden administration and featured India, Japan, Australia in March this year, Prime Minister Modi elucidated the importance of international alliances and how they need to be formulated for the global good. In his words, "Our agenda today — covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies — makes the QUAD a force for global good. I see this positive vision as an extension of India's ancient philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which regards the world as one family." Has "force for global good" been ever put into action? As we have seen in the past, there are several past and contemporary examples. The rescue of the Maldives from a coup attempt in 1988, or inscribing October 2 as International Day of Non-Violence, or June 21 as International Day of Yoga; responsible climate action initiatives; sending a dedicated flight to rescue and bring back a seven-day-old to Kerala at the height of the Yemen crisis; offering 1000 scholarships to students from the ASEAN region; or recently sending vaccines to over 150 countries during the Covid-19 first wave; India has often been at the forefront of enabling global good or as a "force for global good". As a country set to be the world's third-largest economy by 2035, I believe that this should remain a continuum as far as India is concerned. While domestic advances in socio-economic indicators is a necessity and domestic considerations remain a priority, playing the role of enabling global good must also be at the forefront. Simon Anholt, the inventor and founder of the Good Country Index and famed policy advisor, mentions that there are fundamentally two challenges confronting countries - how they behave and how their people behave. Towards this, he says there is a sea change in the culture of governance required to solve 21st-century challenges. Hence, it is a positive sign to see that there is proactive intent to say and act for global good in the very governance structures. I understand that the naysayers will slant towards course-correcting the domestic historical wrongs first instead of doing anything for the global good. But with history by our side, India must not be reticent in showcasing this force with the entire world in mind. By being a force for global good, we must also bear in mind to bring to the fore unique ideas to help solve some critical challenges. Switzerland initiated the "Swiss Touch" campaign that had a unique Swiss table with cutting edge technology going around the world, initiating meaningful conversations around climate change, to name a few, with key personalities. If the challenges of the coming 50-100 years are to be met, it cannot be India, or for that matter, any country, contributing to solving these challenges singularly. It will need collaboration in a hyper-connected world; the pandemic has reiterated that. For that, being a "force for global good" remains pertinent. As India advances its quest for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council, by exhibiting this nature more proactively, she is also well-placed to initiate the much impending reforms at such multi-lateral organizations to suit today's context. August could be the best time to showcase this. Can we seize the opportunity? I remain an optimist; time will tell. (The writer is an author and columnist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-at-unsc-can-we-be-a-force-for-the-global-good-1015755.html
03-08-2021||Panorama||A Wall Street dressing down: Always be casual||The suits are returning to the office. In chinos. And sneakers. And ballet flats. As Wall Street workers trickle back into their Manhattan offices this summer, they are noticeable for their casual attire. Men are reporting for duty in polo shirts. Women have stepped down from the high heels once considered de rigueur. Ties are nowhere to be found. Even the Lululemon logo has been spotted. The changes are superficial, but they hint at a bigger cultural shift in an industry where well-cut suits and wingtips once symbolised swagger, memorialised in popular culture by Gordon Gekko in the movie “Wall Street” and Patrick Bateman in the film adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis’s novel “American Psycho.” Even as many corporate workplaces around the country relaxed their dress codes in recent years, Wall Street remained mostly buttoned up.  Like so much else, that changed in the pandemic. Big banking firms, including Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, have realised that their employees are loath to reach for their corporate attire, after more than a year of working from home dressed mainly in loungewear, or Zoom-appropriate shirts on top and sweatpants below. As banks get their workers back to their desks — even as some other companies have paused such plans — senior executives are easing up on dress codes as a concession to their weary staffs.  “It’s a little bit more relaxed than what I anticipated,” said Melissa Cortes, a legal analyst who recently joined Goldman. “I’m wearing sneakers right now, and people are wearing jeans with blazers or shirts,” said Cortes, who sported a white jacket, black wide-leg trousers and white sneakers on Wednesday.  Although banks haven’t sent out formal memos, their informal message is that returning employees should feel free to dress appropriately for the occasion — and that during a summer with few in-person client meetings, more relaxed attire is permissible. Jeans have even shown up on trading floors, and bankers have a wealth of opportunities to spring a familiar workplace joke: What’s with the tie? Got a job interview? This being Wall Street, casual doesn’t necessarily mean cheap, of course. Many of the sneakers, shirts, watches and other more laid-back accessories spotted in Lower Manhattan last week cost several hundred dollars or more.  Formal dress codes began to erode in the 1990s when Casual Fridays were introduced in workplaces, said Daniel Delis Hill, a fashion historian. “I was working at Merrill Lynch in 1999 when the big shock came from the C.E.O. that brokers could now wear business casual on Fridays,” Hill wrote in an email. “There was a long list of dos and don’ts, though,” he said — jeans were definitely not allowed. Despite periodic efforts to relax dress codes — including in 2019, when Goldman made suits and ties optional — banking had been one of the last bastions of formal work wear, alongside law fir And in some quarters of Wall Street, such as hedge funds, the code has typically been more permissive. But in banking, the strict hierarchies were embedded in unwritten fashion rules. Colleagues would ridicule those wearing outfits considered too flashy or too shabby for the wearer’s place in the corporate food chain. Superiors were style guides, but wearing something swankier than one’s boss was considered a faux pas. An expensive watch could be seen as a mark of success, an obnoxious flex, or both. These days, some bosses have ditched luxury timepieces in favour of Apple Watches and traded suits for short sleeves and khaki, making it tricky for subordinates to know what to wear in order to look the part. JPMorgan’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, recently wore a black polo shirt for a TV interview; Goldman’s boss, David Solomon, D.J.s in T-shirts on weekends; and Rich Handler, the head of Jefferies, posted a photo of himself sporting a henley tee on Twitter. At an event welcoming employees back to the office in July, Citigroup’s Jane Fraser — the only female boss of a major Wall Street bank — kept her signature look: a jewel-toned dress.  “The days of people having to wear the uniform of a coat, tie and suit are over,” said John Florsheim, a fifth-generation scion of the namesake brand, known for its leather-soled dress shoes for men and boys. “It’s going to continue to get more comfortable and casual, but people are still going to want to look nice.”  Now, 80% of the shoes his company designs are casual styles, Florsheim said, compared with 50% before the pandemic. Another reason banks are doing away with traditional dress codes is talent retention. As Wall Street firms increasingly compete for recruits with technology companies — which are friendlier both to remote work and casual clothing — they are seeking to present a less stuffy image. Many banks are also trying to hire a more diverse cohort. John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and an avowed sneakerhead, said the Fed wanted people to bring their “authentic self” to work because personal style was an important part of valuing all forms of individuality and diversity. He said he was looking forward to wearing new pairs from his sneaker collection in the office. “When people can be themselves, they do their best work,” he said.  “There is this urge to break down this idea of what you need to look like to work in banks,” said Alison Taylor, who teaches courses on professional responsibility at New York University’s Stern School of Business. “It’s such a fraught, unspoken signifier of whether you do or don’t fit in.” Big lenders vary in their plans to bring staff back to offices. Most of the industry was targeting Labor Day for a full-scale return, although that may be complicated by surging coronavirus cases. Some Wall Street employees have been working out of their offices for months, but many returned only recently for the first time since the outbreak began.  It felt like the first day of school, some bankers said. They wanted to look good in front of colleagues, yet couldn’t bear the thought of wearing dress shoes or heels. Before going in, some checked with friends to see if their choices were in line with the crowd. One item that has been popular among Wall Street men is Lululemon’s ABC pant, which the athleisure company markets as a wrinkle-resistant, stretchy polyester garment suitable for “all-day comfort.” (The company put its highly recognizable logo on a tab near the pocket to make the pants look less like workout gear.) Untuckit, the maker of short-hemmed button-downs, saw a jump in sales as vaccination rates across the United States rose in April and May, said Chris Riccobono, the company’s founder. Customers have flocked to its two stores in Manhattan, seeking still-sharp shirts made from breathable fabric. “What’s amazing is these guys were wearing suits in the middle of summer, walking the streets of New York, coming off the train” before the pandemic, Riccobono said. “It took corona for the guys who never wore anything but suits to realize, ‘Wait a second.’”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-wall-street-dressing-down-always-be-casual-1015609.html
03-08-2021||Panorama||Anti-trust framework calls for paradigm shift||In the recent years, questioning of the highest officials of the tech giants in the United States seems to have become a routine affair. There are adequately placed fears of excessive power getting concentrated in very few hands. We see Zuckerberg being questioned about Facebook eliminating its competition like Instagram and WhatsApp by buying them, Sunder Pichai answering questions about whether Google prioritises its own products in its search results, Tim Cook stammering while answering if Apple forcefully keeps its competitors’ apps out of the Apple store and Bezos trying to deflect the conversation when he’s asked about Amazon copying the products of its sellers and selling them on its own platform. These alleged business practices focused towards achieving maximum pie of the market are not recent. Its origins can be traced back to the late seventeenth century when John D Rockefeller, who established Standard Oil in 1870 and which controlled some 90% of US refineries and pipelines by 1880s, was questioned for engaging in unethical business practices such as predatory pricing and vertical integration. The basic instinct of all these businesses to establish a monopoly and eliminate its competition is omnipresent. It is neither limited by time nor by geography.  Through out the history of anti-trust law, the overarching framework has applied the postulate that lesser firms means lesser competition, which in turn implies lower consumer welfare, manifested in the form of higher prices and/or bad quality output. In short, market concentration is assumed to be bad. This, by all means, is a crude form of assessing consumer welfare. The archaic framework is now being challenged by the likes of Lina Khan, whose scholarly article titled Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox created quite a rage in the market, challenging the decades old anti-trust laws. The existing framework in anti-trust needs an overhaul for more reasons than one. Firstly, the bigger players neither charge exorbitant prices nor provide bad quality output even though they can. The Indian Telecom sector is a glaring example. With just 3 major players in the market (Airtel, Jio and Vodafone-Idea controlling more than 88-89% of the market), the tariffs have come down from Rs 180 per GB in 2016 to Rs 6.98 per GB in 2019. Market concentration is not inherently bad, as echoed by this sector. Secondly, the framework gives undue emphasis on size of a firm, juxtaposed with little or no regard to structure of the firm, in terms of whether a company has control over its own suppliers, whether the platform gives fair access to all, whether the company owns the infrastructure it uses etc. While there may be no explicit threat to entry in most cases, however the very market structure of some firms can destroy the competitive process. The big four titled ‘GAFA’ (Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple) are creating an anti-competitive landscape just out of their structure even without any predatory pricing. Indian scenario India’s Anti-trust watchdog, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), has already ordered an investigation into Google’s abuse of its dominant position in the country’s Smart TV market. Seven out of the 10 most sold smart TVs have an Android OS, which is owned by Google, and market share of Android TV OS is almost 90%. As mentioned earlier, it is not only the size of the company which is problematic, it is the structure of the company and its control over the whole ecosystem in conjunction with its dominant position that needs to be paid heed to. Google controls the manufactures of the TVs, it controls the preinstalled apps in the TVs, it controls the platform which is used to download other apps, it controls the search results in that platform and it also controls the advertisements in the apps. Clearly, this is not a conducive environment for any new entrant that dares and tries to venture into any of these verticals. The long term consumer and producer welfare hinges on an array of things which include product quality, variety, price and innovation— factors which are best promoted through both a robust competitive process and open markets. While we are not advocating against consumer welfare approach, rather suggesting to supplement it with other aspects. However, imposing too many gratuitous costs on any firm/industry hinders or discourages innovation. A fine balance is therefore required. The CCI needs to follow a cautious approach to protect the free market while not stifling with industry’s quest for innovation. It is about time to reframe the rules of the game. (Rohit Chawla is Deputy Director at the Ministry of Finance and Vivek Parashar is Consultant at the Ministry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/anti-trust-framework-calls-for-paradigm-shift-1015610.html
03-08-2021||Panorama||Doubt destroys||Over the last eighteen months, we have been bombarded with so much contradictory, and often unsubstantiated information on the pandemic that mistrust of whatever is read and heard has taken strong roots in our minds. The only firm belief that has remained is that nobody knows anything about the disease and that life will never be the same again.  While navigating through such bewildering times, a street vendor of vegetables provided a moment of epiphany. He was an old-timer who kept regular timings and rarely took a day off. But that day, his cart was sparsely loaded. When queried, he said that he needed to clear the stock as, post-lunch, he was going to the hospital for his second dose of the Covid vaccination and wouldn’t be coming for a day or two. “They told me to come after 84 days” he said, “I had it marked on the calendar. Today is the 85th day.” His face mirrored the satisfaction of having reached the target date. “Some people say that the disease will never go away and many more are going to die from it,” he said nonchalantly, “but I don’t let such thoughts trouble me. I will follow the government’s order and take the vaccination on time. After that, it is in Paramathma’s hands.”  The lines stayed in my mind all day. I could see the direct correlation between the erosion of trust and the state of joylessness in my kind of people. We dismiss statistics as fake, fear a hidden agenda in every announcement, and doubt even the efficacy of the vaccines in providing lasting protection. And whenever news of the death due to Covid of a friend or a relative or of someone we had heard about comes in, we get terrified and wonder if even prayers are efficacious anymore.  In Chapter 4, verse 40 of the Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna talks about the three negative qualities that are responsible for a person’s downfall and destruction. The first two are Avidya (lack of knowledge) and Ashraddha (lack of conviction) and the third is Samshaya (doubt, in matters both worldly and scriptural). Of the three, Lord Krishna says that the Samshayatma or the one who has a doubting mind is the worst off. For such a person, happiness does not exist either in this world or in the next.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/doubt-destroys-1015611.html
03-08-2021||Right in the Middle||To be hostile or hospitable||We followed the Covid protocol meticulously, till the phone rang one afternoon. A long-lost octogenarian cousin of my mother called up. After the initial bonhomie, she told us she was in town. She had come to visit her son on her way back to her village. She wondered if she could come home to meet us. Normally, we would have been more than happy to welcome her home. Yet, in the present scenario, we told her that she could come along once the lockdown was lifted.  Even as we were musing about her sudden desire to appear, she called again for directions. Somehow it felt very uncouth to tell her that she was not welcome. So, we played along, hoping against hope that she would not turn up. Yet, in an hour’s time, the masked lady was at our doorstep, kit and caboodle.  A quandary enveloped our minds. Were we not observing a state-wide lockdown at the moment? While social distancing and wearing masks had become the new norm, how could we entertain a guest? Was she vaccinated? Could she be an asymptomatic carrier of the raging virus? Should we be hostile or hospitable? While these questions seared our minds, we noticed that she was unsteady on her feet. Her affable demeanour as she took stock of our poker-faced expressions made us say a silent prayer for a solution and serenity.  Her wrinkled frame and warm smile banished the hostile thoughts from our minds. My mother’s affection for the lady and our humanitarian and cultural values left us tongue-tied. A moment later we bustled around to help her feel at home. She chuckled as she said that she had been vaccinated and had tested negative in the Corona test.    Sometime later, our home drifted down the memory lane. Stories of weddings, births, deaths, illnesses, successes and vaccinations were exchanged. By the time the lady left, we had ruffled many feathers amongst our well-meaning flock who felt we were foolhardy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-be-hostile-or-hospitable-1015612.html
03-08-2021||Right in the Middle||A death and a wedding||The lady who died next door was not even forty. Her kin could bring her body home from the hospital as she died of a heart attack and not Covid-19. When our housemaid broke this news we saw through the window that the body had been just then placed on a steel cot— no flowers and garlands on it yet. Slowly people trickled in. After an hour or so, their number grew to be around 20. The hearse arrived. The women in the group managed to give the last ritual bath to the body and placed it on the chair after draping it with a new sari. Flowers arrived by then. The chair as well as the hearse were decorated with garlands of marigold and chrysanthemum. At the end, they lit the incense sticks and broke a coconut on the ground.  In another house, to my right, the wedding pandal was being erected. The workers were lavish in winding the pandal pillars with garlands of marigold and chrysanthemum. The flower festoons ran along the border of the canopy created by the green palm branches. I watched both the activities like viewing two pictures on a split screen or a go. The small crowd of mourners worked silently, observing the solemnity demanded by the occasion, while the workers at the wedding pandal finished their task with joyous anticipation of their remuneration. Both the operations were over by 5 in the evening. The hearse left carrying it’s human burden to its final destination, while the wedding pandal stood bedecked beckoning the guests. As dusk descended, a small lamp came to life on the left handside, while, to my right, the wedding house was illuminated with serial lights. The humble lamp was a symbol of vigil to the departed soul, while the serial lights glowed dispelling the gloom for the bride and the groom.  I found the husband of the departed lady sitting on the culvert wall all alone after the relatives had left seeing the reflection of the lamp in the mirror. I stood by him for a while. He mumbled a few words as if to himself: “She lost courage at the sight of so many patients gasping for breath in the hospital; she gave up the fight”. The loss of giants may be unbearable but the death of the commoners also counts. Didn’t a poet say with unrivalled wisdom: “Every death diminishes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-death-and-a-wedding-1015946.html
03-08-2021||Second Edit||Legislative privilege not for violence, vandalism||The Supreme Court’s ruling that there is no protection on grounds of privilege or free speech for violence and vandalism by legislators on the floor of the legislature is a welcome assertion of the need for right and parliamentary conduct by the elected representatives of the people. A crime recognised as a crime by the country’s penal laws should be treated as such even if it is committed in the legislature, but many legislators have got away with such offences in the past. Parliamentary privilege is often invoked to avoid legal scrutiny, investigation and prosecution of violent actions by legislators. Legislative privileges have not been clearly defined and codified, but it should be clear that they are only intended to protect legislators in the discharge of their legal and legitimate duties, and not to shield them from the consequences of violence on the floor of the legislature.   The ruling was given in a case relating to vandalism in the Kerala Assembly in 2015 by members of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which was in the opposition then. Protesting against the presentation of the state budget by the then finance minister who was facing charges of corruption, some LDF legislators vandalised the Assembly hall, causing much damage. Cases were registered against six MLAs, one of whom is a minister now. After the LDF came to power, the government sought to withdraw the cases. But the Chief Judicial Magistrate in Thiruvananthapuram rejected the plea for withdrawal of cases and the High Court upheld the ruling. The Supreme Court ruling has come on an appeal by the government against the High Court’s decision. The apex court’s order has paved the way for continuation of the prosecution proceedings against the minister and others. The government invoked Article 194(2) which protects proceedings of the House from adverse legal action. The ruling has helped to better define the scope of the Article.  The Kerala government also claimed that the conduct of the MLAs was only an expression of protest derived from the right to free speech. But no stretch of the right to free speech can cover the upturning of chairs, breaking of desks and throwing of computers and mikes. The government’s argument that the court should not question the government’s power to withdraw a case is also flawed. The court has the power to examine whether the decision to withdraw a case is in good faith and well-intentioned and promotes the public interest. The court’s ruling should clear many misconceptions and wrong claims about the privileges and rights of members of legislatures, and it should be a guide for action in future cases. The prosecution of the six MLAs should also set a good example.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/legislative-privilege-not-for-violence-vandalism-1015605.html
03-08-2021||South||Kerala Govt Medical Officers Association stresses on strict contact tracing, quarantine amid Covid surge||The body of the government doctors in Kerala on Tuesday urged the Left government to strictly implement contact tracing and 17 days quarantine for coronavirus infected persons and impose restrictions in specific micro-containment zones to bring down Covid-19 cases in the southern state. In its suggestions submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA) said the present lockdown strategy should be discontinued taking into account the socio-economic factors and considering the fact that Covid curve is now in a plateau phase and immunity acquired by almost 55 per cent of state's population. The suggestions from the prominent doctors' body came as the southern state, which accounts for more than half of India's new Covid-19 cases, is struggling to contain the spread of coronavirus infections. Noting that the lockdown imposed when the second wave of Covid pandemic was reaching its peak certainly helped in lowering the total caseload and ensured that it's within the capacity of our system, the association said it served the purpose in that perspective. "Covid curve is now in a plateau phase with the number of new cases and cured one's almost evened-out. Almost 55 per cent of our population might have acquired some degree of immunity also either through vaccination or as a result of clinical/subclinical infection. Considering these and taking socio-economic factors also into account we feel it not advisable to continue with the present lockdown strategy," said KGMOA, the only service organization representing all categories of doctors in Health Services in the state. It said a hassle-free and effective vaccination is the best tool for containing this pandemic. "Time tested strategy of contact tracing and isolation which ensured an effective control during the first phase must be followed. Contact tracing must be entrusted to local RRT with the help of workforce from other non essential services. All positive cases must be quarantined for 17 days. Those with Covid like symptoms must also be quarantined even if tested negative on Antigen testing and RTPCR repeated if symptom persists," the organisation said. It said restrictions should be imposed in specific micro containment zones like wards rather than the whole Panchayat/ Municipality/ Corporation. "Present strategy of categorising areas based on TPR alone should be replaced by indicators like Daily Positive Cases per 10,000, Active cases per 10000 along with TPR", KGMOA said. It said setting targets and criteria for testing to reduce TPR should be avoided. "Purpose of testing should be to identify cases rather than creating a false sense of security. So targeted testing of all symptomatics and their contacts must be the rule. More effective surveillance and testing must be done in thickly populated areas like colonies, coastal areas etc," it said. The government doctors' body said proper reporting of fever and ARI cases from private hospitals, clinics, medical stores, laboratories etc must be ensured. It said marketplaces can be opened strictly ensuring physical distancing and other Covid appropriate behaviour. "Ten persons per 100 sq ft at a particular point of time only must be allowed. Congestion has to be eased out by extending their time of functioning. We would suggest shops selling essential items to be open on all days from 7 AM to 11 PM. Other establishments like textile shops, spare parts shops, workshops etc may be allowed to function on all days from 9 AM to 7 PM," KGMOA said. Last week, Kerala had recorded more than 20,000 Covid-19 cases successively for six days, accounting for more than half of the country's new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-medical-officers-association-stresses-on-strict-contact-tracing-quarantine-amid-covid-surge-1015754.html
03-08-2021||South||SC grants 6 months to inquiry panel on encounter killings of accused in Hyderabad rape, murder case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted further six months time to the three-member inquiry commission, headed by former apex court judge V S Sirpurkar, to file the final report on encounter killing of the four accused in the case of gang-rape and murder of a veterinary doctor in Hyderabad. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant sought to know from the lawyer appearing for the inquiry panel as to how much more time it wanted to conclude the probe. The bench referred to a similar panel, set up to inquire into the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh, and said it has already filed the report. The commission was headed by former Supreme Court judge B S Chauhan and had concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that the encounter of Dubey was staged. Advocate K Parameshwar, appearing for the Sirpurkar panel, submitted that the delay was due to over 130 witnesses and Covid-19 situation. After this, the bench allowed the application filed by the panel for another six months time to complete its probe. The top court had set up the Sirpurkar panel on December 12, 2019 to inquire into the circumstances leading to the encounter and submit the report in six months. The other members of the commission include former Bombay High Court judge Rekha Sondur Baldota and ex-CBI director D R Karthikeyan. With Tuesday's order, the term of the inquiry panel has now been extended thrice.  Four accused, Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jolu Shiva, and Jollu Naveen were arrested in connection with the gang rape and murder of the veterinary lady doctor in November, 2019. On December 6, 2019, these four accused were killed in an encounter in Hyderabad, when they allegedly attacked policemen and tried to flee during the collection of evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-grants-6-months-to-inquiry-panel-on-encounter-killings-of-accused-in-hyderabad-rape-murder-case-1015774.html
03-08-2021||South||President Kovind arrives in Udhagamandalam on three-day visit||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Udhgamandalam in Nilgiris district on Tuesday on a three-day visit, during which he will participate in a function at the Defence Service Staff College in Wellington. Kovind arrived at Sulur Air Force station in Coimbatore from Chennai where he attended the event to mark the centenary celebrations of Tamil Nadu State Assembly and also to unveil the portrait of former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi on Monday. He was received at the Air Force station by Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit and some state ministers and senior district and police officials. He left for Udhagamandalam by a chopper and will stay for three days at Raj Bhavan, the sources said. Kovind will participate in a function at the Defence Service Staff College in Wellington on Wednesday. The president is scheduled to leave for Delhi on August 6. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore district administration has banned flying of drones in and around Sulur Air Force Station till August 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/president-kovind-arrives-in-udhagamandalam-on-three-day-visit-1015798.html
03-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government undertakes deep cleaning of temples||Tamil Nadu’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department has embarked on a massive deep cleaning drive at over 500 major temples. The three-day cleaning drive which was launched on August 2 will continue till August 4. HR&CE officials said a deep cleaning drive is being conducted in 539 “big temples” in Tamil Nadu. All these temples remain closed for the past few days to ensure that people do not flock in big numbers for local festivals in the auspicious Tamil month of Aadi (mid-July to mid-August). A senior official told DH that the entire temple premises are being cleaned by personnel who have been hired exclusively for the special cleaning drive and the regular temple staff. “From the entrance to gopurams to mandapams to the praharam, every single place within the premises is cleaned. Since the temples are closed, we thought of utilizing the opportunity to get them cleaned,” the official said. Some of the famous temples that are being cleaned are Sri Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai, Lord Murugan Temple in Palani, and Sri Aranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam in Tiruchirappalli. “When these temples reopen after the restrictions on them are lifted by authorities concerned, devotees will be pleasantly surprised,” the official said. Though temples are cleaned regularly, the official added, that the deep cleaning drive includes places that are not covered by the temple staff regularly. As many as 44,121 temples and religious trusts in Tamil Nadu come under HR&CE department which manages and controls them. The deep cleaning drive comes amidst several initiatives taken by the DMK government in ensuring transparency in the functioning of temples managed by the government. The government has begun uploading documents on temple properties and is in the process of launching a 3D mapping survey on 5 lakh acres of land owned by temples. The project, which will cost around Rs 20 crore, is likely to begin in the next two months if the tender process goes smooth as planned. Officials in the know told DH that it will take about a year to complete the drone and DGPS survey of the temples and lands owned by them. The efforts come at a time the HR&CE department faces several complaints from various organisations on poor upkeep of temple properties and not keeping a tab on rapid encroachment of temple land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-undertakes-deep-cleaning-of-temples-1015841.html
03-08-2021||South||A year on, no end to woes for Kozhikode Air India Express crash victims||While Kozhikode native Saifuddeen Padipatta Chalil is still under rest after a recent surgery for a leg fracture cased in the Air India Express crash at Calicut International Airport in Kerala on August 7 last year, his wife Fasalunnissa is still confined to a wheelchair due to a spinal injury, while their three children are recovering. Similar is the condition of Malappuram native Abdul Rahman Kutty who is under rest after a recent surgery for an injury on his right leg, while his wife Muneera has already undergone three surgeries for multiple fractures, and two more are still pending. Their 12 year old son is also still under Ayurveda therapy. Even a year after the AIE flight from Dubai under the Vande Bharat mission skidded while landing at the Calicut airport, claiming 21 lives and injuring 165 others, the condition of many families and individuals continues to be that of Chalil and Kutty. Rubbing salt to the injury is the delay in getting the due compensations, they lament. Though the AIE has offered final compensations to most injured as well as dependents of the deceased, many are unhappy with the offers as their futures have been spoiled due to long-lasting injuries. While many passengers in the ill-fated flight were returning due to loss of jobs, many were well settled and even running their own businesses or working in established firms. While AIE is currently bearing the ongoing treatment expenses, once the victims accept the compensation offer, the AIE would not be bearing expenses for further treatment. This has put many in a dilemma on accepting the offer as even surgical procedures are still pending for many. An AIE spokesperson said that compensation offers have been already given to all the passengers and the dependents of the victims and most them accepted it, while some were on the negotiation table. The compensations are being worked out by considering all factors. Compensation of up to Rs 7 crore has been offered to some individuals. Nihmathulla Abdul Majeed, who suffered a fracture on his left shoulder, said that even as the compensations being offered by AIE now is not adequate, many were forced to accept it owing to the acute financial stress they were facing. Soon after the incident, AIE disbursed the initial relief of Rs 10 lakh to the dependents of the deceased, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 50,000 each respectively to the relatives of those who suffered serious and minor injuries. The accident victims are lamenting that even as then-Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had stated that the initial relief would be 'over and above' the due compensations, the AIE is now adjusting it against the final settlements being offered. Meanwhile, the cause for the mishap on the table top run way is still unknown, as the inquiry by Air Accident Investigation Bureau is still pending. A team headed by a former designated examiner S S Chahar was entrusted with the investigation. Though the term was five months, it was extended further owing to Covid situation. Tailwind and rough weather were stated to be the prima faice reasons for the Boeing-737's mishap that claimed the lives of both pilots also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-year-on-no-end-to-woes-for-kozhikode-air-india-express-crash-victims-1015846.html
03-08-2021||South||Madras High Court strikes down ban on online gaming of rummy, poker||The Madras High Court on Tuesday struck down a recent amendment made to the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, passed in 1930, which imposed a ban on online gaming of rummy and poker with stakes. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy quashed the amendment made this year while allowing a batch of PIL petitions from Junglee Games India Private Limited and others. The bench declared as unconstitutional, Part II of the TN Gaming & Police Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which banned betting or wagering in cyberspace and also games of skill if played for a wager, bet, money or other stakes. By imposing a wide ranging complete ban, the least intrusive test was violated and the ban had thereby fallen foul of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution (right to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business), the bench said. The legislation assailed has to be regarded as something done capriciously and irrationally. It was excessive and disproportionate, it said. "This court, therefore, strikes down the amendment in its entirety as ultra vires the Constitution." The bench, however, granted liberty to the state to pass another legislation, without any lacunae It added that nothing in this judgment would prevent the state government from introducing an appropriate legislation conforming to the Constitutional principles of propriety. Earlier on July 26, when the court reserved its orders, Advocate General R Shanmugasundaram sought time to get instructions as to whether the new DMK government could amend the law, passed during the AIADMK regime in February this year, or promulgate an ordinance since the ban was imposed in public interest. However, the court declined the request and said there was no scope for the court to await the government's decision after conclusion of arguments. When the AG claimed that online games were susceptible to manipulation, the bench had quipped "you regulate it. You can't ban the games altogether".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-strikes-down-ban-on-online-gaming-of-rummy-poker-1015863.html
03-08-2021||South||Despite stirs, doctors in Kerala continue to face attacks||Doctors in Kerala are agitated over the frequent attacks in various parts of the state despite strong protests staged by forums. In the latest incident, a doctor and staff at a government taluk hospital at Parassala on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram were attacked by a gang on Monday night. Objections raised by hospital staff and a duty doctor against attendants of a patient entering the hospital without wearing masks properly allegedly ended in the attack. The incident happened at a time when the doctors were already agitated over the attack on a doctor at a primary health centre at Alappuzha district last week, after he did not heed to the demand of some local political activists for vaccinating certain persons "on priority". Alleging police inaction on his complaint, the doctor who allegedly suffered the assault even staged a protest by working on his off day. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association state president Dr Joseph Chacko said that the doctors would be forced to go on stir if effective steps were not taken to curb the increasing number of attacks. According to IMA, at least 60 incidents of attack on doctors were reported in Kerala over the last few years. Doctors in the state had also joined a nationwide stir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-stirs-doctors-in-kerala-continue-to-face-attacks-1015879.html
03-08-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh to set up digital libraries to support work from home employees, students' online education||The Andhra Pradesh government is planning to set up digital libraries at the village level, with a high-speed internet facility to help with the online classes of students and support the IT and employees of other sectors working from home. The move by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy comes at a time when fears over a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic loom large and the uncertainty continues as to when the IT and other sectors' offices would resume pre-pandemic operations. Numerous techies from Andhra Pradesh, who form a considerable portion of the IT industry manpower in hubs like Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai moved back to their home towns and villages when the pandemic began in the summer of 2020. Many of them continue to operate from their native places. During a review meeting on the IT sector on Tuesday, Reddy asked officials to take measures for high-speed internet connectivity in the villages to support the Work From Home concept. Interestingly, when the virus reared its head in April last year, Reddy was among the first government heads to declare that “we have to learn to live with Covid-19.” Chief Minister Reddy said that digital libraries will be set up in all the village panchayats across the state. Officials were directed to prepare an action plan for beginning the construction of 4,530 digital libraries on August 15. The construction of libraries under the first phase, which will cost about Rs 140 crore, is expected to be completed by December. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to equip each digital library with three desktops, UPS, desktop barcode printer, scanner, laser printer, unlimited bandwidth internet along with tables, chairs, lights, fans, storage racks, newspapers and magazines. Reddy wants the digital libraries to be useful for the school and college students too by equipping them with study material related to their courses and common entrance tests. The Chief Minister also wants uninterrupted internet facility provided to the Village Secretariats and Rytu Bharosa Kendras (farmer support centres).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-set-up-digital-libraries-to-support-work-from-home-employees-students-online-education-1015890.html
03-08-2021||South||Kerala witnesses steep surge in daily Covid-19 cases to 23,676||Amidst mounting pressure on Kerala to ease the lockdown, the state on Tuesday witnessed a steep surge in fresh Covid-19 cases. A total of 23,676 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, which was the highest daily tally in the last two months. The test positivity rate (TPR) remained high at 11.87 per cent, with 1.99 lakh samples tested. Fresh Covid-19 infections in Kerala have remained above the 20,000-mark for the last few days, except on Sunday. This triggered concerns about whether the state was witnessing an onset of the third wave of the pandemic. Meanwhile, tension at the Kerala-Karnataka border in Kasargod continued on Tuesday as activists of all political parties staged a road blockade in the morning to protest against the restrictions on entry from Kerala to Karnataka. The protest was withdrawn following police intervention.  The Kerala government was seriously considering relaxing the lockdown prevailing in the state for nearly three months from the second week of May. Traders forums in the state, including those owing allegiance to the ruling left front, had openly expressed resentment over the continued lockdown as many traders even ended their life, owing to the mounting debts. Experts had suggested that massive Covid testing and effective social distancing measures were the need of the hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-witnesses-steep-surge-in-daily-covid-19-cases-to-23676-1015929.html
03-08-2021||State||Karnataka CM meets Vice Prez Naidu, BJP's Arun Singh||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai paid a courtesy visit to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu here on Tuesday. Bommai, who is in the national capital to discuss with the BJP leadership matters related to the expansion of his cabinet, also met BJP Karnataka unit in-charge Arun Singh. The new Karnataka chief minister met Naidu at Parliament House. Naidu is also the Rajya Sabha chairperson. The Vice President Secretariat tweeted a picture of Bommai meeting Naidu. According to the chief minister's office (CMO), Bommai had cordial discussions with Naidu and Singh separately. The new CM reached the national capital on August 1. On Monday night, Bommai had a detailed discussion with BJP president J P Nadda for close to an hour. After the meeting, Bommai said he had submitted 2-3 draft lists and the party chief will discuss further and finalise new ministers on Tuesday evening. He also said once the list of new ministers is finalised, the day of the oath-taking ceremony will be decided after discussion with Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel. The new cabinet will be selected balancing all factors, including regional and social representations. Those who migrated to the BJP from other parties need not worry, he added. Bommai took oath as the chief minister on July 28 after the resignation of B S Yediyurappa on July 26. He is currently the lone Cabinet member in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-meets-vice-prez-naidu-bjps-arun-singh-1015731.html
03-08-2021||State||KSRTC to begin BS-VI trial runs||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will soon begin trials of a Bharat Stage VI bus of Tata Motors, which gave the chasis free of cost on Tuesday. The Rs 27 lakh-worth chasis with four cylinders and 5-litre 180 HP engine is more fuel-efficient than the present BS-IV class vehicles. The KSRTC’s regional workshop at Kengeri will build the bus body on the chasis.  Tata Motors Regional Manager (Govt and STU-Business) Ajay Gupta handed over the chasis to KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-to-begin-bs-vi-trial-runs-1015914.html
03-08-2021||State||Karnataka MLCs demand pending LAD fund dues||Alleging delay in the release of Local Area Development (LAD) funds, MLCs cutting across parties have urged the government to release the funds on time. On Tuesday, the MLCs, led by Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti, held a meeting with officials of the finance department and Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) in this regard. Speaking to DH, JD(S) MLC Shrikante Gowda said there were dues pending from the last three-four years. "Unlike MLAs, who have various funds allocated to them, MLCs get only Rs 2 crore annually. Even this is not released regularly. Many of us would have gotten development works done without the funds being allocated. In my own case, there are dues up to Rs 1.92 crore," he explained.  Congress MLC UB Venkatesh added that the government has to release Rs 50 lakh every quarter. "They are yet to release one instalment of Rs 50 lakh from 2019-20. Likewise, in 2020-21, Rs 1 crore is pending and this year, they have released Rs 50 lakh while the rest is yet to be allocated," he said. Sometimes, the problem also comes from DCs who do not release the funds on time, he said.  The MLCs said the delay in the release of funds was putting their credibility at peril as they would have promised development works which they cannot take forward without the timely release of instalments. The concern also comes ahead of MLCs elections that are due for at least 25 seats from the Local Authorities constituency, later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mlcs-demand-pending-lad-fund-dues-1015921.html
03-08-2021||State||Mudigere businesman found hanging in Nelamangala lodge||A businessman from Mudigere, Chikkamagaluru was found hanging in a Nelamangala lodge in Bengaluru Rural on Monday afternoon, police said.  Lodge staff found Shakir Ahmed, 35, hanging from his room’s ceiling fan, with police investigations suggesting that he had suffered losses in his coffee bean brokerage business and had taken hand loans from some people.  Ahmed checked into the lodge on July 29 and informed the staff on Sunday afternoon that he would be vacating the room on Monday morning. But when he did not come out of the room till afternoon, the staff rang his doorbell and knocked a few times. Finding no response, they forced open the door and found Ahmed hanging from the ceiling fan.  Ahmed came to Bengaluru with a friend on July 13, feeling disturbed over his losses, while his family had filed a missing person’s complaint at the Mudigere police station. Deciding to leave Bengaluru on July 29, Ahmed and his friend reached the Majestic bus stand. But he left his baggage with his friend and disappeared. His friend searched for him and returned home, while Ahmed checked into the Nelamangala lodge.  No death note was found in the room, although police suspect Ahmed killed himself over the financial losses. Nelamangala Town police have filed a case of unnatural death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mudigere-businesman-found-hanging-in-nelamangala-lodge-1015938.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Cauvery Calling' aims planting of 35 million seedlings in 9 Karnataka districts||Buoyed by the successful efforts resulting in the planting of 1.1 crore saplings in the River Cauvery catchment districts in both the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu during the Covid pandemic year-2020, the 'Cauvery Calling' campaign is all set to launch a massive farmer outreach programme in Cauvery districts of Karnataka starting from Tuesday.  Chairing a meeting of the Rally for Rivers Board and Cauvery Calling panel in Bengaluru, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said that the aim of the second-year programme is to popularise the ecologically beneficial and economically lucrative tree-based farming model among farmers besides aiming to plant 35 million seedlings. The volunteer-driven programme is set to cover about 1,785-gram panchayats in as many as 57 taluks in the nine districts that are part of the Cauvery basin with over 24 lakh farmers.  "If we are successful in implementing this, it is not just Cauvery alone but this will be a game-changer for India and the whole tropical world. Any tropical country in the world is dependent on rain for the water." Sadhguru said. Revealing further he clarified, "The idea of Cauvery Calling is to create a demonstrable model and make it a living example for the entire world to adopt and replicate in their context."  Over the course of the next eight weeks, 1,800 events will popularise the tree-based farming model among the farming community. Famers, local administration officials from various government departments are set to participate in these events. The events will also act as a bridge between farmers and government representatives besides becoming a platform for knowledge sharing. The farmer outreach initiative will include awareness about state agroforestry schemes, incentives, eligibility criteria and the process of applying.  A unique feature of the initiative is the appointment of 890 ‘Mara Mitras’ (Friend of Tree) at every gram panchayat who will register the farmers’ demands at their doorstep using a state of the art mobile app. The data is expected to help the state government in raising saplings under various schemes for the planting season in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cauvery-calling-aims-planting-of-35-million-seedlings-in-9-karnataka-districts-1015647.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Controversy over Mekedatu is 'unfortunate'; small-scale dam for local benefit is acceptable: Sadhguru||Amid the controversy over the Mekedatu project between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev termed the raging row ‘unfortunate’ and said that the issue can amicably be resolved ‘if both the states sit down and talk to each other’. Stating that he is unaware of the technical details of the project Sadhguru said, “If the project is a small-scale dam, then it is acceptable as it would support the local population and livelihood.” Speaking to DH on the sidelines of chairing a meeting of the Rally for Rivers Board and Cauvery Calling panel in Bengaluru, Sadhguru said that more than the controversy, it is time that all of us focus on safeguarding the river for future generations and well-being of the humans in the region. Refusing to be part of the controversy, Sadhguru said, “My only concern at this juncture is mother Cauvery. She has been nourishing people regardless of the language and state. Let’s not waste our time debating on the issue and focus on conserving the river and its water. If there is water, then everything else.” Expressing hope that the issue can be resolved if both sides sit and talk, Sadhguru said, “The wellbeing of the river is more vital for human survival than the little tiff we have with each other. It can be sorted out if two mature people sit down and talk to each other.” Further revealing that he is unaware of the scale or magnitude of the project that Karnataka has proposed, Sadhguru said, “Small-scale dams are acceptable. But I am not told how big this project is going to be.” He added, “World over large dams are being abandoned and in the US alone about 900 dams have been decommissioned in the last two years. Dams were built in the past when we had agricultural challenges. But now we know that there are many ways to do it. Dammed water, canal, flood irrigation is not the future. The future lies in drip irrigation and the enrichment of the soil. Water should be held in the soil, not in the dam. I do not want to comment about a political issue because emotions are already riled up. I do not know the scale of the project. But if you build a small dam to facilitate local agriculture it is not an issue."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/controversy-over-mekedatu-is-unfortunate-small-scale-dam-for-local-benefit-is-acceptable-sadhguru-1015694.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC sends notice to Yediyurappa, son, former minister S T Somashekar in corruption case||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra and others in connection with a petition filed by social activist T J Abraham. The petitioner has challenged the order of the trial court dismissing his private complaint against Yediyurappa and others. Justice Sunil Dutt Yadav has also ordered notice to Yediyurappa’s grandson Shashidhar Maradi, son-in-law Virupakshappa Yamakanmaradi, Sanjay Sree, son-in-law of Yediyurappa’s daughter Padmavathi and businessman Chandrakanth Ramalingam among others. The petitioner has challenged the July 8, 2021, order of the special court dealing with criminal cases against elected representatives rejecting his private complaint. Abraham has also sought for directions to register an FIR on his complaint under the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC. The special court had rejected the complaint on the ground that the governor had rejected sanction for prosecution under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In the petition before the High Court, it has been contended that since Yediyurappa has demitted office, prior sanction from the governor is not at all necessary. In his complaint, Abraham had alleged payment of a bribe in connection with a housing project of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and alleged the collection of bribe amount by the family members of the then chief minister Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-sends-notice-to-yediyurappa-son-former-minister-s-t-somashekar-in-corruption-case-1015826.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases, 38 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 29.09 lakh, while 38 deaths took the total toll to 36,650. The day also saw 1,376 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,49,003, leaving 24,280 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district reported 477, the highest number of infection cases and seven deaths. Dakshina Kannada logged 307 cases and eight fatalities, the highest among districts. Mysuru district recorded 147 cases, Udupi and Hassan 104 each. Thirteen districts reported zero fatalities. Yadgir and Raichur districts did not report any fresh cases. The positivity rate stood at 1.38% and the case fatality rate at 2.27%. On Tuesday, 1,21,021 Covid tests were conducted, taking the cumulative number of samples examined so far to 3.9 crore. A total of 1,05,378 people were vaccinated, taking the overall number to 3.16 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1674-fresh-covid-19-cases-38-deaths-1015855.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More than half of hospitalised Covid-19 cases among vaccinated in Bengaluru||About 56% of people hospitalised for Covid-19 in Bengaluru in July had received at least one dose of the vaccine. Sources in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that about 2,700 people were hospitalised between July 2 and 27. Of these, 1,600 had received at least one dose of a vaccine, comprising 1,200 Covishield and 400 Covaxin receivers.    Of the 1,200 Covishield receivers, about 450 had got the second dose. Among the 400 Covaxin receivers, 180 had the second dose.  These hospitalisations are indicative of the extent of vaccine penetration in the public, explained BBMP Chief Commissioner, Gaurav Gupta.  “If you take the data about the 45+ age group who are generally susceptible (to Covid-19), 82% have been vaccinated. So, I am not surprised that a lot of the hospitalised people have been vaccinated,” Gupta said. “We must ask for the doctor’s comments as to whether there is any difference between those who are vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated, for severity. We still require adequate data to come to any conclusion.” Clinical indications are present in some hospitals. Research conducted at Apollo Hospital examined 500 patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 pneumonia admitted, for over 40 days between April 21 and May 30. They found that 148 patients were cases of breakthrough infection -- after being administered at least once by a vaccine. Some 124 (84%) had received the Covishield, while 24 (16%) had received Covaxin. The median age was 58. The researchers, led by senior pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Mehta who is also a member of the BBMP’s Covid-19 task force committee, said the median time for hospitalisation from first dose to hospitalisation was 25 days and it was 18 days for second dose to admission. About 19.5% of the vaccinated group (29 people) had severe symptoms, as compared to 125 people (35.5%) who had not been vaccinated. In addition, 66 of the vaccinated group required respiratory support at baseline. In the end, of the 20 patients who died, all had received just one dose of the vaccine. “All patients who received two doses (14 people) were eventually discharged from the hospital,” the researchers said. Currently, at Aster CMI, one out of three ICU Covid-19 patients had been vaccinated (with one dose). Dr Prakash Doraiswamy, Critical Care expert, said: “We have seen many cases of vaccinated patients getting Covid infection and re-infections but they did not suffer from any serious complications.” Fortis hospitals, meantime, has seen about 15 such cases since June. “All of the ICU cases had only dose. This shows the importance of getting two doses,” said Dr Pruthu Narendra Dhekane, Infectious Diseases specialist at the Bannerghatta Road branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-half-of-hospitalised-covid-19-cases-among-vaccinated-in-bengaluru-1015918.html
03-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||99.96% students clear CBSE class 10 exam in Karnataka||The Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday announced the Class 10 results and 99.96% of students from Karnataka have cleared the exams, according to an official statement from the Board. The Bengaluru region consisting of the entire Karnataka secured second place at the all-India level in overall pass percentage. Thiruvananthapuram bagged first place with 99.99% of the students clearing the examination. The board in its release said that a total of 62,529 students had appeared for the exams from Karnataka and 62,503 students have cleared the exams. “The pass percentage of girl students is slightly higher compared to the boys. While the pass percentage of girls is 99.97%, the boys reported a pass percentage of 99.95%,” the release said. The CBSE, citing the second wave of the Covid pandemic, had cancelled the examination and announced grades based on the performance of students in unit tests, mid-term examination and pre-board examination conducted at the school level. Even though the pass percentage in many schools located in urban areas is good, several students revealed that they missed out on the thrill of the examination. “I would have scored more marks had the exams been conducted,” said a student from a CBSE affiliated board school in Indiranagar, Bengaluru. However, the number of students who scored above 90% has shot up this year, according to principals of various Bengaluru schools. Dr Vandana Gupta, principal, Euro School, North Campus, Bengaluru, said, “I congratulate all our students for a splendid performance. They have done remarkably well despite it being a very challenging year. The pandemic has definitely sparked more appreciation for our teachers who were under immense pressure to ensure the success of the students in such unprecedented times. Our teachers rose to the occasion and supported parents and children, ensuring outstanding performance.” Jyothi Menon, head of school, Ekya School ITPL, said, “This was a tough year, but our students overcame the hurdles very well. There is a significant increase in the number of students who scored above 90%. Overall, the performance of all students was good.” Manjula B, principal, Orchids International, BTM Layout, said, “Students have really worked hard during this pandemic. Our school has secured 100% results, with 98% students getting a first class.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9996-students-clear-cbse-class-10-exam-in-karnataka-1015922.html
03-08-2021||West||Maharashtra: Toddler having genetic disorder gets Rs 16 cr injection free from US firm||The upcoming second birthday of Shivraj Daware, who hails from Nashik in Maharashtra, will be very special for his parents who claimed that the toddler, suffering from a rare genetic disorder, has become the first such patient from India to be given a Rs 16 crore life-saving injection by a US firm for free after winning a lucky draw. Shivraj, born on August 8, 2019, is suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a rare genetic disorder. The injection (Zolgensma – a gene replacement therapy) manufactured by a US-based company is the most effective drug for such patients, according to doctors. For Shivraj's father Vishal Daware and mother Kiran, who come from a middle-class background, the news of the rare disorder and the huge cost of injection came as a double whammy, but they didn't lose hope. After the initial diagnosis, Shivraj was referred for treatment to Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai where neurologist Dr Brajesh Udani suggested that Zolgensma injection could save Shivraj's life, Vishal Daware recalled while speaking to PTI.  But, arranging the huge amount was impossible for Shivraj's father, who runs a photocopy shop in Nashik. Dr Udani then suggested the family apply for a lottery to be brought out by the US-based firm for conducting clinical trials, through which the family could get the injection for free if lucky, the child's father said. On December 25, 2020, Shivraj was selected by the company in the lucky draw to get the injection. On January 19, 2021, he was administered the injection at the Hinduja Hospital. “SMA 1 is a genetic disorder. One out of 10,000 children gets affected by the disorder. It slows down the movement of the child and muscles stop working. Later, it leads to the death of the child," said Dr Ramant Patil who treated Shivraj earlier. Unlike Shivraj, one-year-old Vedika Shinde, a Pune resident who was also suffering from SMA Type 1, wasn't lucky. She died on Sunday evening, nearly two months after taking the same injection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-toddler-having-genetic-disorder-gets-rs-16-cr-injection-free-from-us-firm-1015767.html
03-08-2021||West||Court denies actress Gehana Vasisth interim relief from arrest in pornography case||A court here on Tuesday denied interim protection from arrest to actress Gehana Vasisth in a pornography case, in which businessman Raj Kundra is one of the accused, observing that allegations against her are of serious nature. Fearing arrest, the actress has filed the anticipatory bail application before additional sessions judge Sonali Agarwal. The court posted the matter for hearing on August 6. However, it refused to grant any interim relief to Vasisth till then. "The allegations in the present FIR are of serious nature that accused compelled other victim to do kiss scenes and sex scenes. Considering such allegations and circumstances, I do not find this is a fit case to grant interim relief," the court said. Mumbai Crime Branch had registered a case in February 2021 in connection with the production of adult films and circulating them through mobile applications to paid subscribers. Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe were arrested last month. They are currently in judicial custody. The court had recently rejected the anticipatory bail plea of model Sherlyn Chopra, another accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-denies-actress-gehana-vasisth-interim-relief-from-arrest-in-pornography-case-1015834.html
03-08-2021||West||Goa Opposition parties jointly slam controversial land regularisation bill; meet Governor||Opposition parties in Goa on Tuesday launched a combined assault on the BJP-led coalition government in the state over the controversial Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarni Bill 2021, a legislation that aims to provide legal sanctity to illegally constructed homes built over the last 30 years. While the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party leaders met Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai urging the latter to not grant assent to the bill, which was hurriedly passed in last week's monsoon session of the state Assembly, the Goa Forward Party also said that it opposes the legislation tooth and nail, claiming it went against the ethos and identity of the coastal state. "Elections are round the corner and it is apparent that this is vote-bank politics. However, the State cannot allow such important legislation to be steam-rolled which will affect the entire State as a whole," a memorandum jointly signed by state Congress president Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat to the Governor said. Chodankar said that the legislation was aimed at cornering the migrant vote ahead of the state assembly polls, scheduled to be held in early 2022. Chodankar also said that that the bill was bad in law and would be challenged in court. Chodankar said that the Congress would organise a protest march against the proposed legislation to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's legislative assembly constituency of Sanquelim to highlight the issue. Aam Aadmi Party co-convenor Rahul Mahambre also met the Governor and expressed his party's opposition to the bill. "This bill will wipe out the very soul of Goa. We have informed the Governor about our opposition to the proposed law," Mahambre told reporters. The Goa Forward Party also opposed the bill, accusing the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government of "bulldozing" the legislation through only for petty electoral gain. "I don't know how persons who have been in Goa for 30 years can be called bhumiputras... People have been here before the Portuguese came to Goa. Who are they then? People who have traditionally lived here, what will they be called by the Pramod Sawant government?" working president of the opposition party Kiran Kandolkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-opposition-parties-jointly-slam-controversial-land-regularisation-bill-meet-governor-1015882.html
03-08-2021||West||Antilia bomb case: Rs 45 lakh paid for Mansukh Hiren killing, NIA tells court||The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday told a special court here that Rs 45 lakh was paid by an accused for the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiren. The central probe agency said this while seeking a 30-day extension to file a charge sheet in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiren murder case. An explosives-laden SUV was found near the south Mumbai home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and Hiren, who had claimed that he was earlier in possession of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek on March 5. The special court had, on June 9, granted an extension of two months to the NIA to file a charge sheet. On Tuesday, the NIA told court its probe had revealed that Rs 45 lakh was paid by an accused for the killing of Hiren and there was a need to find out who had funded this accused. It also told the court the statements of 150 witnesses had been recorded while a team in Delhi was also recording statements as part of the probe. Among those who have been arrested in the case are former police officials Pradeep Sharma and Sachin Vaze. The court will also hear arguments on the default bail plea of Vaze, who has claimed that the NIA had not filed a charge sheet within the stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-case-rs-45-lakh-paid-for-mansukh-hiren-killing-nia-tells-court-1015892.html
