04-08-2021||First Edit||When officials defy parliamentary panel||The boycott of a meeting of the parliamentary committee on Information Technology by officials of three ministries and the conduct of BJP MPs at the meeting raises serious questions about the usefulness of such committees and, in turn, the efficacy of the parliamentary system as such. The committee is headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and was to hold its meeting last week. It was to examine, among other things, the charges of surveillance of citizens with the help of the Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus software. Officials of the ministries of IT and communications and home affairs who were summoned by the committee failed to turn up at the last minute. It was clear that it was a coordinated action, perhaps prompted by the government. The BJP members on the committee refused to mark their presence on the flimsy ground that Opposition members in Parliament were disrupting the House, and so the meeting had to be adjourned for lack of quorum. The purpose of a parliamentary committee is to discuss issues that for some reason are not discussed in detail in Parliament. It assists Parliament in its deliberations and is part of the checks and balances in the system. It is a platform where members can engage experts, officials and others to scrutinise issues. Government officials have no option but to attend them and refusal to attend a meeting amounts to a violation of service rules and defiance of Parliament. It may also be considered a breach of privilege and contempt of Parliament and should attract action. It can only be inferred as to why the officials felt emboldened enough to defy parliamentary summons. The senior officials should have known the difference between the government and Parliament as this division of powers is crucial in a parliamentary democracy. Committee chairman Tharoor has written to the Lok Sabha Speaker about the matter but a BJP member of the committee, Nishikant Dubey, has told the Speaker to ignore the chairman’s letter for the strangest of reasons. Dubey wrote that Tharoor “is known for his eccentric nature as well as acute psychological disorder and disorientation”, and so in effect should not be taken seriously. He has also defended the officials. When an MP, and by extension, his party, defends officials who disrespect Parliament, how can the parliamentary system work? The government has been stubbornly resisting demands within Parliament and outside for a discussion on the Pegasus issue. There is no convincing reason for its refusal to agree to a discussion on an issue that has a strong bearing on citizens’ rights. It is trying to close all other avenues of discussion. The Speaker will hopefully protect the rights of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/when-officials-defy-parliamentary-panel-1015956.html
04-08-2021||First Edit||With OBC quota, BJP embraces Mandal politics||The central government’s decision to reserve for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates 27% of seats in the All-India Quota (AIQ) for admissions in medical colleges run by state governments is in compliance with judicial orders and in response to demands made by these governments. It fills a gap that has existed in the reservation scheme for many years and needed to be filled, and the government has done well to take the decision. It has also decided to set apart 10% of the AIQ seats to those from the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). The AIQ was created under directions from the Supreme Court in 1986 to provide admissions to students from any state to study in other states without the need to fulfil domicile requirements. States had surrendered their seats in both undergraduate and post-graduate courses to the central pool for this.   The Supreme Court provided for 22.5% reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC, STs) in the AIQ in 2007. Later, the government introduced 27% OBC quota in central educational institutions but it was not done for AIQ seats. There was no reason for this and it should have been done as a natural extension of the reservation principle. Both central and state governments had implemented the policy in colleges and seats under their control. When the matter was raised in courts, the Medical Council of India (MCI) opposed the idea, but the Centre favoured it. Finally, it has been done following an order of the Madras High Court. Tamil Nadu’s ruling party, the DMK, moved court last year in the matter and the court ruled that OBC reservation should be implemented in AIQ within one year. As this was not done, the DMK moved a contempt petition, and the government acted before the court issued another order. While the OBC quota is in accordance with the law there are bound to be doubts about the legal validity of the 10% reservation for the EWS. This takes the quota limit to 60%, beyond the 50% ceiling laid down by the Indra Sawhney judgement and reiterated by the Supreme Court many times. While it may be a balancing act, there may be a bigger political plan behind the OBC reservations as such. The Assembly elections in UP are approaching and the government would like to woo the OBCs, who are important in the electoral scheme there. About 1,500 OBC students in the MBBS course and 2,500 students in postgraduate courses are likely to benefit from the decision. The government has proposed to enhance the number of medical seats, but it should ensure that this can be done sustainably. Politically, the BJP has come a long way, from opposing Mandal politics to embracing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/with-obc-quota-bjp-embraces-mandal-politics-1016318.html
04-08-2021||In Perspective||We can’t stand by and watch Afghanistan collapse||The past few months in Afghanistan, even by the standards set by two decades of war, have been especially calamitous. Since April, when President Biden announced the withdrawal of US forces, violence has escalated at a terrifying rate. Emboldened, the Taliban have advanced across the country and now surround major cities, including Kandahar, the second largest. The toll has been terrible: Vital infrastructure has been destroyed, hundreds of thousands have been displaced, and the number of people killed or injured has reached record levels. As the US and its allies complete their withdrawal, Afghanistan, so long devastated by conflict, could be on the brink of something much worse. It doesn’t have to be this way: Peace is still a possibility. For too long, there was a belief that the conflict could be resolved militarily. Throughout that time, the United Nations was too hesitant to step in. We should know: Between 2008 and 2020, across six years, we served as UN envoys to Afghanistan. In those years, the UN endeavoured to create openings for the peace process but could not get one underway. Though last year’s agreement between US and Taliban made possible the withdrawal of international forces, it sadly did not create conditions conducive to peace. The UN must now step up and guide Afghanistan away from catastrophe. The alternative, as all-out civil war beckons, is too grim to contemplate. The UN needs to do more. Though two UN envoys are currently assigned to Afghanistan, neither is sufficiently empowered to make a difference. The UN’s humanitarian appeal to support the basic needs of Afghans — nearly half of whom urgently need material assistance — remains woefully underfunded. At the diplomatic level, the Security Council has looked on blankly as peace talks, held in Doha, Qatar, have failed to make any serious headway. Fortunately, by contrast to times in the past when disagreements among members hobbled effective responses to global crises, the UN is in a good position to act. The US, Russia and China — three of the five permanent members of the Security Council — all have a stake in Afghanistan’s stability. Along with Pakistan, they issued statements in recent months calling for a reduction in violence and a negotiated political settlement that protects the rights of women and minorities. They also encouraged the UN to play “a positive and constructive role in the Afghan peace and reconciliation process.” Taken together, the statements demonstrate a hopeful amount of political will. But there has not been a unified effort to hold the peace process together. The Taliban, resisting talks with the government, have focused instead on taking as much territory as possible, spreading violence across the country. Faced with a fight for its survival, the Afghan government has encouraged local warlords and leaders to take up arms. In the absence of international mediation, the two sides are raging against each other on the battlefield rather than engaging at the negotiating table. It’s a situation that revives dark memories of the 1990s, when the country descended into civil war. Yet, no single country involved in Afghanistan is well placed to help. For its part in the conflict, the US is now viewed with suspicion. Russia and China, which have different allies among Afghanistan’s neighbours, aren’t seen as neutral either. Pakistan, regarded with hostility by the Afghan government for its ties to the Taliban, doesn’t want the involvement of India, which has opened its own channels of communication with the Taliban. Turkey, Iran and the Central Asian states are all important, but cannot act alone. The UN must step into this vacuum. In the first instance, the Secretary General must immediately convene the Security Council and seek a clear mandate to empower the UN, both inside the country and at the negotiating table. That would mean the US, Russia, China and other members of the council coming together to authorise a special representative to act as a mediator. With the pivotal support of member states, this would put pressure on both sides to halt the fighting and reach a settlement. The UN mission inside the country, whose mandate comes up for renewal in September, will also need support. The rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation means that Afghans across the country will need more lifesaving assistance. The UN must also be able to continue its crucial work of reporting human rights violations, protecting children in conflict and supporting women and girls. The UN is often criticised for failing to deliver on its original purpose: to maintain international peace and security. This is an opportunity to show its worth. In the past, international diplomacy has helped bring an end to conflicts in places as varied as Cambodia, Mozambique, El Salvador and Guatemala. The UN now needs to summon the same spirit, courage and energy. It cannot stand by and watch Afghanistan collapse. (Kai Eide and Tadamichi Yamamoto served as UN envoys to Afghanistan from 2008 to 2010 and 2016 to 2020, respectively)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/we-can-t-stand-by-and-watch-afghanistan-collapse-1015954.html
04-08-2021||In Perspective||Urban governance issues have simple solutions||A recent news story in one of the newspapers stated that a certain infrastructure project in Bengaluru that had been stalled for the last year had been restarted. The narrative in the paper was that the project contractor had had problems; the government had cracked the whip and confiscated the project from the contractor and then had returned the project to the contractor. In the meantime a year and a half had passed, pedestrians had fallen into potholes on the roads dug for the project, monsoon rains had clogged the works and traffic was log jammed. The reason I bring up this up is that this is a regular and unending problem of urban governance that has simple structural solutions but never seem to be engaged with. Contractors and developers do make errors but not all the time. Mostly, this is a problem of poor management by the government. By blaming the contactor for all the problems and confiscating the project for stretches of time, the problem only gets compounded. In many cases, the contractor is a large national-level player, with experience of large projects and capable of suing the government. Despite the newspaper article making it sound that the government had returned the project to the contractor, the reality was probably quite different and the contractor threatened to sue the government. This would have delayed the project even more and caused the average citizen even more problems. This is a melodrama played out in the public domain on a regular basis in Bengaluru and either the government is incapable of dealing with it or just doesn’t want to. Its reactions are often knee jerk and short sighted. So how do we sort out this problem? Firstly, preparing better quality contract documents— specifications, pre-qualification of contractors, shortlisting specifications and tender notices. So many infrastructure contracts are boiler plate documents and are often written by the same contractors/ developers/ politicians bidding for the project. This needs to be better managed. The government, either through sheer hubris, negligence, poor capacity and/or general corruption, facilitates projects, the details and specifications of which it is not aware of. It only becomes aware of a problem when crises arise and then it ends up acting overdramatically. The solution is a little bit of care in the structuring of the contracts— hiring better procurement lawyers and perhaps looking at more creative ways of management. Secondly, streamlining the hiring/procurement of the contractor. By engaging only the lowest bidders and the problem of corruption in government, infrastructure projects across the country are defined by shoddy work. In this day and age when the private sector is getting better at its work, the government needs to step up its game and improve its hiring/ procurement procedures to reflect quality. Key steps would include the computerisation of the procurement process, stringent vetting at the pre-bid stages and restrictions on politicians being involved in the process. Transparency is a key requirement of this process. Monitoring of contracts also need to be handled better. Thirdly, balancing the narrative in the media. The media often reports the problems of infrastructure work as created by the contractor. This is problematic because it is not always true. It is easy but not always true. The problem often arises from the mismanagement of the contract by the government. To spin it in the media as not their problem only compounds it. The local politicians begin to believe this narrative and the publicity pictures of politicians at worksites haranguing the contractor are just what they are: Pointless and of no use. The solution here lies with the media. Instead of only giving politicians and bureaucrat’s space to spread their narrative, they need to engage with all sides of the equation. Contractors/consultants are usually hesitant to articulate issues with the government, especially as often they are their largest client but their perspective needs to be heard and reported in a balanced manner. Often the reality is extremely different from what is articulated. Fourthly but not lastly, the policy framework. Much of the policy framework developed for infrastructure projects is applied in an ad hoc manner. This is not because of lack of strategy; but mostly because of poor governance and implementation. Bengaluru, on average, has reasonably well written public policy. There are plenty of well-educated and engaged players in the city that are willing to engage in the development of the city to improve the quality of life. However, due to a lack of cohesive coordination by the various parastatal agencies, ad hoc political intervention around election cycles and the general tokenistic engagement with people at grassroots levels, infrastructure development in the city continues to remain shoddy and poorly managed. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based urban planner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/urban-governance-issues-have-simple-solutions-1016316.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere again fails to get representation in Karnataka cabinet||BJP's central leadership has disappointed the people of Davangere district in general and legislators in particular again as none of the legislators was given a ministerial berth in the state cabinet headed by Basavaraj Bommai. With this, the district failed to get representation in the cabinet for the second time as none of them was part of the Yediyurappa-led cabinet either. Though five legislators had chanted the unity mantra and urged the BJP top brass to accord ministerial berth to one among them, their efforts failed to produce desirable results. Of the seven Assembly constituencies in the district, five are represented by BJP. Davangere North is represented by S A Ravindranath, Channagiri by Madal Virupakshappa, Honnal by MP Renukacharya, Mayakonda by N Linganna, Jagalur by S V Ramachandrappa while Davangere South and Harihar are represented by Congress legislators Shamanur Shivashankarapa and S Ramappa respectively.  Except Ravindranath, the remaining prominent MLAs of Honnali, Jagalur and Channagiri had embraced KJP when B S Yediyurappa had quit BJP in 2013. They were considered as loyalists to Yediyurappa rather than BJP.  The trio -- Renukacharya, Madal Virupakshappa and Ramachandrappa -- were also made political secretary to chief minister, head of Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited and Karnataka Maharshi Valmiki Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation Limited respectively in the Yediyurappa-led government. But Ravindranath was not given any key post earlier.  The five-time MLA S A Raveendranath, who represents Davangere North, is the most senior among the five legislators and he was expected to be given ministerial berth for his loyalty to the party. But his exclusion has surprised the party workers||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-again-fails-to-get-representation-in-karnataka-cabinet-1016188.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||No entry of devotees to Kukke, Kateel, Dharmasthala temples during weekend||In the backdrop of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, DC has imposed certain restrictions in Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple and Sri Kshethra Dharmasthala from August 5 to 15. Accordingly, the temples will remain closed for devotees during weekends. The temples will be open for devotees from 7 am to 7 pm during the weekdays. A large number of devotees from outside the district and state visit these temples during weekends. There is a threat of spread of Covid-19, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. During the weekdays, the devotees can only have darshan of the deities in the temple. Sevas will not be held. Theerthaprasada and meals will not be served to the devotees, said the DC. During the weekends, none will be allowed to stay in the lodges of the temples. Only priests can perform the puja during the weekends without devotees. Those who wish to stay in the lodges near the temples during weekdays, then they will have to produce RTPCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours mandatorily, said the DC. All the rooms in the lodges should be sanitised and wearing masks is mandatory. During the weekdays, the devotees should wear mask and maintain social distance while visiting temples, added the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-entry-of-devotees-to-kukke-kateel-dharmasthala-temples-during-weekend-1016192.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Cabinet expansion today; BJP firm against BSY||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will induct ministers into his Cabinet on Wednesday after hectic parleying that finally ended with the BJP central leadership “summarily rejecting” his predecessor B S Yediyurappa’s threats if his son B Y Vijayendra was not inducted.  The Vijayendra conundrum forced Bommai to stay put in New Delhi on Tuesday, cancelling his return to Bengaluru to hold back-to-back meetings with the top brass, under pressure from Yediyurappa who wanted a ministerial berth for his son. Bommai told reporters late Tuesday night that BJP national president J P Nadda would speak to Yediyurappa about Vijayendra. “After I reach Bengaluru (on Wednesday morning), I will be informed by the party on how many ministers will take their oath,” he said. In the first phase, the party may allow 22-25 ministers to get inducted on Wednesday. This will include ‘native’ BJP legislators as well as the ‘migrants’ who defected from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition. According to sources, Yediyurappa exerted pressure on Bommai to ensure Vijayendra’s induction. Yediyurappa wanted Vijayendra, currently the BJP vice-president, to be made deputy chief minister or a Cabinet minister, sources said. The Lingayat strongman even threatened to float a new party. In 2013, Yediyurappa managed to damage the BJP through the KJP.  But the BJP central leadership stood firm against the former CM’s threats. Their argument is that Vijayendra’s induction would create a parallel power centre in the government. When Bommai conveyed Yediyurappa’s demand to the top brass, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh strongly opposed it, citing the party’s stand on dynasty politics. In hectic political developments that followed, Bommai met Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. While Nadda and Shah opposed Vijayendra’s inclusion, BJP’s Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh favoured it, sources said. Bommai had almost finalised his list on Monday itself. He was to leave for Bengaluru at 11 am Tuesday. However, on a call from party leaders, he rescheduled his return to 7.30 pm. It was reset again to 9.15 pm. After his meeting with Shah, Bommai cancelled his return plan and huddled with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi till late in the night. Another bone of contention was whether or not Bommai should have deputies. Apparently, Bommai convinced the BJP central leadership, which was not in favour of having these posts. Bommai might get three deputies -- Govind Karjol, B Sriramulu and CN Ashwath Narayan.  We’re yet to get clarity on the induction of a couple of names and on having deputy CMs. After I reach Bengaluru (on Wednesday morning), I will be informed by the party on this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-today-bjp-firm-against-bsy-1015965.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Cabinet: Who are the 29 legislators who will take oath on Wednesday?||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's Cabinet will have 29 ministers who will take oath on Wednesday afternoon. Bommai will not have any deputies unlike his predecessor BS Yediyurappa. BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra’s name is not on the list that Bommai despatched to Raj Bhavan. "After detailed discussions with the party high command, a final round of talks was held yesterday. The list (of Cabinet ministers) was finalised today morning," Bommai said, after sending the list to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. The new Cabinet will be a mix of experienced legislators and young faces, Bommai said. Among the 29, eight are from the Lingayat community, seven Vokkaligas, seven OBCs, three SCs, one ST, one from Reddy community and one woman. "Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, in order to give pro-people administration and face the challenge of the next Assembly elections, this Cabinet is formed," Bommai said. The official list of ministers is expected to be announced shortly. On Yediyurappa critics -former minister CP Yogeeshwar, and MLAs such as Arvind Bellad and Basangouda Patil Yatnal - not finding a place in the Cabinet, Bommai said that the high command had taken a call on this. "There is no question of pressure," he said. On demands to include Vijayendra in the Cabinet, Bommai said that Nadda spoke to Yediyurappa over the issue, while BJP general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh talked to Vijayendra. “Vijayendra's name isn't there in the list," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-who-are-the-29-legislators-who-will-take-oath-on-wednesday-1016065.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Basavaraj Bommai inducts 29 ministers into Karnataka Cabinet; no deputies||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai inducted 29 members into his Cabinet on Wednesday, exactly a week after he took charge, a process that required him to spend much time in New Delhi. They will get portfolios in a day or two.  The 29-member Cabinet is replete with political compulsions. Much was discussed on how Bommai’s Cabinet might follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s template by showing senior ministers the door. But, of the 29, only six are new faces and the remaining 23 were ministers in the previous B S Yediyurappa government, making some argue that the Cabinet has Yediyurappa’s stamp on it. However, an attempt has been made to give Bommai a free hand by not giving him any deputies, which was the BJP’s central leadership’s call.   Arguably, only seven ministers are original BJP members with an RSS background -- K S Eshwarappa, Araga Jnanendra, S Angara, V Sunil Kumar, R Ashoka, B C Nagesh and Kota Srinivas Poojary. The rest are not seen as products of the core saffron ideology, including Bommai himself. Ten ministers are “migrants” who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition, including Rajarajeshwarinagar MLA Munirathna, who was waiting for his turn. Two “migrants” R Shankar and Shrimant Patil, ministers previously, are out. Politically, there was a need for the BJP to retain the turncoats as ministers to inspire confidence among those looking to join the party in the future.  There are eight Lingayats, seven Vokkaligas and seven OBCs -- electorally significant communities -- in the Cabinet. Regional disparity is stark as 13 districts, including Mysuru and some north Karnataka regions, have no representation.  “This Cabinet has a mix of experience and new energy,” Bommai said. “It has been formed to provide good governance and face the challenge of upcoming elections.” Asked about inducting Shashikala Jolle, who faces corruption charges, he said: “I have sought details. But, they are just accusations. There is not even a formal complaint. Still, I will examine it.”  Some seniors who were ministers in the previous government, including Jagdish Shettar (he opted out), S Suresh Kumar and Arvind Limbavali, are likely to get organisational roles ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. “This is a semi-final Cabinet,” a senior BJP leader opined. “There may be a minor reshuffle later in which more ‘old guard’ leaders will be replaced. It was not done now due to the risk of those like R Ashoka and V Somanna aligning with Yediyurappa to create trouble,” he explained.  Notably, Yediyurappa’s critics Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad and C P Yogeshwar did not make it.  Bommai has four vacant Cabinet positions, which he can dangle to keep disgruntlement in check. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-basavaraj-bommai-inducts-29-ministers-into-karnataka-cabinet-no-deputies-1016111.html
04-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Narayana Gowda to shoulder great responsibility ahead of 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls||Narayana Gowda, who became a second time minister in the BJP-lead government within a span of 17 months, has a great responsibility to shoulder ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, as he is the only minister from Mysuru region — comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts. Earlier, on February 6, 2020, Narayana Gowda from KR Pet of Mandya district was sworn-in as a minister. A three-time MLA in two terms, he crossed over to the BJP from JD(S) in July 2019. With the resignation of B S Yediyurappa as chief minister on June 26, he ceased to be minister. Caste uncertainity As per the caste arithmetics, whether one likes it or not, Gowda is made minister under ‘Vokkaliga quota’. He is expected to strengthen the BJP in the old Mysuru region, where Congress and the JD(S) are the major players, due to the dominance of Vokkaligas. However, it has to be noted that Vokkaligas of the region will not vote en masse for the BJP just because Gowda has been made minister, and forget their earlier ‘icons’ and party affiliations. Besides, it has to be noted that Lingayats and other castes, like Kurubas and SCs and STs and minorities, are either dominant or deciding factors, in some of the Assembly segments. It has to be recalled that Mysuru region has played an important role in both state and national politics. Mysuru was the capital of Mysuru state, up to 1956. The state itself was ‘Mysuru’, till a Mysurean himself, then chief minister D Devaraja Urs, renamed it as ‘Karnataka’, in 1973. The princely Mysuru state comprised the present 15 districts. Earlier, Mandya and Chamarajanagar were also part of Mysuru district. Prominence of Mysuru Regardless of who was the chief minister of Karnataka, Mysuru region has always played a prominent role in state politics. Out of 23 CMs (30 terms), so far, six are from here. While H D Deve Gowda and his son H D Kumaraswamy from Hardanahalli in Hassan went on to become chief ministers, the senior became prime minister also. Two leaders from Mysuru district — D Devaraja Urs (Hosahalli, Hunsur taluk) and Siddaramaiah (Siddaramanahundi, Mysuru taluk) — and two from Mandya district — S M Krishna (Somanahalli, Maddur taluk) and B S Yediyurappa (Bukanakere in KR Pet) — became chief ministers. In-charge If Narayana Gowda is made in-charge minister of Mandya district, outsiders will have have to be imposed on Mysuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu. Such ministers can join hands with Narayana Gowda to balance the ‘political arithmetic’. However, being the native minister of the region, he should maintain cordial relationship with the other ministers and strive for the development of the region. Besides, he should become acceptable of both BJP leaders and workers and people of all sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/narayana-gowda-to-shoulder-great-responsibility-ahead-of-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-1016122.html
04-08-2021||Main Article||Anti-Trafficking Bill: A travesty of legal principles||The Union government is likely to introduce the Anti-Trafficking Bill, 2021, in the ongoing session of Parliament. This follows the lapse of the 2018 version, which was passed only in the Lok Sabha. The 2021 Bill, however, criminalises the lives and livelihoods of those it purportedly seeks to save. Detailed comments on the proposed law have been submitted by various children’s, transgender and women’s rights organisations to the Ministry of Women and Child Development. Some critical aspects bear reiteration here. Trafficking is a specific form of exploitation comprising three main ingredients: (i) transporting or harbouring; (ii) using deception or coercion; (iii) for purposes of exploitation, including forced labour or removal of organs. By dispensing with the need for “movement” as a pre-requisite for the offence of trafficking to be constituted, the Bill not only changes the nature of the offence but also defines it within a vast, vague and overbroad framework of ‘exploitation’. A cardinal principle of criminal law is that the niche of an offence must be narrow. The Bill, however, creates overexpansive definitions of what could qualify as offences within its ambit, thereby lending itself to arbitrary application. By adopting the oft-criticised ‘raid-rescue-rehabilitation’ model as a solution, it implicitly criminalises vulnerable populations that seek to break the shackles of poverty and inequality in the hope of a better life. Consider the sex workers’ community. They have been fighting the conflation of trafficking with sex work in law and practice for decades now. Sadly, the substantive content of the Bill perpetuates such conflation by ascribing the ‘victim’ status to all sex workers. Therefore, though the objectives of the Bill emphasise on ‘respecting the rights’ of the victims, the provisions infantilise them by forcing a rehabilitation and repatriation process on them. Section 11, for example, which allows any police officer to ‘remove’ a sex worker from a ‘premises’ if there is ‘imminent threat of danger’, does not require the consent of the concerned adult for such ‘removal’. Once ‘rescued’ and placed in a protectional custody, the victim may seek to be moved out of rehabilitation under Section 16. But the magistrate can reject an application by an adult victim to be removed out of a rehabilitation home if s/he is convinced that the application has not been made voluntarily. This bestows a wide discretionary power to the magistrate which overrides an individual’s right of choice and autonomy and ensures that a person is forced to stay in the custody of the State. Deploying a similar logic, the Bill seeks to clamp down on ‘forced begging’ (Section 25) wherein the victim will be moved to a protectional home after ‘rescue’. This amounts to arbitrary and unjust curtailment of individual liberty. The Delhi HC, while deliberating on the question of begging, observed that people beg on the streets out of need. It reasoned that the presence of beggars is indicative of the State’s failure to provide for its citizens. The court noted that, “If the State wishes to criminalise specific types of forced beggary, it has to first think out a clear factual basis and impact thereof to pass a well-thought legislation after due application of mind and being mindful of the constitutional rights provided under the Constitution of India.” Worryingly, the Bill departs from the welfare approach in alternative legislations like the Bonded Labour System Abolition Act, 1976. Under the Act, rescued bonded labourers are neither placed under ‘protective custody’ nor evicted from their homesteads. This is an acknowledgement of the State’s duty to render conditions of work non-exploitative as opposed to depriving individuals of their means of sustenance. Under the instant Bill, the law makes provision for eviction (Section 42), which in the context of sex workers will mean the complete shutting down of their workplaces, thereby depriving them of their sole means of subsistence. That the Bill, while allowing for the applicability of the NIA Act, 2008, makes an anti-terror agency such as the National Investigation Agency the chief investigative body to investigate trafficking and all other offences is disturbing. This will permit NIA to enter any state without the permission of the state government, investigate and arrest anybody, whereas other agencies like the CBI compulsorily require the permission of the concerned state. The Government of Chhattisgarh, in challenging such primacy accorded to NIA, questioned its constitutionality and argued that the NIA Act in its current form “confers unbridled, uncontrolled and uncanalised power on the central government to act arbitrarily and whimsically against the spirit of federal structure and sovereignty of state.” The Union government arrogating to itself power that ordinarily vests in state governments should concern all who value India’s federal structure. Stringent bail provisions in the Bill are also concerning as bail can be granted only if the court has “reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence”. This creates a presumption of guilt, thereby toppling the basic tenets of criminal law jurisprudence that is premised on the presumption of innocence. This would translate to endless incarceration of the accused, contrary to the essence of the right to personal liberty, dignity and life contemplated by the Constitution. Experience has shown that sex workers are often falsely identified as ‘pimps’ and named as accused persons. Rigid investigation by NIA coupled with draconian provisions under the Bill would then lead to re-victimisation of the community. The 2021 Bill provides harsh penalties and punishments and even prescribes the death penalty for certain offences against children. Over 100 countries in the world have abolished the death penalty after recognising that it is dehumanising and unconstitutional. The United States has announced a federal moratorium on its use whereas Malawi and Sierra Leone are the latest countries to abolish them. In India too, feminist organisations have staunchly discouraged the use of the death penalty. Research from various parts of the country has highlighted that it disproportionately affects the poor and the marginalised. In this backdrop, it is disquieting to note that Parliament, yielding to public frenzy, is actively legislating to preserve it as a form of punishment. A robust anti-trafficking law should essentially recognise the many factors that exacerbate vulnerability to trafficking, such as poverty, violence and discrimination, and work to remedy it. The current Bill does none of this. Given the alarming consequences this Bill is likely to have on the working class, it is imperative that the Union government extends the time limit for all stakeholders to furnish their comments on its provisions and that the tabling of the Bill be deferred until such time. Further, the provisions empowering NIA as the chief investigative and prosecutorial agency must be immediately scrapped. The provision of death penalty must also be done away with. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based advocate associated with the ‘Coalition for an Inclusive Approach on the Trafficking Bill’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/anti-trafficking-bill-a-travesty-of-legal-principles-1015953.html
04-08-2021||Main Article||On the wings of Pegasus||Let me begin with a first principle: Technology is value-neutral and its misuse begins in the minds of men. The Pegasus saga unravelling across the world is the latest example of how vulnerable we all are to digital prying, and how easily our privacy can be invaded — photos, text messages, conversations, emails and contact lists — to track and monitor our lives. This raises important questions: Why is there a continuing development of technologies and applications that invade personal privacy? Can they be harnessed for the greater good or is Pegasus the manifestation of a societal trend towards tightened surveillance and social control? There can be little doubt that in the years to come, we can expect new streams of Artificial Intelligence services and a plethora of audio, visual, and remote technologies — online, household-oriented, smart cards and the like — generating a digital presence that can be monitored and tracked at all times. The downside will be that by placing personally sensitive data in organisational matrices of information-sharing arrangements not well understood by non-specialists, such systems will diminish the citizens’ effective control over the use of information about themselves. What is at stake is the extent to which the resulting social order enables people to live dignified lives; participate in diverse social and economic relationships that they adequately comprehend and control; and that people are not thrust into crises because of the idiosyncrasies of surveillance. We are much closer to an Orwellian world than we might suppose. Yet, the discourse on the Pegasus controversy has been narrow and political, and misses the longer-term implications. The political class in particular — the deadlock in Parliament is witness — is missing the wood for the trees. Worse still, whether they fully comprehend the enormity of the transformative power of technology is a question. The expansion of existing information systems and the development of newer surveillance systems are being driven by a set of social dynamics that amplify the use of personal data but ignore privacy concerns. We must recognise this development for what it is: Information Capitalism, the active attempts of companies and organisations to take advantage of patterns and changes in key parameters — financial, economic and social relationships — to gain market and organisational advantage. Of particular interest here is when information entrepreneurialism expands as economic arrangements in which people and organisations expect to profit from the use or sale of information. This insidious but growing phenomenon must be examined in the context of data science and privacy practice in the commercial world, the social transformations that enable information entrepreneurial practices to be rewarding for participants, and the fragmented policy debates about data protection and privacy. The threat of abusive surveillance is best framed in the language of ethics. Data protection in practice sets constitutional limits that shield the individual against public authorities and other powers, therefore warranting a certain degree of opacity. And because surveillance is primarily about control, looking at it through the prism of privacy allows controlling those who control. Although privacy and personal data protection safeguard similar interests, they do so differently. Privacy limits the use of State power as a tool of opacity, whilst personal data protection channels the legitimate use of surveillance, imposing a certain level of transparency and accountability. One of the practical consequences of this distinction is the possibility that a given measure can be in line with the data protection principles but, at the same time, infringe on individual privacy. To respond to these technological developments and societal challenges, India’s data protection framework must undergo substantial reform. Rooted in international human rights law, privacy and data protection must be articulated as constitutional rights; in practice, less as a directive for public authorities and more as effective rights for individuals. At the heart of the politics of surveillance is the question whether surveillance technology does actually enhance security for the public and for countries. There are no easy answers. How does one measure the value of one bit of intelligence that contributes to the greater whole? How do we measure the role of intelligence in informing decision-makers? Typically, law enforcement conducts investigations after a crime occurs, while intelligence agencies collect information in advance of, and often independent of, any event occurring. Today, particularly with the threat of terrorism and extremism, these lines are blurred and, in reality, overlap. Intelligence agencies seek to support policymakers by providing deep, nuanced, strategic information. The objective is to help decision-making, while making clear that this information does not dictate what action should be taken. It is for government to decide what action to take based on the intelligence provided. Surveillance is not merely listening to suspicious people; it is listening to interesting people. Information is what surveillance is pursuing. As the purpose of intelligence is to inform decision-making, it operates within the realm of politics. Surveillance cannot be separated from politics and politicians. What does happen is cherry-picking intelligence— select the intelligence that suits political agendas and ignore the rest. Privacy advocates are critical of the use of surveillance programmes by intelligence agencies and their interpretation of proportionality. True, as Immanuel Kant said “Out of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing was ever made.” Yet, we must recognise that surveillance tools are a core part of modern-day statecraft, and in the digital age, governments rely on digital surveillance technology to support a range of interests— from national security and public order to public health and delivery of public services. We must not throw the baby out with the bathwater. Surveillance can be used to control, but it can also be used to protect and care for citizens. Surveillance capabilities provide governments with important advantages; they hold powerful transformational potential across sectors— health and nutrition, poverty alleviation, and safety and security. If used wisely, we might ride on the wings of Pegasus to defeat monstrous political chimeras. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/on-the-wings-of-pegasus-1016313.html
04-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre far behind in the vaccination race!||The monthly production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased to more than 12 crore doses and of Covaxin to around 5.8 crore doses by December, the government told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, citing information from the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-far-behind-in-the-vaccination-race-1015958.html
04-08-2021||National||SC frees returning officer of Karnataka 2008 polls from perjury proceedings||The Supreme Court on Tuesday set aside a Karnataka High Court order for initiation of criminal proceedings against the then returning officer in the 2008 Assembly elections of K R Pura constituency in Bengaluru for allegedly giving false evidence in an election petition. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy noted that there was "no intentional falsehood uttered" by appellant Ashok Mensinkai during the hearing on election petition filed by Kavitha Mahesh before the High Court.  Mahesh claimed Mensinkai by not accepting her nomination paper denied her opportunity to contest election. Acting on her plea, the High Court also in its order of June 1, 2012, found that the officer made inconsistent statement to justify his illegal actions. The High Court had also termed the election of BJP candidate N S Nandiesha Reddy as void. The top court, however, had stayed the High Court's order on June 11, 2012. Subsequently, Reddy has completed the term of Assembly.   Dealing with Mensinkai's plea, the top court said the election petitioner had not placed material to indicate that she had contested in any earlier election or had a wide support base in the election concerned and it is in that view she had been shut out from the contest. Further, there is no allegation that the returning officer was acting at the instance or behest of any other candidate who was feeling threatened by the participation of the petitioner in the election process. In fact, the election petitioner sought to present the nomination paper which was incomplete. "It cannot be said that the officer with an ulterior motive had declined to receive the nomination paper and to cover up his folly was seeking to tender false evidence before the court and thereby to justify his illegal action," the bench said. The court also said the officer had retired from service eight years back and it would be expedient and justified to allow any proceedings against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-frees-returning-officer-of-karnataka-2008-polls-from-perjury-proceedings-1015962.html
04-08-2021||National||Pegasus row: Javadekar attacks 'negative politics' of opposition parties||With a stalemate in Parliament over the Pegasus spyware issue continuing, Prakash Javadekar blamed the "negative politics of opposition parties which is blocking the Parliament for last 12 days." "They have already wasted more than Rs150 crores of hard earned public money. This is nothing but bankruptcy politics. Shame on such Politics by opposition parties," he tweeted. Protesting against the alleged use of the Pegasus spyware by the government to snoop on political rivals, Opposition parties displayed specially-designed posters in seven different languages in both houses of Parliament on Tuesday, demanding a discussion on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-row-javadekar-attacks-negative-politics-of-opposition-parties-1016007.html
04-08-2021||National||Landslides in Himachal, one killed, two injured||A 22-year-old man died and two others were injured in a landslide that hit Himachal Pradesh's Solan district early Tuesday, a state disaster management official said. The deceased was identified as Lalu Ram of Jakhiyan village from Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, he added.  Amar Singh (19) of Kanpur and Ram Lal Thapa (47) of Parwanoo sustained injuries in the landslide, he said.  As per a report received from the Solan District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC), the landslide occurred near a hotel in sector three in Parwanoo at around 2:30 am, the official added. Meanwhile, the Nahan-Kumharhatti national highway was blocked due to a landslide in Sirmaur district, a state disaster management official said. The landslide occurred near Laddoo due to which the Nahan-Kumharhatti NH-907-A was blocked at about 1 pm, the official said. An earthmover and an air compressor were deployed at the site for early restoration of the road, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landslides-in-himachal-one-killed-two-injured-1016008.html
04-08-2021||National||India believed to be building naval facility on Mauritian island of Agalega: Report||India is believed to be building a naval facility on the remote Mauritian island of Agalega in the south-western Indian Ocean, a leading Arab media organisation claimed on Tuesday, citing satellite imagery, financial data and on-the-ground evidence collected by it. In a report, Qatar-based Al Jazeera news channel claimed that the military experts who have analysed the evidence collected by its Investigative Unit say an airstrip under construction in Agalega will almost certainly be used for maritime patrol missions by the Indian Navy. Agalega, some 12 kilometres long and 1.5 kilometres wide island, is located about 1,100-km from Mauritius’ main island and is home to about 300 people. Currently, aircraft use a short 800-metre landing strip to land on Agalega. Once completed, the new airstrip will be as long as runways used by the biggest aeroplanes in the world at large international airports, it said. "It’s an intelligence facility for India to stage air and naval presence in order to increase surveillance in the wider southwest Indian Ocean and Mozambique channel," Abhishek Mishra, associate fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) think-tank in New Delhi, was quoted as saying by the news channel. "Based on my personal information, my conversations with all these people in my circle, the base will be used for the berthing of our ships and the runway will be mostly used for our P-8I aircraft," Mishra said, referring to India’s P-8I maritime patrol aircraft that can be used for surveillance, anti-surface and anti-submarine warfare. There was no immediate response from the Indian Navy regarding the Al Jazeera report. Samuel Bashfield, a researcher at the National Security College at the Australian National University, said the southwest Indian Ocean is an area where it’s important for India to have areas where their aircraft can support their ships, and also where it has areas it can use as launching pads for operations. "I think it’s an absolutely perfect spot for a military base,” Bashfield, whose research focuses on strategic and geopolitical issues in the Indian Ocean, was quoted as saying by the channel. The pictures and data show how, over the last two years, the island has become home to hundreds of construction workers living in a semi-permanent camp on the northern tip of the 12km-long island, it said. India sought access to the island in 2015 to develop as an air and naval staging point for surveillance of the south-west Indian Ocean – in a sense redolent of facilities other nations operate, such as the joint US-UK base at Diego Garcia, according to an article published in the website of Australia-based Lowy Institute early this year. "Comparing the most recent images from Google Earth to the same location as seen in 2014 shows a new 3000-metre runway – capable of hosting the Indian Navy’s new Boeing P-8I maritime patrol aircraft – and considerable apron overshadows the existing airfield in the middle of the island,” the article said. It said the project entails a new airport, port and logistics and communication facilities and – potentially – "any other facility related to the project." Media reports about the military base first surfaced in 2018 but both Mauritius and India have denied that the construction project is for military purposes and say the infrastructure is only to benefit the islanders, the channel said. Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth has also categorically denied that the construction is for military purposes. "Let me reiterate, most emphatically and in unequivocal terms, that there is no agreement between Mauritius and India to set up a military base in Agaléga,” he said in the Parliament recently. The channel said the Mauritian government restated its position that there is "no agreement between Mauritius and India to set up a military base in Agaléga." The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical for India's strategic interests. China has been making concerted efforts to increase its presence in the region. "We see in the last few years that the Indian Ocean is becoming much more multi-polar in nature,” Bashfield said. "We see China asserting greater influence and we see various Chinese military platforms in the Indian Ocean,” he said, referring to China’s military base in Djibouti and access to several ports in the region. As a result, India has stepped up its game as well, Mishra added. "The aim of the Agalega Island agreement which India and Mauritius have entered into is for the island to act as a crucial node in expanding India’s overall footprint in the region," Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-believed-to-be-building-naval-facility-on-mauritian-island-of-agalega-report-1016009.html
04-08-2021||National||40 Rajasthan villages face flood threat due to heavy rain||About 40 villages in Rajasthan’s Dholpur district are facing flood threat due to heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours, officials said on Tuesday. Following heavy showers in Kota division, the Chambal river barrage was opened after which water reached Dholpur, officials said, adding that the water level of Chambal river in Dholpur crossed the danger mark on Tuesday. As a result, about 40 villages in the surrounding areas are facing the threat of flood, officials said. Dholpur District Collector R K Jaiswal took stock of the situation and said instructions have been given to monitor the villages facing the threat. Heavy rainfall was also recorded at one or two places in Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli, Jhalawar, Dausa, Tonk Bundi, and Jaipur leading to high inflow in some rivers/dams. Meanwhile, light to moderate rain was recorded at most places in eastern Rajasthan and some places in western part of the state during the last 24 hours, a Met department official said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-rajasthan-villages-face-flood-threat-due-to-heavy-rain-1016013.html
04-08-2021||National||Afghan foreign minister speaks to Jaishankar on escalating violence by Taliban||Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammed Hanif Atmar spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday on escalating violence by the Taliban and foreign terrorist groups in Afghanistan and called for the convening of a meeting of the UN Security Council (UNSC) to discuss the situation. A statement issued by the Afghan foreign ministry said Atmar described the Taliban's attacks in "collusion with foreign fighters and terrorist groups" as a violation of international law and talked about their possible consequences on the region's stability and security. It said Atmar spoke to Jaishankar on the escalating violence and widespread human rights violations by the Taliban and the foreign terrorist groups. He proposed that a special UNSC meeting be held with a focus on the immediate cessation of violence in Afghanistan. India holds the presidency of the UNSC for the month of August. The Afghan foreign ministry said Jaishankar expressed India's deep concern over the escalation in violence and human rights violations in Afghanistan and called for steps to ensure peace in the country. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including members of the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-foreign-minister-speaks-to-jaishankar-on-escalating-violence-by-taliban-1016016.html
04-08-2021||National||DMK, AIADMK spar over centenary-portrait event||It is DMK versus AIADMK again in Tamil Nadu, but now it is about the non-participation of the latter, the main opposition party, in an event held to mark the legislature’s centenary and unveiling of a portrait of late chief minister M Karunanidhi. The AIADMK maintained that it did not take part in the event on August 2 as the DMK had not taken part in the one held in 2018 to unveil a portrait of the late chief minister and former party supremo J Jayalalithaa in the Assembly, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan said on Tuesday. There could be no comparison between the two events, Duraimurugan, also a senior DMK leader, indicated, saying the AIADMK did not even request the DMK, the then main opposition party, to take part in that event and had merely dispatched invitations. “They did not even ask us to take part in that function. They had sent invitations to the DMK just like they did it for all and sundry,” he told reporters. The DMK had not participated in the Jayalalithaa portrait unveiling event as the party was not shown proper respect, the minister said. The DMK government, led by Chief Minister M K Stalin, however, invited the Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami with due respect, he said. As advised by Stalin, though he spoke over the phone to Palaniswami and requested him to take part in the event, the AIADMK top leader conveyed to the Assembly secretary that his party would not participate in the function, he said. The senior minister said he conveyed to Palaniswami that his seat would be on the dais and in the same row that dignitaries President Ram Nath Kovind, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and CM Stalin shall occupy. Duraimurugan said he requested Palaniswami to also deliver an address on the occasion. Unlike the AIADMK regime, the DMK government extended the due courtesy to the main opposition party, he added. “It is their (AIADMK’s) choice to participate in the event or not,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-aiadmk-spar-over-centenary-portrait-event-1016019.html
04-08-2021||National||ED arrests Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar in connection with a money laundering case, officials said on Wednesday. Thapar was arrested under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night after the agency carried out raids against him and his linked businesses in Delhi and Mumbai, they said. He is expected to be produced before court on Wednesday where the ED will seek his custody, they added. The ED has been probing an alleged transaction between his company Avantha Realty, Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and his wife, who are already being investigated under the PMLA by the agency. The case of money laundering was filed by the ED after taking cognisance of an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). "The (CBI) FIR alleges that Rana Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realisable market value belonging to Avantha Reality Ltd for sanction of a loan to ARL and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group companies and for advancing new and additional loans to them by Yes Bank Ltd," the ED had said earlier. CBI had last year booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly obtaining a bribe of Rs 307 crore through the purchase of a bungalow in a tony Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return. The CBI suspected that the discounted transaction for the 1.2 acre-bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was a gratification to Kapoor through the company Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realisation of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Gautam Thapar-promoted Avantha Realty and group companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-avantha-group-promoter-gautam-thapar-in-money-laundering-case-1016029.html
04-08-2021||National||India sees 42,625 new Covid-19 cases, 562 deaths||With 42,625 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,17,69,132 and the active caseload increased to 4,10,353, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,25,757 with 562 fatalities. The number of active cases increased to 4,10,353 and accounted for 1.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate rose to 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 5,395 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,47,518 samples were tested on Tuesday taking the number of tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 47,31,42,307. The daily positivity rate stood at 2.31 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.36 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,09,33,022, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.34 per cent, according to the data. Cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 48.52 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 562 new fatalities include 177 from Maharashtra and 148 from Kerala. A total of 4,25,757 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,215 from Maharashtra, 36,650 from Karnataka, 34,159 from Tamil Nadu, 25,058 from Delhi, 22,765 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,170 from West Bengal, and 16,299 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-42625-new-covid-19-cases-562-deaths-1016045.html
04-08-2021||National||India's gender gap in Covid vaccinations narrows: GoI data||The gender disparity in India's Covid-19 immunisation drive has narrowed, government data showed on Wednesday, as pregnant women are now allowed to get their shots and authorities try to dispel rumours about fertility. Women have received about 47% of the 48.1 core vaccine doses administered in India, nearly in line with the gender ratio in the country, the data showed. Men have now received 13% more doses than women, compared with about 17% in early June. India officially started vaccinating pregnant women only in July and has been running ground-level campaigns to encourage them to get their shots, according to the government. It has also sent teams of grassroots health workers to towns and villages to dispel fears that vaccines affect fertility. A communication strategy is in place which is being implemented across "sustain vaccine confidence", the health ministry told parliament on Tuesday, highlighting the efforts to reach out to more women. India has administered the most number of coronavirus vaccine doses in the world after China, according to the government's Co-Win website, but lags many countries in terms of per capita inoculations. The country wants to immunize all its adult population of 94.4 crore by December and has given at least one dose to nearly 40% of them. It has reported about 3 crore coronavirus infections, the most of any country except the United States, with more than 425,000 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-gender-gap-in-covid-vaccinations-narrows-goi-data-1016053.html
04-08-2021||National||No possibility of mediation with Telangana on Krishna water, Andhra Pradesh tells SC||Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that its dispute with Telangana on sharing of Krishna river water required legal adjudication as there was no possibility of resolving it through mediation. A bench, presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, posted the matter before another bench for considering the issue raised by Andhra Pradesh. On Monday, CJI Ramana had suggested the resolving of the dispute through mediation, saying he could not legally adjudicate on the matter as he belonged to both the States. Andhra Pradesh alleged that Telangana government has deprived it of its legitimate share of water for drinking and irrigation purposes in an “unconstitutional and illegal” manner.  It further contended that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014, directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted under this Act and directions of the Centre.   "In view of no progress on notification of the jurisdiction of KRMB, Telangana by its acts of commission is seriously affecting the water supply to Andhra Pradesh for irrigation and other purposes," it said.  The plea contended that in Srisailam Dam project, the reservoir’s quantity has seriously depleted on account of use of water from there for generation of power in Telangana, which has been established by “daily readings” submitted by dam authorities.  The AP government said this has caused immense hardship for its people as availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project.   “More significantly, State of Telangana is clearly in violation of a binding Award, popularly known as “Bachwat Award” made on 31.05.1976 and express provisions of the 2014 Act, whereby State of Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," the petition filed through advocate Mahfooz A Nazki alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-possibility-of-mediation-with-telangana-on-krishna-water-andhra-pradesh-tells-sc-1016062.html
04-08-2021||National||PM, others congratulate boxer Lovlina Borgohain on winning bronze medal at Olympics||Lovlina Borgohain's "dogged determination" drew all-round praise as the country raised a toast to the young boxer for winning a bronze medal in her maiden Olympic Games. Borgohain (69kg) signed off with a bronze medal after a 0-5 loss to reigning world champion Busenaz Surmeneli on Wednesday, bringing an end to the country's boxing campaign in Tokyo and adding a third medal to its overall tally. "...With your hard work and dogged determination, you have done the nation proud. Your Bronze medal in boxing at the Olympics Games will inspire the youth, especially young women, to battle with challenges and turn their dreams into reality," President Ram Nath Kovind wrote on his Twitter handle. Congratulations to Lovlina Borgohain! With your hard work and dogged determination, you have done the nation proud. Your Bronze medal in boxing at the Olympics Games will inspire the youth, especially young women, to battle with challenges and turn their dreams into reality. The 23-year-old's bronze came after weightlifter Mirabai Chanu and shuttler PV Sindhu had secured a silver and bronze respectively. "Well fought @LovlinaBorgohai! Her success in the boxing ring inspires several Indians. Her tenacity and determination are admirable. Congratulations to her on winning the Bronze. Best wishes for her future endeavours. #Tokyo2020," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.   Borgohain stood up to the strong challenge of her opponent but came undone after Surmeneli got down to connecting her vicious hooks and body shots. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, however, lauded her effort. "Lovlina, you gave your best punch! India is extremely proud of what you have achieved! You've achieved a Third place medal medal in your first Olympics; the journey has just begun! Well done @LovlinaBorgohai," Thakur tweeted. Lovlina, you gave your best punch !🥊 India 🇮🇳 is extremely proud of what you have achieved ! You’ve achieved a 🥉 medal in your first Olympics; the journey has just begun! Former sports minister Kiren Rijiju wrote: "Dear @LovlinaBorgohai, you have made our country proud! Hearty congratulations on winning Olympic Bronze medal! We are extremely proud of your achievement!" Wishing Borgohain for her success, BCCI secretary Jay Shah wrote: "Congratulations @LovlinaBorgohai for the Bronze medal. Being a debutant your phenomenal bout at @Tokyo2020 is an inspiration for many. This is just the beginning, you have long way to go. #Boxing #Cheer4India."   With your commitment and hard work, I am sure things will only get better from here. Borgohain is the third Indian boxer to ensure a podium finish at the showpiece after Vijender Singh (2008) and M C Mary Kom (2012) and Boxing Federation of India (BFI) president Ajay Singh hailed her as a "future World Champion" and a "role model". "Meet our future world champion @LovlinaBorgohai. So proud of this young 23 year old women. She fought the best boxer in the world with grit and determination and earned the first Olympic boxing medal for India after 9 years. Truly a role model for young women our country," he tweeted. Vijender wrote: "And it's bronze in boxing. Proud of you #LovlinaBorgohain." India's lone individual Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra also congratulated Borgohain for her "stellar run" at the Olympics and shared his thoughts in a letter posted on twitter. "To achieve a milestone of such difficulty while making your debut at the grandest sporting event in the world is nothing short of incredible. It speaks volumes of your immense grit and belief in your skills and not be overawed by the occasion." Former sportspersons, including cricketers, also took to the social media to wish the boxer from Assam. "There is no doubt that the Turkish World Champion Busenaz was a superior boxer. There is also no doubt that @LovlinaBorgohai gave it her all. Congrats on your bronze medal Lovlina. You have so much to be proud of," former India hockey player Viren Rasquinha tweeted. Former India cricket captain Sachin Tendulkar said, "With your commitment and hard work, I am sure things will only get better from here." With your commitment and hard work, I am sure things will only get better from here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-others-congratulate-boxer-lovlina-borgohain-on-winning-bronze-medal-at-olympics-1016070.html
04-08-2021||National||Maharashtra Covid-19 situation stablising as R-rate falls, unlocking process continues||Maharashtra seems to be putting up a stellar fight against Covid-19 as data from Tuesday's Health Ministry briefing showed that the state has controlled the spread of the virus months after it was one of the worst-hit in the first and second wave. While the threat has not completely subsided, Maharashtra's R-value is down to one and is showing a further decreasing trend. R-value signifies the speed at which the infection spreads. Eight states including Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have an R-value higher than one, a matter of concern for the government. No Maharashtra districts feature in the list of 44 districts of India with over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate. The only districts in the state that have shown a rising number of Covid-19 cases are Ahmednagar, Solapur and Beed. However, districts like Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur, Raigad and Satara, which had an alarming number of cases at the peak of the second wave in April-May, fared much better this time around. Joint Secretary from Health Ministry Lav Agarwal commended the seven states, including Maharashtra, for their fast vaccination campaign. "Seven states, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal, have administered more than three crore doses. We are still in consultation with them and it takes coming together on the ground on the conditions of the contract and other issues we will visit, we have made progress, we hope to make more progress". Elaborating on how the vaccination pace has picked up, Agarwal said India crossed the 30 crore mark in 159 days. It then took 24 days more to reach the 40 crore mark thereby giving 40 crore doses in 183 days and administering 45 crore in another 11 days. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 6,005 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 177 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 63,21,068 and the toll to 1,33,215 while 6,799 patients recovered. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-covid-19-situation-stablising-as-r-rate-falls-unlocking-process-continues-1016071.html
04-08-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of free grains scheme in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana' in Uttar Pradesh on August 5 via video conferencing. The PMO noted that the state will celebrate August 5 as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Day.  A massive awareness programme will be launched throughout the state to ensure that no beneficiary is left out from availing the benefits of the scheme, it added.  Almost 15 crore beneficiaries of the state have been getting ration free of cost under the scheme. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in the state have been distributing food grains to the beneficiaries of the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-free-grains-scheme-in-up-1016087.html
04-08-2021||National||Covovax Covid vaccine trials on children to start in August: Report||The Serum Institute of India is set to start trials of Covovax Covid-19 vaccine (Novavax's candidate) on children this month. The trials for the first group will be conducted for those between 2 and 11 years of age and the second between 12 and 17 years of age. An expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority on July 27 recommended granting permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions late last month. Currently, only those who are 18 or above are eligible for vaccination against the coronavirus.  Very soon a vaccine is expected for children and inoculation for them will start, the sources quoted the minister as telling the MPs. The SII is learnt to have informed that their collaborator, Novavax, Inc., US  has already generated a large amount of data in adults in different countries and that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data on the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine are very robust which includes a safety database of more than 50,000 adults with data from Australia, South Africa, UK and USA and preliminary safety data in 2248 children. The SEC on June 30 had recommended against granting permission to SII for conducting phase 2 and 3 trial of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years following which the company had submitted a revised study protocol mid-July. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covovax-covid-vaccine-trials-on-children-to-start-in-august-report-1016090.html
04-08-2021||National||PM Modi dials Mamata, assures her of all help to mitigate flood situation in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday and took stock of the flood situation in the state. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet. The prime minister assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation, it said. The chief minister, who was visiting flood-hit Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district, was learned to have told the prime minister that her administration will send a report to the PMO on the flood situation and the damage caused by it, a state government official said. At least 15 people have been killed and nearly 3 lakh were displaced as large parts of six districts of the state have been inundated due to heavy rain and the release of water by the Damodar Valley Corporation and the Durgapur Barrage. PM Modi prayed for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-dials-mamata-assures-her-of-all-help-to-mitigate-flood-situation-in-bengal-1016092.html
04-08-2021||National||SC issues notice to Centre, states over plea on pending payments of sugarcane farmers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to consider a fresh matter for a direction to state governments to place on records pending dues of sugarcane farmers and action taken by them against the mill owners. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant issued notice to the Centre and various states including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and a number of sugar mills. Senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for former Lok Sabha MP Raju Anna Shetti, submitted an identical matter that has already been admitted for consideration by the court. He said dues of the farmers have gone upto Rs 18,000 crore as of January 1, 2021. The farmers had to be paid Rs 7,500 crores in Uttar Pradesh and Rs 3,585 crores in Karnataka, he said. The court, after a brief submission by Grover, sought a response from different authorities and put the matter for consideration after three weeks. The petitioners asked the top court to set up a strict mechanism by which the price of sugarcane produce is paid to cane farmers as per law to avoid accumulation of such dues.  They also wanted a system to be put in place to prevent farmers from the vicious cycle when a sugar mill is declared sick and their dues of sugarcane produce remained unpaid during the process of resolution or liquidation of sugar mills, leading to the deteriorating financial condition of cane farmers, violating their fundamental rights enshrined under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioners claimed States have failed to perform their legal duty cast upon them by the Legislations to ensure the payment of the cane price along with interest on the arrears of the sugar cane price to be paid to farmers and upon the corresponding obligation which is cast upon the sugar mills/factories. The PIL further urged the apex court to direct the governments to release some ad hoc payments to the sugarcane growers against their outstanding dues. "Due to deteriorating conditions of sugar mills, their inability to pay cane dues and the acts of omission and commission on part of the respondent state governments and the central government and the concerned authorities, the Petitioners are constrained to approach this Court to seek directions against the Respondents, who have failed to comply with their statutory obligations to pay the dues of poor farmers as per the timelines stipulated under Sugar (Control) Order, 1966," the petition stated. It said that in a country like India, where agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for 58 per cent of population, non payment of dues to farmers causes grave prejudice to the fundamental right of livelihood, under Article 21 of the Constitution, of the farmers and their families, who are completely dependent on the income generated through the agriculture process of cultivation of sugarcane. The pending dues of cane growers running in thousands of crores of Rupees due to unreasonable delay in payment by sugar mills/factories caused grave financial hardships to the sugar cane growers, that ed to serious problems causing social unrest who have no other source of income and was the cause of the suicide of farmers," the plea claimed. The petition sought direction to the Centre and state governments to file affidavits setting out the details of the amounts due, the amounts paid and arrears by the sugar mills to the sugarcane grower or their cooperatives for sale of their cane along with interest thereon at 15 per cent on year-wise from 2018 to 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-states-over-plea-on-pending-payments-of-sugarcane-farmers-1016094.html
04-08-2021||National||Jaslok Hospital & Research Centre successfully conducts first deep brain stimulation surgery in Asia||The Jaslok Hospital & Research Centre in Mumbai recently performed Asia-Pacific’s first deep brain stimulation surgery using an advanced Auto-sensing device (Percept PC) for controlling the symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease. The successful surgery led by renowned neurosurgeon Dr Paresh Doshi; Director of Neurosurgery, was conducted on a 42-year-old male diagnosed with young-onset Parkinson's disease. The patient started suffering from Parkinson’s disease from a very young age. Over the past seven years, he had been managing his medications and had reasonable control over his disease. Unfortunately, for the past two years, his conditions worsened, wherein his hands and legs would become stiff like a log, toes and fingers would curl up and cause severe pain. This was mostly eased through medications, but at times even medicines would not work. These medicines came with another set of side effects called dyskinesias. The surgery involves implantation of an electrode into the specific target nucleus of the brain and is now a well-established therapy for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre has been performing deep brain stimulation surgery since 1998 and has conducted over 550 deep brain stimulation surgery to date. The surgery is essentially done under local anesthesia. The patient provides feedback during operation about the amount of improvement in their clinical symptoms. Post-surgery, the patient undergoes pacemaker programming to control the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. As the patient begins to show signs of improvement by the deep brain stimulation electrodes, the medications are reduced. Jaslok Hospital has several patients who have been off medications after a safe DBS surgery. Doshi, said, “This surgery has been practiced over the last 20 years and is now a well-established therapy for patients diagnosed with advanced Parkinson's disease. We are extremely proud for being the first in the Asian region to have done a successful surgery using Percept PC and are sure that this will change the course of Indian patients suffering from Parkinson’s. We truly hope to be able to help them live a better life.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaslok-hospital-research-centre-successfully-conducts-first-deep-brain-stimulation-surgery-in-asia-1016098.html
04-08-2021||National||Padma Shri awardee Dogri writer Padma Sachdev passes away||Noted author and Padma Shri awardee Padma Sachdev, the first modern woman poet of Dogri language, passed away at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday, an official of the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages said here. Sachdev (81), who was born in Purmandal area of Jammu in 1940 in the house of Sanskrit Scholar Prof Jai Dev Badu, was hospitalised after she developed some complications on Tuesday evening, the official told PTI. She authored many books in Dogri and Hindi, and her poetry collections, including Meri Kavita Mere Geet, won her the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1971. She received the Padma Shri, the country's fourth-highest civilian award, in 2001 and was awarded the Kabir Samman for poetry for 2007-08 by the Madhya Pradesh government. Sachdev also wrote the lyrics for the song Mera Chhota Sa Ghar Baar from the 1973 Hindi film Prem Parbat. She also penned the lyrics for two songs for the 1978 Hindi film Aankhin Dekhi, including the famous duet Sona re, tujhe kaise milun sung by Mohd Rafi and Sulakshana Pandit. She worked with All India Radio, Jammu and Mumbai and shifted base to New Delhi and Mumbai after marrying singer Surinder Singh. Additional secretary of J&K Academy of Art, Culture and Languages Arvinder Singh Aman chaired a condolence meeting here for Sachdev at which rich tributes were paid to the "doyen of Dogri literature". "Sachdev's contribution to Dogri language is exemplary. She was a living example of Dogri culture," Aman said, adding that she would be remembered for giving her mother tongue global recognition as her lyrics sung by famous Bollywood singers made Dogri popular not only in India but around the world. He said Sachdev's passing away is an irreparable loss for Jammu. Aman said Sachdev will also be remembered for her key role in the struggle for getting Dogri added to the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma also expressed grief over Sachdev's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-awardee-dogri-writer-padma-sachdev-passes-away-1016108.html
04-08-2021||National||Home ministry recommends disciplinary action against former CBI director Alok Verma||The Union home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against former CBI director Alok Verma for allegedly misusing his official position and violating the relevant service rules, officials said on Wednesday. They said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the nodal ministry for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to take necessary disciplinary action against Verma. The action, if approved, may include temporary or permanent forfeiture of Verma's pension and retirement benefits, the officials said. During his stint in the CBI, Verma, a 1979-batch (retired) Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, was engaged in a bitter fight with Gujarat-cadre IPS officer and his deputy Rakesh Asthana over corruption charges. Both Verma and Asthana had accused each other of corruption. Asthana is the Delhi Police Commissioner now. "Verma has been accused of misusing his official position and violating service rules. Necessary action has been recommended against him by the home ministry," a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The home ministry is the cadre controlling authority for IPS officers. The DoPT has forwarded the MHA's recommendation to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the recruitment body for IPS officers, the officials said. The UPSC needs to be consulted before imposing penalty on IPS officers, they said. Verma took over as the CBI chief on February 1, 2017 for a fixed two-year tenure. However, he was removed from the post on January 10, 2019 and posted as the director general of Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards -- a less significant portfolio. Verma did not accept the offer and wrote to the government, saying he should be considered as deemed superannuated as he has completed 60 years age of superannuation on July 31, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-recommends-disciplinary-action-against-former-cbi-director-alok-verma-1016109.html
04-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes Limited Liability Partnership Amendment Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to encourage the start-up ecosystem and further boost ease of doing business, amid uproar by the opposition on Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The Bill, which was passed after a short debate, seeks to decriminalise 12 offences under the law and help to improve the ease of doing business by amending the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, 2008. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the Bill for consideration and passage. The Bill was introduced in the House last week. While some MPs, including Ram Nath Thakur, Kanakmadela Ravindra Kumar, M Thambidurai, and Sujeet Kumar, spoke on the Bill, several opposition members were raising slogans against the government in the Well of the House. The opposition has been protesting on Pegasus issue and three new farm laws, besides other matters, since the start of the monsoon session. Amid the uproar, Sitharaman made a brief reply following which the amendment Bill was passed with voice vote. The minister said it is a very timely Bill and will bring positivity in the LLP eco-system. She stressed that the legislation will lead to ease of doing business. Some opposition members tried to raise their issues when called for speaking on the Bill. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh did not allow them. The Bill proposes to introduce the concept of “small limited liability partnership” in line with the concept of “small company” under the Companies Act, 2013. It will also amend certain sections of the Act so as to convert offences into civil defaults and to convert the nature of punishment provided in the said sections from fines to monetary penalties. Currently, there are 24 penal provisions and 21 are compoundable offences, while three are non-compoundable ones. The proposed Bill seeks to reduce the total number of penal provisions under the LLP Act to 22, compoundable offences to seven, non-compoundable offences to three and the number of defaults to be dealt with under the 'In-House Adjudication Mechanism' will be only 12. Compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying a certain amount of money. Offences that relate to minor/ less serious compliance issues, involving predominantly objective determinations, are proposed to be shifted to the In-House Adjudication Mechanism (IAM) framework instead of being treated as criminal offences. The Bill also seeks to insert a new section 34A so as to empower the central government to prescribe “Accounting Standards” or “Auditing Standards” for a class or classes of limited liability partnerships. Earlier, this week, the Union Cabinet had approved amendments to the Act including decriminalising 12 offences under the law. This is the first time that changes are being made to the Act since it came into effect in 2009. At present, there are relaxations for thresholds up to turnover size and partner's contribution of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 25 lakh, respectively. Once the amendment is in place, the thresholds will be revised upwards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-limited-liability-partnership-amendment-bill-1016110.html
04-08-2021||National||LS adjourned for fourth time amid opposition protests, one bill passed||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the fourth time on Wednesday after passage of a bill amid vociferous protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping allegations and other issues. As soon as the House met at 2 PM, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, took up the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, for consideration and passage. Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav moved the bill for consideration and passage and several amendments moved by Opposition members were rejected by a voice vote. Amid sloganeering by Opposition members, the bill was passed and subsequently Agrawal adjourned the proceedings till 3:30 PM. Earlier, when the House met for the day, Speaker Om Birla made obituary references for eight former members of Lok Sabha who died recently. As a mark of respect for the departed souls, the Speaker along with members present in the House stood in silence for a brief while. Continuing with their protests over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues, Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and displaying placards. Birla asked the protesting members to ensure decorum of the House. Little over ten minutes after the Question Hour began, the proceedings were adjourned till 11.30 am amid the din. When the House reassembled at 11:30 am, Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, asked protesting members not to storm into the well showing placards and shouting slogans. "Don't do anything for which the chair is compelled to take action.... If the Chair is standing, you should sit down... Please go back to your seat... it is not acceptable," Agrawal said. As protesting opposition members continued to be in the Well, Agrawal adjourned the House till 12 noon. When the House again met at noon, the opposition members continued their protests by trooping into the well and sloganeering. Agrawal, who was in the chair, allowed papers related to various ministries to be laid in the table of the House amidst the protests. As protests continued, the chair adjourned the House till 2 pm after 10 minutes of business. Both Houses of Parliament have witnessed disruptions since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ls-adjourned-for-fourth-time-amid-opposition-protests-one-bill-passed-1016118.html
04-08-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi hails Lovlina Borgohain on winning bronze medal at Olympics||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday congratulated boxer Lovlina\R Borgohain on winning a bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics, and said she has done the country proud. Borgohain (69kg) signed off with a bronze medal in her debut Olympic Games after a comprehensive 0-5 loss to reigning world champion Busenaz Surmeneli on Wednesday, bringing an end to the country's campaign in the sport in Tokyo. "Congratulations to Boxer #LovlinaBorgohain! You’ve done the country proud," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi, in a tweet, said, "Heartiest congratulations @LovlinaBorgohai! We are so proud of you." Borgohain goes home a history-maker as the 23-year-old, who started her career as a Muay Thai practitioner, has become only the third Indian boxer to ensure a podium finish at the showpiece after Vijender Singh (2008) and M C Mary Kom (2012). Hers is also the first Olympic medal in Indian boxing in nine years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-hails-lovlina-borgohain-on-winning-bronze-medal-at-olympics-1016129.html
04-08-2021||National||3 NIT Rourkela students get offers of Rs 45 lakh pay package in online placement drive||Three students of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Rourkela were offered annual pay packages of Rs 45 lakh, the highest so far, in the online placement drive for the academic year 2020-21, the institute said. With 84 companies offering 253 students more than Rs 10 lakh per annum, the average CTC offered was about Rs 9.36 lakh per annum, an increase of over 4 per cent from the previous year, an official release issued by the institute said. The IT and software sector has emerged as the top recruiter (41% of total recruitment) till date. The Core Engineering like Electrical & Electronics Manufacturing, Analytics and Consulting, Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), and Education sectors sharing the rest of the part, it said. Another 211 students bagged prestigious internship offers from global majors like Microsoft, Barclays, Citi Bank and Qualcomm with the highest stipend rising to Rs.1 lakh per month. So far, the Institute received more than 841 full-time offers. The 256 companies that participated in the placement drive are from the diverse sectors like software, manufacturing, electronics, finance, education, petroleum, construction and top rung public sector units. Prof Umesh C Pati, Head of Training and Placement Centre, NIT Rourkela, said, "This year, taking up the placement drive was a rigorous task. But, keeping up with the new normal of virtual placement drive, the training and placement centre worked very hard to adapt quickly and enable the students to be at their best for the process. We witnessed 101 new companies which have participated in this placement season. Some of them are Amazon Web Services (AWS), Barclays, Citi Bank, Siemens Gamesa." Congratulating the placement committee and students, the Director of the Institute, Prof Animesh Biswas said, "This year’s placement season has witnessed remarkable success despite the current Covid-19 pandemic, which is a testament to the education imparted at NIT Rourkela and the hard work put in by our students. I am very proud of our students for their dedication which has led to such coveted employment offers. We are continuously striving to exceed the expectations of the recruiters as well as stakeholders and thank them for reposing faith in the institute as well as its distinct academic culture." The Computer Science and Engineering Departments bagged 187 jobs, the maximum among all departments. More than 230 Postgraduate students have bagged job offers so far. Undergraduate students did well too, with the Chemical Engineering department attaining 100% placement, followed by Computer Science and Electronics & Communication Engineering departments, which achieved 98%. Among the others, the Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering and Electrical Engineering attained 92% and 88% placements respectively. NIT Rourkela is one of the premier national level institutions for technical education in the country and is funded by the Government of India. NIT Rourkela has earned 16th position in NIRF Ranking 2020 (Engineering Category) and overall 32nd position. In Atal rankings 2020, NITR has been placed in Band A (Rank Between 11th – 25th) among the Institute of National Importance, Central Universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-nit-rourkela-students-get-offers-of-rs-45-lakh-pay-package-in-online-placement-drive-1016132.html
04-08-2021||National||While some Covid cases could go undetected, missing out on deaths completely unlikely: Govt||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday clarified that while some Covid-19 cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on deaths was completely unlikely given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India. During the peak of the second wave, the health system across the country was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help due to which correct reporting and recording of Covid deaths could have been delayed but it was later reconciled by states and UTs, the ministry said in a statement. The reconciling of deaths is still being carried out allaying all speculations of under-reporting and under-counting of deaths due to Covid-19, it said. Noting that there have been some speculative media reports inferring under-counting of deaths from eight states, the ministry said the deaths can only be estimated and the exact data may never be known. The reports highlight data from the Civil Registration System (CRS) and Health Management Information System (HMIS), including all-cause death numbers, leading to erroneous inferences terming it as 'counting the uncounted', it said. "It is clarified that given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on deaths is completely unlikely. "This could also be seen in the case fatality rate, which as on 31st December 2020 stood at 1.45 per cent, and even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34 per cent," the ministry said. Moreover, the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India follows a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to state governments and to the Union ministry on a continuous basis.  As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths by states and UTs as per ICD-10 codes recommended by the WHO for mortality coding, the ministry said in the statement. The Union Health Ministry has repeatedly been advising states and UTs through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through deployment of central teams for recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines. States have been advised to conduct thorough audits in their hospitals and report any cases or deaths that could have been missed with district and date-wise details so as to guide a data-driven decision-making, it said. The ministry has regularly emphasized the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis. States consistently reporting lower number of daily deaths have been advised to re-check their data, the statement said. A case in point is the Union Health Ministry writing to the state of Bihar to provide detailed date and district wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths. "In addition to reporting by states and UTs, the robustness of statute based Civil Registration System (CRS) ensures all births and deaths in the country get registered. The CRS follows process of data collection, cleaning, collating and publishing the numbers, which although is a long-drawn process, but ensures no deaths are missed out. Because of the expanse and the amplitude of the activity, the numbers are usually published the next year, which has also been acknowledged in the referred to media report," the statement said. "It is a well-known fact that there shall always be some differences in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid pandemic. Well conducted research studies on mortalities are usually done after the event when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources. The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/while-some-covid-cases-could-go-undetected-missing-out-on-deaths-completely-unlikely-govt-1016134.html
04-08-2021||National||1,948 arrested, 34 convicted under UAPA in 2019: Centre tells Rajya Sabha||A total of 1,948 people were arrested and 34 others convicted under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in 2019, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said this in a written reply to DMK member Tiruchi Siva's question about the total number of people imprisoned under the UAPA in the country at present. "As per the report of the NCRB for the year 2019, the total number of people arrested and people convicted under the UAPA in 2019 is 1,948 and 34 respectively," Rai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1948-arrested-34-convicted-under-uapa-in-2019-centre-tells-rajya-sabha-1016144.html
04-08-2021||National||TRAFFIC, WWF-India create awareness on owls||In a conservation initiative, TRAFFIC and WWF-India have identified 16 species of owls that are commonly trafficked in the illegal wildlife trade in India. To raise awareness about these owl species and help with their identification, TRAFFIC and WWF-India have created an informative poster, ‘Imperilled by illegal wildlife trade: Owls of India’, which is freely available to download. Out of the approximately 250 owl species found worldwide about 36 are found in India. All owl species in India are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, making poaching, trade, or any other form of exploitation a punishable offence. They are also listed in Appendix II of CITES, thus tightly regulating their international trade. Despite the legal restrictions, every year, hundreds of birds are sacrificed for mystic rituals and practices linked with superstitions, totems, and taboos across the country, and this usually peaks around the festival of Diwali. Especially in smaller towns and villages, the use of owl parts such as the skull, feathers, ear tuffs, claws, heart, liver, kidney, blood, eyes, fat, beak, tears, eggshells, meat, and bones are prescribed for ceremonial pujas and rituals. Of the owl species found in India, 16 species are most commonly reported in the illegal wildlife trade and these are Asian Barred Owlet (Glaucidium cuculoides), Barn Owl (Tyto alba), Brown Fish Owl (Ketupa zeylonensis), Brown Hawk Owl (Ninox scutulata), Brown Wood-owl (Strix leptogrammica), Collared Owlet (Glaucidium brodiei), Collared Scops-owl (Otus bakkamoena), Dusky Eagle Owl (Bubo coromandus), Eastern Grass-owl (Tyto longimembris), Jungle Owlet (Glaucidium radiatum), Mottled Wood-owl (Strix ocellata), Oriental Scops-owl (Otus sunia), Rock Eagle-owl (Bubo bengalensis), Spot-bellied Eagle-owl (Bubo nipalensis), Spotted Owlet (Athene brama), and Tawny Fish-owl (Ketupa flavipes). “The poaching and trafficking of owls in India have become a lucrative illicit trade resting on the wings of superstition”, said Dr Saket Badola, Head of TRAFFIC’s India Office. “Lack of awareness about owls in the illegal wildlife trade and the limited capacity of enforcement agencies to identify them has made this illegal activity difficult to detect or curb. We are hopeful that our new identification poster will help to bridge this enforcement gap,” he added. Ravi Singh, Secretary-General and CEO of WWF-India, said, “Owls as birds of prey play a crucial role in balancing our ecosystem and as friends of farmers, keeping rodents in check. They also have a strong cultural significance and often elicit strong emotions ranging from fascination, awe, hate, to disdain. The continuing trend of these birds being exploited for illegal trade needs to be negated through concerted action. A strong citizen support, generated through public awareness can go a long way in their conservation”. Dr Dhananjai Mohan, Director, Wildlife Institute of India, added, “Owls keep a check on agricultural pests, reducing the dependence on pesticides. It is important to conserve and protect the species and such initiatives by TRAFFIC and WWF-India are impactful and will hopefully contribute towards curbing illicit trade of owls in the country”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traffic-wwf-india-create-awareness-on-owls-1016158.html
04-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned till Thursday amid opposition protest, passes AERA bill||The Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till Thursday amid continuous protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping controversy, and issues of farm laws and price rise. However, the Upper House passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to encourage smaller airports to expand air connectivity to relatively remote and far-flung areas. The House passed the bill after a brief discussion amid protest and sloganeering by the opposition over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. The Lok Sabha had passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 on July 29. When the Upper House assembled after a 15-minute adjournment at 2:56 pm, the opposition continued to protest. Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair, called members for debate on the bill. After a short debate and a brief reply from the Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed with a voice vote. Immediately after that the deputy chairman adjourned the House till Thursday 11 am. Earlier, the House passed two bills -- the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 -- after short debates amid the din. As opposition members continued raising slogans, the deputy chairman adjourned the proceedings of the House for 15 minutes till 2.56 pm. He also warned members not to record proceedings on mobile phones as it was against the rules of the Rajya Sabha. Earlier, the proceedings of the House were adjourned till 2 pm as slogan-shouting MLAs of the TMC and other opposition parties trooped into the Well, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue of Pegasus spyware being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-thursday-amid-opposition-protest-passes-aera-bill-1016159.html
04-08-2021||National||Over 3.93 crore cases pending in lower, subordinate courts, says Law Minister Rijiju||Over 3.93 crore cases are pending in the lower and subordinate courts, the Lok Sabha was informed on Wednesday. In a written reply, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said according to the information available on National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), as of July 30 this year, a total of 3,93,21,607 cases are pending in the lower and subordinate courts. These include 1,05,10,012 civil cases and 2,88,11,595 criminal cases. Of the total pending cases in lower courts, 1,02,001 are pending disposal for over 30 years. These include 37,423 civil and 64,578 criminal cases. Disposal of pending cases in courts is within the domain of the judiciary, he pointed out. "No time frame has been prescribed for disposal of various kinds of cases by the respective courts," the minister informed the House adding the government has no role in the disposal of cases in courts. He also said that a total of 12 virtual courts have been set up in Delhi, Faridabad (Haryana), Pune and Nagpur (Maharashtra) Kochi (Kerala), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Guwahati (Assam) and Bengaluru (Karnataka) to try traffic offences. As of July 12, 2021, these courts have handled 75 lakh cases and realised Rs 160.05 crore in fines. The minister also said video conferencing emerged as the mainstay of the courts during the Covid-induced lockdown as physical hearings and normal court proceedings in the congregational mode were not possible. Since the Covid lockdown started, the district courts heard 74,15,989 cases, while the high courts heard 40,43,300 cases (totalling 1.14 crore) till June 30, 2021, using video conferencing only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-393-crore-cases-pending-in-lower-subordinate-courts-says-law-minister-rijiju-1016163.html
04-08-2021||National||Wrestler Ravi Dahiya's village erupts in joy as he storms into Olympic final||Celebration broke out in wrestler Ravi Dahiya's native village on Wednesday after he stormed into the finals of the Tokyo Games to assure India of a fourth Olympic medal. Soon his family and natives of the 'Nahri' village erupted in joy as they recalled Dahiya's passion for the sport and strong determination to achieve success at the highest level. Dahiya's father Rakesh was in a jubilant mood and said, "Ravi will win gold, I am confident. "I cannot express happiness in words," he said turning emotional after his son made a strong comeback to win the bout. The fourth seeded Indian was trailing 2-9 when Sanayev effected a few 'fitley' (leg lace) moves to pull ahead but as the clock ticked away, Dahiya regrouped and got hold of his rival with a double leg attack that resulted in a victory by fall. Before this, Sushil Kumar was the only Indian to make the gold medal bout in 2012 London Games and settle for a silver. "He had promised the family that he will bring Olympic gold," said Rakesh, recalling the hardwork his son has put in for years to achieve success at Olympic level. "Every day he practices for eight hours," he said. He said since age six, he had started wrestling in a village Akhara. Later, he went to Chhatrasal stadium in Delhi. Rakesh recalled carrying milk and butter to Chhatrasal stadium, an hour's drive from the village, each day to ensure that his son got the best diet. Savitri, Dahiya's grandmother, said she was very happy at his achievement. "Before leaving for Tokyo, he had told me grandma, I will be back with a gold medal," she said. Another relative, Rinki, said, "Ravi told me mausi (aunt) I will make entire country proud. And he has done that today and is just a step away from gold". The village has a population of about 15,000. Dahiya, son of a farmer, is the third Olympian to emerge from this village after Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow, 1984 Los Angeles) and Amit Dahiya (London 2012).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-ravi-dahiyas-village-erupts-in-joy-as-he-storms-into-olympic-final-1016165.html
04-08-2021||National||China master at manipulating time: Ex-FS Vijay Gokhale on Beijing's negotiating strategy||China is a master at manipulating time and one of the moves in the Chinese playbook is to play the victim, says former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale about that country's negotiating strategy. Gokhale says China's strategies and tactics may vary depending on the situation and the relative strength of the two parties but it is possible to discern the common threads that run through the way the Chinese deal with the outside world. "Indian interlocutors may do well to remember these in preparing for talks with China," he suggests. Gokhale makes these remarks in his new book "The Long Game: How the Chinese Negotiate with India", which explores the dynamics of negotiation between the two countries through the prism of six historical and recent events in the India-China relationship. His comments come amid the border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh. "China is a master at manipulating time. If the interlocutor is reluctant to bend to the Chinese demands, they will start by referring to the long history of China and their capacity to display patience," the book, published by Penguin Random House, says. Gokhale writes that China will always try to set the agenda for negotiations and tries through such means to determine the direction of talks, and to avoid discussing subjects that may paint it into a corner or compel the Chinese negotiator to disclose their position prematurely. He suggests that it is, therefore, important for the other party to raise its own issues of interest in the working level negotiations even if these are not on the formal agenda, as a means of conveying to China that the other party has equal interest and the right to put forward its own issues in the discussion. He is also of the view that on any contentious issue, the Chinese side routinely follows the practice of enunciating 'principles' before tackling an issue in detail. "The Indian side might, therefore, wish to closely examine the 'principles' proposed by China, and negotiate them in a manner that limits Chinese flexibility or does not allow the Chinese side to constrain India's position on the specifics of any issue," he writes. Elaborating on these contentions, Gokhale says, it is vital to be mindful of two sorts of Chinese plays on issues that are particularly contentious or important. "They will keep saying 'no' for as long as possible and, by doing so, keep all options on the table," he says, adding the other Chinese play is to "fall back on the power of silence". The book explores these six important events in bilateral relationship - India's recognition of China on December 30, 1949; the trade deal between the Tibet Region of China and India of April 29, 1954; India's nuclear tests of 1998; China's formal recognition of Sikkim as a part of India on April 11, 2005; India-China diplomatic negotiations on the 123 nuclear deal in 2008; and listing of Masood Azhar as a terrorist in the UNSC 1267 Sanctions List on May 1, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-master-at-manipulating-time-ex-fs-vijay-gokhale-on-beijings-negotiating-strategy-1016166.html
04-08-2021||National||12,001 cybersecurity incidents related to govt organisations observed in H1 2021: Govt||About 12,000 cybersecurity incidents related to government organisations were observed in the first half of 2021, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) is mandated to track and monitor cybersecurity incidents in India, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a query in the Lok Sabha. He said CERT-In has observed a total of 11,58,208 and 6,07,220 cybersecurity incidents during 2020 and 2021 (up to June), respectively. Out of this, a total number of 54,314 and 12,001 cybersecurity incidents were related to government organisations during the year 2020 and 2021 (up to June), respectively, he added. In response to another question, Chandrasekhar noted that with the rapid growth of the internet coupled with the anonymity, there is a rise in cyber crime across the world. "As per the information reported to and tracked by CERT-In, a total number of 454, 472, 280 and 138 phishing incidents were observed during the year 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 (up to June) respectively," he said. He added that six financial fraud incidents affecting ATMs, cards, point of sale (PoS) systems and unified payment interface (UPI) were reported in 2018, while four cases each were reported during the year 2019, 2020 and 2021 (up to June). The minister highlighted that the government has taken a number of steps to enhance the cybersecurity posture and prevent cyber attacks. This includes formulation of a Cyber Crisis Management Plan for countering cyber attacks and cyber terrorism and CERT-In issuing alerts and advisories regarding latest cyber threats/vulnerabilities and countermeasures to protect computers and networks on regular basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12001-cybersecurity-incidents-related-to-govt-organisations-observed-in-h1-2021-govt-1016177.html
04-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Missing out on deaths completely unlikely, says Health Ministry ||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-missing-out-on-deaths-completely-unlikely-says-health-ministry-1016178.html
04-08-2021||National||Firms, NGOs, vehicle manufacturers allowed to open driver training centres, issue driving licences||Entities including vehicles manufacturers associations, non-profit organisations and private firms are allowed to open accredited driver training centres and also issue driving licences to individuals on completion of prescribed training. According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), the new facility will be in addition to the existing facility of giving driving licences by Regional Transport Offices (RTOs). "Any legal entity such as companies, associations, firms, NGOs, private establishment/automobile associations/ vehicle manufacturers' association/ autonomous body/private vehicle manufacturers etc. shall be eligible to apply for accreditation of DTC, subject to the following criteria," the ministry said in guidelines issued on August 2, 2021. It further said the legal entity must have required infrastructures/facilities on land stipulated under the CMV Rules, 1989, and also must have a clean record since inception. "The applicant has to show its financial capacity to manage adequate resources to run the centre to the satisfaction of the state/UT," it said. According to the guidelines, state governments shall do wide publicity of provisions about accredited driving training centres and mechanism for grant of accreditation. MoRTH said the whole process of award of permission for accreditation of DTC shall be completed by the designated authority within sixty days of receipt of application. The accredited DTC shall submit yearly performance report to the concerned regional transport offices (RTOs)/district transport offices (DTOs), it said. The central government shall not provide any grant for operation of such accredited centres, according to the guidelines. However, the ministry said there is no bar from seeking support under CSR from the corporate sector or under any other scheme of the centre or state. It said the accredited DTC shall develop its website. The training calendar, training course structure, training hours, working days, list of trainings/ trained, details of instructors, result of training, available facilities, list of holidays, training fee, etc, shall be made available by the accredited DTC on their website, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firms-ngos-vehicle-manufacturers-allowed-to-open-driver-training-centres-issue-driving-licences-1016189.html
04-08-2021||National||4,046 applications of Hindus for citizenship still pending; 4,171 given Indian nationality under old law||A total of 4,046 applications for Indian citizenship from Hindus belonging to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh are pending with various state governments, Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that 4,171 foreigners were given Indian nationality in the last five years - from 2016 to 2020. Of the pending applications for citizenship from Hindus, 1,541 are with the Rajasthan government, 849 with the Maharashtra government, 555 with Gujarat, 490 with Madhya Pradesh, 268 with Chhattisgarh and 123 with Delhi, he said. In addition, 10 applications of Hindus for citizenship are pending with the central government, Rai said in a written reply. Referring to those who were granted Indian citizenship in the last five years, the minister said 1,105 foreigners were given Indian nationality in 2016, 814 in 2017, 628 in 2018, 986 in 2019 and 638 in 2020. The Indian nationality has been given to these people under the Citizenship Act 1955. However, no one has been given Indian citizenship under the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act as the rules under the 2019 legislation were yet to be notified. Of those who were granted Indian citizenship in the last five years, 1,089 were in Gujarat, 751 in Rajasthan, 535 in Madhya Pradesh, 446 in Maharashtra, 303 in Haryana, 301 in Delhi, 146 in West Bengal, 145 in Uttar Pradesh, 75 in Uttarakhand, 73 in Tamil Nadu, 72 in Karnataka and 65 in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4046-applications-of-hindus-for-citizenship-still-pending-4171-given-indian-nationality-under-old-law-1016196.html
04-08-2021||National||NCPCR writes to Twitter India to remove Rahul Gandhi's post, seeks report from police in Dalit girl's case||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Wednesday asked Twitter India to remove a tweet by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in which he posted the picture of the parents of a Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murder, saying it goes against the law of the land. It also sought a report from Delhi Police in connection with the case, which saw protests since Monday in south-west Delhi's Nangal. Rahul, who had visited the family at the protest site, tweeted a picture of the parents with him sitting in his vehicle and discussing the case. The NCPCR cited the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, which prohibits the disclosure of the identity of a child in any form of media, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) 2012, which bars the publication of name, address, photographs, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of the victim's identity. The NCPCR action came after it received a complaint about the tweet.  The complaint said the faces of the victim's father and mother can be seen, which thereby reveals the identity of the girl. Separately, Delhi Police has been asked to submit a "detailed report" within 48 hours as the NCPCR took suo motu cognizance of the incident which was reported on Sunday. "The commission is committed to ensure that no guilty escape," NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said. Locals are protesting in Nangal village in south-west Delhi demanding justice for the girl even as former Congress president Rahul Gandhi visited the family and pledged his support in their fight. The Delhi Commission for Women also launched an inquiry into the incident and summoned the Delhi Police officials after the girl’s parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by the priest. The girl had gone to collect water from a cooler in a crematorium near her house after informing her mother on Sunday evening. However, half an hour later, the priest at the crematorium informed the mother that the girl was electrocuted and forced them to cremate her immediately saying that if a post mortem is conducted, the victim's organs may be stolen. However, later in the night the father and mother approached police following suspicion that the girl was sexually assaulted and murdered. Police arrested the priest Radhey Shyam and three others --  Kuldeep, Laxmi Narain and Salim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncpcr-writes-to-twitter-india-to-remove-rahul-gandhis-post-seeks-report-from-police-in-dalit-girls-case-1016202.html
04-08-2021||National||Rise in Covid cases, R number in some states worrying, but premature to declare third wave: Scientists ||The rise in fresh Covid cases and the effective reproduction number – indication of how fast an infection spreads -- in many states is worrying but don’t panic. Instead, mask up and get vaccinated, say experts, stressing that it is too early to declare the beginning of a new wave. In fact, it could be that the second wave is not over, said several scientists who have been closely monitoring India’s Covid graph and have noted the surge in a few pockets. In the northeast, for instance, cases have certainly not gone down to the low levels that are being seen in Delhi and other northern states, observed Gautam Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University in Haryana.   "In that sense, we are likely seeing a continuation of the second wave rather than the initiation of a new Covid wave distinct from the previous one," he explained.   On Wednesday, India recorded 42,625 fresh Covid cases with a daily positivity rate of 2.31 per cent and a weekly one of 2.36 per cent. India’s Covid situation is seemingly under control. However, 13 states/union territories recorded a surge in coronavirus infections last week with Kerala reporting half of India’s daily new cases.   Last week, Kerala reported 1.4 lakh new Covid-19 cases, around 20,000 more than the previous week.   In the week ended August 1, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, J&K, Sikkim, and Karnataka also witnessed a rise in cases.   With the government warning that the pandemic is “still raging”, there is also an increase in India’s effective reproduction number (R) which represents the number of susceptible people one Covid positive person may infect.    A recent analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, found that the effective R number in India has crossed 1 for the first time since May 7. The government on Tuesday also said the R-value is more than one in eight states and UTs, which is a cause of concern.   Researcher Sitabhra Sinha, who has been tracking the value of R since the beginning of the pandemic, is alarmed that this rise is not driven by the increase in cases in any particular region but seems to be resulting from several states having R values greater than 1 roughly around the same time.   “Apart from Kerala which has had R above 1 for more than a month and the northeastern states where the second wave has not yet subsided after beginning in July, we saw in the past week R increase above 1 in Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, and Haryana, and possibly in Uttarakhand,” Sinha, from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, told PTI. “The cities of Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Delhi also are showing R above 1. This suggests a rise in the active cases that is coordinated across widely scattered regions which would be hard to contain,” he added.   The need of the hour is to press the accelerator on Covid protocols. “We need to be prepared but not overtly panic. It is time people mask up and get vaccinated,” Delhi-based physician-epidemiologist and health systems expert Chandrakant Lahariya told PTI, adding that the numbers clearly indicated the need to be cautious. He noted that Covid-19 cases are mostly being reported from states that had succeeded or avoided transmission earlier. Some of this, he said, is attributable to the high transmissibility of the Delta variant.   “We should not be looking at the proportion contributed by a state of the total new cases reported in India. That is not very helpful as we end up comparing the states with better reporting systems with states with weak disease surveillance systems,” the public health expert said. The wave or cycle is of academic significance only. If cases are rising, it does not matter whether that is a continuation of the second wave or the start of the next wave, he said.  “The interventions have to be very similar.” Scientist Gautam Menon agreed that while it is too early to declare the third wave, the surge in cases is certainly worrying.   “The next few weeks will be critical to see whether the rise in case numbers, currently confined to the south and northeast of India, will spread across other parts of the country where cases have been declining for the past month,” Menon told PTI.    Explaining the rise in cases, Menon said the spike in Kerala can be traced to the  relatively low levels of seropositivity there, indicating that much of the state has not undergone a prior infection and should therefore be susceptible.   “From the few serosurveys that exist for the northeast, a similar situation should hold there,” he added.   The results of the fourth national serosurvey by the ICMR have shown that nearly 79 per cent of samples from Madhya Pradesh had antibodies against coronavirus, while the seroprevalence was the lowest in Kerala at about 44 per cent.   Sanjeev Galande, dean of the School of Natural Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, Delhi-NCR, was also of the view that it is early to predict whether this is the beginning of the next wave.   “The national weekly average hasn't altered significantly. The small increase is seen in a few states. It is too early to predict whether this is indeed the beginning of the next wave,” Galande told PTI.    He noted that although the second wave had not completely subsided, the R-value had decreased below 1 in most of the states, and the total number of new cases had come down to 30,000 by July 19, indicating a steady decline.   “Due to regional surges, now the daily new cases in India have crossed the 40,000 mark.”  said Galante, adding, however, that this is a marginal increase compared to what happened in the month of May.   Menon hoped that what may prevent an India-wide wave is simply the fact that a substantial fraction of people in populous northern states, including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have already been infected in the first two waves of the disease.   “This will very likely slow the progress of the disease and should lead to a wave that is blunted in extent compared to the devastating second wave. The current levels of vaccination, although limited, will also help,” he explained.   Galande cautioned that other states have to be vigilant and prepare for a rise in the number of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-in-covid-cases-r-number-in-some-states-worrying-but-premature-to-declare-third-wave-scientists-1016209.html
04-08-2021||National||Suspension of TMC MPs has proved that Modi has conceded defeat: Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee Wednesday said the suspension of six party MPs in Rajya Sabha during the day for protesting against the Pegasus snooping controversy has proved that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has conceded defeat in the case and vowed to carry on the "fight for truth". Reacting to the action of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, Banerjee tweeted “YOU CAN SUSPEND US BUT YOU CANNOT SILENCE US”. Naidu suspended six TMC MPs for the day for carrying placards while protesting along with other opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. The MPs had trooped into the well of the House, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue of Israeli-made, military-grade Pegasus spyware allegedly being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists. The RS chairman had taken exception to the placards. YOU CAN SUSPEND US BUT YOU CANNOT SILENCE US!We will not budge an inch to fight for our people & to fight for the truth. Reacting to the suspension, Banerjee said on the microblogging site "The crackdown on our MPs clearly indicates that @BJP4India's 56-inch GODFATHER has CONCEDED DEFEAT!" Banerjee's allusion to “56-inch” was apparently to the oft mentioned 56-inch chest of Modi by BJP to signify his stature as a leader. "We will not budge an inch to fight for our people & to fight for the truth … Until the last drop of our blood - BRING IT ON!," tweeted Banerjee, whose convoy came under attack on Monday in BJP-ruled Tripura where he had gone to meet TMC members in view of the assembly election in the northeastern state in 2023. He also attached a photo of the RS chairman's order with the tweet. Just as witnessed since the start of Monsoon Session, slogan-shouting TMC and other opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue of Israeli-made, military grade Pegasus spyware allegedly being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists. Naidu took exception to the placards, which had anti-government slogans and adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. He first asked members to go back to their seats and then threatened to invoke Rule 255 against those holding placards. As the members refused to comply, he ordered that those "disobeying the chair and raising placards shall leave the House under rule 255." He, however, did not name anyone and said Rajya Sabha Secretariat will give the list. Later a Parliamentary Bulletin identified the six MPs suspended for the day as Dola Sen, Md. Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspension-of-tmc-mps-has-proved-that-modi-has-conceded-defeat-abhishek-banerjee-1016215.html
04-08-2021||National||Taking all necessary measures to ensure safety of Indian nationals in Afghanistan, says MEA||As the Taliban steps up its offensive in Afghanistan, India on Wednesday said it remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indians in the conflict-ridden country. Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said the India-based personnel from the Indian consulate in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn last month as part of the security measures. "The security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated in the recent past. In view of this, the government remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and ongoing projects," he said. Muraleedharan said the Indian embassy in Kabul continues to function normally and is providing regular consular and visa services. "As a security measure in July, India-based personnel from the consulate of India in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn. However, the consulate continues to operate visa and consular services through its local staff," he said. "Our mission in Kabul also continues to extend necessary assistance to Indian nationals in Afghanistan," the minister said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. To a separate question, he said the government had decided to offer Covid-19 vaccine to foreign personnel working at embassies, consulates and the United Nations offices and other international organisations located in India. "A total of 3,751 such foreign personnel registered with the Ministry of External Affairs for Covid-19 vaccination... They were offered vaccination facilities at any of the vaccination centres in their respective cities," Muraleedharan said. To another question, he said a number of countries, including some neighbouring ones, had signed contracts with Indian manufacturers for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. "At present, priority is being accorded to the implementation of our national vaccination programme," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taking-all-necessary-measures-to-ensure-safety-of-indian-nationals-in-afghanistan-says-mea-1016217.html
04-08-2021||National||Cabinet approves continuation of Fast Track Special Courts till 2023||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved continuation of 1023 Fast Track Special Court (FTSCs) including 389 exclusive POCSO courts as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) till March 31, 2023. This would have an outlay of Rs 1,572.86 crore, including Rs 971.70 crore, as central share to be funded from Nirbhaya Fund. Fast Track Special Courts are dedicated courts for swift justice for victims of sexual offences and strengthen the deterrence framework for sexual offenders. They have a better clearance rate as compared to the regular courts and hold speedy trials. Besides providing quick justice to the hapless victims, it strengthens the deterrence framework for sexual offenders, a statement said. Currently covering 28 states, it is proposed to be expanded to cover all 31 states, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-continuation-of-fast-track-special-courts-till-2023-1016220.html
04-08-2021||National||Congress to distribute tickets on basis of loyalty, winnability, says Harish Rawat||Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Wednesday said loyalty and winnability will be the two main criteria for distributing party tickets in Uttarakhand. Rawat was talking to reporters on the sidelines of the party's three-day 'chintan shivir' to evolve a strategy for the state assembly polls due early next year. "Winnability of candidates and their unflinching loyalty to the party will be the two deciding factors for distributing tickets," Rawat said in reply to a question. The former chief minister was recently made the president of the party's campaign committee in a major organisational rejig ahead of the next year's elections. It also saw Ganesh Godiyal taking over from Pritam Singh as the new PCC president. Making a reference to the Hindu mythology in which churning of the ocean had led to the discovery of 'amrit', Rawat said the deliberations at the party's 'chintan shivir' will definitely lead to something significant. "The party will become more vocal in the coming days on issues like unprecedented rise in prices of essential commodities, growing unemployment, plight of farmers and the wrong policies of the Centre which have made the life of the common man miserable," he said. In-charge of the party's manifesto committee Nav Prabhat and spokesman Surya Kant Dhasmana presented and debated points to be included in the party's manifesto for the coming polls during Wednesday's session. The 'chintan shivir' is being attended by all party leaders, including Rawat, newly appointed state Congress president Godiyal and state party in-charge Devendra Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-distribute-tickets-on-basis-of-loyalty-winnability-says-harish-rawat-1016225.html
04-08-2021||National||Project to provide Wi-Fi services in trains dropped, says Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday said the railways has "dropped" a project to provide internet connection in trains because it was not cost effective. As a pilot project, Wi-Fi based internet facility was provided in the Howrah Rajdhani Express train through satellite communication technology. "This technology was capital intensive with recurring costs in the form of bandwidth charges and thus, was not cost effective. Also, the internet bandwidth availability to passengers was inadequate," the Minister said in written reply in Lok Sabha. "Hence, the project was dropped. At present, suitable cost effective technology for provision of Wi-Fi based internet services in trains is not available," he said. At present Wi-Fi facility is being provided by the Indian Railways at more than 6,000 stations on a self-sustainable basis with no cost to the national transporter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/project-to-provide-wi-fi-services-in-trains-dropped-says-railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-1016232.html
04-08-2021||National||India's defence exports since 2014-15 estimated at Rs 38,500 crore, as per details given by MoS Ajay Bhatt||India exported military hardware and systems worth Rs 38,500 crore in the last seven years, according to details provided by the government in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Replying to a question, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said the major items exported during 2014-15 and 2020-21 included armoured protection vehicles, weapons locating radar, light-weight torpedo and fire control systems and tear gas launchers. "Currently, the exports are being made to about 75 countries. Names of the countries cannot be divulged due to strategic reasons," he said. According to the details provided by Bhatt, India's defence exports in 2014-15 was Rs 1,940.64 crore and it increased to Rs 2,059.18 crore in 2015-16. The value of exports in 2016-17 was recorded at Rs 1,521.91 crore while it went up to Rs Rs 4,682.36 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 10,7465.77 crore in 2018-19. The value of defence exports was Rs 9,115.55 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 8434.84 crore in 2020-21, as per the details. The combined total in the last seven years comes to Rs 38,500.25 crore. To a separate question, Bhatt said the construction cost in setting up the National War Memorial in Delhi was Rs 176.65 crore "Further, Bharat Electronics Limited has been nominated to execute the project of enhancement of digital appeal at National War Memorial," he said. Replying to another question, Bhatt said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has not undertaken any project to develop "robotic soldiers". "However, DRDO has taken initiative to develop technologies required for robotic systems," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-defence-exports-since-2014-15-estimated-at-rs-38500-crore-as-per-details-given-by-mos-ajay-bhatt-1016233.html
04-08-2021||National||India starts trial of indigenous aircraft carrier amid China's bid to expand presence in Indian Ocean||India has launched the sea-trial of its first indigenous aircraft carrier amid growing concerns in New Delhi over Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy’s bid to expand its presence in the Indian Ocean. The aircraft carrier is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy as the INS Vikrant in the first half of 2022. It is going to be the second aircraft carrier of the Indian Navy on active duty after the INS Vikramaditya, which India had purchased from Russia and which had entered into Indian Navy service in 2013. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it a “wonderful example” of the Make-in-India initiative launched by his government. He tweeted to congratulate the Indian Navy and the Cochin Shipyard Limited, which built the ship, for the “historic milestone”. The Cochin Shipyard Limited had started works on the aircraft carrier in 2009 with the keel laid by A K Antony, the defence minister of the then Congress-led Government led by Modi’s predecessor Manmohan Singh. “Proud & (and) historic day for India as the reincarnated #Vikrant sails for her maiden sea trials today, in the 50th year of her illustrious predecessor’s key role in victory in the #1971war,” the Indian Navy posted on Twitter. It referred to the key role the earlier incarnation of the INS Vikrant played in 1971 India-Pakistan war. Once inducted into the Indian Navy, the new aircraft carrier will be named after the original INS Vikrant, which was decommissioned in January 1997. The new incarnation of the INS Vikrant set sail for its maiden sea trial on Wednesday, just two days after the Indian Navy announced that it would soon send a task force of its eastern fleet to the South China Sea to take part in bilateral drills with the warships of Vietnam, Australia, Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia – a move, which might rile up China. The four Indian Navy ships would also sail to the Western Pacific Ocean for the multilateral Malabar 21 exercise with India’s partners in the Quad – Australia, Japan and the United States. India’s move to project its power in the Indo-Pacific region comes amid China’s growing belligerence in the South China Sea, East China Sea and Taiwan Strait and its PLA Navy’s forays in the Indian Ocean. The new aircraft carrier’s propulsion plants will be put to rigorous testing during the sea trial in addition to the trials of various navigation, communication and hull equipment, according to a press-release issued by the government in New Delhi. Its basic design was developed indigenously by the Directorate of Naval Design of the Indian Navy and the entire detailed engineering, construction and system integration was undertaken by the Cochin Shipyard Limited, a public sector undertaking under the Ministry of Shipping. The Indian Navy noted that the aircraft carrier was the largest and the most complex warship ever designed and built in India. It is the largest warship built in the country having a displacement of about 40,000 tonnes, with approximately 2000 kilometres of cabling, 120 kilometres of piping and the 2300 compartments available onboard. The mammoth structure is built with 21,500 tonnes of special grade steel, which was developed indigenously and used in any Indian Navy ship for the first time. The aircraft carrier – 262 meter long, 62 meter at the widest part and height of 59 meter including the superstructure – is a mini floating city, with a flight deck area covering the size of two football fields. It has a top speed of around 28 knots and cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles. There are 14 decks in all, including five in the superstructure. The ship has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-starts-trial-of-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-amid-chinas-bid-to-expand-presence-in-indian-ocean-1016247.html
04-08-2021||National||Centre plans OBC Bill route to end Parliament logjam||The government is expected to introduce a bill to restore the power of the state governments to make their own lists of other backward classes, forcing the opposition to break the three-week logjam of Parliament. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is understood to have approved a Constitution Amendment Bill that seeks to give powers to the state governments and union territories to make their own OBC lists. The government move comes after the furore by political parties when the Supreme Court held the Constitution (102 Amendment) Act took away the states' power to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. The main opposition Congress had last week said that it would set aside protests on issues such as Pegasus revelations, farmers issues and price rise to support the Modi government in Parliament if it brought a bill to restore the states' rights to decide OBC lists. Parliament's Monsoon Session has witnessed relentless protests by a largely united opposition which has been demanding discussion on revelations of alleged snooping, the farmers' issues and price rise, which has prompted the government to push its legislative agenda amid din. The Constitution (102nd Amendment) Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, while 342A deals with powers of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC and power of Parliament to change the list. Opposition parties had cautioned the government that the amendment would snatch the power of the states to identify and list the other backward classes (OBCs). The government had gone ahead with the amendments after assuring the House that it did not intend to take away the states' rights. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had unanimously set aside Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and had refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50% on reservation to a larger bench. The apex court, through a majority verdict on the interpretation of Articles 338B and 342A, ruled that states do not have the power to identify SEBCs. The Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 order, which prompted the government to bring a new Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-obc-bill-route-to-end-parliament-logjam-1016250.html
04-08-2021||National||7.5% reservation for govt school students in professional courses||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday decided to provide a 7.5 per cent reservation in admission to professional courses like engineering, agriculture, and law for students from government schools. The government said the decision was taken since a smaller number of students from schools run by it get into professional courses every year. The DMK government will introduce legislation to provide 7.5 per cent reservation to government school students in professional courses in the Budget session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly beginning August 13. An official release said the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday accepted the recommendations of Justice D Murugesan Committee which was asked to suggest ways to increase enrollment of government school students in professional courses. “Accepting the recommendations of the Committee, the Cabinet passed a resolution to bring a legislation in the ensuing Budget session to provide 7.5 per cent reservation in admissions to government school students,” the release said. The legislation will be modelled on the lines of one brought by the previous AIADMK government to provide 7.5 per cent in admission to medical and dental courses to students from government schools who clear the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The horizontal reservation has ensured that nearly 300 students from government schools get into medical colleges every year. Students studying in government schools can avail the reservation to get admission into professional courses like engineering, agriculture, veterinary, fisheries, and law. Sources said the government was trying to get the Bill introduced and passed in the Budget session so that the reservation comes into effect in the current academic year itself. The AIADMK government decided to provide a reservation after the number of government school students getting into medical colleges witnessed a massive dip in the past few years after the introduction of NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-reservation-for-govt-school-students-in-professional-courses-1016252.html
04-08-2021||National||Suspended MPs due to deep concern and anguish over course of events in Rajya Sabha: VP Naidu||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday told a group of leaders that he had to suspended some MPs due to "deep concern and anguish" over the course of events in the House and over reports that suggested that some parties have "publicly vowed" to ensure the washout of Monsoon Session, sources said. Sources said he discussed the situation in Rajya Sabha with Deputy Chairman Shri Harivansh, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh, Thambi Durai (AIADMK), Prasanna Acharya (BJD), Ramgopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Deepender Hooda (Congress) and Ramnath Thakur (JD-U). He met the MPs individually as well as in groups. When some of the MPs referred to the issue of suspension of six Trinamool Congress MPs, Naidu said he was bound to uphold the dignity of the House and was constrained to act when the matters are taken to the extreme over a period of 12 days.   Asked whether the MPs be given an opportunity to "regret" their actions, the Chairman said that they do not need the Chair's permission to do so. During the meetings, sources said, he urged the leaders to find a way to enable the House to return to normalcy against the backdrop of a broad agreement among various sections to discuss farmers’ issues and price rise and unemployment  in the context of the economic situation in the country. As per the Rules and conventions of the House, sources quoted Naidu as saying, such issues on which there is agreement between the government and the Opposition are taken up for discussion. The Opposition wanted to discuss Pegasus first followed by farmers issue and economy in any order but the government has only agreed to debates on agriculture related and economy, which has led to the stalemate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-mps-due-to-deep-concern-and-anguish-over-course-of-events-in-rajya-sabha-vp-naidu-1016255.html
04-08-2021||National||Indian law firms need to take up pro-bono cases: CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday asked the Indian law firms to consider community outreach and take up pro bono cases as there is a  prevailing perception is that they only service the rich. “Internationally, law firms are taking up several social causes and actively engaging in providing justice to those in need. I urge you all to take up more and more pro-bono cases and reach out to those who are inhibited from reaching us. When it comes to fulfilling our constitutional aspirations, we all must do our bit," he said. Speaking at the release of the coffee table book published by the Society of Indian Law Firms, he said there exists misconception, among people and lawyers, that activities of the law firm do not relate to society and the need of the hour is to remove such perceptions. Calling for adding diversity to the law firms, he said law firms must focus on retaining more women lawyers by incorporating necessary institutional changes. “There are diamonds in the rough everywhere. I would urge you all to take up initiatives to ensure inclusivity and realise full potential of our human resources. After all, diversity brings wide-ranging opinions to the table. A diverse team can provide more equitable and holistic solutions," he said. Justice Ramana pointed out that many young talented lawyers, despite their interest and willingness, are left out of the process due to inequity in opportunities for lawyers. He also emphasised training future and present lawyers to adapt to the changing nature of the profession as tier two and three cities are becoming hubs of commercial activities, which would necessarily lead to transactions and disputes. He also asked law firms to pay attention to the impact of ethics in their practice. "We all are custodians of a very rich tradition. We must pursue our chosen path with the utmost integrity.The future of the legal profession in this country is dependent on the change in our attitudes. It is high time for us to widen our horizon and create an inclusive, fair, competitive platform for our young graduates," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-law-firms-need-to-take-up-pro-bono-cases-cji-1016259.html
04-08-2021||National||Centre nod for SSA 2.0 with expenditure of Rs 2.94 lakh crore||Centre on Wednesday approved a revamped Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) for the next five years with an expenditure of more than Rs 2.94 lakh crore, covering the entire gamut of school education from pre-school to Class 12. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the SSA 2.0 that will align school education with the National Education Policy (NEP), Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. “It will cover 1.16 million schools, over 156 million students and 5.7 million teachers of government and aided schools,” Pradhan told reporters here. He said the SSA 2.0 will ensure that all children have access to quality education with an equitable and inclusive classroom environment which should take care of their diverse background, multilingual needs, different academic abilities and make them active participants in the learning process. The scheme will now have a provision of up to Rs 500 per child for teaching-learning materials (TLM), indigenous toys and games, play-based activities per annum for pre-primary sections in government schools. The scheme has a financial outlay of Rs 2,94,283.04 crore which includes Central share of Rs 1,85,398.32 crore, the balance being borne by the states. “The expansion of vocational education will be done in convergence with the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and other ministries providing funding for skills,” an official statement said. It added that the existing infrastructure of schools and ITIs and polytechnics will be used to ensure optimum utilisation of the facilities, not only for school going children but also for out of school children. The scheme also has provision for bagless days, school complexes, internships with local artisans, curriculum and pedagogical reforms. A new component about appointment of language teachers has been added in the scheme, besides components of training of teachers and bilingual books and teaching learning material.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-nod-for-ssa-20-with-expenditure-of-rs-294-lakh-crore-1016264.html
04-08-2021||National||Twitter has not shared specific details of how 'manipulated media' label was applied: Govt||The Centre on Wednesday informed Parliament that Twitter has not shared specific details of how its 'Synthetic and Manipulated Media Policy' was applied to label certain messages on the microblogging platform as 'manipulated media.' Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar, in a written reply to Lok Sabha on Wednesday, said as per Twitter, the labelling of certain messages as "manipulated media" has been done as per its Synthetic and Manipulated Media Policy'. "However, no specific details of how this policy became applicable have been shared. The government has been engaged with Twitter on this issue," he added. "...On the issue of manipulated media, the Ministry of Electronics and IT has pointed out to Twitter that they are violating the principle of natural justice and urged Twitter to be transparent and equitable in applying the criteria," he said. The Minister also said that the issue of labelling of user tweets as manipulated media does not come under the purview of the new IT rules that came into effect in May. “Manipulated media  tag by Twitter on certain tweets on an alleged Congress toolkit used to target the Centre over its Covid-19 handling kicked up a row with the government asking the micro blogging platform to remove the tag. The government said when the toolkit issue was being probed by police, Twitter couldn't give the “manipulated media" tag for its tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-has-not-shared-specific-details-of-how-manipulated-media-label-was-applied-govt-1016269.html
04-08-2021||National||SC to hear batch of pleas seeking probe into alleged Pegasus snooping row||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Thursday a batch of petitions, including those filed by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. As per the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant will hear nine separate pleas on the issue related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. Editors Guild of India has sought in its plea that a special investigation team (SIT) be set up to conduct probe into the reported surveillance of journalists and others. The guild’s petition, in which veteran journalist Mrinal Pande is also one of the petitioner, has said that its members and all scribes have the duty of holding all branches of government accountable by seeking information, explanations and constitutionally valid justifications for state action and inaction. The apex court would also hear a separate plea filed by senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, whose name featured in the reported list of those who were targets of alleged snooping using Pegasus, seeking directions to the Centre to disclose materials with respect to investigation and authorisation pertaining to the purported use of Israeli spyware on his mobile. Thakurta, who has said in his plea that existence of Pegasus will have a “tremendous chilling effect” on the right to free speech in India, has urged the top court to declare that use of malware or spyware is illegal and unconstitutional. According to the plea filed by Ram and Kumar, the alleged snooping represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. The petition also seeks a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained licence for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. According to the petition, hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under Sections 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyber terrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine. The court would also hear a separate petition filed by advocate M L Sharma who has sought a court-monitored probe by a SIT into the reports of alleged snooping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-batch-of-pleas-seeking-probe-into-alleged-pegasus-snooping-row-1016271.html
04-08-2021||National||NHRC chairman, ex-AG Mukul Rohtagi on Pegasus watchlist?||Phone number registered in the name of National Human Rights Commission Chairperson Justice Arun Mishra, two officials of Supreme Court registry, former Attorney General Mukul Rohtagi and counsels of Nirav Modi and Christian Michel are in a leaked database of potential targets for snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus. These phone numbers appeared in the leaked database accessed by the French media non-profit Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which include Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire. The new revealtions came a day before the Supreme Court was to hear petitions urging probe into the Pegasus episode. The Wire reported that one of the phone numbers registered in the name of Justice Mishra between 18 September, 2010 and 19 September, 2018 is in the leaked database. However, Justice Mishra told The Wire that the number is not with him since 2013-2014 and he does not use this number. Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020 and was appointed NHRC chairperson earlier this year, also said he had "surrendered the number on 21 April, 2014". The Wire said it was not clear why this number was added to the database in 2019. One of the numbers on the leaked database belongs to M Thangathurai, a junior lawyer working in the chambers of former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi, The Wire reported. Thangathurai told The Wire that his telephone number is listed under his boss' name in many places such as the bank and elsewhere so that the senior advocate is not disturbed by "routine" calls, OTPs etc when he is in court or otherwise busy. Rohatgi confirmed that this is indeed the practice, The Wire reported. The number was added in 2019, two years after Rohatgi demitted office as Attorney General. Telephone numbers of SC Registry officials N K Gandhi, who is now retired, and T I Rajput also appear in the list. Both of them worked in the 'writ' section of the Supreme Court's Registry. Traces of Pegasus-associated activity was located in the phone of Aljo P Joseph, the lawyer of Christian Michel who is an accused in AgustaWestland chopper scam. Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi’s counsel Vijay Agarwal was added to the database in early 2018, after he signed on his controversial client. The number of the lawyer's wife was also added to the databse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-chairman-ex-ag-mukul-rohtagi-on-pegasus-watchlist-1016274.html
04-08-2021||National||Anupam Sharma assumes charge as GM East Central Railway||Anupam Sharma has assumed charge as General Manager, Hajipur head-quartered East Central Railway. Prior to this, he was the Additional General Manager of South Eastern Railway. An officer of the Indian Railways Service of Mechanical Engineers (IRSME), Sharma has 35 years of service in Indian Railways.   He obtained a masters degree in Financial Management from Mumbai University, a post graduate diploma in public management and policy from Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.   He also served in a number of positions in Indian Railways including Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Samastipur Division of East Central Railway, Group General Manager (Rolling Stock Design) on deputation with RITES,  and then as Executive Director Mechanical Engineering  (Traction) in Railway Board, said a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anupam-sharma-assumes-charge-as-gm-east-central-railway-1016280.html
04-08-2021||National||Bangladeshi farmer crosses over to India while cutting grass, returned||A Bangladeshi farmer was apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) in West Bengal's Murshidabad district for crossing over to India by mistake, officials said on Wednesday. The man had inadvertently crossed over to India on Tuesday at Ashirdah border outpost, they said. During interrogation, the Bangladeshi national said he was a farmer living in Rajshahi district and mistakenly crossed over to Murshidabad while cutting grass, they said. The farmer was later handed over to Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) after a flag meeting as a goodwill gesture, the BSF said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladeshi-farmer-crosses-over-to-india-while-cutting-grass-returned-1016282.html
04-08-2021||National||India spent Rs 2.02 lakh cr since 2018-19 to source defence equipment from domestic firms: Govt data||India spent a whopping Rs 2.02 lakh crore in the last three financial years on procurement of defence equipment from domestic firms as part of a larger policy initiative to boost indigenous defence manufacturing, according to details provided by the government on Wednesday. The amount spent on the procurement between 2018-19 and 2020-21 included expenditure incurred under both capital and revenue heads. Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said an amount of Rs 50,500 crore was spent in procuring defence equipment from domestic sources out of a total expenditure of Rs 93,474 crore in 2018-19. The expenditure incurred on sourcing equipment from domestic firms went up to Rs 63,722 crore in 2019-20 out of total expenses of Rs 1,08,340 crore, while the amount in 2020-21 was Rs 88,632 crore. The total expenditure on procurement under both capital and revenue heads in 2020-21 was Rs 1,39,341 crore, according to Bhatt. The combined total spent on sourcing the items from domestic firms in the three years comes to Rs 2,02,854 crore. Bhatt said the percentage of expenditure incurred on sourcing defence equipment from domestic sources out of the total allocation in 2018-19 was 54 per cent, while it went upto 58.8 per cent in 2019-20 and 63.3 per cent in 2020-21. "The measures taken by the government for indigenisation are likely to result in import substitution," he said. Bhatt said the details provided by him on expenditure by the three services were based on data received from the Controller General of Defence Accounts (CGDA). In the last couple of years, the government has unveiled a series of reform measures and initiatives to make India a hub of defence manufacturing. Last August, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The Defence Ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-spent-rs-202-lakh-cr-since-2018-19-to-source-defence-equipment-from-domestic-firms-govt-data-1016287.html
04-08-2021||National||EC again proposes linking voter ID with Aadhaar||The Election Commission has once again proposed to link the Electoral Photo Identity Cards (EPICs) with the 12-digit Aadhaar numbers of the respective voters, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Rijiju stated in response to a question in the Lok Sabha that the EC proposed to link the electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem in order to curb the menace of multiple enrolment by the same person as voter at different places. He said that proposal was under consideration by the Government. In 2015, the EC had launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link Aadhaar numbers with the EPICs. But the programme had to be suspended after the Supreme Court on August 11, 2015 ordered that the use of Aadhaar would be optional for availing various welfare schemes of the government and no personal information of the holders of such cards should be shared by any authority. The EC in August 2019 proposed that the government should amend the election laws to empower Electoral Registration Officers to seek Aadhaar numbers of the existing and the new voters. The Ministry of Law and Justice in early 2020 started working on the proposal for amending the electoral laws as proposed by the poll-panel. The Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra a few weeks back wrote to the then Minister of Law and Justice, Ravi Shankar Prasad, requesting expedited action on the electoral reforms proposed by it, including linking the voter identity cards with the Aadhaar. Prasad’s successor Rijiju informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday that the issue of electoral reforms in its entirety had been examined by the Law Commission in the recent past and, after consulting various stakeholders, the commission submitted its 244th and 255th Reports covering various proposed electoral reforms, which included disqualification from contesting election on framing of charges, regulation of election finance and opinion polls and ban on paid news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-again-proposes-linking-voter-id-with-aadhaar-1016293.html
04-08-2021||National||NIA conducts search operations in J&K, Karnataka; arrests 4 operatives in ISIS Kerala module case||National Investigation Agency (NIA) teams on Wednesday conducted search operations at five locations in Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and arrested four operatives from Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Srinagar and Kashmir, who were allegedly raising funds, spreading hatred messages on social media and motivating more people to join ISIS. The accused operatives were identified as Ammar Abdul Rahman of Ullal (Mangaluru), Shankar Venkatesh Perumal alias Ali Muaviya (Bengaluru), Obaid Hamid of Bemina (Srinagar) and Muzammil Hassan Bhat of Bandipora (Kashmir). In March this year, NIA had registered a suo-moto case against one Mohammed Ameen alias Abu Yahya from Kerala and his associates, who had been running ISIS propaganda channels on different social media platforms including Telegram, Hoop and Instagram. Mohammed Ameen was accused of propagating violent Jihadi ideology of ISIS, radicalising and recruiting new members for the ISIS module. A case under under sections 120B, 121 and 121A of IPC and sections 17, 18, 188, 20, 38 and 40 of UA (P) Act related to terrorist activities was registered by NIA (RC 05/2021/NIA/DLI). Subsequent searches had resulted in the arrest of the kingpin Mohammed Ameen, Dr Rahees Rasheed and Mus’Hab Anwar in March. During investigation, it was revealed that after the decline of ISIS Caliphate in Syria, Iraq, Mohammed Ameen had visited Kashmir in March 2020 for Hijrah (Religious migration) and for engaging in terrorist acts. During his stay in Kashmir, he had raised funds in association with Kashmir-based Mohammad Waqar Lone alias Wilson Kashmiri and his associates. As part of the conspiracy, funds were also transferred to Mohammed Waqar Lone through banking channels and digital payment methods on the directions of Mohammed Ameen. Besides raising funds, Mohammed Ameen and his associates were also radicalising, motivatiing gullible Muslim youth into joining Jihad and unlawful activities in India. Ameen was by and large successful in expanding the network in Kashmir, part of Kerala and Karnataka, NIA sources said. On Wednesday NIA conducted searches at the premises of operatives who were in regular touch with Mohammed Ameen and his associates through various groups/channels on encrypted chat platforms. The four operatives allegedly had raised money to fund ISIS activities. During the search at five locations, devices like laptops, mobile phones, hard disk Drives, pen drives, multiple SIM cards of different service providers and incriminating documents were seized. Further investigation in the case is on, NIA stated in a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-conducts-search-operations-in-jk-karnataka-arrests-4-operatives-in-isis-kerala-module-case-1016300.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition displays posters in 7 languages in Parliament on Pegasus row||Protesting against the alleged use of the Pegasus spyware by the government to snoop on political rivals, Opposition parties displayed specially-designed posters in seven different languages in both houses of Parliament on Tuesday, demanding a discussion on the issue. Conceptualised by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and brought to fruition by different parties, the posters asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah if they had purchased the spyware. It also offered choices for them to tick on -- "yes" or "no". While a Communist Party of India (CPI) MP oversaw the Malayali version, the Tamil poster was approved by a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Sanjay Singh proof-read the Hindi version. The Urdu version was checked by TMC's Nadeem-Ul-Haq. A Congress MP from Assam proof-read the Assamese version, while the Marathi poster was overseen by a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP. Another Congress MP from Karnataka took care of the poster in Kannada. Sources said the Opposition MPs tried to make sure that the posters were visible on television by positioning themselves at key areas in both houses. Earlier last week, TMC MP and leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien had alleged that the Opposition protests were not being shown on RS TV. "#Parliament 2 pm. Today. Please watch. Will Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV CENSOR Opposition voices as we attempt to raise this serious issue #Pegasus," he said in a tweet on Tuesday. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha barely functioned on Tuesday amidst protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farmers' issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-displays-posters-in-7-languages-in-parliament-on-pegasus-row-1016000.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Derek O'Brien enjoys 'papdi chaat' after Modi's remark||TMC MP Derek O'Brien grabbed headlines (and enraged some members of the ruling BJP) on Monday when he said that Bills were being passed by the Modi-Shah government akin to the speed of making papdi chaat (a popular street food). He tweeted that during the first 10 days of Parliament's Monsoon Session, 12 Bills were passed at an average time of below seven minutes. In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill 😡(See shocking chart👇) Following his comments, Union minister Pralhad Joshi quoted PM Modi saying that he was anguished over the comment and found it 'insulting to the people who elect MPs'. However, O'Brien was not affected by the news and responded by asking if the PM would have preferred him saying 'dhokla' instead of 'papdi chaat' as his purpose was 'using a culture idiom to connect with people over the serious issue'. 'Dhoklas' are a snack native to Gujarat, the state where Modi hails from. O'Brien did not stop there as he had another humorous dig up his sleeve. The MP was photographed on Tuesday enjoying 'papdi chaat' at New Delhi's TMC office as a response to the war of words.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/derek-obrien-enjoys-papdi-chaat-after-modis-remark-1016049.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||'My responsibility to help them': Rahul Gandhi meets family of Dalit minor allegedly raped, killed in Delhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday met the family of the minor girl who was allegedly raped, murdered and cremated without her parents' consent in Old Nangal crematorium in Delhi.  In a tweet, Rahul Gandhi said that all he knows if that it is his responsibility to help them.  A nine-year-old Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances with her parents alleging that she was raped and forcefully cremated by a priest in southwest Delhi, triggering criticism from Opposition parties against Delhi Police and Home Minister Amit Shah. After recording the statement of the victim's mother, police have added rape charges in the FIR and arrested four persons, including the priest. According to police, the girl had gone to get cold water from a cooler at the crematorium after informing her mother at around 5:30 pm on Sunday. Half an hour later, they claimed, the priest Radhey Shyam called the family and informed them that she got electrocuted while getting water from the cooler. The priest along with others showed the mother the girl's body. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow while her lips were also blue, PTI reported. The priest along with his associates persuaded her mother against calling the police saying that doctors will steal the girl's organs during postmortem and it was better to cremate her, police said. The girl was cremated but later, the woman and her husband claimed there was some foul play. Police said a preliminary forensic examination showed that there were signs of electrocution. Prima facie, they claimed, a heavy flow of current was observed from the cooler, the official said. The police also went to the spot where the victim was cremated. It was examined and tooth, fractured particles of her skull, along with parts below the ankle were recovered. These were handed over to police which will submit the samples at the lab for further examination, according to the official. The Delhi Commission for Women has launched an inquiry into the incident that took place in Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi and summoned the city police. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/my-responsibility-to-help-them-rahul-gandhi-meets-family-of-dalit-minor-allegedly-raped-killed-in-delhi-1016055.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||IAF chief in Israel to discuss enhancement of bilateral military ties||Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria is in Israel to discuss enhancement of bilateral exchanges between air forces of the two countries, the Indian Air Force said on Wednesday.  “As strategic partners, India and Israel enjoy strong, multi-dimensional ties, an important pillar of which is defence cooperation and military level exchanges,” the Indian Air Force (IAF) said on Twitter. As strategic partners, India & Israel enjoy strong, multi-dimensional ties, an important pillar of which is defence cooperation & military level exchanges. Both sides will discuss enhancement in the depth and scope of bilateral exchanges between the two Air Forces. Both sides will discuss enhancement in the depth and scope of bilateral exchanges between the two air forces, it mentioned.  “Air Chief Mshl RKS Bhadauria #CAS arrived in Israel for an official visit on August 3, on an invitation from Maj Gen Amikam Norkin, Cdr Israel Air Force,” it noted. Before coming to Israel, Bhadauria was in the UAE where he met Major General Ibrahim Nasser M Al Alawi, Commander, UAE Air Force and Air Defence on Sunday.  Bhadauria and Alawi on Sunday held wide-ranging talks to identify avenues and measures for further strengthening the robust relationship between the two forces, according to the IAF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/iaf-chief-in-israel-to-discuss-enhancement-of-bilateral-military-ties-1016068.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned thrice amid Opposition uproar; to commence at 2 pm||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the third time on Wednesday after vociferous protests by opposition over Pegasus snooping and other issues. As soon as the House met for the day, Speaker Om Birla made obituary references for eight former members of Lok Sabha who died recently. As a mark of respect for the departed souls, the Speaker along with members present in the House stood in silence for a brief while. Continuing with their protests over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues, Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and displaying placards. Birla asked the protesting members to ensure decorum of the House. Little over ten minutes after the Question Hour began, the proceedings were adjourned till 11.30 am amid the din. When the House reassembled at 11:30 am, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, asked protesting members not to storm into the well showing placards and shouting slogans. "Don't do anything for which the chair is compelled to take action.... If the Chair is standing, you should sit down... Please go back to your seat... it is not acceptable," Agrawal said. As protesting opposition members continued to be in the Well, Agrawal adjourned the House till 12 noon. When the House again met at noon, the opposition members continued their protests by trooping into the well and sloganeering. Agrawal, who was in the chair, allowed papers related to various ministries to be laid in the table of the House amidst the protests. As protests continued, the chair adjourned the House till 2 pm after 10 minutes of business. Both Houses of Parliament have witnessed disruptions since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-thrice-amid-opposition-uproar-to-commence-at-2-pm-1016078.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Six TMC MPs suspended for a day in Rajya Sabha for 'placard' protest on Pegasus||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu suspending six Trinamool Congress MPs for a day from the House for carrying placards while protesting along with other opposition MPs on the Pegasus spying issue. The six MPs -- Dola Sen, Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor -- also attempted to enter the House at 2 PM but were prevented by security staff, leading to slogan shouting by the protesting MPs. While the morning session was washed out, the afternoon session saw the governmet passing three bills -- The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021, The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Bill, 2021 and The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The suspension of MPs under Rule 255 -- naming of MPs by the Chair and their withdrawal from the House for the remaining part of the day -- led to a series of meetings in the Opposition camp on the strategy to be adopted in the afternoon session of the House during which some of the MPs who managed to speak during discussions on the Bill raised the issue of suspension of the lawmakers. As soon as the House assembled in the morning and laying of official papers on the table, placard-wielding Trinamool Congress MPs and others rushed into the Well of the House after Naidu rejected multiple notices to suspend business and discuss Pegasus, farmers' issue and the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl among others. Naidu asked the MPs not to display the posters, which questioned the government on Pegasus, and asked them to return to their seats. "All these members who are in the well of the House with placards... all of them are named under rule 255. I direct these members who are in the well of the House to go back to their seats, otherwise, you are named and you are suspended for the day," Naidu said. As the MPs refused to heed to his request, he said those "disobeying the chair and raising placards shall leave the House under Rule 255." He did name anyone but said Rajya Sabha Secretariat will give the list before adjourning the House till 2 PM. Later a Parliamentary Bulletin identified the six MPs suspended for the day. When the House re-assembled at 2 PM, the suspended MPs tried to enter the Chamber but were prevented. Inside the House, the MPs continued their protest as the government went ahead passing three Bills. MPs like Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem referred to the suspension while others like Manoj K Jha (RJD), Vandana Chavan (NCP), Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya and John Brittas (CPI-M), Deepender Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa (Congress) and AAP's S C Gupta raised Pegasus and farmers issues. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh did not allow them to continue their speeches saying it was not part of the subject of discussion. Participating in the debate on Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (Amendment) Bill 2021, Bhattacharya alleged that the Bill was aimed at selling airports and asked whether the money collected through this would be used to buy Pegasus spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/six-tmc-mps-suspended-for-a-day-in-rajya-sabha-for-placard-protest-on-pegasus-1016083.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Congress members walk out of Himachal Assembly over backdoor appointment issue||The Congress on Wednesday walked out of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly after it was not allowed to give an adjournment motion to discuss the issue of alleged backdoor appointments in the state. As soon as the House assembled, Congress legislators reportedly started disrupting the Question Hour seeking an adjournment motion to discuss the matter. Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress MLAs Asha Kumari, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal and Dhani Ram Shandil stated that the state government was playing with the future of the unemployed youth through alleged backdoor entry through outsourcing. However, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar did not allow the Congress to present the adjournment motion.  At this, the Congress legislators created an uproar and walked out the House in protest.  Parmar said the Congress did not give any notice for the adjournment motion under Rule 62. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is also the Leader of the House, stated that the adjournment motion under Rule 62 might be presented only for a matter of urgent public importance. All the appointments in the state are being done as per rules, he said, adding Congress legislators should tell how many appointments through outsourcing have been done during its rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-members-walk-out-of-himachal-assembly-over-backdoor-appointment-issue-1016117.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||14 Opposition parties blame 'arrogant' government for Parliament logjam, demand debate on Pegasus, farmers' issue||Leaders of 14 Opposition parties on Wednesday put the blame for the disruption of Parliament's Monsoon Session "squarely at the doorsteps" of the government that "refuses" to accept their demand for a discussion first on the Pegasus episode . Eighteen leaders from 14 parties -- Congress, NCP, Samajwadi Party, DMK, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, RJD, CPI(M), CPI, AAP, Muslim League, National Conference, RSP and LJD -- issued a joint statement after a meeting chaired by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. They emphasised that the Opposition stand "firm and united" on their demand for a discussion on Pegasus issue in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to be replied by the Home Minister as it has national security dimensions. The leaders said they have "unequivocally" conveyed that the discussion on farmers' issue can be held after the debate on Pegasus. They said it was "unfortunate" that the government had "unleashed a misleading campaign to malign the combined opposition" and blamed it for the continued disruption of Parliament proceedings. "The responsibility for the deadlock lies squarely at the doorsteps of the government, which remains arrogant and obdurate and refuses to accept the opposition's demand for an informed debate in both the houses," the statement said emphasising that the Opposition parties stand "firm and united" The statement was signed by Kharge, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, DMK's T R Balu and Tiruchi Siva, Congress' Anand Sharma, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav, Trinamool Congress' Derek O' Brien and Kalyan Banerjee, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and Vinayak Raut, RJD's Manoj Jha, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem, CPI's Binoy Viswam, AAP's Sushil Gupta, Muslim League's ET Mohd Basheer, National Conference's Hasnain Masoodi, RSP's NK Premachandran and LJD's MV Shreyams Kumar. The statement came as the Opposition sought to counter the government narrative on Parliament functioning. At least three meetings of Opposition leaders were held during the day before the afternoon session of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/14-opposition-parties-blame-arrogant-government-for-parliament-logjam-demand-debate-on-pegasus-farmers-issue-1016123.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Citizenship under CAA only after issuance of rules; no more amendments in law proposed: Centre||The Centre said on Wednesday that it has no proposal under consideration to further amend the Citizenship Act for granting Indian nationality to members of other minority communities. The objective of the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), enacted in 2019, is to grant Indian citizenship to non-Muslim persecuted minorities -- Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians -- from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. "No such proposal is under consideration," Union Minister of State for Home Nityanada Rai said in Rajya Sabha in reply to a question on whether the government is considering any further amendment to the Citizenship Act by including other minorities under its purview. Rai also said Indian citizenship to the eligible beneficiaries under the CAA will be given only after rules under the legislation are notified. "Eligible persons covered by the Citizenship Amendment Act may submit applications for grant of citizenship after appropriate rules are notified by the central government," he said in a written reply to another query in the Upper House. He was asked whether the government has received new applications for citizenship after the CAA 2019 was enacted. The CAA was notified on December 12, 2019 and came into force with effect from January 10, 2020, the minister said. "The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant further extension of time up to January 9, 2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019," Rai said. The government got an extension for the fifth time for framing these rules. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, the rules for any legislation should be framed within six months of presidential assent or an extension of the time must be sought. Those from the mentioned communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014, facing religious persecution there, will not be treated as illegal immigrants but given Indian citizenship. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country leading to the death of nearly 100 people in violence||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/citizenship-under-caa-only-after-issuance-of-rules-no-more-amendments-in-law-proposed-centre-1016124.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||BJP attacks Rahul Gandhi for not speaking on rape cases in Congress-ruled states||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of using the case of alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl in southwest Delhi for "furthering" his political agenda, and asserted that the law and order machinery has moved swiftly to deliver justice to the victim's family. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference that his party had no issue with Gandhi, who visited the girl's family earlier, calling for justice but what was condemnable was the Gandhi family's "selectivism" as they never tweeted or spoke a word in the cases of atrocities against Dalit girls in the Congress-ruled states like Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. He also accused Gandhi of violating the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and another law dealing with juveniles by tweeting a picture of the girl's parents as disclosing any aspect of a rape victim's identity is an offence. Patra urged the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to take cognisance of the matter and issue notice to the Congress leader. "This is using Dalits and the poor for furthering your own political agenda," he said, attacking him. Gandhi had earlier met the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl who died following an alleged sexual assault and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". After meeting the victim's family, the former Congress chief said the family is demanding nothing but justice and is saying that they are not getting it and need all the assistance in this. Patra cited a number of heinous cases of rapes and other atrocities on Dalit girls and women in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh to hit out at the Congress leader over his "silence". "You close your eyes and open only when you think you will have some political benefit out of it. This is appalling," he said, adding that the Delhi Police has arrested four accused in the case. A Dalit's daughter is certainly India's daughter, the BJP spokesperson said quoting a tweet of Gandhi and shot back to ask if Dalit daughters in these Congress-ruled states are not India's daughters. Rajasthan has topped the country in the cases of rapes, Patra said, citing official figures. The Rajasthan government had blamed registration of false FIRs allegedly by Dalits for the high numbers, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-rahul-gandhi-for-not-speaking-on-rape-cases-in-congress-ruled-states-1016126.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha pass Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill amid opposition uproar, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying the proposed legislation will help small depositors, including those of the stressed PMC Bank. The bill was passed after a short debate. The Bill proposes that even if a bank is temporarily unable to fulfil its obligations due to restrictions such as moratorium, depositors can access their deposits to the extent of the deposit insurance cover through interim payments by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). For this, the Bill seeks to insert a new Section in the DICGC Act, 1961. Replying to a brief debate, Sitharaman said the legislation would provide relief to small bank depositors. She said the proposed legislation will also help depositors of 23 cooperative banks which are under stress. "PMC Bank depositors will also benefit from this bill," she said. Thousands of depositors of the fraud-hit multi-state cooperative bank are facing hardship. The PMC Bank is currently under reconstruction. The bill also seeks to amend Section 15 of the DICGC Act to enable the Corporation to increase the ceiling on the amount of premium, with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Besides, it will also provide that the DICGC may defer or vary the receipt of repayments due to it from the insured bank and to empower the Corporation to charge penal interest in case of delay in repayment by the banks to the Corporation. Though the RBI and the central government keep monitoring the health of all banks, there have been numerous recent cases of banks, especially cooperative banks, being unable to fulfil their obligations towards depositors due to the imposition of moratorium by the RBI. Earlier this week, the Union Cabinet cleared amendments to the DICGC Act. Last year, the government had increased insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-pass-deposit-insurance-and-credit-guarantee-corporation-amendment-bill-1016130.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||BJP declares donations worth more than three times of aggregate sum for 5 other parties: ADR report||The BJP has declared donations worth more than three times the aggregate amount for five other parties, including the Congress, TMC and NCP, according to a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms. The report stated that the BJP also disclosed donations from the Amaravati Municipal Corporation, where both the mayor and the deputy mayor are from the saffron party. The party’s declarations also included land received from at least three donors. "The donations declared by the BJP are more than three times the aggregate declared by the Congress, NCP, CPI, CPM and TMC, for the same period (Rs 785.77 crore against Rs 228.035 crore declared by the remaining parties)," it said. The report, prepared by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), focuses on donations received by the national political parties, above Rs 20,000, during the financial year 2019-20, as submitted by the parties to the Election Commission of India (ECI). According to the report, the BJP declared a donation of Rs 4.80 lakh from the Amravati Municipal Corporation. "No details of address, bank name, PAN, among others, have been provided by the party against this donation. A casual search on the internet shows that the aforesaid donor is a Government of Maharashtra local body (as mentioned on their website). It raises questions on the legality of the contribution made by a municipal corporation which is a governing body (whose mayor and deputy mayor are from BJP) to a political party," the poll rights group said. "The BJP declared 570 donations of Rs 149.875 crore, AITC collected 52 donations worth Rs 7.1035 crore, Congress collected 25 donations of Rs 2.6875 crore and NCP collected two donations of Rs 3.005 crore having incomplete cheque/DD details where cheque number, bank details on which it was drawn and the date on which the cheque was received/ encashed is not provided. Thus, without the complete cheque/Demand Draft (DD) details, it would be a time-consuming process to link the donors against their donations and hence trace the money trail," the report said. The report said the BJP declared receiving land from three donors of a total value of Rs 1.516 crore. "The three donations are from Jhanjharpur in Bihar worth Rs 36.80 lakh, Rs 50 lakh and Rs 64.88 lakh. Apart from the names, location of donors, PAN details of one donor, no other details have been provided like donors' address, bank details, PAN of remaining two donors, address and ‘khasra’ (plot) number of land, type of land agricultural/commercial, among others," it said. The report added that the CPM and CPI also failed to declare the details of cheque and DD (cheque number, bank on which it was drawn and the date) for a total of 39 donations amounting to Rs 1.0786 crore and 29 donations amounting to Rs 52.17 lakh, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-declares-donations-worth-more-than-three-times-of-aggregate-sum-for-5-other-parties-adr-report-1016186.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Poaching on as poll season on the horizon but will it yield any results?||The poaching game is on once again as poll season sets in. With election activities beginning in all political parties for the Assembly polls next year, parties are vying with each other for desertions from rivals and the biggest worries are for the Congress. In what could be a fresh poll blues for the main Opposition party, its leaders in election-going states are making a beeline to the BJP. Three poll-bound states Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Punjab have already seen desertions and it seems more are to follow even as past experience shows, barring few cases, party hoppers have failed to make a difference in the poll prospects of BJP in states including West Bengal, where it had poached upon a large number of Trinamool Congress members. "BJP has perfected the art of blurring the ideological lines. But mass scale desertions prior to polls often boomerangs as it did in Bengal. Winnable leaders or candidates are seldom up for grabs as political parties tend to take care of them," political analyst Rasheed Kidwai told DH. BJP had inducted nearly 150 leaders and functionaries including nearly two dozen MLAs from TMC in the state but just a handful could win- the most prominent being Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee and Mukul Roy, who later joined back TMC. On June 9, BJP inducted a known Brahmin face from Congress — Jitin Prasada — who is all set to be used on a big scale during the election campaign for the state next year, where the BJP is keen to blunt the perceived anger among this particular community against Yogi Adityanath government. While deserting his parent party, Prasada voiced his desperation at "not being able to do anything for his people '' while remaining in Congress, an indication of his lack of faith in Congress' ability to do anything big in the state even during this Assembly poll. But Prasada had also lost two successive Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019 and also the 2017 UP Assembly polls. Not many believe that Prasada could be a big vote catcher for the BJP, that way. Kidwai, however, concedes that "there is a slight variation in the result due to poaching of rival political leaders in the northeast where defections have played a role in change of political regimes On August 1, former Manipur Congress president Govindas Konthoujam joined the BJP, creating an embarrassing moment for the Opposition party ahead of the Assembly polls, as it was nearly set to project him as its CM face since former CM Okram Ibobi Singh is now over 73 and facing a CBI case. Earlier, the second-most prominent leader of Congress N Biren Singh had left the Congress and joined the BJP in 2016 and became Chief Minister from BJP in 2017. Indications have it that more Congress leaders in the state could join the BJP. In poll-bound Punjab, all parties have got into this game. BJP, on August 2, inducted five former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders including Amanjot Kaur Ramoowalia, a former member of Akali Dal's women wing and daughter of former Union minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia. This was sweet revenge for the ruling party after its oldest ally SAD parted ways from the NDA opposing the passage of the contentious farm bills, which has kicked off a farmer agitation since then, not a good omen for any political party in the agrarian state of Punjab. On July 25, Congress too inducted 20 BJP leaders, though no prominent ones. In June, the BJP had inducted six prominent personalities from different walks of life. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poaching-on-as-poll-season-on-the-horizon-but-will-it-yield-any-results-1016234.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Don't turn Parliament into fish market: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to Opposition||The ruling BJP lashed out at the Opposition on Wednesday for continuously disrupting the proceedings of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, and also took a dig at the "papri-chaat" remark of a TMC leader, saying he can have fish curry but must not turn Parliament into a fish market. Attacking the government for passing bills within "a few minutes" in Parliament amid protests by Opposition members demanding discussions on various issues, TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien had asked whether the government was passing legislations or making "papri-chaat". Addressing the media outside Parliament after it was adjourned amid the protests, Deputy Leader of the Rajya Sabha Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi alleged that the opposition paries, especially the Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), want to hijack Parliament. Hitting out at O'Brien's remark, he said, "If he is allergic to papri-chaat, he can have fish curry, but do not turn Parliament into a fish market." The Union minister alleged that under the guise of attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the opposition parties are causing harm to the country's image on the basis of fabricated issues. "There are many leaders in the Opposition who want discussions in the House and want Parliament to function smoothly. Unfortunately, the manner in which work is being done to malign Parliament's dignity was never seen before," he said. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were repeatedly adjourned on Wednesday amid protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-turn-parliament-into-fish-market-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-to-opposition-1016260.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Punjab MPs spar in Parliament complex over farm laws||Two Punjab MPs from Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday engaged in a public spat inside Parliament complex over the passage of farm laws. Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal traded charges just before the day's session started. Both Akali Dal and Punjab Congress MPs have been standing outside Parliament house for days to protest against the three farm laws and in support of the farmers. Bittu accused Badal of being part of the union cabinet that cleared the three farm bills and also aiding their passage in Lok Sabha. Hitting back, Badal accused Bittu and other Congress MPs of staging a walkout and helping in the easy passage of the agriculture bills in the lower house. Badal was standing with Akali Dal and BSP MPs and protesting when Bittu accused her of being a part of the cabinet that cleared the bills. The face off took place in full public view and in front of media persons. Bittu later attacked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, asking where was the Lok Sabha member while Parliament and Kisan Sansad were on. "Where is Sukhbir Badal? Why is he not protesting and coming to Parliament? He is holding press conferences elsewhere but not coming to Parliament to raise the farmers' issues," Bittu said amid continued squabbling. Punjab MPs of Akali Dal, Congress and AAP have been demanding the repeal of the three controversial farm laws and have been giving adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss farm issues. Leaders of various parties have been going out of their way to show solidarity with farmers ever since the farmer unions declared that they would assess the performance of MPs on farmers issues and then decide on extending their support in elections. Punjab assembly elections are due in early 2022 and all parties are working overtime to keep the farmers on their side. Congress leader Rahul. Gandhi had earlier driven a tractor to Parliament to highlight the problems of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-mps-spar-in-parliament-complex-over-farm-laws-1016265.html
04-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha security officer injured after TMC MPs' suspension||A woman security officer of Parliament on Wednesday suffered minor injuries when suspended Trinamool Congress MPs tried to enter Rajya Sabha Chamber after the House adjourned for the day. The suspended MPs came outside Rajya Sabha chamber but were prevented from entering the Chamber by Parliament security personnel. Four of these six members tried to enter the Chamber but were stopped, sources said. Arpita Ghosh allegedly ended up breaking the glass door of the Chamber. During this, sources said, one of the woman personnel was injured when glass splinters hit her neck causing minor abrasions. “After the House was adjourned for the day, 4 of us 6 Trinamool MPs who were suspended for the day, tried to enter Rajya Sabha. We were prevented from doing so. Our suspension was over once the House was adjourned for the day. Why were we stopped ? Democracy hits new low Parliament,” one of the suspended TMC MP Dola Sen tweeted Security officers have been asked to submit a detailed report to the Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-security-officer-injured-after-tmc-mps-suspension-1016297.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi slams Yogi government over doctor's killing||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the killing of an Ayurvedic doctor in Sitapur, saying the security system for the common people is in a poor state and the Uttar Pradesh government is not doing anything except indulging in false propaganda. "In Sitapur, UP, a doctor was hacked to death by criminals who stormed his clinic," she said. "'Such incidents are creating fear in the minds of the people of the state. The security system for the common people is in such a poor state and the government is not doing anything except indulging in false propaganda," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. Munendra Pratap Verma, an Ayurvedic doctor who ran his own private clinic from his home in Mudrasan village, was attacked by accused Achchey Lal Verma with a sharp-edged weapon multiple times on Tuesday, police said. The doctor's father who was present at the time also suffered injuries while trying to save his son. The doctor died on the spot, they said. सीतापुर, उप्र में एक डॉक्टर को उसके क्लिनिक में घुसकर अपराधियों ने उसे तलवार से काट दिया।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-slams-yogi-government-over-doctors-killing-1016063.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||UP man arrested for 'objectionable' comments about RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||A young man has been arrested for making alleged objectionable comments about RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on a WhatsApp message in Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh, a police officer said on Wednesday. A case was registered against the man under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and he was arrested based on a complaint filed by the district coordinator of the RSS-backed student organisation Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the officer said. "Vishal Maurya of Ganesh Colony here made some objectionable comments about Bhagwat. A complaint was filed by ABVP district coordinator Akash Kumar stating that his comments hurt their feeling and that the youth also misbehaved with him," Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said. The man's mobile phone has been seized and a detailed probe into the matter is underway, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-arrested-for-objectionable-comments-about-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-1016064.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah assures MP CM help for dealing with flood situation||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday spoke to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and took stock of the flood situation in the state. In his telephonic conversation, Shah assured Chouhan of all possible help to Madhya Pradesh to deal with the situation. "Spoke to Shri @chouhanshivraj ji and inquired about the flood situation in some parts of Madhya Pradesh which occurred due to heavy rains and rise in water level of rivers. The state is being given all help for relief work from the Centre. In this difficult time, the Modi government is standing with the people of the state," he tweeted in Hindi. Torrential rains in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh have affected 1,171 villages, especially Sheopur and Shivpuri districts, officials said, adding NDRF and SDRF teams have rescued 1,600 people from flooded areas so far. At least 200 villages are still marooned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-assures-mp-cm-help-for-dealing-with-flood-situation-1016069.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Letter calling for strikes in Kashmir is fake, says Syed Ali Shah Geelani's family||Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday rejected a press release under the name of hardline Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani calling for strike on August 5 and August 15 terming it as fake. While August 5 marks the 2nd anniversary of abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370, August 15 is Independence Day on which separatists had been calling for a strike ever since the insurgency erupted in 1989. A police spokesperson, while quoting Geelani's family sources, said the press release on the Twitter handle of the ailing separatist leader is fake and issued by someone from Pakistan. “Police are taking action against those who are circulating it to instigate violence. Case FIR under relevant sections of ULA (P) stands registered in Police station Budgam,” police said, in a tweet. This is not for the first time that Geelani, through his family, has disassociated himself from a strike call issued in his name from across the border. Earlier, the police, quoting his family sources, rejected a similar press release under his name calling for strike on July 8 and 13 as fake and issued by someone from Pakistan. In April, the family of nonagenarian Geelani also disowned a letter in the name of the ailing separatist leader as fake and not been issued by him. The letter, which appeared to have come from across the border, asking people of Kashmir to observe strike against killings had been doing rounds on social media. Feeling hurt at being sidelined in decision-making and underhand disparagement of his role within the separatist amalgam, Geelani had resigned as chairman of the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference last June. Immediately after the decision, he had disassociated himself from a similar strike call issued from Pakistan last July. While announcing his decision to sever his association with the Hurriyat, Geelani had said that Abdullah Geelani will continue to work as his representative in Pakistan and overseas. Sources told DH that the strike calls are being issued by Abdullah Geelani from Pakistan on the directions of Pakistani spy agency ISI. “However, his (Geelani’s) family in Srinagar has no choice, but to disown these strike calls. They know that law enforcing agencies will open cases against Geelani’s sons in the same manner as was done with Pakistan based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin’s children,” they revealed. Shakeel Yousuf Shah, who was working as a lab assistant at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar and Shahid Yousuf Shah, extension agriculture officer in Sher-i-Kashmir University of Agriculture Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), were recently terminated by J&K government for their involvement in alleged terror funding cases. Both Shakeel and Shahid were arrested in 2017 and 2020 respectively by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in terror funding cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/letter-calling-for-strikes-in-kashmir-is-fake-says-syed-ali-shah-geelanis-family-1016093.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||2 years after abrogation of Article 370, militancy still a challenge in Kashmir||According to official figures, 163 local youths had joined the militant ranks in 2020 while the first seven months of this year have seen over 80 such cases. From January 1 to July 31, security forces killed 90 militants, mostly belonging to Pakistan-based terror outfits - Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM). “However, despite losing top commanders, the two terror outfits still have enough strength to carry out attacks on security forces and civilians across the Valley. Indigenous Hizbul Mujahideen has been relegated to number three now,” a source said. They said though the LeT and the JeM have emerged as two main terror organisations in Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370, they are intentionally recruiting more locals to its ranks to portray that Pakistan was not involved in Kashmir militancy. “They have these directions from across the border so that Pakistan could exit from the Financial Action Task Force's (FATF) grey list,” they added. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said that the total strength of the JeM in J&K was 44, including 10 locals and 34 foreign terrorists. “We have killed seven JeM terrorists so far, including two foreigners and five locals. JeM No 1 and No 2 were killed recently,” he said. Earlier, the JeM was more focused on the Pulwama-Awantipora-Tral belt in south Kashmir. However, now both the JeM and the LeT are focussed more on Srinagar and trying to recruit more locals. The JeM, according to police records, has managed to recruit four to five local youths this year. Official data also shows that the killing of civilians has come down in the last two years compared to the 2017-2019 period. As per the data from August 2017 to July 2019, 135 civilians lost their lives during different militancy-related incidents whereas from August 2019 to July 2021, only 72 such killings were reported. The law and order incidents too have shown a significant decrease in the last two years. From August 2017 to July 2019, 1,394 law and order incidents were reported which has come down to 382 from August 2019 to July 2021. However, security agencies are apprehensive about the likely fallout of the Taliban takeover of Kabul which may have an impact on the security situation in Kashmir. “The JeM have its cadres fighting along with the Taliban in Afghanistan and there is a possibility that among them some battle-hardened terrorists may trickle into Kashmir in coming months,” a senior police officer told DH. But despite melting of snow, no infiltration attempts have been reported along the LoC in Kashmir this year. Last year too, there was a marked decrease in infiltration attempts, with 99 such incidents being recorded as compared to 216 in 2019. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-years-after-abrogation-of-article-370-militancy-still-a-challenge-in-kashmir-1016099.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||NCPCR seeks report from Delhi Police on Dalit girl's case||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has sought a report from Delhi Police in connection with the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, whose body was cremated without her parents' consent, in the national capital. The police has been asked to submit a "detailed report" within 48 hours as the NCPCR took suo motu cognizance of the incident which was reported on Sunday. The NCPCR sent the notice to Delhi Police on Tuesday. "The commission is committed to ensure that no guilty escape," NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said. Locals are protesting in Nangal village in south-west Delhi demanding justice for the girl even as former Congress president Rahul Gandhi visited the family and pledged his support in their fight. The Delhi Commission for Women also launched an inquiry into the incident and summoned the Delhi Police officials after the girl’s parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by the priest. The girl had gone to collect water from a cooler in a crematorium near her house after informing her mother on Sunday evening. However, half an hour later, the priest at the crematorium informed the mother that the girl was electrocuted and forced them to cremate her immediately saying that if a post mortem is conducted, the victim's organs may be stolen. However, later in the night the father and mother approached police following suspicion that the girl was sexually assaulted and murdered. Police arrested the priest Radhey Shyam and three others --  Kuldeep, Laxmi Narain and Salim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncpcr-seeks-report-from-delhi-police-on-dalit-girls-case-1016102.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||'All’s well that ends well', says Delhi HC as newly-wed couple separated by family reunited||“All’s well that ends well”, said the Delhi High Court after being informed that a newly-wed couple, separated by the woman’s family, has been reunited on its direction and is staying together safely in the national capital. The high court also appreciated Delhi Police for "efficient and prompt" action in the case. The woman, kept at her paternal place in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh against her will, was brought back to Delhi to her matrimonial home following the high court’s direction. A bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani was informed that while she was leaving her parental home in Mirhechi in UP’s Etha district to come to Delhi, she was threatened by her immediate family members with dire consequences. The bench directed the SHO of Anand Parbat Police Station here to ensure safety and well-being of the couple. “All’s well that ends well. In view of the foregoing, the relief prayed for in the present habeas corpus petition stands satisfied,” the court said on being informed by the husband's counsel that the two have been reunited. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the husband praying that his wife, who was illegally restrained by her family from returning to Delhi, be produced before court. The court appreciated Delhi Police, Inspector Yogendra, SHO and Constable Sanjay from Police Station Anand Parbat for the prompt and efficient action taken by them. The high court on August 2 had directed the police of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to escort the woman to her matrimonial home from the paternal place. It had passed the direction after the woman, who had joined the video conference hearing from her parental house, “expressed her clear and unequivocal intention” and desire to return and be with her husband in Delhi. The court had said that it was a matter of record that the woman married on her own free will in June 2021 at Arya Samaj Mandir in Rohini, after which the newly-weds made their home at the house of the man here. However, subsequently, it was claimed that the couple was separated by the wife's family and she was taken away to her parental home, the court had recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-s-well-that-ends-well-says-delhi-hc-as-newly-wed-couple-separated-by-family-reunited-1016104.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal announces magisterial probe into Dalit girl's rape, murder||Delhi government on Wednesday announced a magesterial probe into the death of a nine-year-old Dalit girl following an alleged sexual assault and Rs 10 lakh compensation to her family while Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi visited the family at a protest site. "Our girl cannot come back. The injustice done to the family is unfortunate and cannot be compensated, but the government will give Rs 10 lakh to them and order a magisterial inquiry into the matter,” Kejriwal told reporters after meeting the family. When Kejriwal reached the area to meet the parents, protesters demanding justice for the victim mobbed raised slogans against him. Kejriwal said the government will appoint top lawyers to ensure the guilty are punished. Rahul visited the family in the morning and pledged his support to them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch." "I told them that Rahul Gandhi is standing with them till they get justice and will not back down even an inch," he told reporters after meeting the parents of the victim. After the meeting he tweeted, "her parents' tears are saying only one thing - their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." Separately, Congress demanded a fast-track probe into the incident and death penalty for the culprits. Congress' in-charge for Delhi Shaktisinh Gohil and Delhi president Anil Chaudhary demanded the setting up of an SC/ST Commission in Delhi to help prevent such incidents. "We also demand that financial help be given to the family like that provided to other rape victims in Delhi in the past. We also demand that an SC/ST Commission be constituted in Delhi also, after reports of this family being held captive and pressure being exerted by the police on them," Gohil said. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Rahul of using the case for "furthering" his political agenda. He said BJP had no issue with Rahul for calling for justice but  what was condemnable was the Gandhi family's "selectivism" as they never tweeted or spoke a word in the cases of atrocities against Dalit girls in the Congress-ruled states like Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-announces-magisterial-probe-into-dalit-girls-rape-murder-1016107.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||5 of family killed as wall collapses on house due to heavy rain in Rajasthan||Five members of a family were killed after a wall collapsed on their house due to incessant heavy rain in Rajasthan's Bundi district, police said on Wednesday. Two other members of the family are feared trapped under the debris, they said. The incident occurred on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday in Navghat area, the police said. Superintendent of Police Shivraj Meena said an old wall collapsed on the house in which two brothers, Mahendra Kaivat and Mahaveer Kaivat, lived with their families. Due to this, the roof of the house caved in, burying all seven family members under the debris. After receiving information about the incident, the police rushed to the spot and managed to pull out two people from the debris. Three others were rescued on Wednesday morning, he said. An operation is underway to rescue the remaining two members of the family who remain trapped under the debris, he added. Station House Officer, Keshoraipatan, Lokendra Paliwal said all the five members of the family -- two women and three minor girls -- who were rescued succumbed to injuries. The house was constructed decades ago in an unplanned manner, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-of-family-killed-as-wall-collapses-on-house-due-to-heavy-rain-in-rajasthan-1016119.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Doctor hacked to death in clinic with sword in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a doctor was brutally hacked to death with a sword inside his clinic in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur district. According to the police sources here, the doctor, identified as Munendra Kumar Verma, a resident of Mudrasan village in the district, had a clinic at Chauchiyan More area, a few kilometres away from his village. Verma was examining patients in his clinic on Tuesday afternoon, when one Achhelal Verma, who carried a sword, barged into the chamber and bolted it from inside. Even before the doctor could understand what had happened Achhelal started hitting her with the sword. Police said that one of the doctor's arms was severed along with the palm of the other hand. ''The doctor also suffered severe injuries on his face, chest and neck,'' said a senior police official in Sitapur. He said that the doctor died on the spot. His father, who was also there in the chamber, sustained serious injuries while trying to save him, the police official said. The accused tried to escape from there but was apprehended by a team of police, which happened to be passing from near the clinic, sources said. Police said that a dispute over property was stated to be the cause of the killing. Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condemned the killing and slammed the BJP government over what they alleged was deteriorating law and order in the state. ''Such incidents trigger fear in the minds of the people.....this government is doing nothing except indulging false propaganda,'' Priyanka said in a post on Twitter. Akhilesh also said that the law and order had completely collapsed in the state and no one was safe under the BJP rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-hacked-to-death-in-clinic-with-sword-in-uttar-pradesh-1016141.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM launches India's first earthquake early warning mobile app developed by IIT-Roorkee||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday launched the country's first earthquake early warning mobile application 'Uttarakhand Bhookamp Alert' developed by IIT-Roorkee.  Launching the lifeguarding mobile app at the secretariat here, Dhami said considering Uttarakhand's vulnerability to earthquakes, people should be informed about the availability of a mobile application like this.          The application is available in two versions, compatible with both Android and iOS platforms.  The project was sponsored by the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA).  It is a path-breaking achievement for the institute as it is the country's first application for notifying people about earthquake alerts. It can also help tell the location of people trapped inside a structure following an earthquake.  Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) is a real-time earthquake information system that can detect the onset of the earthquake and issue warnings before the significant tremors take hold of an area, according to a press release by IIT-Roorkee.  The physical basis for an earthquake early warning system is the speed of the seismic waves, which propagate after the release of stress from faults movement. The strong ground shaking is caused by shear waves which travel at about half the speed of the primary waves and much slower than electromagnetic signals. The EEW system exploits this advantage, it said.  The programme was initially launched as a pilot project by the Ministry of Earth Sciences for the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand. Given its success and the need of the region, the IIT-Roorkee's  EEW project proposal was extended further by the Uttarakhand government. "I take immense pride in sharing that IIT-R has designed an Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) mobile app, for timely dissemination of information regarding an earthquake occurrence in the neighbourhood and the expected time of arrival and intensity at the location to prevent any loss of life," IIT-Roorkee director Ajit K Chaturvedi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-launches-indias-first-earthquake-early-warning-mobile-app-developed-by-iit-roorkee-1016148.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||I was deeply jaded & disappointed, but politicians can't mourn for long: Omar Abdullah on Article 370 abrogation||Two years after the special status of Jammu And Kashmir was abrogated and he was detained for 234 days, NC leader Omar Abdullah said on Wednesday that after initially being "deeply jaded" he had realised that as a politician he didn't have the right to "mourn" for long and could not let down the people struggling for their basic constitutional rights. On the eve of the second anniversary of the nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution, the former chief minister of the erstwhile state which has been bifurcated into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, said that what had been done on August 5 had come as a shock to most people who were affected by the "sudden, unexpected and unconstitutional blow". Abdullah, who spent seven months in detention which was challenged in the Supreme Court, recalled, "I was a deeply jaded and disappointed individual. I found it difficult to motivate myself even to indulge in basic political activities possible in the prevailing situation. But as the saying goes 'if you want the rainbow, you have got to put up with rain'. So here I am doing the best I can for the people." He said the workers and leaders of the National Conference (NC) had made immense sacrifices for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "Hundreds of our workers and several of our leaders have fallen to the bullets of militants. I thought of all this when a certain light inside me was getting dimmer during my solitary confinement. I realised I could not just walk away," he told PTI. There is no doubt in Abdullah's mind that the abrogation of Article 370 was unconstitutional which had been challenged as such on behalf of his party in the Supreme Court. "I have hope and faith in the Supreme Court which had said that they could turn the clock back if merited. I am sure that someday justice will be done to the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh," the NC vice president said. Answering a question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with mainstream leaders of Jammu and Kashmir on June 24, Abdullah said that the initiative needs to be followed up on the ground to produce meaningful results. "The prime minister candidly spoke of reducing the "doori" (distance), both physical and mental, between Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir. We now await the start of the follow-up to that meeting," he said. "There is so much talk of development, development. We would welcome that if it really happened. The administration needs to go beyond inaugurating projects for which work had begun during the time of elected governments," the NC leader said. About the claims of substantial improvement in the law and order situation, he said, "You cannot gag the people and then claim all is well. In the last two years people are not allowed to do even peaceful protests. The due process of law is ignored. On the one hand a rosy picture of the situation is painted and on the other hand the Centre tells Parliament that statehood will be restored when the situation normalises." In any case, the people cannot any longer continue to be deprived of an elected government through free and fair elections in a full-fledged state, Abdullah emphasised. Both restoration of statehood and holding of early elections have been promised at the highest levels by the Centre. "That should be the order -- restoration of full, undiluted statehood, followed by Assembly elections. There is no better way to reduce, to a large extent, the trust deficit to which the prime minister obliquely referred," he said. Abdullah was categorical that he would not be contesting elections for the foreseeable future but made it clear, "I will continue to be with our people and serve them even if I am not in the Assembly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-was-deeply-jaded-disappointed-but-politicians-cant-mourn-for-long-omar-abdullah-on-article-370-abrogation-1016172.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Army helicopter crash: Search operation for missing pilots resumes in J&K's Kathua||The search operation to trace the missing pilots of an Army helicopter that crashed into the Ranjit Sagar dam lake in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua resumed on Wednesday, officials said. The crash occurred on Tuesday morning. The rescue operation was suspended at night. The dam is located about 30 kilometers from Pathankot in Punjab and the lake in which the helicopter crashed is shared by Punjab and J-K governments. Deep sea divers of the Navy are also part of the operation, the officials said. The depth of the crash site has been measured to be over 200 feet. Some pieces of the helicopter were found on Tuesday after forces and boats were mobilised for the search operation, Kathua Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) R C Kotwal had said. Eyewitnesses had said the chopper was flying over the lake when it suddenly came down and crashed into the water. During Tuesday's search operation, a helmet, two big size bags, one shoe, I-cards and some helicopter parts were recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-helicopter-crash-search-operation-for-missing-pilots-resumes-in-jks-kathua-1016174.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Ram Temple may open to devotees ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha poll||The Ram Temple, which is currently under construction at Ayodhya, is likely to be opened for the devotees in December 2023, barely a few months before the next general elections, due in May 2024. According to the sources in the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Khestra Trust, which is overseeing the construction work, the 'garbha griha' (sanctum sanctorum) of the Temple will be completed in December 2023 after which it will be opened for the devotees. "The devotees will be able to pay obeisance at the Ram Temple from December 2023.....the entire complex of the Temple will be completed by the end of 2025," said an office bearer of the Trust. The Trust had held a meeting at Ayodhya a few days back in which the deadline of December 2023 was finalised, sources privy to the deliberations at the meetings said. "The construction work has been going on in full swing....we intend to use lesser number of bricks in the construction...instead we will be using stones," the office bearer said. Sources said that the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) as well as the BJP wanted the Ram Temple to be completed before the 2024 general elections. Prime minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the Ram Temple on August five last year. The timing of possible opening of the Ram Temple for the devotees assumes significance as the next general elections are scheduled to be held in May 2024 in which the Modi government will be seeking a third term in office. Although the BJP leaders here refused to comment, when queried in this regard, sources said that the saffron party was 'certain' that the Ram Temple would be ready well before the next Lok Sabha polls. Political observers here said that the BJP would definitely take credit for the Ram Temple's construction to gain electoral mileage in the polls. Barely a few days back, union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah had, while speaking at a meeting at Mirzapur, said that his party had 'fulfilled' its promise of Ram Temple construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-may-open-to-devotees-ahead-of-2024-lok-sabha-poll-1016182.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Congress demands fast-track probe into death of Dalit girl in Delhi, capital punishment for culprits||The Congress on Wednesday demanded a fast-track probe into the alleged sexual assault and killing of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi cantonment area and death penalty for the culprits. Apart from demanding immediate financial help to the kin of the victim, the party also sought a probe into the role of the Delhi Police while alleging that it tried to exert pressure on the girl's family to ask for an investigation into the death. In the morning, Rahul Gandhi met the family of the girl and assured them of all help and support. The former congress chief said that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". He said the family is demanding nothing but justice and is saying that they are not getting it and need all the assistance in this. "I told them that Rahul Gandhi is standing with them till they get justice and will not back down even an inch," he told reporters. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has launched an inquiry into the incident that took place in Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi and summoned the city police after the girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident in Old Nangal area, demanding capital punishment for the accused. Police had on Monday said that based on the statement of the victim's mother, rape charges have been added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested. The Congress' in-charge for Delhi affairs Shaktisinh Gohil and its Delhi unit chief Anil Chaudhary said at a joint press conference that their party would continue to fight for the family of the victim till they get justice. Gohil said the Delhi Police comes under the direct purview of the Central government and questioned the "silence" of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the issue. Chaudhary demanded the setting up of an SC/ST Commission in Delhi to help prevent such incidents where members of the Dalit community, especially women are denied justice. "We demand that there should be a fast-track probe and justice be provided to this affected family. The family and we demand that the culprits should get death penalty as soon as possible to help save the lives of other girls in Delhi," he told reporters. "We also demand that financial help be given to the family like that provided to other rape victims in Delhi in the past. We also demand that an SC/ST Commission be constituted in the Delhi also, after reports of this family being held captive and pressure being exerted by the police on them," he also said. There may be many such cases where the police is exerting pressure on the family and justice is not provided to the victims. The voice of Dalits should not be suppressed "the manner in which it has been done in this case", he said. Gohil said the way atrocities are being committed on children and women in Delhi, reflects the "poor" governance in the national capital. "The nine-year-old poor Dalit girl was raped and killed after she went to fetch water from the crematorium. Thereafter, the victim's mother was threatened and forced to cremate her. Delhi's law and order is in the hands of the Centre. "The police held her mother captive and it was when other people came out in their support the real thing of her rape and forcible cremation came out and only after that an FIR was registered by the police," he alleged. The Congress leader said the party will hold prayer meetings and candle marches in all constituencies in Delhi. "Neither the chief minister nor the prime minister came forward to wipe the tears of the bereaved family. It was Rahul Gandhi who shared the pain of the family. Had the prime minister or the chief minister have some concern, they would have come forward in support of the family on the very first day," Gohil said. Chaudhary said this incident occured in the national capital's Cantonment area which is considered very safe. "There should be a probe into the role of the police as well, as fingers are being pointed at them," he said. The Delhi Congress chief claimed that from 2014 till now there have been 15,000 cases of rape in the city and asked what steps have the Delhi government taken to prevent such crimes. "The Delhi government claims to provide security to women. What has it done to ensure safety and security of women in the national capital? There are question marks on the central government also," he said. According to records, there have been more than 800 cases of rape in the last one year alone and the chief minister can only make tall claims and raise slogans, the Delhi Congress chief alleged.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-demands-fast-track-probe-into-death-of-dalit-girl-in-delhi-capital-punishment-for-culprits-1016193.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt caps price of Covid RT-PCR test in pvt labs, hospitals at Rs 500; antigen test to cost Rs 300||The Delhi government on Wednesday put a cap on the rate of conventional RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 detection in private hospitals and laboratories at Rs 500, according to an order. Rapid antigen tests at private facilities will cost Rs 300. In a tweet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Delhi government drastically reduces corona test rates. This will help the common man." According to the order, home collection of samples and testing would cost Rs 700. Earlier, it was Rs 1,200. At government centres and hospitals, RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are conducted for free. In November last year, the government had capped the rate of RT-PCR tests in private hospitals and labs at Rs 800. The health department has directed all private hospitals and laboratories to display the revised rates at a prominent place within 24 hours. It has also asked the private facilities to process samples, share reports with clients and update results on the ICMR portal within 24 hours. On Tuesday, Delhi repTorted 50 Covid-19 cases and four more fatalities due to the viral disease, while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent. The national capital has reported 14,36,451 Covid-19 cases so far. A total of 14,10,874 patients have recuperated, while the death toll due to the disease stands at 25,058.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-caps-price-of-covid-rt-pcr-test-in-pvt-labs-hospitals-at-rs-500-antigen-test-to-cost-rs-300-1016195.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Authorities trying to 'whitewash' issue: Families of those who died in Jaipur Golden Hospital||A day after the Delhi Police told a court that the deaths of 21 Covid-19 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital were not caused due to oxygen shortage, families of the people who lost their lives accused the authorities of trying to "whitewash" the matter and demanded a fair probe into it. Erick Massey, whose mother Delphin Massey died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage, said the hospital director had clearly mentioned that they did not receive oxygen. "The Centre had recently said that there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen that were specifically reported by states and union territories during the second wave of coronavirus. They are fooling us. The death summaries mention respiratory failure or cardiac arrest. It's written in a technical language. We are demanding a proper investigation," he said. The hospital had clearly said they were operating on reserves, Massey said, adding that it meant oxygen pressure was low and people on ventilators would not have survived on low oxygen pressure, he said. Massey also said that the hospital had itself told the police that the average mortality rate per day before and after the incident was only two and three, respectively, which increased to 21 within a span of seven to eight hours. "I don't think 21 patients have died in any hospital across India due to natural causes during the entire pandemic. It seems like a cover-up," he said. Jagjyot Singh's mother Sarabjeet Kaur was one of the 21 casualties on the fateful night of April 24 when the Jaipur Golden Hospital waited for its oxygen stock to be replenished. "It looks like a drama. They are fooling us. How the deaths happened should be investigated. We are not able to sleep at night. My mother has been murdered by the hospital. They are trying to blame everything on protocols," he said. Navya Awasthi, whose mother Seema Awasthi, also died at the hospital, said that this showed how the government was "more concerned about whitewashing" than about the plight of people. "The hospital is saying that they had to resort to reserves, yet there is no death due to oxygen shortage. Aren't these two statements contradictory? It is very easy to pass the buck. Whenever any committee looks at the reports, they will just show the records that say cardiac arrest or respiratory failure was the cause of the death. But what led to the cardiac arrest or respiratory failure of 21 patients," she questioned. Navya claimed that even Dr Baluja himself stated that he cannot deny oxygen shortage played a role in the deaths of the patients. "Even in Goa, where 74 people died allegedly due to oxygen shortage, the government took a u-turn," she said. The Delhi Police told a court here on Tuesday that the death of 21 Covid-19 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital in April was not caused due to oxygen shortage, a claim which contradicts the hospital's stand. In the same status filed by the police before the court, the hospital has stated that there was a link between inadequate oxygen supply and deaths of the patients as no oxygen was supplied to them for 30 hours despite several alerts. As many as 21 in-patients died at the hospital on the intervening night of April 23-24 allegedly due to lack of oxygen as it awaited for the supply to be replenished. "On scrutiny of death summaries of all deceased persons, it revealed that no death of any patient was caused due to shortage of oxygen,” the police stated in the status report on a plea seeking FIR against the hospital for deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/authorities-trying-to-whitewash-issue-families-of-those-who-died-in-jaipur-golden-hospital-1016210.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||UP Police seek to conduct narco test on accused in Dalit village head murder case||The police  have sought permission from a local court to conduct a narco-analysis test on four people, including two from the victim's side, in connection with the murder of a Dalit village head last month, officials said on Wednesday. They said since the victim, Dwarka Prasad Rao, was shot at his home, the narco-analysis test is needed to ascertain whether he was killed by someone inside the house or an outsider. Rao's family members have been sitting on a 'dharna' at the collectorate here for the past few days demanding justice for him. In the recent Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls, Rao was elected from a general seat as the head of Karnai village in the Jarwal block. The results were announced on May 2. He was shot at on the night of June 16 while he was sleeping in the balcony of his house. He died during treatment at a Lucknow hospital on June 20. "There is no doubt that Prasad was murdered. But it needs to be ascertained whether he was killed by an outsider or someone who was inside his house. This can be done through the lie detector or narco-analysis test of both parties," medico-legal expert of the UP Police G Khan told PTI. "The victim had an injury on the left side and the door was on the right side. This scientific test is necessary to clear the doubts," he added. Station House Officer (SHO), Jarwal, Pramod Kumar Singh said on the advice of the medico-legal expert, permission has been sought from the court to conduct the narco-analysis test on two people from both sides. "While accused are in favour of the test, the victim's family is not cooperating and they are taking dates in the court," he said. The local court has fixed August 10 as the next date of hearing, he added. However, Rao's son, Ram Manorath, who has been protesting outside the collectorate with other members of the family, said he has no objection to the narco-analysis test but wants the accused to be booked under the SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act. Rao's family members alleged that the accused are roaming freely after killing Rao and are even threatening them. Former MP and national president of Kanshiram Bahujan Moolniwasi Party Savitri Bai Phule joined the protest at the collectorate. Later, the victim's family agreed to end the protest, according to Superintendent of Police Sujata Singh. The officer said that she met the victim's family and assured them of an unbiased probe into the case, following which they agreed to end their 'dharna'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-seek-to-conduct-narco-test-on-accused-in-dalit-village-head-murder-case-1016221.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Digital crowdfunding platform for rare diseases made operational: Centre to Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court was informed by the Centre on Wednesday that it has made operational a digital platform for crowdfunding of the expensive medicines and treatment for rare diseases. While appreciating the efforts, the high court asked the Centre to update the portal on a regular basis and to take steps for wide publicity of the platform to utilise its full potential. Justice Rekha Palli also asked the government to include names of petitioners, suffering from rare diseases, on the portal. The high court, had on July 14, said it would take action for "wilful non-compliance" if the Centre failed to make operational the digital platform for crowdfunding for rare diseases. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said the portal http://rarediseases.aardeesoft.com has become operational and assured that sincere efforts are being made to motivate public sector undertakings and corporates to contribute through the portal. The court further asked the Centre to examine the suggestions made by advocate Ashok Agarwal, who appeared for several of the petitioner children, for the platform and file its response within six weeks. It listed the matter for further hearing on September 20. It had earlier said despite specific directions on January 28 that the digital crowdfunding platform be made operational by March 31, it has not been done. The court was hearing a batch of petitions on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases, including Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome), and seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free of cost treatment as the therapy is very expensive. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. MPS II is a rare disease that is passed on in families and it mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. On January 28, the court had passed an order directing the central government to make operational the digital crowdfunding platform for medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. On March 23, the court had passed a slew of directions in connection with the treatment of persons with rare diseases, including a direction to notify the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases by March 31 and setting up a National Consortium for Research, Development and Therapeutics, a rare diseases committee at AIIMS and a fund for such ailments. It had directed that the entire unspent budget allocated for rare diseases for the past three years shall be immediately moved into the rare diseases fund, which shall be managed, supervised and utilised by nodal agency AIIMS. The digital platform created under the Policy for receiving crowdfunding shall be linked to the fund and those individuals and companies wishing to contribute shall make direct contributions into it, the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digital-crowdfunding-platform-for-rare-diseases-made-operational-centre-to-delhi-hc-1016222.html
04-08-2021||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot stresses need for adhering to Covid protocol to keep third wave at bay||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday expressed the need to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol to thwart the third wave of the deadly virus. In a statement on Twitter, Gehlot raised concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country in the past few days. According to many reports, the third wave is expected to hit India by the end of August, the third wave will start in India, he said. "The situation is completely under control in Rajasthan. At present, there are only 220 active cases in the state and this number is continuously decreasing. Here the Reproductive factor (R-factor) is 0.5. The number of patients daily in the state is also between 10 and 50," the chief minister wrote. "But there is a need to be very careful seeing the way the coronavirus has again gained momentum in western countries like America, Britain, France etc," he said.  The chief minister said that according to experts, the scientific measure of the spread of the coronavirus infection is the reproductive factor (R factor). The R factor shows how many other people an infected patient can infect. When this R factor is below one, the spread of the virus is considered to be slow. "At present, this R factor is more than one in eight states and union territories of the country. The R factor across the country is 1.2. This shows that the second wave of corona is not over yet.  "In the past days, the number of cases is increasing across the country, which is a matter of concern. Many reports say that by the end of August, the third wave will start in India," he said.  He said that at present, the people have to strictly follow the Covid protocol and stop the third wave from hitting the country. "Do not be careless at all, wear mask, follow physical distance and get vaccinated," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-stresses-need-for-adhering-to-covid-protocol-to-keep-third-wave-at-bay-1016277.html
04-08-2021||Oasis||Proverbial popularity||Small though they are, proverbs are powerful. We see that wherever languages exist, proverbs are sure to be. These pithy but pointed sayings convey not only wisdom, but leave besides a lasting impact on the mind. However, quite a few of them send opposing signals. Consider these contradictory maxims: "Absence makes the heart grow fonder" but "Out of sight is out of mind"; "Look before you leap" but "Hesitate and you are lost"; "Great minds think alike" but "Fools seldom differ" and "Good things come in small packages" but "The bigger, the better". What do we make of this? Each proverb makes sense in its own way but is called into question by the diametrically opposed second one. Can we then rely on them to provide sound advice and direction or do they merely consist of "sound and fury signifying nothing"? This may come across as a difficult question, but an answer can be found. Proverbs are powerful because they derive their inspiration from Life. The vagaries they present are the vagaries we encounter in everyday living. Let us see how this can be. We are born blind to the future yet our efforts to pierce the darkness never ceases. We hate pain but it can prove to be a symptom of a disease that can be overcome. We chase money thinking it can buy happiness though we see many are destroyed when they pursue it ceaselessly. Some relationships break down irretrievably but, with vain hopes, we continue to nurture them. We know death is a certainty, but hardly think about this and behave as if we are immortal. We often hurt those we love the most. We think lower animals are pests, use and abuse them, ignoring the role they play in making life comfortable and pleasant. These examples are only some of many.  Proverbs shed light on timeless truths. They may not be consistent with one another all the time but they function as guide-posts erected by those who have glimpsed reality. When we have to make a choice, proverbs lend a clarity that is hard to match. Life’s game seems to be the art of reconciling opposites and proverbs offer us great help in achieving this. No wonder then that their popularity is proverbial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/proverbial-popularity-1015947.html
04-08-2021||Oasis||Proving people wrong— a pointless pursuit||Sometime ago, I was seeing a spectacular film based on Satyajit Ray’s short stories that had spawned scintillating reviews. In that, there is this intriguing character— an intrinsically good human, going irredeemably roguish due to harsh ineluctable circumstances. After inheriting from his grandma, the magnificent art of making myriad facial masks, he moseys around, masquerading as someone else, maliciously indulging in misdemeanours, maligning images of those, who’d have mistreated him. During his one such escapade, he encounters an eminent seer, endowed with an enigmatic power of clairvoyance, with rare ability to read others’ minds. Coinciding with this time, would be a criminal, on the run, after having molested and murdered a young girl. Now, this aforesaid man, grabs the opportunity to prove the seer all wrong. So, masked as that wanted criminal, he appears before the seer. When enquired about his name, this man, concealing his true identity, utters the same criminal’s name, just to prove to people, the seer was incapable of interpreting minds. The seer, by his supreme power, sensing sinister designs of this spiteful imposter, keeps on asking for his actual name. And, every time, this wicked person would be mouthing the molester’s name, being stark sure the seer couldn’t see through him. Finally, the seer would say, “So be it”. Feeling pretty exulted, for having proven the seer wrong, the evil person later tries pulling his mask down. But, lo! The mask would have mystically got stuck to his face forever! Now, the people around start pelting stones at him, going by his own admission of being the criminal. Well, there are times, when we, too, try indulging in the pointless exercise of proving others wrong, just to pitch ourselves higher up. Sans realising, by this awful trait, we’d be unduly antagonising others and alienating ourselves. To an extent, when besieged by baleful situations, there’d be none to step into the breach, to bail us out. Besides, we find our own inner peace getting extinguished, all for that exiguous amount of ego-gratification. A typical case of “Cutting the nose to spite the face”, right?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/proving-people-wrong-a-pointless-pursuit-1016312.html
04-08-2021||Opinion||Reopening schools: It's no longer about whether but how to||Ahead of the Global Education Meeting on July 13, 2021, the chiefs of UNICEF and UNESCO noted in their joint statement that primary and secondary schools were closed in 19 countries, affecting over 156 million students. School closures can lead to learning loss, mental distress, exposure to violence and abuse, missed school-based meals, vaccinations and reduced development of social skills. They put it unequivocally: "Schools should be the last to close and the first to reopen." It has been the opposite in India. The results of the fourth national sero-survey for Covid-19 conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tested for the presence of antibodies specific to the SARS-CoV2 virus across 70 districts in 21 states; the sero-prevalence was 57.2 per cent among children aged 6-9 years and 61.6 per cent among 10-17 years. This raised optimism that schools could reopen. Earlier, the Supreme Court, in its order of January 13, had ordered states and Union Territories (UTs) to decide, by January 31, on the opening of Anganwadi (Integrated Child Development Services) centres. Recent experience in the UK and other countries indicates the Delta variant's role in transmission among school children in years 7 to 11; the surge has been under control, though. The SARS-CoV-2 transmission in schools may be less important in contributing to community transmission than was earlier believed. School-based transmission is a known driver of influenza epidemics, thus requiring mandatory closure. Some countries did not shut down schools and early child care centres in the Covid-19 pandemic; others did so as a precautionary principle. While outbreaks do occur in school settings, transmission is lower than or similar to the levels of community transmission if prevention strategies are followed. The focus, therefore, is not anymore about whether but how to. The WHO underscores that decisions regarding public health and social measures (PHSM) – critical to limiting transmission and deaths - should be based as much on the situational assessment of the intensity of the transmission and capacity of the health system as they are on the consequences on the welfare of communities. With vaccination a work in progress, PHSM should be deployed "in a tailored and agile way" by local administrative levels and regularly reviewed and adjusted according to the local epidemiology. In its June 14 guidance document, five situational levels (0 to 4) have been identified by the WHO based on seven transmission scenarios. Education settings are advised to remain open with precautionary measures in place across situational levels 0 to 3. The advisory for situational level 4 (uncontrolled epidemic with limited or no additional health system response capacity available) is to make all efforts to continue with in-person learning, failing which consider blended learning. Children of essential workers should be allowed to attend in person; closure should be considered when there are no other alternatives. A document jointly developed by the WHO, UNICEF and UNESCO put forth a set of comprehensive, multi-layered measures. Community-led initiatives for risk reduction include addressing incorrect and misleading information, rumours and stigma; protection/shielding of vulnerable groups; and safe public transportation. Though the Union government has announced the possibility of vaccines being available for older children in August or September, it is not a prerequisite for the resumption of schools. Given the primacy that schooling deserves, teachers and staff ought to have been treated as priority categories for vaccination early on. Screening and managing sick students, teachers, and other school staff and enforcing the "staying at home if unwell" policy is singularly important. Prompt isolation of cases and contact tracing and quarantine of contacts should be implemented while maintaining confidentiality. At the school level, administrative policy changes entail setting attendance and entry rules; keeping students and teachers in small groups that do not mix (popularly, bubble or capsule); staggering start of school, breaks, bathroom, meal and end times, and alternating physical presence (alternate days or alternate shifts). Reorganisation of the physical space is crucial: identifying entry/exits; marking the direction of walking; handwashing facilities; and modifications to facilitate the appropriate use of space. Adequate and proper ventilation is critical, as is encouraging outdoor activities. Protocols inside the classrooms vary depending on local transmission levels. In districts/sub-districts with situational levels 3 or 4, a distance of at least one metre between all individuals (students of all age groups and staff) should be maintained. In the other situational levels (with lower risk), children under 12 years are not required to keep physical distance at all times, and where feasible, children aged 12 years and over should keep at least one metre apart from each other. Teachers and support staff should keep at least one metre apart from each other and students. The advisory for masks in situations of intense community transmission or where physical distancing cannot be achieved is as follows:   Central to the success of all these will be communication with parents, students, teachers and school staff. Inclusive and early collaboration between the school and the community shall help build confidence in the changes and protocols that are being instituted. Frequent communications and messaging on Covid-19 and school measures along with flexibility and modification of approaches as needed will reassure parents, students and teachers that schools are safe to attend once mitigation measures have been undertaken. (The writer is Chairperson at the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. He is also a member of the National AEFI (Adverse Effects Following Immunisation) Committee.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/reopening-schools-its-no-longer-about-whether-but-how-to-1016066.html
04-08-2021||Opinion||Academic Bank of Credit a panacea for the higher education system?||Last week, as the New Education Policy-2020, or NEP, marked a year of its implementation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Academic Bank of Credit (ABC). The initiative has the potential to internationalise India's higher education system. Such academic credit banks are already functional in many developed countries like Canada, the UK and South Korea. The University Grants Commission (UGC) first mooted the idea in 2019 and later adopted it in the NEP-2020 after discussions. The ABC is now a gazette notified regulation. Institutions need to agree to join it, and the UGC has communicated this to vice-chancellors. It is an online virtual space provided to students to deposit and accumulate the credits they earn during their courses offered by Indian universities.  As a student-centric initiative, the ABC offers a learning-friendly approach that can ensure multi-disciplinary holistic education. It aims to create a national-level facility to provide flexibility of curriculum framework and interdisciplinary or multi-disciplinary academic mobility of students across higher education institutions with appropriate credit transfer mechanisms to earn a degree or diploma.  The regulation offers four major promises: a) freedom and flexibility in the university degree-granting system, b) standardisation within the Indian higher education system, c) robust integration of the Indian higher education system, and d) a move towards internationalisation of Indian higher education. Freedom and flexibility in degree-granting have been issues in higher education due to the rigidity in the process, which causes year loss and semester loss to students who have to leave the university system in between their courses, whether because of financial reasons or transferable jobs of their parents. Now with the ABC, students may accumulate credits, and once they acquire requisite credits, they can be granted degrees provided those required credits are earned within seven years of joining the course. This regulation enables students to select the best courses or combinations that suit their aptitude and quest for knowledge. Such choices will be more friendly to students considering associated logistics and cost of the course opted. The ABC can allow students to tailor their degrees or make specific modifications and specifications rather than undergoing the rigid, regularly prescribed degree or courses of a single university or autonomous college. It can be achieved through multiple entries and exits for the student to complete their degree to suit their time preferences by providing mobility across various higher education institutions. With freedom of mobility, the ABC will help decrease dropouts and increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher education.  The enhanced gross enrolment in higher education will move India towards developed nations, help attain the sustainable development goals of education, and fulfil our commitment to UN resolutions as a responsible nation. Education is a subject in the Concurrent List. The Indian education system is diverse. We have central universities funded by the Union government, state universities funded by respective states with partial or no support from the UGC and private universities governed and funded by private groups but follow UGC regulations for awarding degrees. In such a situation, the degree-granting mechanism and credit carrying system varies from state to state and also from university to university. Students who move from one part to another part of the country, due to any reason, face problems. The ABC would reduce such disparity among institutions through standardisation of crediting system and promote uniformity in the degree-granting mechanism. This will also reduce the pedagogical gap that exists within higher education institutions of India. Integrating higher educational institutions is the need of the day as we move in a globalised educational space. Many universities still have decades-old curriculum, obsolete readings and old evaluation and degree-granting mechanisms. After joining the Academic Bank of Credit, all higher education institutions need to restructure their curriculum and readings and update this process better. The ABC will provide a unique opportunity to higher education institutions to integrate themselves to generate a robust system that can handle millions of students who may join the varsity system in the coming years. Such integration will benefit students in getting standardised, updated and epistemologically globalised knowledge. The Academic Bank of Credit is a move towards the internationalisation of our higher education system and making our institutions more global. European credit transfer and accumulation system suggests that it has made European higher education more transparent and helped students move between countries and have their academic qualifications and study periods recognised by institutions abroad. Similarly, the South Korean academic credit bank system claims that it allows students to earn a degree by combining different sources. It is helpful for a student deterred from finishing by the difficulty in registering in a new institution with the risk of needing to repeat classes. We can learn similar experiences from Canadian and American institutions. So, in a global environment where nations are moving closer for knowledge sharing and innovation, India cannot remain isolated by following a rigid system of granting degrees. Through its clauses, the ABC regulation can standardise our higher education up to the international level if institutions choose to join.  However, like previous regulations of the UGC, the ABC has its pros and cons. As only the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) graded institutions are mandated to join the Academic Bank of Credit, it will further create a hierarchy between institutions. Merely the top few hundred institutions are in this scheme, for now, so it may push the already remote institutions to become more marginalised. Hopefully, trickle-down may work, and the left out institutions will also participate eventually in the ABC.  How state and central institutions will join together is an issue that needs addressing since different political parties of opposite political persuasions run the state governments. For example, how would Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal's institutions join together if the two states do not restructure their educational policies? Despite the flexibility, 50 per cent of credit is to be earned from the registering institutions. The restriction will be a hindrance as it is up to the institution to join the ABC or not. If premier institutions, like the Delhi University or Jawaharlal Nehru University, do not participate due to their size and structure, the ABC may fail to achieve its objectives.  Critics have argued that we are paving the road for the entry of foreign universities into our higher education system. They contend the Academic Bank of Credit is part of the larger design to promote privatisation of higher education and online education to reduce the government's expenditure on public-funded liberal education. However, critics should further study the ABC. It can potentially be a game-changer in the Indian higher education system, which is lagging in terms of quality, accessibility, affordability, and equity compared to many developed and developing countries. (The writer teaches political science at Zakir Husain College, Delhi University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/academic-bank-of-credit-a-panacea-for-the-higher-education-system-1016082.html
04-08-2021||Opinion||How Afghan women are resisting Taliban||Despite the recent attacks on Kandahar airport, threats of the Taliban offensive, fear of kidnapping and murder, ordinary women and men in Afghanistan continue to fight and pursue their educational and professional journey. In some areas controlled by the Taliban, such as Kandahar, Ghor, Kunduz and Gazni, restrictions have been imposed on women, including their education, movement, clothing and veil. But even in such unfavourable circumstances, many Afghan women are fighting back against these constraints and the Taliban. They want to fight rather than surrender. A group of women from the Ghor province have started learning to handle firearms. These women came out on the streets with assault rifles and shared their photographs on social media. The intensity of violence in the area has increased. And women are preparing themselves to fight against attackers and support their family members. In the male-dominated Afghan society, it would be humiliating for the Taliban commanders to be facing women in a battleground. However, series of attacks have been done on women earlier. The US and NATO forces plan to leave the country by the end of August 2021. Herat airport, which was under the control of the defence forces of Italy, has already been handed over to the national security personnel. The departure of the western military has created a vacuum, leading to both the Taliban and the government forces keen to have the upper hand. The Taliban claims to have captured new territories, while the spokesperson for the government forces, General Ajmal Omar Shinwari, has threatened a push back to the Taliban. He mentioned an edge for the security forces as they eliminated 1500 Taliban fighters in the third week of July. Yet, the incidence of violence has not come down. Thousands of families have left their villages and taken refuge in the cities to escape any brutality. The Taliban has warned media groups that they will not tolerate the broadcast of any government advertisements against them. Several media groups, journalists, and artists have faced attacks and torture. Women journalists have been under constant threat. In June 2021, a famous anchor of TV channel Ariana news, Mina Kahiri, was killed by an improvised explosive device while commuting in her vehicle. In 2019, Meena Mangal, a former female TV journalist and cultural advisor, was shot dead in broad daylight in Kabul when she was waiting to get a taxi. Danish Siddiqui, an Indian journalist reporting in Kandahar, was shot dead by Taliban fighters on July 16. A few days later, a famous comedian from Kandahar, Nazar Mohammed, was also killed. He was tied to a tree and strangled to death. The Taliban have denied the killing of Nazar Mohammed, but his family blames the Taliban. According to the Journalists Protection Committee, more than forty media establishments were closed in Afghanistan in 2019-2020 due to continued violence. Seventeen media personnel were murdered here in 2018, and five cases of journalists' murders were registered in 2019. Last year a teenage girl, Qamar Gul, from the Ghor province made the news when her parents were shot dead by Taliban fighters. Sixteen-year-old Qamar Gul and her twelve-year-old brother Habibullah battled and killed three Taliban attackers. Bibi Ayesha Habibi, known popularly as Commander Kaftar, was part of the Northern Alliance, is a known name in Afghanistan. She fought with the Russian forces in the 1980s and with the Taliban in the 1990s. When ninety per cent of Afghanistan fell under the Taliban, she led a team of fighters. The Taliban fighters attacked twice but could not capture her village in Baghlan. Salima Mazari, a district governor from Balkh, is also known for fighting the Taliban. Afghanistan has a long list of brave women, and now many girls are adding their names to the list. The Taliban wants to control Afghanistan using the language of war. Their stand on women has not changed in the last two decades. But conservative rules are unwelcome in many provinces. Girls do participate in sports and cycling. In some places, women are not expected to cover their entire face and traditionally wear only headscarves. They work in the fields and manage animals. The Taliban has asked girls not to attend classes, closed down girls' schools, ordered women not to leave their homes without a male guardian (mahram), and even banned women from gathering for weddings. In their areas of influence, Taliban members are conducting house-to-house searches for those who have worked in the government of Afghanistan, the police, the media, and western companies. Millions are migrating from rural areas to cities and taking shelter in temporary refugee camps. Common Afghanis are building solidarity with the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces and warlords opposing the Taliban. However, ultimately it is women who will face the brunt of this war most grievously. (The writer is an expert on education in conflict zones and has worked in Afghanistan)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-afghan-women-are-resisting-taliban-1016140.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||Restore mangroves to save Sundarbans||Recent cyclones — Yaas, Amphan, Bulbul and Aila — have devastated and displaced millions of marginalised people in the Sundarbans. Climate change is increasing the frequency as well as the intensity of the cyclones that impact the Indo-gangetic delta. Mangroves, a special group of plants that can survive in salty soil and tides, act as an effective barrier against such disasters by protecting the earthen banks as well as reducing the damage. Restoration of native mangrove species needs to be prioritised to save the Sundarbans. Mangroves proliferate in many coastal regions. Indonesia has the largest mangrove cover scattered across its islands. The Indo-Gangetic delta houses the world’s largest contiguous mangrove forest — the Sundarbans. The Sundarban mangrove ecosystem is shared between Bangladesh (60%) and India (40%). The Indian part of the Sundarbans is also inhabited by 96 tigers. The history of conservation in the Sundarbans can be traced from the Mughal period (1526–1765) to British colonial rule (1765–1947). Mangrove forests have often been considered a hindrance to human settlement and have been indiscriminately cleared to facilitate agriculture.  After independence in 1947, various laws and policies have been implemented to conserve this habitat. The Sunderbans were turned into a tiger reserve in 1973 under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The core area of 1,700 square kilometre was designated a National Park on May 4, 1984. The Indian Sundarbas received international recognition as a World Heritage Site in 1987. Nationally, it was designated a biosphere reserve in 1989. In February 2019, the Sunderbans became the largest wetland site in India.  English Lord Daniel Hamilton established the ‘Gosaba’ cooperative model around 1903.  This colonial scheme initiated mangrove deforestation in India’s islands. Currently, 54 out of 102 islands are colonised by humans without any trace of mangrove forests. This makes these islands vulnerable to floods and the breaching of earthen river banks during natural disasters. These islands are under constant pressure of erosion that also destabilises the earthen dams.  The recent cyclones have devastated large tracts of land by breaching unstable embankments. Concrete dams can be a temporary solution but are costly, ecologically unfriendly and unsustainable. Erosion can wash away the underlying soil and breach any concrete structure. Mangrove seeds that float in with tides cannot establish themselves in concrete-covered banks, making the natural regeneration of mangroves almost impossible. Mangroves are the only natural solution to this issue. Restoring mangrove vegetation can stabilise banks, attenuate wave pressure and hinder the wind damage during cyclones. Mangroves have been proven to be the best ecosystem-based disaster risk-reduction model across the globe. A study indicates that a density of 30 mangrove trees per 100 square metre can reduce the flow of a tsunami wave up to 90%.  When Cyclone Bulbul hit in 2019, Sundarban mangroves reduced the wind speeds by 20 kilometre per hour. And during Amphan super cyclone, a 10 year old multispecies mangrove plantation saved a part of Satjelia Island in the Indian Sundarbans from intense flooding and wind damage. Restoration ecologists must be careful to use only the locally available species for mangrove restoration. Exotic, invasive species can replace the local flora and result in an ecological disaster. Mangroves are known to render other ecological services such as increasing the fish catch and serve as breeding ground for fish, prawns and crabs. Fishing is the second most important livelihood of the economically marginalised communities living in the Indian Sundarbans.  Scientists have indicated that after oceans, mangrove and sea grasses are the best carbon sink. Hence, mangrove plantation can be instrumental in sequestering GHG gases and halting the progress of harsh climate change impacts. Restoration of mangroves is the only option to save the 4.6 million people residing in the Indian Sundarbans from natural disasters. Natural methods are sustainable, eco-friendly as well as economically viable over technological alternatives. Policy makers must prioritise mangrove restoration to cope with the impending climate change crisis.  (Chowdhury is associate professor and Rosencranz is the Dean at Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/restore-mangroves-to-save-sundarbans-1015948.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||Climate change: Extreme events are getting more frequent, intense||The one issue that has continued to dominate global headlines in the recent weeks, apart from Covid-19, is the series of extreme weather events, such as extreme heat, forest fires, floods, storms and drought events in different parts of the world. Scientists have been warning of the increasing frequency and intensity of extreme weather events due to climate change, but perhaps even they never expected that records would be broken so soon. In fact, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has concluded that there’s about a 40% chance of the annual average global temperature temporarily reaching the dangerous threshold of 1.5 deg C above the pre-industrial level in at least one of the next five years – and these odds are increasing with time. The Paris Agreement has set a target of stabilising global mean warming below the dangerous threshold of 1.5-2 deg C. The global mean warming level has already touched 1.2 deg C, compared to a century ago. First, extreme flooding events have occurred in 2021 in different parts of Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Assam, etc., in India; in China, where recently a whole city of 10 million was completely under water; in Germany, Belgium, France, etc., in western Europe; in Colorado, New Mexico, etc., in the US, where record rainfall occurred over short periods. According to the WMO, monsoon rains led to massive flooding, dam collapses, landslides, and displacement of millions of people in Bangladesh, China, India, Japan, Pakistan, Nepal, South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam in 2020. In India, in 2019, nearly 2,000 died and 1.8 million were displaced by floods. In Karnataka, the flood-causing events have become a regular feature in recent years: 2018, 2019 and 2020. In Karnataka, during 2019, crop damage occurred in 9.7 lakh ha, with an estimated loss of Rs 15,230 crore. Similarly, in 2020, over four lakh ha of crops were damaged, with a loss of Rs 5,000 crore. According to climate change projections made at the Indian Institute of Science, a majority of districts in Karnataka and across India are projected to experience increased rainfall (10-25%) and, more importantly, increased frequency of high intensity rainfall events leading to floods, even by the mid-2030s. But the extreme events which scientists expected in the later decades of the century are already occurring. Second, according to the WMO, the global mean temperature in 2020 was the second warmest on record. The past six years, including 2020, are likely to have been the six warmest years on record. Heat stress has already been recorded in many parts of the world, even in unexpected regions such as Canada, the north-western parts of the US, Siberia and Europe. In the Death Valley of California, the temperature reached 55 deg C. Lytton, a town in Canada, touched 49.6 deg C, compared to a July average of 28 deg C, and the whole town was engulfed in fires. Hundreds have died in rich countries and in India this year already. In Siberia, known as the frozen land, during mid-2020, the temperature was 18 deg C higher than normal. This year also, the temperatures in the Russian Arctic hit an unprecedented 48 deg С. According to International Labour Organisation estimates, the economic losses due to heat stress at work are projected to be over $2.4 trillion by 2030, being most pronounced in lower and middle-income countries. According to a study by Rutgers University, some 1.2 billion people could be impacted by heat stress at 3 deg C global warming, particularly in the poorer countries. Third, forest fires are raging already this year. In the US, over four million hectares of forests have been burned annually in three out of the last five years. Siberia, known as one of the coldest regions in the world, has been experiencing extreme high temperatures, leading to the burning of 1.5 million ha of forests. In Australia, in 2019, over 11 million ha of forests were burnt, leading to death or displacement of nearly three billion animals, including 143 million mammals, 2.46 billion reptiles, 180 million birds and 51 million frogs, according to a study by the WWF. This is one of the worst wildlife disasters, driven by high temperatures and drought caused by climate change. Every country from Canada to western Europe to Siberia to Australia has experienced regular extreme forest fires in the past 5-10 years, leading to loss of human life, property, wildlife and biodiversity. Fourth, storms, cyclones and hurricanes have all occurred across the world. With increasing frequency of hurricanes, the WMO concluded that the hurricane season exhausted the regular list of names for each one of them. The North Atlantic hurricane season had its largest number of named storms — 30 — on record in 2020, with a record number making landfall in the US. India also had its share of storms and cyclones, such as cyclones Amphan, Nisarga, Nivar, Gati and Burevi, with Amphan turning out to be a ‘super cyclonic storm’. In 2019, India had eight cyclones of which six turned were ‘severe cyclones.’ One can add many other climate-related extremes: droughts, sea-level rise, locust swarms, ocean warming, Arctic and Greenland ice-sheet loss, Himalayan glacial ice melt (a quarter of ice lost in 40 years), landslides, crop pest incidence, etc. All have accelerated in recent years and are projected to be more severe in the coming decades due to climate change. According to Germanwatch, which ranked countries on Climate Risk Index-2021, India ranked seventh in the world. The top 6 included small countries such as the Bahamas, Malawi, Zimbabwe and Afghanistan. Thus, India is one of the most vulnerable major countries to climate-related risks and extremes. The adverse impacts of climate change-related extremes are already being felt by billions around the world. These will only increase in the coming years and decades, unless all governments make fundamental or transformational changes to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 deg C, which seems highly unlikely. (The writer is a former professor, IISC, Bengaluru, and a climate change expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/climate-change-extreme-events-are-getting-more-frequent-intense-1015949.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||What if highways were electric? Germany is testing the idea||On a highway south of Frankfurt recently, Thomas Schmieder manoeuvred his Scania tractor-trailer and its load of house paint into the far right lane. Then he flicked a switch you won’t find on most truck dashboards. Outside the cab a contraption started to unfold from the roof, looking like a clothes-drying rack with an upside-down sled welded to the top. As Schmieder continued driving, a video display showed the metal skids rising up and pushing gently against wires running overhead. The cab became very quiet as the diesel engine cut out and electric motors took over. The truck was still a truck, but now it was powered like many trains or street cars. There’s a debate over how to make the trucking industry free of emissions, and whether batteries or hydrogen fuel cells are the best way to fire up electric motors in big vehicles. Schmieder was part of a test of a third alternative: A system that feeds electricity to trucks as they drive, using wires strung above the roadway and a pantograph mounted on the cab. At one level the idea makes perfect sense. The system is energy efficient because it delivers power directly from the electrical grid to the motors. The technology saves weight and money because batteries tend to be heavy and expensive, and a truck using overhead wires needs only a big enough battery to get from the off-ramp to its final destination. And the system is relatively simple. Siemens, the German electronics giant that provided the hardware for this test route, adapted equipment that has been used for decades to drive trains and urban street cars. At another level the idea is insane. Who’s going to pay to string thousands of miles of high voltage electrical cable above the world’s major highways? Figuring out how to make trucks emissions free is a crucial part of the fight against climate change and dirty air. Long-haul diesel trucks produce a disproportionate share of greenhouse gases and other pollutants because they spend so much time on the road. But the industry is divided. Daimler and Volvo, the world’s two biggest truck makers, are betting on hydrogen fuel cells for long-haul rigs. They argue that the heavy batteries needed to provide acceptable range are impractical for trucks because they subtract too much capacity from payload. Traton, the company that owns truck makers Scania, MAN and Navistar, argues that hydrogen is too expensive and inefficient, because of the energy needed to produce it. Traton, majority owned by Volkswagen, is betting on ever-improving batteries — and on electrified highways. Traton is among the backers of the so-called eHighway south of Frankfurt, a group that also includes Siemens and Autobahn GmbH, the government agency that oversees German highways. There are also short segments of electrified road in the states of Schleswig-Holstein and Baden-Württemberg. The technology has been tried in Sweden and, in 2017, on a one-mile stretch near the Port of Los Angeles. So far the sections of highway equipped with overhead cable in Germany are short — about three miles long in both directions near Frankfurt. Their purpose is to test how the system performs in everyday use by real trucking companies hauling real goods. By the end of the year more than 20 trucks will be using the systems in Germany. Enter Schmieder, who learned to drive a truck in the German army, and his employer, a trucking firm called Schanz Spedition in the small town of Ober-Ramstadt, in a hilly, thickly forested region about a 35-mile drive from Frankfurt. If the eHighway is ever going to be rolled out on a large scale, it has to work for companies like Schanz, a family-owned firm managed by Christine Hemmel and Kerstin Seibert, sisters who are great-granddaughters of the founder. Their father, Hans Adam Schanz, though technically retired, was at the wheel of a forklift maneuvering pallets into the back of a truck recently as Mr Schmieder climbed into the cab for his second run of the day hauling paint to a distribution center in Frankfurt. Business is brisk, Schmieder said, because lockdowns have prompted a home-improvement craze and fueled demand for paint manufactured at a factory next door to Schanz’s headquarters. Schmieder makes the same run up to five times a day. That’s the kind of route that the eHighway’s backers’ see as ideal. Hasso Grünjes, who oversees Siemens’ involvement in the project, said it would make sense to first electrify heavily traveled routes, such as the one between the Dutch port of Rotterdam and Duisburg, in Germany’s industrial heartland; or the highway connecting the German ports of Hamburg and Lübeck. Large numbers of trucks do nothing but drive back and forth between those destinations, Grünjes said. Trucking companies that use the routes would save money on fuel, their biggest cost, and easily justify the investment in trucks with rooftop pantographs. Longer term, according to Siemens figures, 4,000 kilometer of wired highway would accommodate 60% of German truck traffic. Siemens said on Thursday that it would cooperate with the German auto parts supplier Continental to mass produce the pantographs. But the onus would be on the German government to build the overhead cables, which cost an estimated 2.5 million euros per kilometre, or about $5 million per mile. Germany’s Ministry for Environment, which is funding the three electrified highways in Germany, is comparing the results with studies of trucks using hydrogen fuel cells and trucks using batteries. In three or four years, the ministry said in a statement, a decision will be made what technology to support. “Numerous studies have come to the conclusion that overhead cable trucks, despite the high infrastructure costs, are the most cost-effective option,” the ministry said. But, responding to questions from The New York Times, the ministry noted that batteries are getting cheaper and better all the time, and charging times are dropping. “In the final analysis the total cost of infrastructure, vehicles and energy will decide what technology or combination of technologies prevails,” the ministry said. The government is being cautious because of the risk that taxpayers would pay for electrified highways only for the technology to be shunned by the trucking industry or rendered obsolete by something else. “In theory it’s the best idea,” said Geert De Cock, an electricity and energy specialist at Transport & Environment, an advocacy group in Brussels. But he said the political obstacles, for example getting European governments to agree on technical standards, are too daunting. “It’s a coordination issue more than a technology issue,” De Cock said. “We don’t support it because we don’t think it’s going to happen.” Schmieder applied for a job at Schanz in 2019, when the test project was getting started, so he could be part of it. “I’m always very interested in electromobility and where it’s going,” he said, as he steered the Scania through a narrow valley that leads from Schanz headquarters to the A5 highway. Soon after Schmieder drove up a ramp onto the A5, the pylons supporting the overhead cables of the eHighway came into view. Inside the cab, the transition was barely perceptible as Schmieder deployed the pantograph that connects to the overhead cables, a so-called catenary system. The cables also recharged the Scania’s battery, which stores enough power to drive short distances emission-free in urban traffic. That is another advantage of the catenary system: The eHighway could eliminate the need for charging stops, important in the trucking industry where time is money. Schmieder rested his hands lightly on the steering wheel as autonomous driving software held the truck directly under the cables. He and other drivers underwent a one-day training program to learn how to use the system and deal with problems, such as an accident blocking the lane ahead. That has happened to Schmieder, he said. He simply steered out from under the overhead cables into another lane using the truck’s diesel engine. There have been occasional technical glitches. A few times sensors have failed. “But big problems? No,” Schmieder said. Technology, pretty much everyone agrees, is not the biggest obstacle to a global network of electric roads. “We’ve shown it can be built,” Grünjes said. “The question now is how to build on a larger scale.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-if-highways-were-electric-germany-is-testing-the-idea-1015955.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||Precarity of migrant workers||The recent Supreme Court directive to the Centre to register all unorganised, migrant workers, and provide them with food during the pandemic, needs to be lauded. This might be a time, however, when we could reflect on the question: Why does a pandemic make the life of a migrant worker unsustainable in the city?   In a context where manufacturing jobs have declined, as in India, agrarian distress-led migrants have crowded into the construction sector, and partially, in low-end services. Employment in the construction sector as a percentage of the total non-agricultural employment is 20.3% (according to the last census in 2011).  While a skilled construction worker makes a decent urban living, a large number is unskilled, whose wages can be as low as Rs 200-250 per day, who do not get work every day of the week, live in fragile, informal settlements in the city’s outskirts, or on construction sites. They lack voter cards, ration cards, schools and healthcare services. In a harsh and alien urban world, where low-earning migrants are constantly at the sharp edge of falling through the cracks (illness, occupational accidents and death), they regularly return to the village, to supplement their earnings during harvests, to take care of families left behind. The dismal quality of available urban work defines the life cycle of the typical circular migrant.      The reach of welfare or protective legislation to migrant communities has remained extremely low. In 2013, a Public Interest Litigation revealed that 15 private construction companies, associated with the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation, had employed migrants without obtaining the necessary registration under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen’s Act, and highlighted poor working conditions at Bengaluru’s metro construction sites. In Karnataka several NGOs have brought to light that a whopping Rs 8,000 crore remains collected in the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (as cess from construction projects) under the Labour Department, but so far has not been used for migrant construction workers. Less than 10% of the construction workforce in Karnataka is even registered. In a case study of construction workers in the NCR region, conducted by well-known migration scholar Ravi Srivastava in 2014, 99% recorded that they were not aware of any of the regulatory laws applicable to workers in this sector. Estimates based on computation from the NSS 68th Round for 2011-12 showed that 96.8% of paid employees in construction did not have any written contract and 97.8% did not have any kind of social security.    The unregulated nature of employment in the construction industry manifested in the vulnerabilities of its vast migrant workforce during the pandemic. Several other traditional labour-intensive industries like powerlooms in Maharashtra which employs a large number of migrants from UP and Bihar and the artificial silk industry in Surat which employing workers from Odisha, also saw massive reverse migration of workers, and their eventual return to cities, only to face the second wave and the need to revert back to their villages. A study of migrant workers from the states of Bihar, UP, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Orissa revealed that of those who had returned to their villages during the first lockdown, 64% re-migrated in search of work.  When the second wave and the subsequent lockdowns began, thousands lost work once more, and had hardly had any time to make any savings. Thus began the second round of reverse migration.  For migrant workers, the village, then, can offer only a temporary retreat, not livelihoods; and the city is indeed a place of subsistence earnings, not of a stable income and life. This dual precarity starkly highlights the failure of India’s currently pursued model of urbanisation. The work available in cities is marked by unregulated wages, absence of tenurial security and employment-related benefits.   As thousands flowed between cities and villages, there was a rush to donate, distribute food and rations, to help migrants return to their villages and now, finally, the apex court’s directive to the government to provide food to migrant workers. These endeavours reflect a broader social conscience responding to a crisis. However, if the public response is going to be more than momentary and episodic, it would be necessary to recognise that migrant distress in the pandemic is only an extreme form of the economic marginality which marks their lives in normal times. (The writer is a visiting professor Urban and Mobility Studies Program, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/precarity-of-migrant-workers-1016317.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||As AAP bites into Congress’ vote pie, it’s bliss for Goa BJP||If a public debate between politicians were a substitute for the measure of electoral success, the Aam Aadmi Party would have had its nose ahead in the race for the 2022 Goa Assembly polls. The BJP would come a close second, and the Congress party would not even appear on the margins of the contest. This week’s public debate between Delhi Power Minister Satyendra Jain and his Goa counterpart Nilesh Cabral over the merits of power tariffs implemented in their respective states was inadvertently wired in favour of the Arvind Kejriwal-led party. Jain was defending AAP’s poll promise to Goan voters to provide for free 300 units of electricity to domestic consumers, if the party was voted to power. On the other hand, Cabral was defending an unenviable position, which included a chequered power billing system that has resulted in inconsistent, inflated power billing and a surge in recurring power cuts in monsoon-hit Goa. Jain appeared to have his nose ahead in the debate, and while Cabral stood his ground well, the construct of the debate appeared to be loaded against him. But irrespective of the blows traded during the AAP-BJP debate, the high-profile exercise may have driven home one conclusive point: the political irrelevance of the Congress party, which had dominated state politics for decades leading into the 2010s. The travails of the Congress in Goa mirror the chaos in the northern state of Punjab, where the party’s lacklustre attempt to drive home a formula of compromise between its top leaders has sapped its cadre of confidence and energy, especially in a state where polls are just a few months away. Assembly polls in Goa are also scheduled to be held in early 2022. State Congress president Girish Chodankar, whose leadership has been challenged by party veterans like former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha and several other Congress leaders has, for now, been allowed to continue in the top slot after a meeting with Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi in the national capital last week in the presence of All-India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao. At the most, the Congress’ ‘compromise’ arrangement in Goa is akin to trying to put together a complex fracture with a band-aid strip! And the dissonance at the top appears to be telling. The party appears to have lost early ground in the run up to the polls, a gap that is being filled by the Aam Aadmi Party. The 2022 Assembly poll isn’t AAP’s first election campaign in the coastal state. Ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, Kejriwal had tried to engineer confusion by claiming that the party would win 35-40 Assembly seats – nearly all in the 40-member Assembly, as it has done in Delhi. Eventually, the party failed to win a single seat, with its candidates losing their deposits in most constituencies. But the party did manage to make inroads into the Congress’ core Christian-dominated constituencies, especially in South Goa. The AAP has come some way since 2017, especially when it comes to beating the Congress in the social media and visibility game, while also winning its first electoral contest, a Zilla Panchayat seat. The steady stream of defections of its MLAs— 13 Congress MLAs, many of them Catholic, have joined the BJP since 2017 — has also triggered a wave of dissent amongst the party’s traditional vote-bank, which now seems to be warming up to the roll of Kejriwal’s war drums. The rise in the relevance of the AAP in Goa’s politics also stands to benefit the ruling BJP, which is well aware that a split in the Christian vote -- Christians account for 26% of the state’s population — between the Congress and the AAP, would ease its way out of the hole, which the party has dug itself into. While the BJP holds an overwhelming majority— 28 BJP MLAs and the support of one independent — in the 40-member state legislative Assembly, the party has drawn severe criticism over its shoddy handling of the Covid crisis, which has led to the loss of over 3,100 lives in the state. Open defiance by ambitious cabinet colleagues like Vishwajit Rane and Michael Lobo is just one worry which Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has had to deal with. He is also facing significant resistance from acolytes — within and outside the BJP — of former chief minister, the late Manohar Parrikar, nearly all of whom are Brahmins. Sawant is a Maratha, and his nomination to the top chair as Parrikar’s successor has rankled Parrikar’s coterie as well the late politician’s Brahmin clique. Sawant also faces a challenge from one of the tallest local party leaders, Union Minister of State for Shipping Shripad Naik, a popular OBC leader. Naik has been sniffing for an opportunity to return to state politics, especially now that the sun has set on the era of his peer — and bête noire in many ways— Manohar Parrikar. The BJP’s electoral fortunes will also be determined by whether it manages to engineer an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, a regional party with a Hindu conservative appeal. Failure to tie up with the MGP had led to a crushing poll defeat in 2017, despite the fact that Parrikar, who died in 2019 , was orchestrating the poll campaign from his mighty perch as Defence Minister of India. The BJP seat tally dropped to 13 seats then, before the internal squabbles within the Congress leadership gave the saffron party leaders enough time to cobble together a coalition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-aap-bites-into-congress-vote-pie-it-s-bliss-for-goa-bjp-1016321.html
04-08-2021||Panorama||Iraq reclaims 17,000 looted artifacts, its biggest-ever repatriation||When the Iraqi prime minister’s plane touched down in Baghdad last week after an official visit to the United States, its cargo included 17,000 archaeological artifacts returned by a prominent museum and an Ivy League university in the largest-ever repatriation of looted Iraqi antiquities. On Tuesday, plywood crates holding the thousands of clay tablets and seals — pieces from Mesopotamia, site of the world’s earliest civilizations — were stacked next to a table displaying a few of the artifacts as the Iraqi Culture Ministry took custody of the cultural treasures. The repatriation of so many objects rounds out a remarkable chapter in the story of a country so ravaged by decades of conflict and war that its very history was pulled out of the ground by antiquities thieves and sold abroad, ending up on display in other countries’ museums. And it is a victory in a global effort by countries to press Western institutions to return culturally vital artifacts, like the push to repatriate the famed Benin Bronzes to Nigeria. “This is not just about thousands of tablets coming back to Iraq again — it is about the Iraqi people,” Hassan Nadhem, the Iraqi minister of Culture, Tourism and Antiquities, said in a telephone interview. “It restores not just the tablets, but the confidence of the Iraqi people by enhancing and supporting the Iraqi identity in these difficult times.” The institution that held about 12,000 of the items was the Museum of the Bible, a 4-year-old Washington museum founded and funded by the Christian evangelical family that owns the Hobby Lobby craft store chain. The addition of artifacts from ancient Mesopotamia was intended to provide context for Old Testament events. Four years ago, the US Department of Justice fined Hobby Lobby $3 million for failing to exercise due diligence in its acquisitions of more than 5,000 artifacts; some of those artifacts were among those returned last week to Iraq. Hobby Lobby agreed as part of the government lawsuit to tighten its acquisition procedures, and the museum found thousands more suspect artifacts after it later initiated a voluntary review of its collection. More than 5,000 of the other pieces returned last week had been held by Cornell University. That collection from a previously unknown Sumerian city of Garsana was donated to the university in 2000 by an American collector. Partly because the city was unknown, it was widely suspected by archaeologists to have come from a looted archaeological site in the south of Iraq. The holdings underline a thriving market in stolen antiquities and highlight the plight of countries like Iraq, which has been subjected to three decades of antiquities looting. When government forces lost control of parts of southern Iraq in 1991, in the aftermath of the Gulf War, widespread looting occurred at unexcavated sites. And the industrial-scale thefts continued amid a security vacuum after the 2003 US-led invasion. Many of the returned clay tablets and seals are from Irisagrig, a lost ancient city. The city’s existence became known only when tablets mentioning it were seized at the Jordanian border in 2003, while thousands more surfaced in international antiquities markets. Southern Iraq, part of ancient Mesopotamia, contains thousands of unexcavated archaeological sites between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers where the world’s first known civilizations began. Babylon and Ur, the reputed birthplace of the Prophet Abraham, flourished there, and it is where writing, astronomy and the first known code of law originated. Hobby Lobby’s batch of repatriated objects does not include what had been the best-known of its holdings from Mesopotamia: A clay tablet fragment roughly 3,500 years old inscribed with a fragment of the Gilgamesh epic, an ancient saga mentioning the Great Flood and the Garden of Eden that predates the Old Testament by many centuries. The Justice Department, which describes it as “stolen Iraqi property,” seized the tablet in 2019. It is the only Hobby Lobby artifact among those being returned to Iraq to have been exhibited in the Museum of the Bible. Hobby Lobby’s president, Steve Green, has said that he knew nothing about collecting when he started the museum and that he had been misled by unscrupulous dealers. Some of the artifacts were bought in lots of up to 2,000 pieces with what the museum’s current director has described as paperwork so vague that the museum did not know what it was getting. Because most of the objects bought for the museum were not studied, they remain a mystery. The sole artifact that it has kept from the collection, a cuneiform-inscribed brick from a temple in Nebuchadnezzar’s period, has a clear provenance. The museum says that export papers from the family that donated it show that it was legally taken from Iraq to the United States in the 1920s. But the artifacts returned by Cornell have been widely studied by scholars who published their findings. Many archaeologists criticise any research into potentially looted items, saying it not only deprives the countries of origin of the opportunity to study the objects themselves, but also helps fuel the trade in looted antiquities by raising black-market prices for similar items. “We missed this great opportunity to study our tablets, our heritage,” said Nadhem, the Culture minister, who said that Cornell had not consulted Iraq on its research of the tablets. “This is a kind of bitterness in our mouth.” Cornell, which has revealed little about the return of its collection, said that it had repatriated 5,381 clay tablets to Iraq. In 2013, the US Justice Department urged the university to give back thousands of ancient tablets believed to have been looted from the country in the 1990s, according to the Los Angeles Times. Asked about the returned artifacts, Cornell provided a statement thanking the Iraqi government “for their partnership as we continued the crucial work of preserving these important artifacts for future generations to study.” It also said it had published studies about the tablets for “the cultural benefits of the Republic of Iraq.” The returned Hobby Lobby artifacts include thousands of pieces seized by the US government in 2011, which became the basis of the Justice Department fine against the company. They included cuneiform tablets, ancient cylinder seals and clay seal impressions known as bullae. Most of the shipments, according to the Justice Department, had been marked Turkish “ceramic tiles” and shipped to Hobby Lobby and two corporate affiliates from dealers in the United Arab Emirates. Others from Israel falsely declared Israel as their country of origin. The Museum of the Bible counted more than 8,000 others when it began reviewing the provenance of every item in its collection in an effort to emerge from scandals resulting from the Hobby Lobby acquisitions. The museum’s highest-profile acquisitions, purported fragments of the Dead Sea Scrolls, turned out to be forgeries. When it became clear shortly after the museum opened that it could not verify the provenance of the Mesopotamia artifacts, it packed them up to be returned. “In a large measure, the contents are pretty much unknown,” said Jeffrey Kloha, the museum’s director of collections, who joined after the pieces were acquired. He has previously said that more than 5% of the artifacts bought by Hobby Lobby that were said to be from ancient Mesopotamia are fake. Patty Gerstenblith, director of the Center for Art, Museum and Cultural Heritage Law at DePaul University in Chicago, said that because the importance of the returned Iraqi artifacts was unknown, it was difficult to assess the repatriation in archaeological terms. But she said the move had symbolic value. “I think the fact that the museum proactively went through and said, ‘OK, we really can’t establish where this stuff came from,’ that was also an important step,” she said. “Other museums should do the same thing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/iraq-reclaims-17000-looted-artifacts-its-biggest-ever-repatriation-1016322.html
04-08-2021||Right in the Middle||The incomparable Jane Austen||It speaks to the universality of human experience and the wisdom of Jane Austen, that what was true for an 18th century English rural town remains true in a 21st century Indian urban hub. As she stated, we are, indeed, a sport for our neighbours and they for us. While Austen had her stately homes, balls and picnics, we have a worthy successor in the form of WhatsApp which provides the characters that inhabit our lives, a canvas to flaunt their zaniness.  To rival the Dashwoods and Bennets, I have my networks of family and friends grouped by the age, stage or origin of our association and a posse of service providers to cover every real and imagined requirement — butchers, bakers, all sorts of makers, boutiques and book clubs plus the innumerable mommy groups a modern mother feels obligated to join. Austen could, with panache, transform a scene of bored lounging into one of heightened emotions. Something similar happens, usually on a lazy Sunday morning, when some good soul will, without any prior warning, launch a high speed volley via a terse, often misspelt, unpunctuated message. In under a minute, a pitched battle would have broken out, transmuting from a singles match to a team sport with a few random comments thrown in from brave spectators. WhatsApp lends itself so beautifully to misunderstandings that I’m inclined to renaming some of my groups— P&P-ii; -iii etc.  The intensity of sentiments on display and the ferocity and swiftness of the responses brings to mind Darcy and Elizabeth; albeit the present day counterparts usually lack their wit and good looks. A peek into my family groups would reveal a milieu that mirrors Austenian society with worried mamas, disapproving uncles, matchmaking aunts, exasperating siblings and over enthusiastic cousins. Who better than her to trust as a guide, friend and philosopher when navigating such a maze?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-incomparable-jane-austen-1016310.html
04-08-2021||Second Edit||Failure of talks with China ominous||On the face of it, talks between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to de-escalate tensions along the LAC in eastern Ladakh seem to be progressing. A statement issued at the end of the 12th round of talks said it was “constructive,” enabled a “candid and in-depth exchange” of views and “further enhanced mutual understanding.” The two sides had agreed to resolve the remaining issues in an expeditious manner, in accordance with existing agreements and protocols, and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations. That a joint statement was issued is itself a step forward; the 11th round in April ended without one. However, there is little concrete to report on the ground. This is disappointing as 12 rounds of talks have taken place so far. In the run-up to the latest round, there were expectations that the two sides would reach an agreement on troop disengagement from Gogra and Hot Springs since the conflict here is relatively simpler and involves a smaller number of troops on both sides. However, no agreement was reached even over this “low-hanging fruit.”   Even more worrying is the stalemate over the Depsang Plains. Located close to India’s Daulat Beg Oldi post and the Karakoram Pass, Depsang is strategic territory. The airstrip at DBO is vital for India’s defence of the Siachen Glacier as it is from here that India lifts essential supplies to the glacier. Not only has the PLA been preventing Indian teams from patrolling here but also, it has stubbornly refused to discuss disengagement at Depsang. This leaves space for escalation of tensions here again. Earlier this year, India pulled back from the heights of Kailash Range, which it had captured in August last year. This was to seal a narrow deal with the PLA for disengagement at Pangong Tso. Questions were then raised as to why the government surrendered its sole bargaining chip so early in the talks with the Chinese. China’s reluctance to make similar compromises now to enable agreements over Gogra-Hot Springs and Depsang confirm that India blundered badly by disengaging from the Kailash heights and giving in to the Chinese. Compromise is important to reach negotiated settlements but compromises that surrender too much and too early is hardly a smart strategy. If the Modi government’s denial of Chinese occupation of Indian territory laid the foundation for India’s weak hand at the talks with China, the surrender of the Kailash heights haunts its efforts to reach a settlement with the PLA. India cannot afford such costly blunders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/failure-of-talks-with-china-ominous-1015957.html
04-08-2021||Second Edit||A ban on begging is no solution||The Supreme Court has rightly refused to ban begging or to look at it as an individual aberration or a crime that needs to be tackled by law. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah observed that it is a socio-economic problem and that people are forced to beg to eke out their livelihood due to the lack of education and jobs. The court said it would not take an “elitist view’’ reflected in a petition that sought removal of beggars from public places as they could spread Covid to road-users. Noting that people resort to begging not out of choice but due to poverty and deprivation, the court wanted to link it to the government’s social welfare policy. Conceding the need to vaccinate them, the court issued notices to the central and Delhi governments, answerable within a fortnight with a mention of the steps taken to rehabilitate them. The court’s view is in line with earlier judicial decisions. The Delhi High Court had in 2018 struck down a law that made begging in the city a crime, observing that it “violates the fundamental rights of some of the most vulnerable people”. Though there is no central law on begging, some states have adopted the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, which penalises beggary. Its provisions are often used by the police to detain, harass and otherwise oppress not only beggars but also homeless people, vagabonds, nomads, migrant workers and any poor person. There are petitions pending in the Supreme Court seeking repeal of the laws. A bill to decriminalise begging is also pending in Parliament. The last census placed the number of beggars in the country at four lakh; the actual number is likely much higher. Giving and begging for alms is sanctioned by tradition and embodies some venerated values. But begging is a complex matter with cultural as well as social and economic dimensions. There is a dark side also to it, and in some cities, it has become an organised business, controlled by the mafia and human traffickers. A large number of children are abducted and many of them end up in begging. The rehabilitation homes for beggars are terrible places with abysmal conditions and inmates find streets better places to live. Eradication of beggary and rehabilitation of beggars will have to take all these into consideration and address each of them. The law, in any case, is no solution. Any law about anything has to be humane and should have empathy for the poor and the distressed. As the court said, “keeping them away from our eyes is no solution.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-ban-on-begging-is-no-solution-1016319.html
04-08-2021||South||Covid severity decreasing in Kerala: Health Minister||Despite a high number of daily positive cases, Kerala Health Minister Veena George on Wednesday said the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic was decreasing in the state. The number of patients seeking treatment at hospitals and those needing ICU support has dwindled, she said during the Question Hour session in the Assembly. "The hospital occupancy and ICU occupancy have decreased in the state now-a--days. That means, the severity of the disease is decreasing," George pointed out. The Health Minister also said the department is now assessing the impact of 'break-through infection' and 'reinfection' among people. "We are examining whether people are experiencing vaccine breakthrough infection (a Covid case that occurs in someone who is fully vaccinated) and reinfection (a person, who was infected and recovered, is infected again)," she said. As per a recent survey conducted by the Health Department, the reinfection rate has decreased remarkably. However, vaccine breakthrough infection is happening in the state, she said, quoting the survey. Rejecting opposition criticism, George told the House that if a person died of Covid-19, it would be recorded as such. The instances of people, who died of the virus infection but excluded from the list of Covid deaths somehow, would be examined, she said, adding that no comparison had been made so far between the pandemic death figures of the Health and Local Self Government Departments. The state, on Tuesday, reported 23,676 fresh Covid cases pushing the total infection caseload to 34,49,149, with the number of people succumbing to the virus rising to 17,103 after 148 more deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-severity-decreasing-in-kerala-health-minister-1016076.html
04-08-2021||South||Kerala relaxes Covid-19 lockdown restrictions||Even as the Covid figures of Kerala continues to be high, the state government has decided to relax the lockdown restrictions by lifting the total shutdown on Saturdays and allowing shops to function from 7 am to 9 pm, considering the impact on the economy and mounting protests over prolonged lockdown. On Wednesday, the state witnessed 22,414 fresh Covid cases, with TPR at 11.37 per cent. At Kasargod, authorities of Karnataka closed many pocket roads to Kerala to avoid people crossing the border, flouting the restrictions imposed by Karnataka. Kerala Health Minister Veena George told the state assembly that the severity of Covid in Kerala was coming down as the number of people approaching hospitals were coming down. She said that the state was making all possible efforts to vaccinate the maximum people at the earliest. So far 42 per cent of state's population got first dose and 17.6 per cent got both doses. The comparatively higher TPR in Kerala is due to the higher test per million of 7.9 lakh in Kerala, she said. At present, the state goes under total lockdown on Saturday and Sunday. Hereafter, total lockdown will be imposed only on Sundays. But there will not be no lockdown on August 15 in view of Independence day and August 22 in view of Onam, said the Minister. Hereafter triple lockdown will be imposed only in localities where more than ten per 1,000 persons are remaining Covid active for one week in a row. Up to 40 persons would be allowed in worship centres based on the area of the centres. Maximum participation at marriages and deaths would be limited to 20. Shops and commercial establishments should impose restrictions. Only one customer per 25 square feet should be allowed at a time. The minister also urged that those who had taken at least one dose of vaccine only should be preferably visiting shops. All gatherings should be avoided to the maximum possible extent. The relaxations were finalised on the basis of opinions of the Central team that reviewed the Covid scenario of Kerala as well as that of the state's expert team on Covid. The central team had found that lapses in contact tracing and laxity in home quarantine were the reasons for fresh Covid cases remaining high. Traders in the state were up in arms against the prolonged lockdown over the last three months. Traders' forums had also given a call for defying the restrictions from August 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-1016121.html
04-08-2021||South||AP govt suspends 3 finance dept officials for 'leaking' confidential information to media||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday placed three officers of the Finance Department under suspension, alleging that they leaked "sensitive and confidential" information to the media. Principal Finance Secretary Shamsher Singh Rawat issued orders suspending Assistant Secretary N Venkateswarlu and Section Officers K Vara Prasad and D Sreenu Babu from service based on a report submitted by Director General of Vigilance and Enforcement K V Rajendranath Reddy. "The government had ordered a vigilance enquiry in the light of series of news items published continuously against the government in newspapers, leading to suspicion regarding the leakage of sensitive and confidential information, which were misrepresented and twisted to malign the government and cause undue panic in the public," Rawat said in three separate orders. He said information regarding government guarantees has also been leaked to the media by Vara Prasad. "The officers were fully aware about the sensitivity and confidentiality of the information, but have still caused unauthorized transmission of information, which primarily gives the suspicion of deliberate leakage of information," the Principal Finance Secretary added. The ruling YSRC has been facing flak over allegations of financial mismanagement. The Comptroller and Auditor General as well as the Government of India wrote a series of letters to the Finance Department seeking explanation on things like indiscriminate borrowings and gross discrepancies in accounts. The Assembly Public Accounts Committee Chairman, Payyavula Keshav belonging to the opposition Telugu Desam, petitioned the Governor seeking a full-fledged audit into the state finances even as the BJP leadership lodged several complaints with the Centre, including Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, over the states alleged financial mismanagement. As banks started showing reluctance to lend any more money, the Jagan government has also been pushed into a panic mode as, without borrowing, it is in no position even to pay staff salaries. "That the government is desperate to keep its financial records under wraps is no secret, given the sordid state of affairs. The action against the three officials is a clear warning signal to those seeking to further embarrass it by revealing the facts," a senior bureaucrat averred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-govt-suspends-3-finance-dept-officials-for-leaking-confidential-information-to-media-1016125.html
04-08-2021||South||Kerala government duty bound to ensure safety of women, children, says Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said his government was duty bound to ensure the safety of women and children in the state and steps have been taken to set up an online portal, put in place a helpline and appointing a nodal officer, to receive complaints of crimes against them. The CM said complaints under the 'Aparajitha' project can be made online on its site or e-mails sent to aparajitha.pol@kerala.gov.in. Complaints can also be made on the helpline -- 9497996992 -- or to the nodal officer -- Pathanamthitta district police head -- at 9497999955, he said during the question hour of the Assembly. Besides, the other initiatives undertaken by the government are the Pink Protection Project, counselling programmes, action against police officers who did not carry out proper investigation in crimes against women and creating awareness campaigns, the CM said. The Pink Protection Project has been launched for protecting women from crimes against them in public, private and cyber spaces. Under the project, dowry-related harassment, cyber bullying and atrocities in public places against women are sought to be prevented and for that various teams like pink "janamaithri" beat, pink shadow patrol and 'pink Romeo', have been created, he noted. Police officers are also being trained and sensitised under the project on how to receive and deal with complaints of crimes against women. On the recent murder-suicide case involving a dental student, the CM said awareness needs to be created among public not to resort to such revenge tactics when relationships fail. He said the government will be considering how to create more awareness among people on such issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-duty-bound-to-ensure-safety-of-women-children-says-pinarayi-vijayan-1016169.html
04-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt to publish white paper on state’s finances on August 9; present Budget on August 13||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan will on August 9 release a white paper on the state’s finances before presenting the revised Budget for the 2021-2022 fiscal on August 13. The white paper, which will run to 120 pages, is likely to throw much light on the “financial mismanagement” of the previous AIADMK Government which ruled Tamil Nadu from 2011 to 2021.  Thiaga Rajan, a former top banker who worked with internationally acclaimed institutions like Lehman Brothers and Standard Chartered, will be the first Finance Minister to present an e-budget. Presentation of an e-budget will be the first step towards achieving a ‘paperless’ Tamil Nadu Assembly. The legislators will have to scroll through the PDF document on their screens as Thiaga Rajan flips through the pages reading out his maiden Budget speech. In a departure from the tradition, Thiaga Rajan is believed to have written a major part of the speech that he will deliver while presenting the Budget, raising expectations about the tabling of the financial document. It is believed that the Budget speech will have announcements regarding some of the DMK’s poll promises like Rs 1,000 as “rightful money” for women head of households. A notification from the Tamil Nadu Assembly Secretary K Sreenivasan said the “revised Budget” will be presented on August 13. The notification came minutes after the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin took the decision to convene the much-awaited Budget Session on August 13, a day before the new government completes 100 days in office. The Cabinet also approved the proposal to present an exclusive budget for Agriculture from this fiscal year. Sources said the white paper will have details about the debt of the Tamil Nadu government and reasons for revenue deficit and loss in the past few years. Presentation of the white paper is one of the poll promises of the DMK which accused the AIADMK regime of “financial mismanagement.” Thiaga Rajan himself had said an effectively revenue neutral or revenue surplus state from 2004 to 2014 suddenly started having record revenue deficits each year and consequently exploding debt. “After taking over the department, I realised that much of the financial mismanagement was the result of sleepwalking, not because they consciously made bad decisions. As things began to slide, nobody bothered to check what was happening and nobody even cared to correct the mistakes,” he had told DH in an interview in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-to-publish-white-paper-on-state-s-finances-on-august-9-present-budget-on-august-13-1016203.html
04-08-2021||South||Seven sentenced to death for doctor’s murder in Tamil Nadu||A trial court here on Wednesday sentenced seven persons to death in the sensational murder of a neurologist who was killed just outside the private hospital he was working in. Dr S D Subbiah, who was working with Billroth Hospitals in Chennai, was killed in broad daylight on September 14, 2013, while he was leaving the hospital premises after work.  Trial court judge I S Alli also sentenced two others to life sentence and released one accused who turned approver. The 58-year-old doctor was killed due to a dispute over a 2.4-acre plot that his family owned in his native village in the Kanyakumari district.  The murder of the doctor had sent shockwaves across the state as the body had more than 20 cuts. In his final arguments, Special Public Prosecutor N Vijayaraj demanded that the accused be sentenced to death for plotting the murder.  The slain doctor’s wife Shanthi Subbiah welcomed the verdict and thanked the judiciary for delivering justice to her husband. “This is a very emotional and private moment for us. We always believed judiciary and today the faith has been re-established,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-sentenced-to-death-for-doctor-s-murder-in-tamil-nadu-1016226.html
04-08-2021||South||22,414 fresh Covid-19 cases, 108 more deaths in Kerala||Kerala on Wednesday reported 22,414 fresh Covid cases pushing the total infection caseload to 34,71,563, with the number of people succumbing to the virus rising to 17,211 after 108 more deaths. As many as 19,478 people have been cured of the infection since Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 32,77,788 and the number of active cases to 1,76,048, a state government release said. In the last 24 hours, 1,97,092 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 11.37 per cent. So far, 2,79,12,0151 samples have been tested, it said. Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3691), Thrissur (2912), Ernakulam (2663), Kozhikode (2502), Palakkad (1928), Kollam (1527), Kannur (1299), Kottayam (1208) and Thiruvananthapuram (1155). Of the new cases, 87 are health workers, 114 had come from outside the state and 21,378 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 835 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,74,056 people under surveillance in various districts of the state. Of these, 4,44,009 are in home or institutional quarantine and 30,047 in hospitals. There are 678 areas in the state with a TPR of above 10 per cent, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/22414-fresh-covid-19-cases-108-more-deaths-in-kerala-1016227.html
04-08-2021||South||Learn money making skills from Marwadis, Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao tells Dalits||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Wednesday said Dalits should also think and also be skilful like 'Marwadis' when it comes to making money. Rao was addressing people at Vasalamarri, a village adopted by him, to explain the details of 'Dalit Bandhu', an initiative his government is planning to launch for the uplift of the downtrodden. Huzurabad assembly constituency has been chosen to implement a pilot project of the 'Dalit Bandhu' a scheme to encourage entrepreneurship and self-employment among SCs under which the beneficiary would get Rs 10 lakh. "Suppose this Rs 10 lakh is given in a Marwadis' locality, you dont have to tell him anything. Within one year he will make that (Rs 10 lakh) into Rs 30 lakh. Will he or not? How will he make it?, Because he knows the line." "He has an idea how to make money. Even our Dalits, should do that. We should learn those skills," Rao said. He said Telangana has about 15 to 16 lakh Dalit families and most of them are struggling to make both ends meet. The Chief Minister said the government is sanctioning Rs 7.60 crore under Dalit Bandhu Scheme covering 76 Dalit families in Vasalamarri. The beneficiaries under the scheme would be given identity cards in which an electronic chip with a special bar code would be incorporated. The cards would have updated information regarding scheme implementation and its supervision, Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/learn-money-making-skills-from-marwadis-telangana-cm-k-chandrashekhar-rao-tells-dalits-1016266.html
04-08-2021||South||As UAE eases travel restrictions, flight rates from Kerala skyrocket||A S Kumar, a native of Kollam in Kerala, was fortunate enough to get a flight ticket to UAE from Thiruvananthapuram for the third week of August for around Rs. 18,000, as he booked the ticket by Tuesday night as soon as reports of UAE lifting the travel restriction from India came. With thousands of Malayali NRIs working in UAE reportedly stranded in Kerala after coming on leave, the flight tariff from Kerala to UAE has started skyrocketing within hours after UAE announced relaxation in the ban on flights from India. Travel industry sources said that from the wee hours of Wednesday itself, the fares to UAE from Kerala for the next few weeks started escalating. While the normal tariff used to be around Rs 10,000, by Wednesday morning the lowest available ticket crossed the Rs. 25,000-mark. Kerala Association of Travel Agents president K V Muraleedharan said that going by the trend, the fares would soon cross the Rs. 50,000-mark. Some more clarity was required on the travel protocol to UAE. Once it comes, there could be a further rush, he added. As per the data available from state government agency for NRI's welfare, NORKA-Roots, around 15 lakh Malayali NRI's had returned to Kerala till July first week after the Covid-19 outbreak. Of that, 8.9 lakh were from UAE. Among the 15 lakh who returned, over 10 lakh had cited job loss. Since a large number of NRIs could have already returned, the actual job loss caused to NRI's required detailed evaluations, said sources. While UAE imposed the travel ban on April 24, scores of Malayali's working in UAE who came down on leave were stranded in Kerala. Many of them were fearing job loss. Some travel agencies were also exploiting the opportunity by offering travel option to UAE through other countries from where no travel ban to UAE was in place. The desperate passengers were being charges hefty charges of over Rs 1 lakh, including quarantine charges at transit countries. Malayalis constitute a major chunk of the NRI population in Kerala. Remittance from Gulf countries has been a major strength of Kerala's economy with banks in the state having a total NRI deposit of over Rs. 2 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-uae-eases-travel-restrictions-flight-rates-from-kerala-skyrocket-1016267.html
04-08-2021||South||Kerala to file appeal against minority scholarship order||Kerala Government said it will file an appeal against the Kerala High Court order scrapping the 80:20 ratio for scholarships to students from Muslim and Christian communities. Even as the state government recently decided to make the ratio in accordance with the ratio of communities as per the 2011 population, it invited resentment from various Muslim outfits. Despite assurance of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that existing scholarships being received by the Muslim community would not be affected, various outfits launched a stir. On Wednesday, Vijayan informed the assembly that the state government received a legal opinion that an appeal could be filed against the HC order. The 80:20 ratio for Muslims and some sections of Christian community was fixed considering the communities were lagging behind and hence the Muslim outfits are demanding that it should be retained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-file-appeal-against-minority-scholarship-order-1016298.html
04-08-2021||South||IBM to set up new centre in Kochi||Tech giant IBM will be setting up its new development centre at Kochi in the southern state of Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that IBM Software Lab's centre will be set up in Kochi. A discussion in this regard was held with IBM India managing director Sandip Patel and IBM India Software Labs vice president Gaurav Sharma on Tuesday. The upcoming centre would be focusing on Hybrid Cloud and Artificial Intelligence technologies. It will be developing solutions, infusing global design techniques, agile methodologies and advanced technologies including automation, data and AI, and security to support the requirements of the government and global customers. Vijayan said in a social media post that IBM's expansion would pave the way for a huge leap in Kerala's IT development. The Left Democratic Front government's vision of making Kerala a Digital Knowledge Economy and gathered their valuable feedback. Changes needed in the IT policy and the role of technology in rebuilding the economy that has taken a heavy hit during the pandemic were also discussed in the online meeting. Patel said in a statement that expansion in Kerala would provide us access to world-class skills and diversity of talent, drive skills development and enhance employability. "IBM brings its global best practices to India and we hope to do that in Kerala as well, by building indigenous skills in the state that will create a talent pool for the global marketplace," he said. Currently, IBM Software Labs operate from Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad and Chennai in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ibm-to-set-up-new-centre-in-kochi-1016299.html
04-08-2021||State||Watch Karnataka Cabinet Expansion video here||Twenty nine ministers took oath as Karnataka Cabinet ministers under new Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Among the big names that took oath are Murugesh Nirani, B C Patil and Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. Bommai will not have any deputies unlike his predecessor B S Yediyurappa. Watch the video of oath-taking ceremony of Karnataka Cabinet ministers here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/watch-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-video-here-1016089.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mangalore University postpones examinations, offline classes||Mangalore University (MU) on Tuesday for the second time postponed all examinations scheduled from Wednesday onwards. MU had first postponed the examinations in March this year due to the strike by KSRTC staff. MU Registrar (Evaluation) Prof P L Dharma confirmed that based on the orders from Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner all examinations from Wednesday was postponed until the next orders. MU Registrar (Evaluation) Prof Dharma said the valuation work, which had begun on Tuesday, also was postponed. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V quoting state government July 31 order directed MU to postpone examinations and conducting offline classes.  Keeping in mind the inconveniences faced by students from Kerala writing examinations in colleges affiliated to Mangaluru University, the examinations should be cancelled, the deputy commissioner stated in the circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mangalore-university-postpones-examinations-offline-classes-1015964.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka MLAs get Rs 1,277 crore while rural road project languishes||Six days before he stepped down as chief minister, B S Yediyurappa ordered the release of Rs 1,277 crore to 132 Assembly constituencies as special development grants, depriving funds for the ambitious Grameena Sumarga project, officials lament.  On July 19, Yediyurappa used his discretionary power to release these grants which were approved in February-March 2021, but the money was not released until it was time for Yediyurappa to go.  However, this money could have helped the Grameena Sumarga project, which aims at upgrading 20,000 km of rural roads, a senior official said. The project has been languishing for at least two years.  “The project needs Rs 1,500 crore a year and the government says it has no money. But individual MLAs were given a total of Rs 1,277 crore. They want to make political use of the available funds, which could have been given to this project,” the official explained.  The Grameena Sumarga project was first unveiled in 2019 when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power. Yediyurappa included it in his 2020-21 budget by earmarking Rs 780 crore for it. The project, Yediyurappa’s budget stated, would span five years. However, the Covid-19 pandemic came in the way.  Karnataka has a rural blacktop road network of 56,362 km. Of this, authorities have identified 24,246 km as priority village roads that provide access to key infrastructure like schools, hospitals, offices and markets. Of these, 4,000 km of roads are in good condition while the remaining 20,000 km need reconstruction, re-asphalting and other repairs. The list of 132 constituencies to which Yediyurappa doled out special grants includes segments represented by Congress and JD(S) MLAs. Constituencies in Belagavi district received the highest grants at Rs 121 crore. Notably, constituencies represented by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah (Badami), Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar (Kanakapura) and JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy (Channapatna) are not on the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mlas-get-rs-1277-crore-while-rural-road-project-languishes-1015968.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Restrictions in place in Karnataka till Covid-19 positivity rate comes down'||The restrictions at Karnataka-Kerala border check posts will be in force till the Covid positivity rate comes down, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Pratap Reddy said on Tuesday. He was interacting with media persons after reviewing the measures taken to restrict the entry of people from neighbouring Kasaragod district at Talapady check post. Reddy said that passengers at railway stations without RT-PCR negative reports had been shifted to a temporary quarantine centre at Townhall. After the swab tests, those testing positive will be shifted to Covid Care Centres (CCC) and those testing negative can return home.  “We have requested the authorities to bring down the time taken for giving test reports,” Reddy added. The ADGP, replying to appeals from a delegation of SDPI (Manjeshwar), clarified that patients suffering from cancer, or those in need of dialysis, or students appearing examinations had been exempted from submitting RT-PCR negative reports. “Kasaragod district administration can co-ordinate with district war room for any help and support,” he added. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, who accompanied the ADGP, said students not appearing any examinations should submit RT-PCR reports. Reddy said the Covid testing centre at Talapady will not be opened but the Kerala government can set up a testing centre along the border to help its people. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police Shashi Kumar said restrictions were in place to prevent a surge of Covid cases in and around Mangaluru. “During the first wave, the Covid-19 positivity cases had escalated in Mangaluru three weeks after Kerala had witnessed a peak in covid cases,” Kumar said. Reddy then visited the border check post in Salethoor. DK Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane was also present. A group of people from Varkady and residents of Kasaragod district staged a protest by blocking the movement of vehicles on National Highway 66, plying towards Kasaragod, opposing the restrictions.  Bars, toddy shops in border areas closed Following reports that tipplers from neighbouring Kasaragod district in Kerala were dependent on bars and toddy shops in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V on Tuesday ordered closure of 24 bars and five toddy shops in nine villages on Karnataka-Kerala border till August 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/restrictions-in-place-in-karnataka-till-covid-19-positivity-rate-comes-down-1016004.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet expansion: New ministers to take oath at 2:15 pm today, says CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the expansion of his cabinet will take place this afternoon. "I have had detailed discussions with high command regarding the cabinet, yesterday and the day before. Most probably by 11 am you will get an official list (of new Ministers) from the Raj Bhavan, you in the media are running some names, but you will get an official list mostly by 11-11:30 am," Bommai said on his arrival from Delhi. Speaking to reporters at the airport here, he said the new cabinet Ministers will be sworn in at 2:15 pm. Later at Vidhana Soudha, the Chief Minister said, "Detailed discussions have taken place with leadership, one or two issues are still pending, they have said they will inform by 10 am, they may inform anytime. Soon after that I will send a list to Raj Bhavan." He said subsequently all those who will be inducted into the Cabinet will be informed. Asked about the confusions till the last moment, Bommai said, "No confusions, consultation is the process, we are a national party, that's all." To a query on the number of Deputy Chief Ministers, he said, all those details will be known when the list is released. Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party last week, following Yediyurappa's resignation, had taken oath as the Chief Minister on July 28. After taking oath as the Chief Minister Bommai visited Delhi twice. The Vijayendra conundrum forced Bommai to stay put in New Delhi on Tuesday, cancelling his return to Bengaluru to hold back-to-back meetings with the top brass, under pressure from Yediyurappa who wanted a ministerial berth for his son. Bommai told reporters late Tuesday night that BJP national president J P Nadda would speak to Yediyurappa about Vijayendra. “After I reach Bengaluru (on Wednesday morning), I will be informed by the party on how many ministers will take their oath,” he said. In the first phase, the party may allow 22-25 ministers to get inducted on Wednesday. This will include ‘native’ BJP legislators as well as the ‘migrants’ who defected from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-new-ministers-to-take-oath-at-215-pm-today-says-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1016050.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai at helm: Full list of Karnataka Cabinet ministers||As many as 29 legislators of Karnataka on Wednesday took oath as Cabinet Ministers of the state in the newly-appointed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's Council of Ministers. Senior leaders K S Eshwarappa, Govind Karjol were among those who took oath under a new pack of ministers inducted after the departure of the B S Yediyurappa. Here is a full list of the new Council of Ministers of Karnataka:  Govind Karjol KS Eshwarappa R Ashoka CN Ashwath Narayan B Sriramulu V Somanna JC Madhuswamy CC Patil Prabhu Chauhan Anand Singh K Gopalaiah BA Basavaraja (Byrathi) ST Somashekhar BC Patil K Sudhakar KC Narayana Gowda Shivaram Hebbar Umesh V Katti S Angara Murugesh Nirani MTB Nagaraj Kota Srinivas Poojary Shashikala Jolle V Sunil Kumar Halappa Achar Araga Jnanendra Shankar Patil Munenakoppa BC Nagesh Munirathna||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-at-helm-full-list-of-karnataka-cabinet-ministers-1016113.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jnanendra becomes minister at last, KSE retains post||At last, the four-time MLA from Thirthahalli assembly constituency Aaraga Jnanendra has become a minister in state cabinet headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after a political career spanning over four decades. So far, he was the only BJP legislator and senior leader in Shivamogga district who had not become minister despite winning the assembly polls four times. With this, his wish to become part of the state cabinet has been fulfilled, and workers of the party in Thirthahalli taluk are on cloud nine. For the first time, a Thirthahalli representative in the legislative assembly has received representation in the BJP-led government in Karnataka.   Senior leader K S Eshwarappa has succeeded in retaining the minister post. With this, he proved that he still holds the command in the party. Many seers and orgnaisations had demanded the deputy chief minister post for him. It was considered as Eshwarappa's strategy to put pressure on BJP top brass to include him in the Bommai-led cabinet.    Jnanendra had registered hat-trick victory from 1994 to 2004. He had registered his maiden victory on the BJP ticket from Thirthahalli constituency in 1994 by securing 31,440 votes. He had improved his performance in the 1999 polls by securing 33,778 votes. In 2004, he registered a hat-trick victory by securing 47,843 votes. But he had lost the assembly polls in 2008 and 2014 against Kimmane Ratnakar. He again emerged victorious in the 2018 assembly polls. But for his bad luck, the party did not get a complete majority. So, BJP did not form its own government. After a gap of one year, B S Yediyurappa became the chief minister after JD(S)-Congress-led government was defeated in the trust vote. But he was not accommodated in the cabinet as legislators who had embraced BJP by quitting Congress and JD(S) had to be given preference. However, he was appointed head of the Karnataka Housing Board.  Of the seven assembly constituencies in the district, six are represented by BJP while Bhadravathi is represented by Congress legislator B K Sangamesh. Among them, except K B Ashok Naik of Shivamogga Rural assembly constituency, a first-time MLA, the remaining legislators  -- K S Eshwarappa of Shivamogga Urban, B S Yediyurappa of Shikaripur, H Halappa of Sagar, Kumar Bangarappa of Sorab -- had become minister at least once in their political career. Now, Jnanendra also joints the list of legislators who went on to become ministers from the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jnanendra-becomes-minister-at-last-kse-retains-post-1016156.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Protests, heartburn follow new Cabinet of Basavaraj Bommai||Heartburn and protests marked the aftermath of oath-taking ceremony of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's 29 Council of Ministers. Supporters of Subash Guttedar were detained in Bengaluru for staging a protest demanding a Cabinet berth for the Aland MLA, while those backing Arvind Bellad and Nehru Olekar also demonstrated. Meanwhile, legislators such as MP Kumaraswamy, Raju Gouda, Poornima Srinivas and S A Ramdas - who were ministerial aspirants - claimed that they missed out of the Cabinet at the last moment. Raju Gouda said that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa shed tears during their meeting on Wednesday, saddened that he was not made minister. "More than the fact that I was not made minister, I am hurt that Yediyurappa had to shed tears," he said. Responding to queries, he said that he nurtured no ambition of becoming minister. "Because, several times in the past my name was projected by the media as a Cabinet aspirant. I have an old father who is bed-ridden for the two years, who came to Bengaluru when I became MLA (thinking I would be made minister). Since it did not turn out to be so, he asked me why I was insulting him by calling him to Bengaluru," he said. Poornima said that she was hurt by the decision of the party. "A minister caught in corruption scandal was made a minister again. I would have happily welcomed the decision if another woman MLA of the party, who is not accused of any corruption, was made minister," she said, taking a dig at Shashikala Jolle. Ramdas claimed that he had received congratulatory messages for being made a minister in the Cabinet from state, national leaders and local mutts. "But, it did not feature in the final list," he said. "I was informed of being part of the Cabinet and was sent pass and security," which was withdrawn two hours later, he said. Kumaraswamy, meanwhile, was hopeful that he would be considered for the Cabinet in the second phase. "Even though BJP has come to power three times, they haven't considered (me), which has hurt the community," he said. Protests were staged in Haveri and Dharwad by supporters of Olekar and Bellad, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/protests-heartburn-follow-new-cabinet-of-basavaraj-bommai-1016230.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Despite SC order, illegal religious structures mushroom in Karnataka||Nearly 1,242 new illegal religious structures came up in public places in Karnataka after the Supreme Court issued orders in 2009 to ‘demolish/relocate/ regulate’ unauthorised structures from public places. Of them, only 1,054 have been demolished so far, while remaining 188 await a date for demolition. Not just the Supreme Court, even the Karnataka High Court in December 2020 rapped on the knuckles of the state government for not implementing the apex court’s order. In spite of that, the State government seems to be ‘reluctant’ in clearing the encroachments from public places.   According to a letter by State Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar to deputy commissioners on July 1, 2021, Karnataka has 6,395 unauthorised religious structures in public places. The number of such structures was 5,688 on 29 September, 2009. In 12 years the State government was able to ‘demolish/relocate/ regulate’ only 2,887 temples, mosques, churches and other religious structures. Speaking to DH, Ravi Kumar conceded that demolition drive is taking place at a slow pace. “We have been implementing the Supreme Court order to demolish/relocate/ regulate’ unauthorised structures from public places that existed before 2009 and demolishing such structure that came after the apex court orders. However, the pace is a bit slow. Deputy commissioners have been asked to file an affidavit on their action plans to address unauthorized structure before the Karnataka High Court before August 12,” he said. His letter also instructed district administrations and urban local body officials to prepare and execute a plan of action for demolition of at least one illegal religious structure per taluk and per division every week. Dakshina Kannada tops According to the documents attached along with the letter, Dakshina Kannada (1,579) district has the highest number of unauthorised religious structures in public places followed by Shivamogga (740), Belagavi (612), Kolar (397), Bagalkot (352), Dharwad (324), Mysuru (315) and Koppal (306). Ballari, which had zero unauthorised religious structure on 29 September 2009 saw 410 such structures in public places. However, the district administration has ensured that all of them were demolished. Dharwad Deputy Commissioner  Nitesh Patil said eviction of each illegal religious place has its own challenge. “Few days ago, we got one religious place evicted in a rural area. The residents of those area ‘cursed’ the officials and driver for demolishing the structure. Three days later, the driver died. Now none of the earth-moving machine drivers are willing to join the demolition drive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/despite-sc-order-illegal-religious-structures-mushroom-in-karnataka-1016244.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister Shankar Patil Munenkoppa skips secrecy oath, gets Raj Bhavan call||In a gaffe, Navalgund legislator Shankar Patil Munenkoppa skipped taking the oath of secrecy on Wednesday, resulting in Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administering the oath to him afresh in the evening. At the swearing-in ceremony, Munenakoppa read out the oath of office twice instead of the oath of secrecy the second time. He rushed to Raj Bhavan again in the evening where he took the oath again in the presence of the Governor and Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar. “It is observed that [Munenakoppa] while taking the Oath of Office and Secrecy as minister has taken the Oath of Office twice and has not read the Oath of Secrecy. Hence, [Munenakoppa] was recalled to Raj Bhavan and the Governor of Karnataka administered the Oath of Office and Secrecy once again in the evening,” Governor’s Special Secretary R Prabhushankar said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-shankar-patil-munenkoppa-skips-secrecy-oath-gets-raj-bhavan-call-1016270.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet clears new ST secretariat||The Karnataka cabinet on Wednesday decided to create a new Scheduled Tribes (ST) secretariat to oversee the utilisation of funds and implementation of programmes meant for their welfare.  Speaking to reporters after a cabinet meeting with the newly-inducted ministers, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there was a long pending demand for a ST secretariat. The contention has been that the TSP (Tribal Sub-Plan) funds are given through various departments and that there was no single body to streamline the allocation or overseeing of these funds. In order to streamline this, the government has now decided to constitute the ST secretariat, Bommai said.  STs are estimated to form 7.5 per cent of the state's population.  Further, the cabinet also decided to reconstitute the Covid-19 Task Force, which was in existence during BS Yediyurappa's tenure. Since a new government has come, the Task Force, too, will be reconstituted and this will be done as soon as the portfolios are allocated in a day or two, according to Bommai.   Meanwhile, the state government will also constitute a committee headed by the Chief Minister to start a mission to oversee the implementation of programmes for women and child development and achieve better coordination in utilisation of funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-clears-new-st-secretariat-1016281.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Arvind Bellad misses ministerial berth following Shettar's opposition||Prominent Lingayat leader Arvind Bellad, who was in the race for the Chief Minister's post, missed the ministerial berth as he faced strong opposition from former chief minister Jagadish Shettar. Bellad, a two-term MLA from Hubballi-Dharwad (West), was among the three probables for the top executive post in the state along with Shettar and Basavaraj Bommai when the BJP had decided to make a Lingayat leader the next Chief Minister. The party ruled out 65-year-old Shettar's candidature as he already served as the CM once and the party lost when he was the helm of affairs in the 2013 assembly elections. Following this, the BJP high command narrowed down on Bommai and Bellad. There were apprehensions in a section of the BJP that Bellad as chief minister could face trouble from Yediyurappa, which tipped the scales in Bommai's favour. Bellad had openly demanded the removal of Yediyurappa as the chief minister. After losing the race for the top post, Bellad, considered close to Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, had pinned hopes on becoming the Deputy Chief Minister or a cabinet minister in the Bommai-led government. The BJP top brass had considered Bellad for a cabinet berth, but was forced to drop after strong opposition from Shettar. The former chief minister ensured the inclusion of his protégé Shankar B Patil Munenakoppa, the MLA from Navalagund, in the council of ministers. Shettar is grooming his younger son Sankalp as his successor, and views Bellad as a political threat, BJP sources said. Shettar suggested Munenakoppa, who, like Bellad, belongs to the Panchamsali Lingayat community. Since the party wanted to give representation to the community in the cabinet, Shettar quietly pushed Munenakoppa's name, sources said. Shashikala Jolle, who had been camping in Delhi for the past two weeks, could ensure inclusion of her name at the last minute with blessings from BJP General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh. Jolle, MLA from Nippani, and her husband Annasaheb Jolle, BJP Lok Sabha member from Chikkodi-Sadalaga, had been knocking the doors of the saffron party top leaders. Bommai was strongly opposed to Jolle's inclusion citing the row over a sting operation and bribery allegations against her. However, Santhosh convinced him to induct Jolle considering her loyalty to the organisation. Bommai was in favour of inducting Hiriyur MLA K Poornia in the council of ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/arvind-bellad-misses-ministerial-berth-following-shettars-opposition-1016285.html
04-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All ministers will visit districts to review Covid, flood situation, says Bommai||The Karnataka cabinet, which met for the first time after it was expanded with the induction of 29 new members on Wednesday, decided that all ministers will immediately visit districts assigned to them and review the flood and Covid-19 situation there. "The cabinet that met today after the expansion of the Ministry, has decided to allocate Ministers with districts to review Covid and flood situation.An order to this effect will be issued," Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, he said Ministers will immediately go to the districts to review the steps being taken to manage the possible Covid third wave and oversee the relief measures in the flood affected regions, and report the requirements of additional assistance for relief. Bommai, who had taken oath as the Chief Minister on July 28, had chaired a single member cabinet the same day. The Chief Minister said the cabinet has also decided to reconstitute the Covid-19 task force immediately after the portfolio allocation. He also said that a decision has been taken to set up an exclusive secretariat for welfare of Scheduled Tribes for effective monitoring and implementation of STP (tribal sub-plan) programes. "This has been a long pending demand by the ST community." Further, a decision has been taken to implement women's safety and welfare programmes in various departments under the direct supervision of the Chief Minister, as announced in the Budget 2021-22, he added. Later in the evening, the Chief Minister issued an order allocating districts for Ministers. Govind Karjol (Belagavi), K S Eshwarappa (Shivamogga), R Ashoka (Bengaluru Urban), B Sriramulu (Chitradurga), V Somanna (Raichur), Umesh Katti (Bagalkote), S Angara (Dakshina Kannada), J C Madhuswamy (Tumakuru), Araga Jnanendra (Chikkamagaluru); C N Ashwath Narayan (Ramanagara), C C Patil (Gadag), Anand Singh (Ballari and Vijayanagara), Kota Srinivas Poojary (Kodagu), Prabhu Chauhan (Bidar), Murugesh Nirani (Kalaburagi). Shivaram Hebbar (Uttara Kannada), S T Somashekar (Mysuru and Chamarajanagara), B C Patil (Haveri), Byrathi Basavaraj (Davangere), K Sudhakar (Chikkaballapura), K Gopalaiah (Hassan); Shashikala Jolle (Vijayapura), M T B Nagaraj (Bengaluru Rural), K C Narayan Gowda (Mandya), B C Nagesh (Yadgir), V Sunil Kumar (Udupi), Halappa Achar (Koppal), Shankar Patil Munenkoppa (Dharwad) and Munirathna (Kolar).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-ministers-will-visit-districts-to-review-covid-flood-situation-says-bommai-1016307.html
04-08-2021||West||Maharashtra govt announces Rs 11,500-crore package for aid to flood victims, repair works||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced Rs 11,500-crore financial package for rain and flood-affected people besides for repair works and reconstruction of roads and other critical infrastructure damaged in the deluge last month. A part of the package will be used for undertaking long-term flood mitigation measures in the state, where more than 200 people lost their lives in recent rain-related incidents. The state disaster management department made a presentation before Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on the impact of recent floods and heavy rains after which the Maharashtra cabinet sanctioned the financial assistance, an official statement said. Out of the total financial package announced by the government, Rs 1,500 crore will be used for providing immediate assistance to flood victims, while Rs 3,000 crore will go towards reconstruction and repair of damaged infrastructure, it said. A sum of Rs 7,000 crore has been earmarked for undertaking long-term measures to minimise impact of future floods, said the statement. The financial assistance would include Rs 5,000 to every family affected by floods. The state government has relaxed the previous condition of houses being under water for 48 hours to qualify for compensation, it said. Similarly, totally damaged houses will get financial assistance Rs 1,50,000 each, while houses with minimum damage of 50 per cent will get Rs 50,000, the statement said. Partially damaged houses will get Rs 25,000 per unit, the statement said. Farmers who lost their cattle will get financial assistance of up to Rs 40,000, while fisherman will get up to Rs 25,000 per damaged boat, it said. Thackeray has asked officials to set up an expert committee and seek help from the National Water Development Agency to study flood lines of the rivers that caused havoc in late July after intense rainfall, the statement said. There should be a three-year plan for constructing flood resistant walls, cleaning and dredging river beds, the government said in the statement. A real time data acquisition system should be deployed and made functional in the next three months, it said. Districts such as Raigad, Ratnagiri, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur were badly affected due to floods and extremely heavy rainfall that pounded these districts from July 21 to 23. More than 200 people lost their lives in rain-related incidents like landslides and over two lakh people were forced to leave their homes. Raigad in the coastal Konkan region was the worst-hit district, accounting for nearly 100 deaths. Reacting to the announcement, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the immediate help offered by the state government amounted to just Rs 1,500 crore. “The actual help is merely Rs 1,500 crore, while remaining figures are for long-term measures. It also does not include the kind of assistance we had provided in 2019 such as making available sand for construction, help for cleaning up, compensation for damaged crops, among other things," the former chief minister said. “Prima facie, the government does not seem to have provided any help to farmers," the BJP leader claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-announces-rs-11500-crore-package-for-aid-to-flood-victims-repair-works-1016005.html
04-08-2021||West||Incessant rain causes flooding in parts of Rajasthan||Incessant rainfall has caused flooding in many areas in Hadauti region of Rajasthan and cut off road connectivity to over 100 villages. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said rescue and relief works were being conducted by teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and that if required, the help of Indian Army will be taken. "Heavy rains have created a flood situation in some areas of Kota, Baran, Bundi and Jhalawar. Instructions have been given to administration regarding relief and rescue operations," Gehlot tweeted on Wednesday. कोटा, बारां, बूंदी एवं झालावाड़ के कुछ इलाकों में भारी बारिश से बाढ़ के हालात बन गए हैं। प्रशासन को राहत एवं बचाव कार्यों के संबंध में निर्देश दिए हैं। NDRF, SDRF एवं सिविल डिफेंस की टीमें मदद कार्य कर रही हैं।सेना से भी संपर्क किया गया है एवं जरूरत पड़ने पर सेना की मदद ली जाएगी। In Dholpur, the Chambal river was flowing above the danger mark. In Bharatpur, heavy rains led to flooding in some areas. The chief minister said the administration in Dholpur and Bharatpur districts has been put on alert. According to the meteorological department, many areas in eastern parts of the state have received heavy rains in the last few days. Road connectivity to more than 100 villages in the region was cut off, officials said. In Baran and nearby areas, extremely heavy rains have occurred. SDRF commandant Pankaj Chaudhary said their teams have been deployed in flooded areas in districts such as Baran, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur and Karauli. Several areas in Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Kota and Bundi received extremely heavy rains and several other areas received heavy to very heavy rains till Wednesday morning. The highest of 280 mm rains occurred in Khatoli (Kota), followed by Bundi 258 mm. The weather department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in some areas in eastern Rajasthan districts on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/incessant-rain-causes-flooding-in-parts-of-rajasthan-1016067.html
04-08-2021||West||Maharashtra's package silent on immediate relief to farmers, other priority sections: Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said the state government has given immediate relief of only Rs 1,500 crore to the flood-affected districts, a day after the state announced a Rs 11,500-crore financial package. He also alleged that no immediate relief was announced by the MVA government for priority sections like farmers in the package. The package has made separate financial provisions for rain and flood-affected people besides for repair works and reconstruction of roads and other critical infrastructure damaged in the deluge last month. "A provision of Rs 10,000 crore, including the reconstruction provision of Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 7,000 crore for other schemes (in the package), is made for long-term measures. The actual immediate relief is only Rs 1,500 crore," Fadnavis said in a statement. The senior BJP leader also claimed a release issued by the government on Tuesday had no mention of the 2019 flood relief aid, including compensation for crop loss, food grains supply, cleanliness grants, aid for house construction etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-package-silent-on-immediate-relief-to-farmers-other-priority-sections-fadnavis-1016133.html
04-08-2021||West||Wockhardt Hospital teaches CPR during vaccination||The waiting time during the Covid-19 vaccination can be utilised to spread out messages and train people - and this is what the Wockhardt Hospital at Mira Road near Mumbai is doing. They are teaching the public to help and resuscitate victims of cardiac events until help arrives to reduce mortality rates. The hospital via its hands-on campaign will demonstrate to the people - Hands-Only CPR in the coming months. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation or CPR is a lifesaving technique used to revive the person whose breathing or heartbeat stops. It is an emergency procedure wherein chest compressions along with artificial ventilation are done to manually preserve the brain function until the breathing and spontaneous blood circulation is restored in a person suffering from cardiac arrest. CPR is given when one’s heart stops or fails to deliver oxygen to the entire body. It is helpful in a lot of emergencies like a cardiac arrest, near drowning, car accidents, choking, heart attacks, electric shocks, or when someone stops breathing. If CPR is provided within a few minutes of the heart-stopping, it triples the chances of the patient returning to normal without suffering severe damage to the brain and other organs in the body. Dr Tushau Prasad, Consultant Emergency Medicine, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road said, “When a loved one experiences a cardiac arrest, seconds matter. A cardiac arrest can occur at any time and anywhere—home, work, or play, and the victim could be anyone, even someone you know and love. The steps to save a life are simple, and we believe everyone should learn them.”  For every minute CPR is delayed, a victim’s chance of survival decreases by 10%. Immediate CPR from someone nearby can double—even triple—their chance of survival. Our hands can do so many things, the most important of which may be saving someone’s life. “The power is in our hands. Hands-Only CPR is recommended for use on teens or adults whom you see suddenly collapse,” he said. The interested participants were given a Hands-Only CPR demonstration on a mannequin to initiate CPR till the arrival of ambulance service or trained health care professionals. This demonstration will help in preventing complications due to delay in CPR and ensure that a patient reaches the hospital safely. The participants were also given a certificate of appreciation for being a critical part of the campaign. Dr Pankaj Dhamija Center head, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road said, “Effective CPR (Cardiopulmonary resuscitation) skills make a very big difference by doubling a person's chance of survival if performed at the right time in the right way. Thus, we wanted to educate people regarding this technique.” “Hands-only CPR knowledge can ensure that our loved ones or those in need can overcome any unfortunate incident like a heart attack as not many people know about it. Hands-only CPR demonstrations should also be given in schools and colleges as well,” said vaccine beneficiary Pradnya Shinde.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wockhardt-hospital-teaches-cpr-during-vaccination-1016138.html
04-08-2021||West||Covid-19: Mumbai gets its first genome sequencing lab||The first-ever next-generation genome sequencing laboratory in Mumbai was commissioned in the historic Nair Hospital strengthening India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.  The formal inauguration of the genome sequencing laboratory was held at TN Medical College & BYL Nair Charitable Hospital, one of the premier medical institutes in the city as part of its centenary, which falls on 4 September, 2021. The facility would enable the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to identify variants of Sars-Cov-2 that causes Covid-19 Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the laboratory saying that it would go a long way in tackling the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.  The new facility can analyse a large number of samples in a short period and also identify mutants, something that will be especially useful in hotspot areas and congested cities.  “We are currently fighting a war with a hidden enemy like the Coronavirus… The new genome sequencing laboratory will enable detection and treatment of the Covid-19 virus or its incarnations, and even other contagious diseases speedily,” Thackeray said.  Thackeray said Nair Hospital, which was set up 100 years ago during the Spanish flu pandemic, is preparing to cater to the health of citizens for another century which is commendable. Next-generation genome sequencing (NGS) is a method of characterisation of pathogens. This technology is used to determine the order of nucleotides in entire genomes or targeted regions of RNA or DNA, which helps in understanding differences between two strains of the virus, thereby identifying mutants, it said.  The specialty of NGS is that a large number of samples can be processed in a short period at high speed.  Every batch for testing will comprise 384 samples and results will be declared in four days. Nair Hospital Dean Dr. Ramesh Bharmal said that the genome sequencing laboratory can handle 1,000 cases simultaneously and provide the results within the next few hours. The entire cost of the equipment and the operating expenses have been raised through donations by a US company, ATE Chandra Foundation and the TM Nair Medical College Global Alumni Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-gets-its-first-genome-sequencing-lab-1016139.html
04-08-2021||West||Goa forms special cell to monitor Mahadayi dispute||In a bid to streamline the state's efforts to tackle affairs related to the Mahadayi inter-state water dispute, the Goa government has now formed a special Mahadayi River Water Dispute Cell, to anchor efforts and follow-up, strategise legal affairs related to the dispute. According to an order issued by the Water Resources department's Chief Engineer Pramod Badami, the cell would be in-charge of co-ordinating efforts with the office of the advocate general, who holds the brief for putting forward the state's case in the Supreme Court, where the dispute is currently being heard. An executive engineer attached to the Water Resources department has been designated as the head of the cell. The decision to form the special cell follows an assurance given by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, during last week's monsoon session of the state assembly, to put a mechanism in place to streamline the government's efforts to handle the dispute, which has stretched for more than two decades now. The BJP-led coalition government had been criticised by the Opposition for its handling of the inter-state dispute during the session, claiming that the state administration had ceded ground to Karnataka in course of the dispute. The Goa government has already filed a special leave petition challenging the contents of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal's award, along with two other contempt petitions against Karnataka for illegally diverting water from the Mahadayi river basin. During a discussion about the issue during the assembly session last week, Water Resources Minister Filip Nery Rodrigues had claimed that Karnataka had already illegally diverted water from the river basin, while adding that the state government was not in a position to quantify the amount of diverted water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-forms-special-cell-to-monitor-mahadayi-dispute-1016254.html
04-08-2021||West||Activists, writers oppose Sabarmati Ashram makeover plan||Over 140 prominent personalities have signed a petition opposing the proposed redevelopment of Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. The statement reads that the plan "severely compromises and trivialises the sanctity and importance of the present-day Ashram, mainly Hriday Kunj, surrounding buildings, and the museum." Among the signatories are noted historians Ramachandra Guha, Rajmohan Gandhi, Vinay Lal, writer an cultural activist Ganesh Devy, Prakash Shah, write and editor of Nireekshak, writer Nayantara Sahgal, retired high court judge AP Shah, artist and poet Gulammohammed Sheikh, social activists Sandeep Pandey, Martin Macwan, journalists P Sainath, Kumar Ketkkar, film-makers Anand Patwardhan, Kavitha Lankesh, musician T M Krishna, ex IAS officers Arun Roy, Harsh Mander, theater activist Dakxin Bajrange. There are several other ex-bureaucrats, diplomats and defence personnel who have signed the petition. The statement says that due to the proposed plan worth Rs1,200 crore, the "simplicity of the Ashram will be completely lost...Hriday Kunj (where Gandhi lived), other historical buildings, and present museums, even if they remain untouched, will no longer be the central places. They will be pushed into a corner by the new museum, amphitheater, food courts, shops, etc." The signatories have also expressed that "Easy access to Hriday Kunj and the present Museum will be blocked as the road passing by it will be closed. The new entrance will have at least a VIP lounge and a new museum before Hriday Kunj and the current museum." It says that "The place has never needed a ‘world-class’ makeover to attract tourists. The charisma of Gandhi along with the authenticity and simplicity of the place has been enough. The proposed plan at best envisions a ‘Gandhi theme park’ and at worst ‘a second assassination’...In short, if the project gets through, the most authentic monument of Gandhi and our freedom struggle will be lost forever to vanity and commercialisation." DH has recently reported that Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the ashram, has given its approval for the project with a condition that the government should not see the Ashram as "world-class tourism designation." The trustees have requested the government to build facilities with "sincerity keeping in mind the simplicity of the place." The trust's response came on a letter sent by the state government asking it to pass a resolution in favour of the proposed plan and hand over all revenue records to the local collector.  The design of the redevelopment has been planned by city-based architect Bimal Patel, who is also the master planner of the Central Vista project in Delhi.  The content of the statement is based on several news reports concerning the project which say that the project is being supervised by the central and state government. The statement reads" This is in keeping with the present government’s strategy to appropriate and commercialize all Gandhian institutions in the country. The worst example of this can be seen in Sevagram, but the most frightening aspect is government control over all Gandhian archives. As Mahatma Gandhi was murdered by elements whose ideology still inspires some of those in power in India, this danger cannot be overlooked." "We must collectively oppose any government takeover of Gandhian institutions, while ensuring that the government continues to use public money for the proper maintenance and upkeep of such institutions, in consultation with eminent Gandhians, historians and archivists from India and around the world," reads the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activists-writers-oppose-sabarmati-ashram-makeover-plan-1016262.html
04-08-2021||West||Antilia case: Court to decide on NIA plea on charge-sheet, Waze's default bail on August 5||A special court here will on Thursday pass an order on NIA's application seeking one-month extension to file a charge-sheet in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiran murder case and also decide on a default bail plea of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze, who appeared in the court through video link on Wednesday. Waze, an accused in the case, is currently in jail under judicial custody. The court had, on June 9, granted an extension of two months to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file its charge-sheet. The probe agency has sought another extension, saying investigation into the high-profile case was still underway. On Tuesday, the NIA had argued in the court on its plea seeking one-month extension to file the charge-sheet. Waze has sought bail on the ground that the probe agency has failed to file the charge-sheet within the stipulated time (90 days), making him eligible for bail by default. The former Assistant Police Inspector was arrested on March 13 and is currently lodged in the Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai. Waze, on Wednesday, argued for his bail in-person from the jail through video conferencing. Citing an order in a case where he was an investigating officer, Waze submitted in the court that the when a person is arrested, the original offence under which he was booked is counted for filing the charge-sheet and not the charges added at a later stage. In Waze's case, he was initially arrested under relevant sections of the IPC and provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) were added against him later. Therefore, the stipulated period of 180 days for filing a charge-sheet under the UAPA was not applicable to him, he argued. He was, thus, entitled for default bail on the 91st day of his arrest under CrPc section 167, Waze submitted. After hearing NIA arguments on Tuesday and those of Waze on Wednesday, the court said it will give its orders on both pleas on Thursday. This is Waze's second attempt to seek a default bail. The court had rejected a similar plea of his in June. Besides Waze, former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and a few other ex-policemen are also accused in the case. The case relates to recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near the south Mumbai home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed he was in possession of the SUV, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-case-court-to-decide-on-nia-plea-on-charge-sheet-wazes-default-bail-on-august-5-1016278.html
