05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two, including minor, arrested for theft in Mysuru||Udayagiri Police arrested two persons, including a minor, in connection with a two-wheeler theft. Seven vehicles worth Rs 6 lakh were recovered. The police took them into custody at Triveni Circle on Raj Kumar road when they were moving doubtfully. The accused have been produced before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-including-minor-arrested-for-theft-in-mysuru-1016341.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kodava now optional language in Karnataka degree colleges||Mangalore University will introduce Kodava as an optional language for undergraduate (degree) programmes. The Academic Council gave its nod for introducing Kodava as an optional language for degree classes in the colleges affiliated to the University. MA in Kodava language will also be introduced. The regulations have been prepared. Once it is finalised, it will be placed before the Syndicate and Academic Council for approval, Vice-Chancellor P S Yadapadithaya said. The Academic Council also approved the syllabus for the undergraduate programmes. Karnataka Kodava Sahithya Academy president Dr Parvathi Appayya, who is also the Academic Council member, said that an expert committee has already prepared the syllabus. The textbooks will be printed by Prasaranga of Mangalore University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodava-now-optional-language-in-karnataka-degree-colleges-1016371.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress workers arrested for trying to picket Shimoga MP B Y Vijayendra's residence||Over 75 workers of the Indian Youth Congress wing were taken into police custody on Thursday in the city when they tried to picket the residence of MP B Y Raghavendra, as part of a protest against the Shimoga MP's silence in Parliament over the step-motherly attitude by the Modi-led Union government towards Karnataka.  They alleged that 25 MPs from Karnataka have failed to highlight the injustice meted out by the Centre to the state in parliament. The Centre has failed to give Karnataka's share of funds and pending GST compensation despite several appeals. Besides, it has failed to control the rise in prices of fuel and common people have continued to bear the burden. Above all, the Centre has failed to manage Covid vaccine supply effectively, as a result of which many people have failed to get the first dose of vaccination. Anti-farm laws are causing inconvenience for the farming community. Now, it is all set to implement Electricity Bill which is against consumers. But MPs have remained silent in parliament, the party workers lamented.  They also demanded the President of India to dismiss the Modi-led government in the Centre for misusing Pegasus spyware for political gains. Pegasus is spyware developed by the Israeli cyberarms firm NSO Group that can be covertly installed on mobile phones running most versions of iOS and Android. Many countries use it to prevent terror attacks. The government of India also purchased it but misused it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah are responsible for it. So, they have no moral right to continue in their positions, they said. District Youth Congress President H P Girish, former MLA K B Prasanna Kumar, Congress leaders N Ramesh, M Praveen Kumar, K Ranganath, District Congress Women Wing President Anita Kumari and others also took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-workers-arrested-for-trying-to-picket-shimoga-mp-b-y-vijayendras-residence-1016540.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||1,600 cusecs of water released from Bhadra dam||There is some good news for people of Davangere, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Shivamogga and Haveri districts in general and farmers in particular as water level in Bhadra dam reached maximum level of 186 feet, on Thursday and 1,600 cusecs of water from four crest gates of the dam was released. The dam has been lifeline for farmers of Davangere, Chitradurga districts for the past many years. It is also quenches thirst of people of central Karnataka. The inflow of water on August 5 was 15,206 cusecs of water. Dam engineers stated that more water could be released from the dam depending on inflow of water. With the release of water from the dam, tail-end farmers of Davangere district could irrigate their crops easily. Water level in the dam was at 156.30 feet last year on the same day. Following copious rains in catchment area, the dam reached maximum level earlier. Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga has already maximum level. Linganamakki dam in Sagar taluk is also on the verge of reaching maximum level of 1819 feet. Water level in the dam stood at 1,809.65 feet on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1600-cusecs-of-water-released-from-bhadra-dam-1016575.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Temples in Melkote to be closed on weekends, government holidays during Shravana month||The Chaluvanarayanaswamy and Yoganarasimhaswamy temples, in Melkote, Mandya district, will be closed for devotees on August 7 and 8 and on all Saturdays and Sundays during the month of Shravana. According to Temple Executive Officer Mangalamma, Shravana month, which begins on August 9, usually sees a large number of devotees visit Melkote to offer prayers, especially during the weekends. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities have restricted the entry of devotees on all Saturdays and Sundays, including August 7 and 8 and government holidays, during the month, as per the directions of the Deputy Commissioner. However, all daily puja rituals will be conducted as per tradition, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temples-in-melkote-to-be-closed-on-weekends-government-holidays-during-shravana-month-1016610.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||21 nursing students test positive for Covid in Hassan||Twenty-one students of a nursing college, all from the neighbouring state of Kerala, have tested positive for Covid, in Hassan city. The students had come to Nisarga Nursing College, in Hassan, to appear for the exam. They tested positive when they were subject to a RT-PCR test. The students are staying as paying guests at K R Puram. Around 27 students, who had come in contact with them, have been placed under quarantine at Sri Ranga guest house and it has been sealed down. They have been subject to Covid tests and the results are awaited on Friday. According to District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr K M Sathish Kumar, the students had come around 20 days ago and had produced a negative RT-PCR report. All the students coming from Kerala are being placed in isolation, he said. Deputy Commissioner R Girish said, the visitors to the Homestays and Resorts should produce an RTPCR report taken 72 hours before. The passengers from other states are being identified at the railway stations and bus stands and tests conducted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/21-nursing-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-hassan-1016644.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka cabinet: From 'Jai Shri Ram' to 'Gau Mata,' slogans galore at oath ceremony||In a fully packed venue at Raj Bhavan and amid a rousing cheer from their families and supporters, 29 BJP legislators took oath as ministers on Wednesday. Raj Bhavan wore a festive look as the family and supporters of the new ministers gathered at the venue. Many waved posters of their leaders, celebrating the moment. The venue also occasionally reverberated with “Jai Shri Ram” chants in between, as supporters cheered on their leaders taking oath as ministers.  Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa sat in the front row and took part in the proceedings, even as the new ministers greeted him and some sought his blessings after taking oath.  Govind Karjol was the first to take the oath. Although it was expected that some senior leaders, including K S Eshwarappa might be dropped from the Cabinet, an elated Eshwarappa took oath amid applause from his supporters and in the presence of his family members. Former minister Jagadish Shettar, who voluntarily dropped out of the Cabinet, was also present on the occasion.  There were also doubts about the “migrant” ministers being accommodated in the new Cabinet. However, most of them have been included. This group of ministers including, K Gopalaiah, K Sudhakar, Byrathi Basavaraja, B C Patil, Shivaram Hebbar and S T Somashekar, were seen sitting together and sharing a light moment as they awaited to be inducted into the Cabinet. Legislator of RR Nagar, Munirathna, was the new face among these migrants to be included as a minister this time.  Meanwhile, most ministers took oath in the name of the Indian Constitution and “God” and some legislators chose to be different. Minister Prabhu Chavan, who came dressed in the traditional Lambani outfit, took oath in the name of “Gau Mata” and “Seva Lal.” While Shivaram Hebbar and Shashikala Jolle took oath in the name of people in their constituencies, Nirani, Shankar Patil Munenkoppa and B C Patil took oath in farmers’ name. Minister Anand Singh invoked the blessings of Vijayanagara and Pampa Virupaksha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-from-jai-shri-ram-to-gau-mata-slogans-galore-at-oath-ceremony-1016352.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Those left out of cabinet will be used for party work: Bommai||Seven BJP legislators, who were ministers in the previous B S Yediyurappa government, have not found a place in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet.  They are Jagadish Shettar, S Suresh Kumar, Arvind Limbavali, Laxman Savadi, C P Yogeshwar, Shrimant Patil and R Shankar. Shettar, a former chief minister who was the industries minister in the previous regime, had opted out of entering Bommai’s Cabinet citing his “seniority and moral grounds”.  Savadi was the deputy chief minister and transport minister previously.  Kumar was minister for primary and secondary education.  Patil was minister for textiles, Limbavali was minister for forest and Kannada and Culture, Yogeshwar was minister for tourism, ecology and environment and Shankar was minister for horticulture.  “The BJP central leadership has decided that some seniors and those who have organizational experience will be deployed on party work,” Bommai told reporters.  He added that there was no confusion or pressure during the formation of his Cabinet.  According to a senior BJP leader, Yediyurappa had asked the party not to take in Yogeshwar. “Yogeshwar’s exit was imminent. There were allegations that he blackmailed the CM no less,” he said.  BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra did not find a place in the Cabinet despite pressure mounted by the former chief minister. According to Bommai, BJP national president JP Nadda himself spoke to Yediyurappa whereas BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, spoke to Vijayendra.  Shankar, an MLC, said he was disappointed. “I spoke with the chief minister in the morning. He said there are four vacancies and that he would try to accommodate me,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/those-left-out-of-cabinet-will-be-used-for-party-work-bommai-1016373.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa had not put condition to make me Minister before resigning as Karnataka CM: B Y Vijayendra||Karnataka BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra on Thursday said his father B S Yediyurappa had not put any condition to make him a Minister, before resigning as Chief Minister, and he too had no aspirations to be part of the new cabinet as he was not a legislator. "To even say that Yediyurappa had put a condition when he resigned that his son Vijayendra should be made a Minister...all this is something to put a black mark on his leadership. Yediyurappa has struggled for 40-45 years, organised the party and has brought it to this level. This is the party of Karyakartas," Vijayendra told reporters here. Yediyurappa had not put such conditions, Vijayendra said, adding that he too is not hurt at not being inducted into the cabinet. "Party has given me an opportunity to organise it, I will continue to do it," he said. There were reports that Yediyurappa had mounted pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the party leadership to induct his younger son Vijayendra into his new cabinet. Responding to a question on Vijayendra being made Minister, Bommai, who expanded his cabinet on Wednesday, had said the BJP national president spoke to Yediyurappa. Besides, national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh also spoke to Vijayendra personally on the matter, Bommai said. Stating that for him even aspiring to become a Minister is a mistake as he is neither a MLA or MLC, Vijayendra said, "Just because I'm Yediyurappa's son if I aspire to become a Minister it is absolutely wrong.I'm happily functioning as the BJP vice president and in the coming days to I will honestly work for strengthening the organisation." Responding to a question on whether he will contest the Hangal bypolls, he said, the party will decide as to who should contest from there. Hangal assembly constituency fell vacant following the death of senior BJP leader C M Udasi in June, and there is speculation that Vijayendra may contest from the seat, for which bypoll is yet to be announced. Noting that the party leadership was keen on further strengthening the party in the old Mysuru region, Vijayendra said he will largely involve himself in that activity, while also travelling across the state to strengthen the organisation. Asked about him contesting from Varuna constituency in the next assembly polls, he said the party will decide on it. "...certainly, it is the voters of Varuna constituency who recognised Vijayendra first, but whether I should contest polls or not, if I have to contest, from where, all that will be decided by the party." Ahead of the 2018 assembly polls, just before Vijayendra was to file his nomination, Yediyurappa, who was then state BJP president,announced that his son would not be contesting from Varuna assembly constituency in Mysuru against Congress' Siddaramaiah's son Yatindra. Vijayendra was projected as the candidate despite the party not announcing any candidate, and he had even campaigned in the constituency and had rented a house there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-had-not-put-condition-to-make-me-minister-before-resigning-as-karnataka-cm-b-y-vijayendra-1016595.html
05-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||My followers want me to be CM or Dy CM: Eshwarappa||Minister K S Eshwarappa said that his followers desire for him to be either Chief Minister or Deputy Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters, Eshwarappa said, a few people had projected that he will not get a ministerial berth but, "The party high command has considered me," he said. This time around, we have formed the government with the support of outsiders but, next time BJP will get a full majority, he said. He also criticised opposition party leader Siddaramaiah for his comments against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/my-followers-want-me-to-be-cm-or-dy-cm-eshwarappa-1016678.html
05-08-2021||National||Protesting farmer unions to hold Tiranga rallies on Independence Day||Farmers protesting against the Centre's three agri laws would observe Independence Day as 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' and would take out Tiranga marches across the country, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced on Wednesday. In a statement, the SKM, which is an amalgam of 40 farmer unions, said "farmers and workers shall take out Tiranga marches to block, tehsil, district headquarters or their nearest Kisan Morcha or dharna" on August 15. "These marches will be taken out with the national flag on cycles, bikes, carts, tractors, etc," it said. The SKM also reiterated their earlier decision that no "official flag hoisting functions" or "march with the national flag" would be opposed by farmers till August 15. However, its decision of boycotting BJP leaders and its allies would continue for all other political and governmental activities, it noted. During the ongoing ''Kisan Sansad'', which completed its 10th day on Wednesday, the farmers passed resolutions against the three "black" laws as well as against the proposed bill on Air Pollution and the Electricity Amendment Bill. The mock Parliament also witnessed the farmers tabling a "bill" providing a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) for the agriculture produce. Various speakers during the discussion highlighted the failure of the existing system to offer a remunerative price or even cost price to the farmers, it added. The Kisan Sansad is being organised by farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at multiple Delhi borders since November last year. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. As part of these Kisan Sansad sessions, 200 farmers from the protest sites participate in the mock Parliament session at Jantar Mantar during which issues concerning the farming community are discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmer-unions-to-hold-tiranga-rallies-on-independence-day-1016376.html
05-08-2021||National||Sewage samples to be collected to ascertain coronavirus circulation intensity||Sewage samples will be collected as part of soon-to-be-launched environmental surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 to ascertain the intensity of the virus circulation in the community and detect the emergence of any new variant, official sources said on Wednesday. The exercise will be carried out as part of the INSACOG's genomic surveillance activity and a chain of institutions and laboratories will participate in it. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) is a grouping of 28 laboratories involved in monitoring the genomic variations in coronavirus in the country. According to sources, the environmental surveillance will complement the current genomic surveillance done at sentinel sites across the country, including a network of tertiary care hospitals and medical colleges.  The technique is standardised and will be built on the network established for the polio environmental surveillance, they said. "The SARS-CoV-2 environmental surveillance is part of an overall approach for mitigation of a possible third or subsequent waves of Covid-19," an official source said. For polio eradication activities, environmental surveillance became a tool for early pick up of the virus circulation in the community and also for ensuring high-quality acute flaccid paralysis surveillance. "India has been at the forefront of environmental surveillance during the polio programme and has been one of the first countries to initiate environmental surveillance for it. "Even today, environmental surveillance is considered a sensitive and effective tool to identify circulation of any virulent poliovirus even when there was no obvious evidence of clinical polio cases," the source explained. Building on the same experience, the country is now initiating environmental surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 and its variants. "The exercise will involve collecting sewage samples from strategic points from urban areas for early identification of any variant of concern and variant of interest," the source said, adding this will help in identifying the intensity of viral transmission in the draining communities and colonies.  This exercise is likely to begin in the next few weeks and will be carried out in major cities and urban settlements, including Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Laboratories and institutions of the Department of Biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Council of Medical Research, National Centre for Disease Control and states will conduct this nationwide surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sewage-samples-to-be-collected-to-ascertain-coronavirus-circulation-intensity-1016377.html
05-08-2021||National||Pune passes resolution to build 25-feet Lord Ram sculpture on playground||The standing committee of the BJP-controlled Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has passed a resolution to build a 25-feet tall sculpture of Lord Ram on an under-development playground, a corporator said on Wednesday. The NCP opposed the proposal, saying it was against the rules. The resolution was passed by the PMC's standing committee during a meeting on Tuesday, said corporator Varsha Tapkir who tabled it. Tapkir, who sought Rs 2 crore for the project, said since a grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, the idea behind installing the sculpture of Lord Ram was to instil the life values exemplified by him. The playground is being developed on 1.5 acres of land in the Dhankawadi-Ambegaon area, she told PTI, adding that the sculpture will not come in the way of jogging track and sports infrastructure. City NCP chief and former mayor Prashant Jagtap opposed the resolution. "We also revere Lord Shri Ram, however erecting such a sculpture on a playground is against the rules," he said. It was an attempt by the BJP to create religious polarisation at a time when several development projects have come to a halt due to the pandemic, he said. "In the last four and a half years, the ruling party in the civic body did not do anything and now in the name of religion, they are trying to woo people. The NCP opposes it," he added. As per the rules, it is not allowed to build any kind of sculpture, temple or statute in gardens and playgrounds, Jagtap said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-passes-resolution-to-build-25-feet-lord-ram-sculpture-on-playground-1016381.html
05-08-2021||National||BRO constructs highest motorable road in the world in eastern Ladakh||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has constructed the highest motorable road in the world at the height of 19,300 feet at Umlingla Pass in eastern Ladakh, the defence ministry said on Wednesday. The BRO has constructed a 52-km long black-topped road through Umlingla Pass, bettering the previous record of a road in Bolivia connecting to its volcano Uturuncu at 18,953 ft, the ministry's statement noted.  The road at Umlingla Pass now connects the important towns in the Chumar sector of Eastern Ladakh, it said.  "It will prove to be a boon to the local population as it offers an alternate direct route connecting Chisumle and Demchok from Leh. It will enhance the socio-economic condition and promote tourism in Ladakh," it mentioned.  During the winter, the temperature dips to -40 degrees Celsius and the oxygen level at this altitude (19,300 feet) is almost 50 per cent less than at normal places, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bro-constructs-highest-motorable-road-in-the-world-in-eastern-ladakh-1016415.html
05-08-2021||National||Nearly 43,000 new Covid-19 cases, 533 more deaths||India added 42,982 new coronavirus infections in a single day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,18,12,114, while the active cases increased to 4,11,076, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,290 with 533 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.29 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 723 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 16,64,030 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 47,48,93,363. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.37 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,09,74,748, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 48.93 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 533 new fatalities include 195 from Maharashtra and 108 from Kerala. A total of 4,26,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,410 from Maharashtra, 36,680 from Karnataka, 34,197 from Tamil Nadu, 25,058 from Delhi, 22,767 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,180 from West Bengal and 17,211 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-43000-new-covid-19-cases-533-more-deaths-1016416.html
05-08-2021||National||Covishield dose-gap may be decreased again for those above 45 years: Report||Months after public backlash for increasing the interval between two Covishield doses, the Centre is now considering reducing the gap once again. This new change will likely be aimed at those above the age of 45 years. When the increase in the dose interval was first announced, it was met with widespread criticism and dubbed as a move to cover up shortage of vaccines. Lack of clear  scientific objective to do this added fuel to the rage. The choice will be made once the NTAGI reviews all relevant scientific data. Currently all eligible persons are being administered 2 doses of the Covishield vaccine with an interval of 12-16 weeks. “We have gathered data on the impact of vaccines and their dosage interval on different age groups and from different regions," said NTAGI chairperson Dr N K Arora. “In two to four weeks, we may decide on reducing dosage interval of Covishield, especially for those above 45 years and elderly based on final scientific evidence". He said that even one dose of Covishield has shown to be effective against Covid-19. India initially followed a 1-month gap, which saw a 4-8 week gap extension. The interval was eventually extended to 12-14 weeks. The Union Health Minister had said in Parliament that monthly vaccine production would be increased. The monthly production of Covishield is set to witness an acceleration from ‘110 million doses per month by year-end to more than 120 million’. The Centre recently said that it cannot meet its goal of administering 2.16 billion vaccine doses by year-end. The projection has been cut down to 1.35 billion doses at present. The Centre has said it still aims to fully vaccinate all adults by December 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-dose-gap-may-be-decreased-again-for-those-above-45-years-report-1016421.html
05-08-2021||National||PM Modi, President Kovind, ministers laud Indian hockey team for bronze at Olympics||Hailing the Indian men's hockey team's bronze medal win in the Tokyo Olympics as historic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that this day will be etched in the memory of every Indian.  With this feat, they have captured the imagination of the entire nation, especially the youth, Modi said, adding that India is proud of its hockey team.  Sources said the prime minister also spoke to the men's hockey team captain Manpreet Singh, head coach Graham Reid and Assistant Coach Piyush Dubey, after the win.  Modi congratulated the team for emerging victorious and bringing home the Bronze, they said. According to sources, the PM told Manpreet Singh that "you have scripted history".  During the conversation, Modi also remarked that today Singh's voice was loud and clear as compared with the other day when India had lost to Belgium in the semi-finals. The Indian team captain thanked the PM for his constant encouragement to the team, according to the sources. In a tweet, Modi said, "Historic! A day that will be etched in the memory of every Indian. Congratulations to our Men's Hockey Team for bringing home the Bronze. With this feat, they have captured the imagination of the entire nation, especially our youth. India is proud of our Hockey team."  Historic! A day that will be etched in the memory of every Indian. Congratulations to our Men’s Hockey Team for bringing home the Bronze. With this feat, they have captured the imagination of the entire nation, especially our youth. India is proud of our Hockey team. 🏑 The Indian men's hockey team rewrote history as it claimed an Olympic medal after 41 years, beating a plucky Germany 5-4 to claim the bronze in an edge-of-the-seat play-off match of the ongoing Games here on Thursday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished the team for their "well-deserved victory", calling it a big moment for India. Congratulations to Indian Men’s Hockey Team! This is a big moment- the whole country is proud of your achievement. President Ram Nath Kovind and Union Minister Ashok Gehlot also extended their congratulations to the team. "This historic victory will start a new era in hockey and will inspire the youth to take up and excel in the sport", tweeted Kovind. Congratulations to our men's hockey team for winning an Olympic Medal in hockey after 41 years. The team showed exceptional skills, resilience & determination to win. This historic victory will start a new era in hockey and will inspire the youth to take up and excel in the sport Gehlot said the team has brought glory to the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-president-kovind-ministers-laud-indian-hockey-team-for-bronze-at-olympics-1016425.html
05-08-2021||National||Under India's Presidency, UNSC will meet Friday to discuss situation in Afghanistan||The UN Security Council, under the Presidency of India, will meet on Friday to discuss the worsening security situation in Afghanistan. The decision to hold the open UNSC briefing on Afghanistan comes just a day after Afghanistan Foreign Minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar spoke with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar "to discuss convening an emergency UN Security Council Session” on Afghanistan. “UN #SecurityCouncil will meet on Friday, 6th August, under Indian Presidency to discuss and take stock of the situation in #Afghanistan," India’s Permanent Representative to UN and Security Council President for the month of August Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted late on Wednesday. Atmar said the UN and the international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in Afghanistan due to Taliban violence and atrocities. “Appreciate the lead role of as current UNSC President,” Atmar had tweeted. The fighting between the Taliban and Afghanistan's government forces has intensified over the past few months as US and NATO troops complete their pullout from the war-torn country. A meeting on Afghanistan had not been scheduled during the month as per the Council’s Programme of Work for the month adopted on Monday. Briefing reporters at the UN Headquarters, Tirumurti had said he expects that “probably the Security Council will be looking at this aspect sooner rather than later” on Afghanistan in response to a question on the situation in Afghanistan and what the Security Council can do to prevent further escalation in the war-torn country. It is significant that the open briefing on Afghanistan comes within the first week of India’s Presidency of the Council, highlighting the urgency of the current situation in Afghanistan. Tirumurti had said that the situation in Afghanistan is of deep concern to all members of the Security Council and "we have seen that in recent days, the violence is only increasing.” As far as India is concerned, he had said New Delhi has mentioned very clearly that “we want to see an independent, peaceful, democratic and a stable Afghanistan. India has supported every opportunity that can bring peace, security and stability in Afghanistan.” “We are convinced that…we should address the question of violence and the targeted attacks and these are very serious concerns and all violence must come to an end. Ties with international terrorism should also be cut. We cannot have terrorist camps once again moving back into Afghanistan. And this will have a direct impact on India,” Tirumurti had said. He had underlined that it is also “important for us to protect the gains which we have had in the last nearly 20 years,” adding that aspirations of the Afghan women, youth and minorities must be respected. On Tuesday, the powerful 15-nation Security Council had condemned in the “strongest terms" last week’s “deplorable” attack against the United Nations compound in Herat, Afghanistan and expressed “deep concern” over the high levels of violence in the war-torn country following the Taliban’s military offensive. The Council also declared that it does “not support the restoration of the Islamic Emirate.” "The members of the Security Council called on both the Islamic Republic and the Taliban to engage meaningfully in an inclusive, Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process in order to make urgent progress towards a political settlement and a ceasefire,” the strongly-worded UNSC Press Statement had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-indias-presidency-unsc-will-meet-friday-to-discuss-situation-in-afghanistan-1016432.html
05-08-2021||National||Maharashtra Congress questions CBI's 'silence' over probe into death of Sushant Singh Rajput||The Maharashtra Congress on Thursday questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation's "silence" over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a year after it took over the probe into the case. The party alleged that the national investigation agencies were being used by the Centre for its own "political agenda". Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area on June 14, 2020, and the CBI took over the probe into the case in August last year. "It's been a year today since CBI took over investigation of unfortunate death of Sushant Singh Rajput from Bihar police. Registration of FIR by Bihar police was against article 177 of CRPC.Supreme court also had expressed satisfaction in the overall investigation by Mumbai Police," Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant tweeted. He said it has been more than 300 days now since the AIIMS panel ruled out murder. "CBI is maintaining deliberate silence. This mockery of investigation by national investigation agencies is an apt example of how these agencies are being used by Modi government for their political agenda," he alleged in a tweet. In another tweet, Sawant claimed that Gupteshwar Pandey (former Bihar DGP) was being used to further political agenda of the BJP, which was to "malign" the image of the Mumbai police and "destabilise" the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. "BJP stooped to the lowest possible level when they openly gave murder, rape angles and used Sushant's death in Bihar elections as well," the Congress leader alleged. There was a "coordinated attack" on the MVA government, claimed Sawant, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. "Some pliable channels were asked to keep peddling murder theories. BJP leaders kept defaming Maharashtra. CBI and other agencies kept leaking fake info. Thousands of fake twitter, FB and YouTube accounts were created by BJP IT cell," he further alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-congress-questions-cbis-silence-over-probe-into-death-of-sushant-singh-rajput-1016439.html
05-08-2021||National||Teens with comorbidities to likely be prioritised when inoculation drive begins: Report||While the Health Ministry is yet to take a final call on the matter of vaccination for children, the government may prioritise teens with comorbidities based on the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). In a press briefing earlier this week, NEGVAC co-chairman V K Paul had said, "Prioritising children with comorbidities would be scientifically appropriate and valid". While launching the second phase of its nationwide vaccination campaign to inoculate those above 45 years of age, the government had opened doors first for those with pre-existing medical conditions. The same route might be taken with children as the expert panel suggested that children above 12 years of age with serious conditions are more vulnerable than normal kids. This comes as concerns surfaced after the deadly second wave, that the next rise in infections might affect the younger population more severely.  Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in July told BJP MPs that Covid vaccination for children is likely to start soon during the BJP parliamentary party meeting. He reportedly said that a vaccine for children is expected soon. Meanwhile, government health expert N K Arora said India may consider the issue of vaccinating 12 to18-year-old children after another three months by when the drug regulator would be able to examine the clinical trial data on nearly 1,000 adolescents who participated in the evaluation exercise of a new Covid-19 vaccine developed by the pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila. "Since it may take 8-10 weeks for the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation to review the Zydus Cadila vaccination data, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) may take a decision on giving vaccines to 12-18-year-olds sometime between October and December,” NK Arora, one of the Centre’s top advisors on Covid-19 vaccination policy, had told DH. India’s drug regulator is currently reviewing the safety and tolerability data submitted by Zydus Cadila on children as part of the clinical trials of its vaccine aimed at inoculating those in the age group of 12-18 years. Bharat Biotech is also carrying out Phase II/III trials of the whole-virion inactivated SARS-Cov-2 vaccine on children in the age group of 2-18 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teens-with-comorbidities-to-likely-be-prioritised-when-inoculation-drive-begins-report-1016444.html
05-08-2021||National||CPM MP to introduce Pvt Member Bill to repeal sedition clause from IPC||CPI(M) floor leader in Rajya Sabha Elamaram Kareem is likely to introduce a private members bill seeking repealing of provisions related to sedition from the Indian Penal Code, saying that it is "completely untenable" with the country's "democratic structure" as it is "often used to tackle" political opponents. The Bill said the point of the law of sedition is to suppress free speech and free thought, both of which are "unpopular with the government". "The sedition provision is completely untenable with our democratic structure. It is often used to tackle political opponents," Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which is listed for introduction in Rajya Sabha on Friday, said. The private member's bill comes against the backdrop of the Supreme Court last month saying that it was prima facie convinced that sedition is being misused to trample upon citizens' fundamental rights of free speech and liberty and it may have passed its time. An analysis of official statistics showed that police across the country are rushing to file more sedition cases — 2019 witnessed a 25 per cent compared to 2018 — but investigators could manage to get a conviction in just one out of the 30 cases whose trials were completed in 2019. Seeking the repeal of Section 124A, Kareem's Bill said the section was a "draconian measure" introduced in pre-Independence India by the British to counter anti-colonial sentiments. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, the law of sedition was used against Independence movement leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Quoting Gandhi, it said, Section 124A was the "prince among the political sections of the IPC designed to suppress the liberty of the citizen". When the Constituent Assembly discussed the scope and extent of restrictions to be placed on free speech, the Bill said, the prominent exclusion from what eventually became Article 19(2) was the word sedition. The original draft had the word sedition as one of the grounds for restriction on speech. "The point of the sedition law is essentially that of suppressing free speech and free thought, both of which are unpopular with the government. Where a critic can be silenced by the mere fact that there is a possible life sentence that itself acts as a deterrent," it said. The Bill said the law enforcement system has continued to "ignore" the "relatively high standards" laid down by the Supreme Court of what actually constitutes sedition. "Freedom of speech and expression within the Indian legal tradition includes within its ambit any form of criticism, dissent and protest. Sedition was a provision in the law enacted by the British for those who 'rebelled against the Crown'. There is no concept of Crown in our country today," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpm-mp-to-introduce-pvt-member-bill-to-repeal-sedition-clause-from-ipc-1016445.html
05-08-2021||National||Kerala CM hails hockey team's bronze win as historic||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday hailed the Indian men's hockey team's bronze medal in Tokyo Olympics as "historic" and said they have made every Indian proud. "Congratulations to Indian men's hockey team for their historic victory," he tweeted. Lavishing praise on Keralite goalkeeper P R Sreejesh and other team members, the Chief Minister said he has displayed inimitable leadership and the entire team has fought with remarkable fighting spirit. "By winning the bronze medal, you have made every Indian proud," he added. The Indian men's hockey team rewrote history as it claimed an Olympic medal after 41 years, beating a plucky Germany 5-4 to claim the bronze in an edge-of-the-seat play- off match of the ongoing Games in Tokyo on Thursday. The eight-time gold winners, who battled a heartbreaking slump in the last four decades, made the resurgence of the last couple of years count in the best way possible with an Olympic medal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-hails-hockey-teams-bronze-win-as-historic-1016448.html
05-08-2021||National||Allegations serious if correct: SC seeks Centre's stand on plea for probe into use of Pegasus spyware||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to seek the Union government's response on a batch of petitions seeking independent probe into the use of Israel's Pegasus spyware to snoop into phones of a cross section of people, including members of the judiciary. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said that no doubt the allegations were serious if media reports were correct. The court also wondered why no serious concern was shown when such allegations first came to light in May 2019. After hearing senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Arvind Datar, Rakesh Dwivedi and Meenakshi Arora, the court asked the petitioners to serve their copies to the Union government to respond to the matter. The court put the matter for consideration on Tuesday. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar submitted that Pegasus is a rogue technology and infiltrates our life without our knowledge. "All that it requires is a phone and it enters into our lives. It is an assault on privacy, human dignity and value of our human republic, it penetrates into our national internet backbone," he said. The bench, however, said, "People who have filed the writ petitions are more knowledgeable and resourceful. They should have put more hard work to put more material."  "I don't want to say also that pleas don't have anything. Some of the petition who have filed the plea are not affected and some claim their phones are hacked.  But they have not made efforts to file a criminal complaint," the CJI said. Sibal, for his part, referred to proceedings in a California court and said that the governments in France and USA have taken actions based on newspapers reports about snooping individuals, activists, journalists and others. Other counsel Dwivedi, Divan, Datar and Arora said it was not a question of individual complaints as the issue had huge dimention affecting right to privacy. Petitions filed by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India came up for hearing before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allegations-serious-if-correct-sc-seeks-centres-stand-on-plea-for-probe-into-use-of-pegasus-spyware-1016451.html
05-08-2021||National||Adar Poonawalla sets aside Rs 10 cr to support students travelling abroad||Serum Institute of India CEO and owner Adar Poonawalla on Thursday said that he has set aside Rs 10 crore to support students travelling abroad for studies, as a few countries are yet to approve Covishield as an acceptable vaccine for entry without quarantine. He also shared a link for students to apply for financial support, if needed. Earlier in July, he had lauded 16 European countries for recognising Covishield as an acceptable vaccine for entry. "It is indeed good news for travellers, as we see sixteen European countries recognising Covishield as an acceptable vaccine for entry. However, despite being vaccinated, entry guidelines might vary from country to country, so do read up before you travel," Poonawalla had said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-sets-aside-rs-10-cr-to-support-students-travelling-abroad-1016467.html
05-08-2021||National||IMA president J A Jayalal says suit against him for Ayurveda remarks 'design to harass allopathic doctors'||Indian Medical Association (IMA) president J A Jayalal has called the civil suit filed against him for alleged derogatory remarks against Ayurveda “an elaborate design to harass the allopathic doctors”. He said the plea, which sought a public apology for hurting the sentiments of Ayurvedic believers, prevents him from exercising the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. “The plaint is part of an elaborate design on the part of the certain section of people to seek to harass allopathic doctors and restrain them from exercising their fundamental rights,” Jayalal, along with IMA and its general secretary Jayesh Lele, stated in a 212-page reply to the suit. The medical association in its July 30 reply has also called the allegations bald, unsubstantiated, and not maintainable in law, adding that the application deserves to be rejected by the court with a cost. Jayalal, IMA, Lele, the National Medical Association, and the Bureau of Indian Standards are the defendants in the case. Civil Judge Deeksha Rao of Tis Hazari court has directed the rest of the defendants to submit their reply to the suit by September 29. The suit, filed by one Rajender Singh Rajput, has sought a public apology and a direction from the court to desist Jayalal and others from making derogatory statements against Ayurveda treatment and hurting the sentiments of its believers. The plea cited Jayalal saying in an interview that the Indian government is trying to replace modern medicine with Ayurveda because of their “cultural value and traditional belief in Hindutva”. “This is an indirect way for the government to introduce the language of Sanskrit and the language of Hindutva into the minds of the people. The church takes care of people, not the government,” he said, as per the plea. Furthermore, Rajput said that Jayalal is abusing powers by trying to infuriate the religious sentiments of the citizens of India by maliciously bringing Christianity in all the statements circulated through print and electronic media. The suit, filed through advocate Bharat Malhotra, also alleged that IMA is promoting commercial products of private companies in exchange for crores of rupees, a claim refuted by the medical association and its topmost officials in their reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-president-j-a-jayalal-says-suit-against-him-for-ayurveda-remarks-design-to-harass-allopathic-doctors-1016474.html
05-08-2021||National||RS witnesses repeated adjournments||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned thrice during the pre-lunch period on Thursday after opposition members continued to create uproar over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The House was first adjourned for 15 minutes during the Zero hour and then again soon after it met at 11.30 AM. The House which met again at 12 noon was adjourned after opposition members continued to raise slogans in the well and disrupted the proceedings. Deputy chairman Harivansh continued with the Question Hour amid the din, but unrelenting members of the Congress, TMC and some other parties continued to create uproar. He adjourned the House for the third time till 2 PM. When the House met at 12 PM, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said some members were asked to withdraw from the House on Wednesday, but when they returned to collect their bags and other belongings after the House was adjourned, they were not allowed to enter. He was referring to the suspension of six TMC MPs on Wednesday for carrying placards while protesting along with other opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. "When the House has been adjourned for the day, they wanted to come and take their bags. It is wrong to disallow them from collecting their material from the house after the House is adjourned...This is wrong and you will have to face the consequences," Kharge said in the House. While deputy chairman said the matter is under the consideration of the chairman, union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said no one has objections to the protests by opposition members but to the violence that was created by the opposition members after the House was adjourned and a security official was hurt. "No one has any objections to protests or ruckus, the objection is on violence. The objection is to the manner in which they have conspired to shame the temple of democracy. The way a security official has been hurt and violence done. Our objection is that the way they want to hijack the House proceedings through their violence," Naqvi said. The deputy chairman continued with the Question Hour for a few minutes, but opposition members continued with their protests despite appeals by the chair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-witnesses-repeated-adjournments-1016478.html
05-08-2021||National||Sex with woman on false promise of marriage is rape: Allahabad high court||In a significant decision, the Allahabad high court has said that sexual intercourse with a woman on the false promise of marriage is rape and stressed on the need for making law to deal with such cases. A single bench comprising justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava made the observation while denying bail to a man, who is accused of raping a woman on the false promise of marriage and was later arrested after a case was lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town. ''Rape is considered as the most physically and morally reprehensible crime in a society and has a long lasting effect on the mind of victims...sexual intercourse with the victim on the pretext of false promise to marry is, and ought to be an offence of rape under the penal provisions,'' the court said. ''It is becoming a phenomenon that the accused makes a false promise of marriage with the mala fide intention to deceive the victim... these cases are increasing day by day as the accused persons believe that they will escape from the criminal liability and punishment by taking advantage of law,'' it said further. The court said that it is ''necessary for the legislature to provide a clear and specific legal framework to deal with the cases where the accused obtained consent for sexual intercourse on the false promise of marriage''. ''But till such a law is enacted, the court should take into consideration the social reality and reality of human life and continue giving protection to such women who have suffered on account of false promises of marriage unless there is prolonged relationship which raises a strong inference of consensual sex'' it added. ''Obtaining consent for sexual relationship by false promise of marriage should be termed as consent given under misconception of fact and must amount to rape,'' it said. ''The court cannot remain a silent spectator and give license to those who are trying to exploit innocent girls and have sexual intercourse with them on the pretext of a false promise of marriage....this feudal mindset and male chauvinism that women are nothing but an object of enjoyment is required to be rigorously addressed and strictly dealt with in order to create a healthier society and to increase a sense of security and protection in the mind of women,'' the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sex-with-woman-on-false-promise-of-marriage-is-rape-allahabad-high-court-1016483.html
05-08-2021||National||Chidambaram raises issue of ministers not laying officials papers in Rajya Sabha||Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram on Thursday raised the issue of ministers not being present in Rajya Sabha for laying of official listed papers. Chidambaram raised the issue when Parliamentary Affairs Minister V Muraleedharan was called to lay official papers on behalf of six of his ministerial colleagues. "We can understand that the parliamentary minister occasionally laying a paper on behalf of his colleagues who are unable to attend the House for some reason. But every day we find the parliamentary affairs minister lays the papers for half a dozen ministers. "Those half a dozen ministers don't respect RS. Every day it is happening, How can you do it," he asked. Deputy Chairman Harivansh said the matter was raised even on Wednesday and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had stated that the parliamentary affairs minister has been allowed to lay papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. The practice started in the last session when working of the House was curtailed and MPs were seated in the lobbies as well as in Lok Sabha to allow for social distancing. However, the House has reverted to its normal functioning hours and all members and ministers are present in the House now. On Wednesday, Anand Sharma of Congress had stated that "the rules clearly say that the papers will be laid by the concerned minister. Only when specific permission is taken, another colleague or the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs shall lay the papers". He said those ministers who are present in the House should not be given this luxury of not laying the papers. "This is disrespecting the House," he had said. Naidu had responded to him saying the Chair allowed the parliamentary affairs minister to lay the papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. "That has been announced," he said. When other Congress MPs tried to object to the continuing of the practice despite House resuming normal functioning, Naidu said, "You are not supposed to comment on this. Your leader has brought it to my notice. Leave it there. Don't stretch it too much. It has been already mentioned in the bulletin also."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-raises-issue-of-ministers-not-laying-officials-papers-in-rajya-sabha-1016492.html
05-08-2021||National||Penile sexual assault between thighs of victim held together amounts to rape: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court has clarified that penetrative sexual acts between the thighs of a woman can amount to rape under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). While considering an appeal filed by a rape case convict in Kerala on Monday, a bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman maintained that when the body of the victim is manipulated to hold the legs together for the purpose of simulating a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice, the offence of rape is attracted. When penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to 'rape' as defined under section 375. The court said this while deciding whether the penetration to 'any part of the body of such woman' as mentioned in section 375(c) like sexual assaults beyond penile penetration into vagina, urethra, anus and mouth amounted to rape. We have already found that Section 375 as amended by Act 13 of 2013 widened the definition of "rape" by expanding its ambit beyond the penile penetrative assault into vagina. Following amendments to Section 375, several penetrative sexual assaults, which would otherwise be triable under Section 377, now come within the operative field of Section 375, the court said and dismissed the appeal against conviction for rape charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/penile-sexual-assault-between-thighs-of-victim-held-together-amounts-to-rape-kerala-hc-1016493.html
05-08-2021||National||BJP MP shocked at induction of 'muscleman' politician who 'burnt' her house||A little over 12 years ago, the name of Jitendra Singh Bablu, a 'muscleman' and then a BSP legislator, had cropped up in a case of burning of the house of BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi, who was then the president of the Uttar Pradesh Congress, in the state capital of Lucknow. Much to her shock and dismay, Bablu, on Wednesday, joined the saffron party in the presence of UP BJP president Swatantra Deo Singh. Joshi said that she was 'pained' by the induction of Bablu and hoped that he would be shown the door. "I am shocked and stunned by Bablu's entry into BJP.....he had led the mob, which had torched my house in July 2009...charges against him have already been framed," Joshi said. Apparently careful not to offend the party leadership, the BJP MP said that she was 'sure' that Singh might not have been aware of the criminal background of Bablu before admitting him into the party. Bablu and another BSP leader Intizar Abidi were booked for allegedly torching Joshi's house in protest against the latter's alleged 'derogatory' remarks on BSP supremo and the then UP chief minister Mayawati. Both of them were later arrested by the police in this connection. The opposition Samajwadi Party slammed the BJP for admitting 'criminals' into its fold. "It seems that BJP is preparing a gang of people with criminal backgrounds....chief minister Yogi Adityanath talks of zero tolerance against criminals and his party is welcoming them," said a senior SP leader here on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-shocked-at-induction-of-muscleman-politician-who-burnt-her-house-1016495.html
05-08-2021||National||Consider 'common card' to fully vaccinated people for unrestricted travel: HC to Maharashtra, Centre||The Bombay high court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government to think about identifying and separating those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine from the rest, and provide a "common card" to the fully inoculated people to allow them unrestricted travel and work. The court said the state government should consider allowing people who have received both doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine to travel by local trains, and carry on with activities that were permitted before the pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also said the state and the Union government must consider issuing a "common card" that identifies a citizen as fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and permits him or her to travel and work unrestrained. The bench was presiding over a bunch of public interest litigations seeking permission for lawyers, judicial clerks and staff, journalists, and other fully vaccinated people to travel in local trains in Mumbai. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told the HC that a letter from the State Disaster Management Authority will be issued for lawyers and registered judicial clerks, based on which the Railways will issue them passes permitting local train travel. The bench then referred to an interview with Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, published in a newspaper in the morning. Dr Joshi said in the interview that the state was yet to achieve the target of fully vaccinating at least 70 per cent of its population. He said one-third of Maharashtra's population was still highly susceptible to getting infected by the coronavirus, and unrestricted local train travel, even for the fully vaccinated, could not be permitted yet as identifying the fully vaccinated was cumbersome, according to the HC. "If Dr Joshi says it can be done (train travel) subject to identification, it is for the state and the Centre to identify the fully vaccinated (people)," the HC said. "One-third of the population is still susceptible to the virus. Then, this one-third population should be separated from the two-third, or from the fully vaccinated. At least provide them with a card identifying them as fully vaccinated," the HC said. The court said in some western nations, people used such cards for access to public transport. "You can have a common card that can be used as an ID for everything allowed for the fully vaccinated, even foreign travel," the HC said. Kumbhakoni, and Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the Union government, said they will discuss the idea of a common card. The court directed the Maharashtra government to file an affidavit by August 12, submitting the proposed plan for permitting fully vaccinated citizens the use of local trains in the city. It said it will consider all other issues raised in the above PILs on August 16. "As we celebrate the country's independence on the 15th, let us hope on 16th we will get independence from all these issues too (restrictions on travel, trade imposed in the state in view of the pandemic)," the HC said. The court also suggested that the Maharashtra government constitute an expert administrative body to look into citizens' grievances on subjects such as local commute, public transport, and other social issues. "You can't compare Mumbai with any other city in this state. Its complexion is totally different. It is a city with special needs, so why not constitute an expert committee to consider local train travel, other social issues so that citizens are not forced to approach the HC for everything," the high court said. "Let the state machinery be geared up to tackle these different issues affecting your citizens," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-common-card-to-fully-vaccinated-people-for-unrestricted-travel-hc-to-maharashtra-centre-1016499.html
05-08-2021||National||Manmohan Singh lauds Indian men's hockey team for winning Olympic bronze||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday congratulated the Indian men's hockey team for winning the Olympic medal, and hoped it will inspire the youth of the country. "I join the nation in congratulating Indian hockey team for winning the Olympic bronze medal in the men's hockey event," he said in his message. "This sterling performance has really made me travel 41 years down the memory lane to relive and feel the vigour, vitality and energy of that event," he said. "I strongly feel that this victory would inspire the sports fraternity and the youth of the country to make their mark in their respective fields," Singh said. A resolute Indian men's hockey team rewrote history as it claimed an Olympic medal after 41 years, defeating a plucky Germany 5-4 to win the bronze in an edge-of-the-seat play-off match of the ongoing Games in Tokyo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-lauds-indian-mens-hockey-team-for-winning-olympic-bronze-1016500.html
05-08-2021||National||India flexes maritime muscles to counter Chinese influence||India is flexing its maritime muscles to counter growing Chinese influence, conducting sea trials on its first indigenous aircraft carrier and dispatching a task force for joint exercises with the United States and other allies. The INS Vikrant, which began trials off the southern state of Kerala on Wednesday, will be India's second aircraft carrier in operation. The Indian Navy said the country can now "join a select group of nations with the capability to indigenously design and build an Aircraft Carrier, which will be a real testimony to the 'Make in India' thrust of the Indian Government." The new 262-metre (860-foot) carrier joins the INS Vikramaditya, the Soviet-made Admiral Gorshkov that India bought in 2004. The navy said 44 other ships and submarines were being built indigenously. It is also pressing the government for a third carrier, with Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh saying the force could not remain "tethered". China, vying for influence in the Indian Ocean where New Delhi has traditionally held sway, is currently building its third aircraft carrier. The Indian Navy said separately on Monday that it was sending a task force of four ships to South East Asia, the South China Sea and Western Pacific for two months of exercises including with Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia, Japan, Australia and the United States. The deployment "seeks to underscore the operational reach, peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain and to strengthen existing bonds between India and countries of the Indo Pacific," it said. India, Japan, Australia and the US together form the "Quad" alliance seen as a bulwark against China. Last year, 20 Indian troops died in a clash on their disputed Himalayan border with China. This year, India has also conducted naval exercises with France and most recently with a British task force in the Bay of Bengal last month led by the new HMS Queen Elizabeth carrier. This week, broadcaster Al Jazeera reported that India may be building a naval facility in the Mauritius archipelago, citing satellite imagery, financial data and on-the-ground evidence. Mauritius on Wednesday said that although work was underway on an air strip and a jetty on the island of Agalega, they would not be used for military purposes. The Indian foreign ministry declined to comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-flexes-maritime-muscles-to-counter-chinese-influence-1016502.html
05-08-2021||National||RS passes Bill to amend Scheduled Tribe list relating to Arunachal Pradesh||Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the constitutional list of Scheduled Tribes as recommended by Arunachal Pradesh. The Bill was passed by voice vote amid protest by the opposition over issues of Pegasus, agri laws and others. Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda said, "This Bill will justice to tribals. Please support and approve the Bill ." The Bill was introduced in Rajya Sabha by Munda on August 2, 2021. At present, there are 18 communities with their synonyms appearing in the illustrative list of Scheduled Tribes in respect of the state of Arunachal Pradesh. On the basis of recommendations of the state of Arunachal Pradesh, the Bill provides for modifying Part-XVIII of the Schedule to the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, relating to state of Arunachal Pradesh. It provides for deletion of 'Abor' (tribe) in serial No. 1, as it is the same as 'Adi' in serial No. 16. Secondly, it proposed to replace 'Tai Khamti' instead of 'Khampti' at serial No. 6 of the list. It also provides for inclusion of 'Mishmi-Kaman (Miju Mishmi)', 'Idu (Mishmi)' and 'Taraon (Digaru Mishmi)' in serial No. 8 in lieu of 'Mishmi, Idu, Taroan' in the list. It provides for inclusion of 'Monpa', 'Memba', 'Sartang', 'Sajolang (Miji)' in serial No. 9 in lieu of 'Momba' in the list. It also provides for inclusion of 'Nocte', 'Tangsa', 'Tutsa', 'Wancho' in lieu of 'Any Naga Tribes' in serial No. 10 of the the list. The amendment in the list of Scheduled Tribes relating to the state of Arunachal Pradesh will entail no additional recurring expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India on account of benefits likely to be provided to persons belonging to the communities proposed in the Bill. This ministry is already funding for welfare of 10.45 crores Scheduled Tribes population (Census, 2011). Further, the Scheduled Tribes are also eligible for benefits under the Scheduled Tribes Component (STC) of schemes under the central government and state governments. Banda Prakash (TRS), M Thambidurai (AIADMK), K Somaprasad (CPI-M), Fauzia Khan (NCP), Manoj Jha (RJD) and S K Gupta (AAP) spoke briefly on the Bill and supported it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-passes-bill-to-amend-scheduled-tribe-list-relating-to-arunachal-pradesh-1016504.html
05-08-2021||National||Panacea Biotec to make up to 25 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine for India||Panacea Biotec on Thursday said it has entered into a pact to produce up to 25 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine using the drug substance manufactured by pharma firm Generium in Russia. The company has entered into a "licensing and manufacturing agreement with Human Vaccine Limited Liability Company, a subsidiary of Russian Direct Investment Fund, Russia, Generium Joint Stock Company,Russia, and Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd," Panacea Biotec said in a filing to BSE. As per the terms of this agreement, Panacea Biotec shall produce the Sputnik V vaccine using the ready-to-fill drug substance manufactured by Generium in Russia, and then supply the entire quantity to Dr Reddy's for distribution in India, it added. "The agreement is for manufacture (fill and finish) of upto 25 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine," Panacea Biotec added.  Shares of Panacea Biotec ended at Rs 356.40 per scrip on BSE, up 2.77 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panacea-biotec-to-make-up-to-25-million-doses-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-for-india-1016505.html
05-08-2021||National||'This is not the way to file PIL', SC tells advocate for naming PM Modi as party in Pegasus case||The Supreme Court on Thursday told advocate M L Sharma that he can't make Prime Minister Narendra Modi as respondent in his petition for a court monitored SIT probe into the Pegasus snooping scandal. “You have included certain individuals (prime minister as respondent in the petition)….we can’t issue notice like this. Don’t try to take advantage of things…you have defective memo of parties," a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant told the advocate-petitioner. The court also sought to know from him as to what materials he relied upon other than the newspapers clippings to file his PIL. “This is not the way to file a PIL, where is the material other than paper cuttings,” the bench asked the advocate-petitioner. Sharma maintained that his petition is based on facts and not merely on newspaper cuttings. He also sought permission to amend the parties in his petition. The bench also pointed out to the counsel he made a complaint to the CBI in the matter and the very next he filed the writ petition before the top court. Sharma claimed the government was fabricating material in the computer through this software. During the hearing, the court pointed out that there were too many petitions and it has to see on which petitions it has to issue formal notice and on which it shouldn’t. The top court asked petitioners to serve copy on the Union of India and indicated that only in a few petitions court, it may issue notice on Tuesday after taking into account the views of the Centre. In his arguments, Sharma claimed, "Now Facebook and WhatsApp have signed a consent statement. There are apprehensions on what was said before the USA court. Once you enter computer you get pass word and everything else. This is very important and any document can be planted. This declaration by NSO before the US was very important." In his plea, Sharma claimed, Pegasus scandal was a matter of grave concern and an attack on the Indian democracy, country's security and judiciary. "The widespread use of surveillance is morally disfiguring. National security implications of this software are huge," his plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-is-not-the-way-to-file-pil-sc-tells-advocate-for-naming-pm-modi-as-party-in-pegasus-case-1016507.html
05-08-2021||National||No plan to house India military base, Mauritius says||Mauritius has denied a report that it has allowed India to build a military base on the remote island of Agalega, with a government official telling AFP that no such agreement exists between the two nations. Earlier this week, news broadcaster Al Jazeera reported on the construction of an airstrip and two jetties to house an Indian military base on Agalega, located about 1,000 kilometres north of the archipelago's main island. But on Wednesday, the Mauritian government denied any plans to allow a military installation on Agalega, home to about 300 people. "There is no agreement between Mauritius and India for the creation of a military base in Agalega," Ken Arian, a communications adviser to Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth, told AFP. Arian said that although work was under way on two projects agreed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 2015 visit to Mauritius -- a three-kilometre (1.8-mile) air strip and a jetty -- they would not be used for military purposes. The report raised fears of a repeat of the 1965 decision by Britain to separate the Chagos Islands from Mauritius and set up a joint military base with the United States on Diego Garcia, the largest of the isles. The decades-old move has sparked protests by Chagossians, who accuse Britain of carrying out an "illegal occupation" and barring them from their homeland. Britain insists the islands belong to London and has renewed a lease agreement with the United States to use Diego Garcia until 2036. Diego Garcia played a strategic role during the Cold War, and then as an airbase, including during the war in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-house-india-military-base-mauritius-says-1016510.html
05-08-2021||National||India not invited to 'extended Troika' meeting on Afghanistan convened by Russia||India has not been invited to a crucial meeting being convened by Russia on the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan that is expected to see the participation of Pakistan, China and the US, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. As the Taliban continues its offensive in Afghanistan, Russia has stepped up efforts to reach out to all key stakeholders in the war-torn country to stop the violence and push the Afghan peace process. The 'extended Troika' meeting is scheduled to be held in Qatar on August 11. Talks under the format had earlier taken place on March 18 and April 30. Russia has also been holding the 'Moscow Format' of talks to bring peace and creating conditions for the process of national reconciliation in Afghanistan. Last month, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in Tashkent that Russia will continue to work with India and other countries which can influence the situation in Afghanistan. Following the comments, there was speculation that India may be included in the upcoming 'extended Trioka' meeting. "We will continue working with the Americans in the extended Troika format as well as with all other countries that can influence the situation in Afghanistan, including our partners from Central Asia, India, Iran and the US," he had told reporters. "We have a Moscow format that includes all the main players," Lavrov had said. Though Russia has differences with the US on various dimensions of the Afghan conflict, both countries are now pushing for the intra-Afghan talks and to put an end to the widespread violence being perpetrated by the Taliban. India is yet to comment on the upcoming extended Troika meeting. Meanwhile, Afghan Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay described as a positive development the decision to hold a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on August 6 to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. India's ambassador to the UN TS Tirumurti announced that the UN Security Council will meet on Friday under Indian Presidency to discuss and take stock of the situation in Afghanistan. "Convening an emergency UN Security Council Session on Afghanistan is a positive development. UN & international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in Afghanistan due to violence & atrocities by terrorists. Thank you India for the lead role as UNSC President," Mamundzay tweeted. The decision to hold the UNSC meeting came two days after Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammed Hanif Atmar spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on the convening of an emergency session of the UN Security Council to stop Taliban's violence. India holds the presidency of the UNSC for the month of August. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-invited-to-extended-troika-meeting-on-afghanistan-convened-by-russia-1016511.html
05-08-2021||National||PM Modi speaks to Manpreet, coach Reid after Olympic hockey bronze; applauds hard work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded the hard work of the Indian men's hockey team and its Australian coach Graham Reid during a telephonic conversation with skipper Manpreet Singh and the support staff after the team's bronze medal win at the Olympic Games. Modi called Manpreet and congratulated him and the team for the 5-4 victory over Germany. "Manpreet ji many many congratulations. You and the entire team did a great job, the entire nation is dancing in joy for your achievements. Your hard work paid dividends. I wish all the players for what they have achieved," said Modi. "We will definitely meet once you come back. The entire country is proud of you guys." Then Modi spoke with the Reid saying, "Congratulations. We have created history." In his reply Reid said, "Your words the other day after the semifinal were very inspirational for us. Thank you." Modi finally told Reid, "Your hard work paid off. I am extremely proud." The Indian men's hockey team won an Olympic medal for the first time in 41 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-manpreet-coach-reid-after-olympic-hockey-bronze-applauds-hard-work-1016519.html
05-08-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya holds meeting with Dr Reddy's Lab Chairman on Sputnik V production, supply||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said he has held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy regarding the production and supply of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's, which has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for Sputnik V in India, soft launched the vaccine in India in May 2021, after receiving Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in April 2021. In September 2020, the company partnered with RDIF to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India. The Hyderabad-based drug major has already stated that the locally manufactured Sputnik V will be available from September-October period. "Held a meeting with Dr Satish Reddy, Chairman of Dr Reddy's Lab. Had a discussion on the production of the Sputnik V #Covid19 vaccine and its supply," Mandaviya tweeted. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers, including Dr Reddy's, to manufacture Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's is in a pact with RDIF to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. The first consignment of imported doses of Sputnik V landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13. Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination. Its efficacy was determined to be 91.6 per cent as per an article published in the medical journal Lancet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-holds-meeting-with-dr-reddys-lab-chairman-on-sputnik-v-production-supply-1016524.html
05-08-2021||National||Modi slams Opposition for stalling Parliament, terms it 'self-goal'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the opposition parties for stalling the proceedings of the Parliament and accused them of "hurting" the "sentiments" of the nation. Modi, speaking after inaugurating the 'Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna' in Uttar Pradesh, referred to the victory of the Indian men's hockey team over Germany to win the bronze medal, said that the opposition, however, was indulging in "self-goal" to fulfill its "political vested interests". "At a time, when the youths of the country are scoring goal after goal, some people are scoring self-goals to pursue their political interests," Modi said as he underlined the electoral significance of  UP that sent 80 members to the Lok Sabha. The state will go to polls in March next year. "Such people have no concern for the country.....they are unconcerned with the development of the country...they are hurting the sentiments of the nation by creating obstacles in running the Parliament," he added. "The people of the country cannot be hostage to such anti-national politics...those who are aspiring for power can not stop the progress of the country," the prime minister said. Modi also highlighted the significance of August 5 and said that it was on this day that Article 370 had been scrapped, abolishing special status to Jammu & Kashmir and giving equal rights to the people there. "We had also taken steps for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on this day," he added. Modi had laid the foundation stone for the Ram Temple on August 5 last year. PM also underlined the political significance of UP and said that the road to Delhi passed through the state. He spoke to the beneficiaries of the scheme from Varanasi, Sultanpur, Jhansi, Saharanpur and Kushinagar through video conferencing. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also participated in the program from Ayodhya, came in for praise from Modi once again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-slams-opposition-for-stalling-parliament-terms-it-self-goal-1016538.html
05-08-2021||National||Government has no plan at present to block any social media platform: Rajeev Chandrasekhar||The Centre has no plans at present to block any social media platform in the country, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar informed Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The government regularly interacts with social media companies on matters including accountability of such platforms and safety of users, and there are no plans at present to block any social media platform in the country, the Parliament was informed on Thursday. While some users do misuse social media platforms to create hate and ill-will among people of the country, the government receives various grievances from users about hate content on social media platforms and responds to them in an appropriate way, he said. "Indian democracy has its bedrock in its Constitution and constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights for every citizen. No social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy our democracy," Chandrasekhar emphasised. He stated that under the provision of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks malicious online content, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or to maintain public order. To another question on whether the government proposes to regularise social media in the country, Chandrasekhar said "Government policies are aimed to ensure free, fair, open and trusted Internet and intermediaries are allowed to operate in the country as long as they follow applicable laws including Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, and Rules."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-has-no-plan-at-present-to-block-any-social-media-platform-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1016542.html
05-08-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day; two Bills introduced||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day on Thursday amid continuous disruption by Opposition members over the Pegasus spying issue and three farm laws. After repeated adjournments when the House met at 5 pm, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rose to introduce the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said Bills were being passed in the House without a debate at an average time of seven minutes a Bill. He claimed that bringing a supplementary list of business at the last minute was not correct. RSP member N K Premchandran supported Chowdhary. Later, the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced by a voice vote amid slogan shouting by Opposition members. The Bill seeks to amend the Income Tax Act of 1961 and the Finance Act of 2021. Rama Devi, who was in in the Chair, then adjourned the proceedings for the day. Earlier, a Bill to set up a central university in the union territory of Ladakh was also introduced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-two-bills-introduced-1016543.html
05-08-2021||National||140 terrorists waiting at launch pads across LoC despite ceasefire, says an official||Around 140 terrorists are waiting at launch pads to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir and the terror infrastructure across the Line of Control (LoC) remains in place even though India and Pakistan agreed in February to a ceasefire, a senior security official said on Thursday. Contending that the ceasefire agreement was more important for Pakistan as it is desperately trying to come out of the "grey list" of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the sincerity of Islamabad could have been gauged if they had dismantled the terror infrastructure. The official at the same time said the Army has been noticing continued presence of around 140 terrorists at the launch pads across the LoC, likely waiting to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir, but the robust counter-infiltration grid has so far desisted them from making any such attempts. "They tried in the past but had to return after alert jawans foiled all their nefarious designs," the official said. The official said Pakistan is using the ceasefire window to strengthen its infrastructure along the LoC that was damaged in cross-border shelling last year in response to their troops' firing at civilian areas on the Indian side of the LoC. Commenting on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir since the Centre abrogated its special status two years ago, the official said foreign terrorists have suddenly disappeared from the scene and got themselves locked in either some hideouts in densely populated areas or mountainous heights having natural caves. On locals joining terrorist outfits, the official said there has been a constant message to anyone and everyone that those having any evil design "against our country" should shun such ambitions as all those who either pick up a weapon or harbour ill intentions against the sovereignty of the nation "will be dealt with iron hand". Simultaneously, he said, the Army has been constantly contacting the families whose children are likely to be brainwashed and asking them to take appropriate precautions against it. The results have borne fruits as a number of lives have been saved so far due to a proactive approach of educating families and preventing their wards from joining terror ranks, he added. Following talks between the Directors General of Military Operations of India and Pakistan over hotline, a joint statement was issued on February 25, 2021 in which the two countries agreed to the strict observance of all agreements, understandings and ceasefire along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from the February 24-25 midnight||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/140-terrorists-waiting-at-launch-pads-across-loc-despite-ceasefire-says-an-official-1016547.html
05-08-2021||National||International community cannot afford to ignore terrorist activities in Syria and region: India||The international community cannot afford to ignore terrorist activities in Syria and the region, India has said as it voiced concern over frequent reports of a resurgence of militant groups in the area and the possibility of them gaining access to chemical weapons. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti's remarks came as he was speaking in his national capacity at the UNSC briefing on Syria (Chemical Weapons). “Since we joined the Council in January this year, India has been repeatedly cautioning against the possibility of terrorist entities and individuals gaining access to chemical weapons," Tirumurti said on Wednesday. "We are concerned at the frequent reports of a resurgence of terrorist groups in the region,” he said. Tirumurti, also the President of UN Security Council for the month of August, said “as we have learnt from the consequences of complacency against terrorism in the past, the international community cannot afford to ignore terrorist activities in Syria and the region.” Tirumurti asserted that India is against the use of chemical weapons by anybody, anywhere, at any time and under any circumstances. He said India has consistently maintained that any investigation into the use of chemical weapons must be impartial, credible and objective, following scrupulously the provisions and procedure embedded in the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), and in conformity with the delicate balance of power and responsibility enshrined under it to establish facts and reach evidence-based conclusions. He said India encourages the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) to strictly adhere to these parameters. He said India views the Chemical Weapons Convention as a unique, non-discriminatory disarmament instrument that serves as a model for the elimination of an entire category of weapons of mass destruction. “We attach high importance to the CWC and stand for its full, effective and non-discriminatory implementation. We support collective efforts by all to ensure that the credibility and integrity of this Convention is maintained to the fullest,” Tirumurti added. India encouraged Syria to continue its engagement and cooperation with the OPCW so as to resolve all pending issues expeditiously. Briefing the Council, Deputy to the High Representative for Disarmament Affairs Thomas Markram said although almost eight years have now passed since the adoption of resolution 2118 (2013), there is still work to be done before this resolution can be considered fully implemented. Resolution 2118 calls for Syria to cooperate with the UN partner, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and allow access to its territory. “Moreover, as long as the use of chemical weapons continues, or the threat of their use remains, we must retain our focus on preventing these threats. Unity in the Security Council is required to re-establish the norm against chemical weapons,” Markram said. He said that the use of these weapons must always be seen as a “clear violation of a deeply-held taboo. Accordingly, the identification and accountability of those responsible is imperative.” Markram said the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has affected the OPCW Technical Secretariat’s ability to deploy to Syria. “Nevertheless, the Secretariat maintains its readiness for deployments, which are being conducted subject to the evolution of the pandemic,” he said. Despite the travel restrictions, the Technical Secretariat continues to undertake its mandated activities related to the elimination of the Syrian chemical weapons programme and its engagement with Syria in this matter, he said. He reiterated his call to Syria to extend its full cooperation to the OPCW Technical Secretariat to resolve all outstanding issues. “As noted on many prior occasions, the confidence of the international community in the complete elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons programme depends upon these issues being finalised.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-community-cannot-afford-to-ignore-terrorist-activities-in-syria-and-region-india-1016549.html
05-08-2021||National||CBSE to conduct Class X, XII improvement exams from August 25, to declare results on Sep 30, SC told||The CBSE on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it is going to conduct examinations for improvement of marks for classes X and XII from August 25 and fixed September 30 as the date for declaration of results. The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) said the improvement exams by it would start on August 16 and results would be declared on September 20. The CBSE portal would be opened for registration of candidates from August 10 for improvement, patrachar and private candidates of classes X and XII. On August 10, date sheet of the examinations would also be announced. The examinations would start from August 25 and conclude on September 15. The results would be declared on September 30. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar approved the schedule given by the CBSE in an affidavit. The court also told the CBSE to inform the individual students as to how much of their marks have been reduced in computation due to past performances of three years of their schools, in compliance to the formula, devised by it to assess the candidates in view of cancellation of Classes X and XII board examinations.  Meanwhile, the CBSE declined to refund Rs 1,500 deposited by the candidates as examinations fees for the academic year 2020-21, saying it is an autonomous body and received no aids from the government. It termed the demand made by Association of Private Schools of Uttar Pradesh and others as "unjustified and without basis". "The examination fees so charged has been utilised in preparing and printing examination papers, to hire people to set the examination papers, and further to post the examination papers to the relevant centres," it said. The board also said the examination fees have further been expended to pay the salaries of its employees, besides paying the fees to statisticians employed to calculate marks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-conduct-class-x-xii-improvement-exams-from-august-25-to-declare-results-on-sep-30-sc-told-1016563.html
05-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day after passage of Essential Defence Services Bill||After passing a bill that seeks to prohibit any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in essential defence services, Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over the Pegasus controversy and various other issues. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 was passed in the Upper House through voice vote. The bill was cleared by Lok Sabha on August 3. Soon after the bill was cleared, Deputy Chairman Harivansh adjourned the House till 11 AM on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-after-passage-of-essential-defence-services-bill-1016568.html
05-08-2021||National||Govt exorcises retro tax ghost; brings bill to withdraw tax demand on Cairn, Vodafone||India will scrap its infamous retrospective tax of 2012 that made any capital gains resulting from the transfer of shares from a foreign entity, whose assets were located in India, taxable from 1962. Finance Minister Nirmala  Sitharaman on Thursday introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha that proposes to amend the Income Tax Act of 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012. The bill also proposes to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest. The bill impacts retrospective tax cases of two big companies -- Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group of the UK, both of which won international arbitrations against levy of retrospective taxes. Subsequently, Cairn sought to recover $1.2 billion from India. The finance ministry said, "The issue of taxability of gains arising from the transfer of assets located in India through the transfer of the shares of a foreign company (hereinafter referred to as 'indirect transfer of Indian assets') was a subject matter of protracted litigation. Finally, the Supreme Court in 2012 had given a verdict that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets are not taxable under the extant provisions of the Act." But the then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee circumvented the ruling by proposing an amendment to the Finance Act of 2012, which gave the I-T Department power to retrospectively tax such deals. The Act was passed by Parliament that year, and the onus of paying the tax fell back on Vodafone. The Supreme Court ruled that Vodafone Group’s interpretation of the Income-Tax Act of 1961 was correct and that it did not have to pay any taxes on the stake purchase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-exorcises-retro-tax-ghost-brings-bill-to-withdraw-tax-demand-on-cairn-vodafone-1016577.html
05-08-2021||National||PM hails wrestler Ravi Dahiya for winning silver medal at Olympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hailed wrestler Ravi Dahiya for winning a silver medal at the Olympic Games and said his fighting spirit and tenacity are outstanding. Dahiya became only the second Indian wrestler to win a silver medal at the Olympic Games after he lost the men's freestyle 57kg title clash 4-7 to reigning world champion Zavur Uguev in Tokyo. "Ravi Kumar Dahiya is a remarkable wrestler! His fighting spirit and tenacity are outstanding. Congratulations to him for winning the Silver Medal at #Tokyo2020," Modi tweeted. India takes great pride in his accomplishments, he said. Modi also lauded the efforts of wrestler Deepak Punia who came agonisingly close to winning a bronze medal on his Olympic debut but conceded a take-down in last 10 seconds of the 86kg play-off against San Marino's Myles Nazem Amine to miss out on achieving the feat. "Deepak Punia lost the Bronze narrowly but he has won our hearts. He is a powerhouse of grit and talent. My best wishes to Deepak for his future endeavours," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-wrestler-ravi-dahiya-for-winning-silver-medal-at-olympics-1016579.html
05-08-2021||National||Antilia bomb scare case: No bail for Sacin Vaze; NIA gets more time to file charge sheet||A court here on Thursday gave the NIA one month's time to file charge sheet in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and murder of Mansukh Hiren, and rejected prime accused Sachin Vaze's plea for `default' bail. The bail application of Vaze, a dismissed police officer, was ''meritless'' and wasted the court's time, the judge said. On June 9, the special NIA court had granted an extension of two months to the National Investigation Agency to submit its charge sheet. The central agency later sought another extension, saying the investigation was still underway. Vaze, who has been dismissed from service, had sought bail on the ground that the probe agency failed to file the charge sheet within the stipulated time. He was arrested on March 13, 2021, following the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiren who had claimed that the SUV found near Ambani's south Mumbai residence `Antilia' on February 25 had been stolen from his possession. Besides Vaze, former `encounter specialist' officer Pradeep Sharma and a few other former policemen have been also arrested in the case. Seeking bail, Vaze had argued, citing an earlier ruling, that he was first arrested under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) provisions, and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) later. Hence, the NIA should have filed charge sheet within 90 days, as provided for offenses under the IPC, and not within 180 days as allowed under the UAPA, he contended. He was thus entitled to default bail on the 91st day of his arrest in the absence of charge sheet, Vaze submitted. But judge D E Kothalikar rejected the argument, saying it was a ''meritless application'' and ''precious time was wasted' in its hearing. It did not impose any cost on the accused considering that he was in jail, the court said. The court had rejected a similar bail application by Vaze in June too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antilia-bomb-scare-case-no-bail-for-sacin-vaze-nia-gets-more-time-to-file-charge-sheet-1016593.html
05-08-2021||National||Twitter has not designated nodal contact person, matter is sub-judice, says MoS IT||Twitter appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement, but has not designated a nodal contact person, Parliament was informed on Thursday. On May 26, 2021 (the day when new rules for social media were enforced), Twitter was non-compliant as it failed to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer as mandated in the norms, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "Subsequently, they appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement. Twitter has also not designated a nodal contact person and the matter is sub-judice," he added. Social media platforms like Twitter are intermediaries as defined in the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. In order to ensure accountability of social media platforms to users and enhanced user safety, the government has notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which came into effect from May 26, 2021, the minister said. He added that in case of non-compliance, the intermediaries are liable to lose their exemption under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000. Chandrasekhar said 'Police' and 'Public Order' are state subjects, and complaints reported against Twitter are dealt by the respective law enforcement authorities of states/ Union territories.  "MeitY is not involved in filing of any FIR against Twitter," he added. Responding to a question on phishing attacks, Chandrasekhar said activities of fraudulent e-mails, SMSs, phishing websites and campaigns through WhatsApp — pretending to be from legitimate services — lure users to divulge credentials to conduct financial frauds. "As per the information reported to and tracked by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total of 454, 472, 280 and 138 phishing incidents were observed during the year 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 (up to June) respectively," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-has-not-designated-nodal-contact-person-matter-is-sub-judice-says-mos-it-1016602.html
05-08-2021||National||589 people detained during Indian Youth Congress protest against agri laws, Pegasus snooping scandal||Congress MPs Digvijaya Singh and Ramya Haridas were among 589 people who were detained on Thursday during an Indian Youth Congress protest against various issues, including the three contentious agri laws and the Pegasus snooping scandal. Those detained also included four Congress MLAs — Ganesh Ghogra from Rajasthan, Shafi Parambil from Kerala, Vipin Wankhede from Madhya Pradesh and Devendra Yadav from Bhilai Chhattisgarh, the police said. The IYC activists had organised a "Parliament Gherao" against inflation, unemployment, the three "black" agricultural laws and the Pegasus snooping scandal. They accused the BJP of running away from debate and passing bills in Parliament. The police said the protestors started from Jantar Mantar Road and were detained near 6, Raisina road, but were later released. "They (police) told us no permission was given to the organiser to carry out any protest," IYC president Sriniwas BV said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, "A total of 589 persons including 28 women, two MPs and four MLAs, were detained today during the protest carried out by the Indian Youth Congress. No permission to carry out the protest march was given to the organiser, Sriniwas BV, president IYC."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/589-people-detained-during-indian-youth-congress-protest-against-agri-laws-pegasus-snooping-scandal-1016605.html
05-08-2021||National||Pakistan's acting envoy to India summoned to MEA, protest lodged over ransacking of temple||India on Thursday firmly protested against ransacking of a temple in Pakistan, slamming Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government for persecution of religious minorities in the neighbouring country. Islamabad’s acting envoy to New Delhi, Aftab Hasan Khan, was on Thursday summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), where senior officials conveyed to him India’s grave concern over the recent incident of violent mob attack on a Ganesha Temple at Rahim Yar Khan in Punjab province of Pakistan. The mob not only attacked the temple, desecrated the holy idols and set the premises on fire, but also attacked surrounding houses of the Hindus. India conveyed its concern over unabated incidents of violence, discrimination and persecution against the minority communities including attacks on places of worship in Pakistan. “Within the last year itself, various temples and Gurudwaras have been attacked including the Mata Rani Bhatiyani Mandir in Sindh in January 2020, Gurudwara Sri Janam Sthan in January 2020, a Hindu temple in Karak in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in December 2020,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, told journalists in New Delhi. "These incidents are occurring at an alarming rate, while the state and security institutions in Pakistan have stood by idly and completely failed in preventing these attacks on the minority communities and their places of worship,” he said. Senior MEA officials conveyed to the Islamabad’s acting envoy to New Delhi the “grave concerns” of India over the latest “reprehensible incident” as well as “the continued attacks on the freedom of religion of the minority community and their places of religious worship” in Pakistan. New Delhi called upon the Khan Government in Islamabad to ensure the safety, security and well-being of the minority communities of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-acting-envoy-to-india-summoned-to-mea-protest-lodged-over-ransacking-of-temple-1016606.html
05-08-2021||National||Rashtriya Mahila Kosh no longer relevant, government closing it: Smriti Irani||The government Thursday said it has decided to close down the credit facilitating agency Rashtriya Mahila Kosh as it has lost relevance with alternative credit facilities becoming available to women through various government initiatives. Established in 1993, the Rashtriya Mahila Kosh (RMK) is a national-level organisation aimed at facilitating socio-economic empowerment of women. In a written response to a question, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani told Rajya Sabha, "The decision to close down RMK has been taken as it has lost its relevance and utility in the present scenario with substantial alternative credit facilities becoming available to women through various governmental initiatives and efforts such as Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Mudra Yojana etc and also to avoid duplicacy of efforts."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashtriya-mahila-kosh-no-longer-relevant-government-closing-it-smriti-irani-1016607.html
05-08-2021||National||Madigas seek more representation in Congress||The Madiga sect of Dalit leaders of Congress on Thursday demanded the party central leadership appoint Madiga leaders as working presidents of state units and sought more representation in the party office-bearers. Madiga sect leaders of the party, who are also called as the Dalit left, including former Ministers H Anjaneya, R B Thimmapur, Rajya Sabha member L Hanumanthaiah, and former Rajya Sabha member K B Krishnamurthy, met AICC General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal and General Secretary incharge Karnataka Randeep Surjewala and submitted a memorandum. Since Madigas are spread across the states, giving representation in the party office-bearers would help the organisation in the coming elections, they said in the memorandum. "Madigas are most backward in Dalit and giving proper position to them can also help the community leaders to come to mainstream politics," Anjaneya told media persons here. He also pointed out that the BJP has been attracting Madiga community people by announcing a number of schemes to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madigas-seek-more-representation-in-congress-1016612.html
05-08-2021||National||India in talks with various countries for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certifications||India is in talks with various nations for a mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certifications, the government informed Parliament on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said there is no plan currently to introduce vaccine passports. He said normal international travel remains suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. There is no multilateral protocol on travel currently for those vaccinated against Covid-19, Muraleedharan said. "Most countries require a negative Covid-19 report, along with compliance with country-specific Covid protocols," he said. "Since some countries have specified their position in regard to vaccines that would exempt travellers from quarantine, India is engaging various nations for the mutual recognition of vaccination certifications," the minister added. He said though there have been multilateral discussions, including under the aegis of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), on Covid-19 vaccination certificates, no arrangements have been concluded to date. "India has been part of the ongoing discussions," Muraleedharan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-talks-with-various-countries-for-mutual-recognition-of-covid-19-vaccine-certifications-1016622.html
05-08-2021||National||Covaxin supply from Bharat Biotech's Malur and Ankleshwar units to begin in September||Bharat Biotech International Limited has stated that the Covaxin doses manufactured at its Malur, Karnataka, and Ankleshwar, Gujarat plants would be available for supply in September. The Hyderabad based company commenced the production at these two sites in early June. But the availability of these Covid-19 vaccines for public utilisation would take three months, according to the 120-day time line followed by the firm for manufacturing, testing, release, regulatory approvals, and distribution. Bharat Biotech said that it has supplied about 7 crore doses of Covaxin till now. As of date, all the batches of Covaxin are manufactured and released only from Bharat Biotech's facilities at Genome Valley, Hyderabad. In a statement on Thursday, the company sought to put to rest concerns about the quality of Covaxin. "Every batch of Covaxin is subjected to more than 200 quality control tests at our facilities, followed by submission of samples to the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), and only based on CDL approval are batches released commercially,” BBIL said. Covaxin, developed by ICMR National Institute of Virology and Bharat Biotech, was approved for emergency use in the country in January. However, the Phase-3 trial results of the vaccine's safety and efficacy were out only in July. Covaxin was found to be showing an overall efficiency of 77.8 % against Covid-19 and is 93.4 % effective in severe cases of infection, the company claimed. “Since vaccines are administered to healthy individuals, safety is always our vital, primary criteria and we have an uncompromising policy on safety, and quality, whatsoever. This is evident from the excellent safety contours of Covaxin with an impressive supply of ~ 70 million doses to date. It is emblematic that Bharat Biotech has not sought indemnity from the government for any adverse events from Covaxin,” the firm said. BBIL has earlier announced that it would be able to deliver up to one billion Covaxin doses annually by the end of 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-supply-from-bharat-biotechs-malur-and-ankleshwar-units-to-begin-in-september-1016624.html
05-08-2021||National||Delhi Court sends Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar to 10-day ED custody||A Delhi court on Thursday extended by ten days the custodial interrogation of Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar, arrested by Enforcement Directorate in connection with a Rs 500 crore money laundering case. Special Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal extended Thapar's ED custody till Aug 15 after he was produced before the court on expiry of his one-day custodial interrogation granted on Wednesday. Thapar was arrested on Tuesday night after the agency carried out raids against him and his linked businesses in Delhi and Mumbai. The agency told the court that investigation revealed that around Rs 500 crore worth proceeds of crime were laundered through Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd (OBPL), Jhabua Power Limited (JPL), Jhabua Power Investment Ltd. (JPIL), Avantha Power & Infrastructure Ltd (APIL), Avantha Realty Ltd. (ARL) etc. which were being controlled and beneficially owned directly or indirectly by Gautam Thapar.  The probe revealed that sham agreements were made by these entities to fraudulently obtain huge amount running into more than 500 crore from Yes Bank and further by different modes of layering the tainted amount was laundered and the loan account thus turned NPA causing a loss of huge public money, it said. While seeking his 14-day custody, the ED told the court that there were material evidence and reasons to believe that Thapar was guilty of offence of money laundering, and that he was involved in the laundering of proceeds of crime and had been involved in projecting the proceeds of crime as untainted. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for the accused, opposed ED's remand application and said that his client was in fact the victim in the matter and that the entire transaction had taken place in view of the intention of Yes Bank to have evergreening of loans. Advocates Sandeep Kapur and Niharika Karanjawala of Karanjawala & Co, also appeared for the accused.  In its remand application, the agency said that the accused did not cooperate with the investigation and deliberately failed to divulge the crucial facts regarding his involvement in the instant loan, his coordination and involvement with earlier Yes Bank management, the details of overseas companies/ trusts/ bank accounts/ properties owned by him and his family which are actually required for further investigation. The case is having international ramifications involving proceeds of crime stashed outside the country in form of immovable properties and bank accounts which is to be unearthed, it said. “The custodial interrogation of the Gautam Thapar is essential to further determine the role of various other persons who facilitated the offence of money laundering and how/ by whom the funds were placed, layered and integrated into the system, to determine the entire modus operandi,” the ED said. The agency further said that Thapar's custodial interrogation was essential to establish the money trail or end-use of the initially taken loan which was re-paid through the instant fraudulently obtained loan from Yes Bank. It said that Thapar was to be confronted with the material/evidence on record as it would enable the investigating agency to ascertain and identify the funds laundered and parked in various entities.  The ED has been probing an alleged transaction between his company Avantha Realty, Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and his wife, who are already being investigated under the PMLA by the agency. The case of money laundering was filed by the ED after taking cognisance of an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). "The (CBI) FIR alleges that Rana Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realisable market value belonging to Avantha Reality Ltd for sanction of a loan to ARL and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group companies and for advancing new and additional loans to them by Yes Bank Ltd," the ED had said earlier. CBI had last year booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly obtaining a bribe of Rs 307 crore through the purchase of a bungalow in a tony Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return, the agency said. The CBI suspected that the discounted transaction for the 1.2 acre-bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was a gratification to Kapoor through the company Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realisation of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Gautam Thapar-promoted Avantha Realty and group companies, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-sends-avantha-group-promoter-gautam-thapar-to-10-day-ed-custody-1016629.html
05-08-2021||National||Display of MRP mandatory on subsidised agriculture machines: MoS Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje||The Union Ministry of Agriculture has issued an order for mandatory display of MRP (Maximum Retail Price) on all agricultural machines and equipment sold in markets. This will also be applicable to all agriculture machines including tractors, power tillers and combine harvesters. The manufacturers/dealers participating in the agricultural mechanisation subsidy programmes have to display MRP on the product itself at prominent places and must be clearly visible, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje told media here. If any manufacturers failed to display MRP on their products, such companies will not be allowed to enlist for supply of machines under subsidy programmes, she said. Since 2014, a total of Rs 5,490 crore in subsidies was given by the Centre to farmers to purchase agriculture equipment. During the same time, Rs 506 crore in subsidies was given to farmers in Karnataka to purchase agriculture equipment, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/display-of-mrp-mandatory-on-subsidised-agriculture-machines-mos-agriculture-shobha-karandlaje-1016639.html
05-08-2021||National||Nearly 4 crore cases pending in lower & subordinate courts: Law Minister Kiren Rijiju||Nearly four crore cases are pending in lower and subordinate courts with over one lakh cases awaiting justice for more than thirty years, the government told Lok Sabha on Thursday. “As per the information available on National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), as on 30.07.2021 a total of 3,93,21,607 cases are pending in the lower and subordinate courts,” Law Minister Kiren Rijiju told the Lok Sabha in a written reply. While a bulk of the cases are up to three years old, 1,20,001 (0.26 per cent) have been pending for more than 30 years, he said. “No time frame has been prescribed for disposal of various kinds of cases by the respective courts,” the Law Minister said. Of the 3.93 crore cases that are pending, 2.88 crore are criminal cases, while 1.05 crore are civil cases. As per the information tabled by the government, 1,17,08,278, 29.78 per cent of the 3.93 crore cases have been pending for a year, 1,19,31,641 (30.34 per cent) have been awaiting justice for three years. As many as 62,88,783 (15.99 per cent) cases are pending for three to five years, 60,85,363 (15.48 per cent) are in courts for five to 10 years. As many as 27,17,796 (6.91 per cent) cases are pending between 10-20 years, another 4,87,745 (1.24 per cent) have been waiting to hear the final gavel between 20 to 30 years. Rjiju said the government has been working to provide better infrastructure for courts, including computerisation, increase in the strength of subordinate judiciary and re-engineering of court procedure for quick disposal of cases. “The number of court halls has increased from 15,818 as on 30.06.2014 to 20,218 as on 22.07.2021 and the number of residential units has increased from 10,211 as on 30.06.2014 to 17,815 as on 22.07.2021,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-4-crore-cases-pending-in-lower-subordinate-courts-law-minister-kiren-rijiju-1016655.html
05-08-2021||National||No end to Parliament deadlock, 3 Bills passed in din||There was no end to the deadlock in Parliament as the Modi government pushed through its legislative agenda amid protests by opposition members over demand for a probe into allegations of snooping as part of the Pegasus project. The Rajya Sabha passed three Bills, including one that allows the government to ban strikes, lock-outs and layoffs in units engaged in essential defence services as opposition members waved placards and raised slogans in the Well of the House. Both the Houses of Parliament witnessed repeated adjournments as opposition members demanded a discussion on Pegasus revelations, which has been dubbed by the government as a “non-issue”. “Congress is trying to 'hijack' positive thinking of those Opposition parties who are in favour of discussion & smooth functioning in Parliament,” Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The opposition also forced repeated adjournments in the Lok Sabha where the government introduced two Bills – Central Universities (Amendment) Bill that seeks to set up the Sindhu Central University in Ladakh and the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill that seek to bury the ghost of retrospective tax. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of the death of a girl from a scheduled caste community in the Lok Sabha but was disallowed by the chair. The Rajya Sabha witnessed a face-off between opposition and treasury benches over the suspension of six Trinamool Congress members on Wednesday. “When the House was adjourned for the day, they wanted to come and take their bags. It is wrong to disallow them from collecting their material from the house after the House is adjourned.... you will have to face the consequences,” Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. Naqvi hit back saying the government had no objections to the protests by the opposition, but was concerned when they resorted to violence. “The way a security official has been hurt and violence done. Our objection is to the way they want to hijack the House proceedings through their violence,” Naqvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-end-to-parliament-deadlock-3-bills-passed-in-din-1016659.html
05-08-2021||National||Covid 3rd wave may pull GDP growth down to 7%, says economist Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday apprehended that the impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic might adversely impact the GDP, and its growth rate might go down to 7 per cent, even below the IMF's recent projection of 9.5 per cent. Banerjee, who heads West Bengal's Global Advisory Board (GAB) and advises the state government on issues related to the pandemic, said that boosting the state's economy is directly related to the revival of the country's economy as it is under stress due to the ongoing pandemic situation. "The economy is going slow due to the Covid situation. Earlier the IMF had said GDP growth would be 12.5 per cent. Now it is saying it would be 9.5 per cent. I apprehend it might go down to 7 per cent. Another wave will decrease it further. If the country's economy does not improve, the state will not be able to move forward alone," he said. Last month, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cut its economic growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022, as the onset of a severe second Covid-19 wave cut into recovery momentum. This forecast for 2021-22 is lower than the 12.5 per cent growth in GDP that IMF had projected in April before the second wave took a grip. For 2022-23, IMF expects economic growth of 8.5 per cent, higher than the 6.9 per cent it had projected in April. "The economy of Bengal is also connected with the country. If the country's economy does not improve, Bengal alone will not be able to do anything. If the economy of the whole country is active, it will have an impact. "Many Bengalis work in other states. A lot of income comes from migrants. We cannot solve this problem alone. When the country's economy opens, that will pull us. The state government is certainly trying to help, but the problem will be solved only when the country's economy recovers," Banerjee said. The noted economist said that the Centre should be more into free-spending policies like other economies of Europe and the US rather than being more concerned about balancing the deficit and the budget. "The (union) government has a fiscal problem, and it may have more faith in balancing the budget than free-spending policies. The government is trying to use the one instrument it has as other forms of tax collection are not necessarily keeping pace, given the economy is slow. It is using this to balance the budget," he said when asked to react to the Centre's decision to increase cess on various items, including fuel, from time to time in the last year. But this is not the direction the government should not have taken, Banerjee said. "I think the government should have been more open-handed with the spending. I have said this many, many times. I think the central government is too unwilling to do what US or European economies are doing - printing money and spending. And I think that would have been a better policy in the present context," the economist said. Banerjee, however, praised the Centre for now moving in that direction. "The inflation is already up due to the high fuel prices. I think there is a good case for being more open-handed. But to be fair, the central government has now moved towards that direction and have announced several relaxations. I think being less mindful of the deficit might be the right strategy," the Nobel laureate said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-3rd-wave-may-pull-gdp-growth-down-to-7-says-economist-abhijit-banerjee-1016660.html
05-08-2021||National||A day after open letter, trustees say 'committed to ensuring ethos and values' of Sabarmati Ashram||A day after scores of activists and scholars signed an open petition opposing redevelopment plan of Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram, the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the ashram, released a statement saying that trustees are "committed to ensuring that the ethos and values which this space has communicated to the world for all these years is to be protected and enhanced." A note was released on Thursday evening by SAPMT director Atul Pandya, stating that "Trustees of the SAPMT have noted and share many of the concerns expressed by several citizens regarding the future of the Sabarmati Ashram and its precincts." It says that the proposals for "lifting the quality of this heritage environment" have been under consideration for the past several years and recently the trustees received the concerned propsopal from the government. It says, "we are in touch with the authorities on the plan that has been proposed." Among the trustees of SAPMT are Sudarshan Iyengar, former vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith; educationist Kartikeya Sarabhai; Ashoke Chatterjee, former director of the National School of Design; Nitin Shukla, who retired as the MD and CEO of Hazira LNG and Hazira Port Pvt Ltd of Shell Group. Ela Bhatt, better known as the founder of the Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA), is the chairperson of the trust. "The trustees are committed to ensuring that the ethos and values which this space has communicated to the world for all these years is to be protected and enhanced. By this we mean that the Ashram should always remain a message to the world which reminds all of us of Gandhiji’s call for attention to the last person, his ideas of simplicity, economy and frugality in all matters and his respect for nature and for each one of our fellow human beings. Our understanding is that these values are fully shared by all the stakeholders including the authorities with whom we as Trustees are in touch," the statement reads. "This statement is in response to the open letter signed by various scholars, activists, among other prominent citizens who have raised concerns. The purpose of this statement is to send a message across that we are not silent spectators. We can say that there is nothing to worry about as of today. We have already sent a letter to the concerned government authority and raised our points," a trustee told DH. In the letter to the government, as reported by DH, the trustees have raised concerns over associating words such as "world-class museum" and "tourist destination" with the ashram. While giving approval for the plan for creating parking space, road and other infrastructure, it has requested the government to do everything with "simplicity and truthfulness."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-day-after-open-letter-trustees-say-committed-to-ensuring-ethos-and-values-of-sabarmati-ashram-1016663.html
05-08-2021||National||Unacceptable: India rejects Organisation of Islamic cooperation's statement on Jammu and Kashmir||India on Thursday strongly rejected a statement on Jammu and Kashmir by the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and asked it to refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of the country. The strong comments by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) came in response to the statement issued by the General Secretariat of the OIC on the second anniversary of the withdrawal of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. "We categorically reject yet another unacceptable reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir issued by the General Secretariat of OIC," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He was responding to media queries on the OIC statement. "The OIC has no locus standi in matters relating to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral part of India. It is reiterated that the OIC General Secretariat should refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of India," Bagchi said. On August 5, 2019, India announced the withdrawal of the special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and its decision to bifurcate the state into two union territories. In the statement, the OIC General Secretariat reiterated its "call to revoke all these steps". The OIC General Secretariat also reiterated its call on the international community to increase its efforts to resolve the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the "relevant UN Security Council resolutions". The OIC is a grouping of Muslim-majority nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unacceptable-india-rejects-organisation-of-islamic-cooperations-statement-on-jammu-and-kashmir-1016671.html
05-08-2021||National||ISRO to launch earth observation satellite EOS-03 on Aug 12||Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle-F10 (GSLV-F10) will launch earth observation satellite, EOS-03 from the Second Launch Pad of Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota, next week. "The launch is tentatively scheduled at 0543 hrs IST on August 12, 2021, subject to weather conditions", the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said in an update. EOS-03 is a state-of-the-art agile satellite which will be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10, it said. Subsequently, the satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system. A four metre diameter Ogive shaped payload fairing is being flown for the first time in this GSLV flight. This is the fourteenth flight of GSLV, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-launch-earth-observation-satellite-eos-03-on-aug-12-1016672.html
05-08-2021||National||Modi, S Jaishankar celebrate Article 370 abrogation anniversary on Twitter||New Delhi rejected a call by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to India to rollback the Modi Government’s decision to strip J&K of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories. Modi, himself, tweeted that August 5 had become a very special day as the Article 370 of the Constitution had been abrogated on this day two years back and every citizen of J&K had been given equal right to all government benefits. भारत के इतिहास में अगस्त उपलब्धियों का महीना रहा है। इसी दिन, आर्टिकल-370 हटाकर जम्मू-कश्मीर के हर नागरिक को हर अधिकार का भागीदार बनाया गया। “Jammu and Kashmir has seen real Democracy, Development, Good Governance and Empowerment in the last two years. As a result, India's unity and integrity has been immeasurably strengthened,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar posted on Twitter. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government, however, sought to counter New Delhi’s claim, stating that the international community had in the past two years seen the most unprecedented military siege, gross and systematic human rights violation and curbs on fundamental rights and freedoms of Kashmiris. The OIC too once again termed the Modi Government’s decisions on J&K as “unilateral steps” aimed at altering “the internationally recognized disputed status of the territory as stipulated in the relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions. The organization reiterated its call to New Delhi revoke the decision and urged it to “refrain from changing the demographic composition of the disputed territory of Indian Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and to respect the basic human rights of its inhabitants”. “The OIC has no locus standi in matters relating to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral part of India,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. “It is reiterated that the OIC General Secretariat should refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of India”. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-s-jaishankar-celebrate-article-370-abrogation-anniversary-on-twitter-1016679.html
05-08-2021||National||PM Modi to virtually meet India's envoys to foreign nations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually interact with New Delhi’s envoys to foreign nations as well as the stakeholders of the trade and commerce sector of the country. The event will mark a clarion call by the Prime Minister for ‘Local Goes Global - Make in India for the World’, according to a government press release. Modi is expected to drive home the point that exports had a huge employment generation potential, especially for the MSMEs and high labour-intensive sectors, with a cascading effect on the manufacturing sector and the overall economy. The purpose of the interaction is to provide a focussed thrust to leverage and expand India’s export and its share in global trade, said the Prime Minister’s Office. “The interaction aims to energise all stakeholders towards expanding our export potential and utilizing the local capabilities to fulfil the global demand.” Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will also be present during the interaction. The interaction will witness the participation of secretaries of more than 20 departments of the Union Government, state government officials, members of Export Promotion Councils and Chambers of Commerce. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-virtually-meet-indias-envoys-to-foreign-nations-1016680.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Political parties vow to continue struggle for restoration of J&K's special status||The PDP, Congress, People’s Conference, and Apni Party on Wednesday questioned the BJP government on the achievements it made since revoking Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir as they vowed to continue their struggle to get the erstwhile state’s special status restored. The National Conference, however, targeted Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari, who has announced to launch an agitation for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, as a “frenzied attempt” to keep himself and his party relevant. On the eve of the second anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the parties asked if the BJP government had managed to eradicate militancy, create jobs or rehabilitate Kashmiri Pandits in the valley. President of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mehbooba Mufti termed August 5 as a “black day” in the constitutional and democratic history of the country, saying the “draconian steps” taken in 2019 have not only “betrayed” the trust of the people, but also complicated the issue of the erstwhile state further. In a statement issued here, Mufti said August 5 has become a reminder of the “subversion of the democratic and the constitutional system of the country and how the trust of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and all the democrats of the country was betrayed”. Mufti said Jammu and Kashmir has to become a bridge of friendship rather than a bone of contention between India and Pakistan and the PDP will continue to strive to see this happen. Reiterating that the party would continue to struggle and strive for the restoration of the rights and identity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, Mufti said no amount of “coercion” would dissuade the party from advocating its core agenda of peace with dignity through dialogue and reconciliation. She said two years after the Constitutional provisions were revoked, none of the stated goals of the government “that were used to camouflage the betrayal” of bringing Kashmir closer to India, ending militancy, bringing development to the state – have been achieved. Corroborating her views, J&K Pradesh Congress Committee chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma asked whether the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status has ended militancy. "There were around 70 active militants in 2014, while the number is over 200 today, despite the elimination of hundreds of terrorists since then," the Congress leader said. Sharma also asked how many jobs were provided in the government sector in two years as the then governor S P Malik had made an announcement of providing 50,000 jobs in three months. He said the demand for restoration of statehood with the protection of genuine rights to land and jobs remained high on the Congress's agenda along with that of holding early assembly elections to provide an elected government in Jammu and Kashmir. The People’s Conference said August 5 will perpetually be remembered as a “dark day” and “a day of disempowerment” in the history of the erstwhile state. Party spokesperson Adnan Ashraf Mir said the decisions taken on August 5, 2019, are spiteful and contrary to the ideals and values of a democracy and the federal character of the Indian State. The People’s Conference (PC), he said, is committed to continue its principled struggle for the rights and dignity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and that it will pursue this agenda through democratic and legal means. Highlighting that the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A has incremented the trust deficit among the people, Bukhari said he strongly hopes and believes that the Supreme Court will restore the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Bukhari said if the apex court's verdict disregards the peoples' aspirations, the Apni Party “will have no choice but to chalk out other peaceful means to pursue this goal with New Delhi”. “We believe that the solution to the socio-economic and political problems faced by the people in J-K lies with New Delhi, so it will be unwise to disengage or dissociate ourselves from pursuing the redressal,” he said. The Apni Party chief had on Tuesday vowed to launch a peaceful struggle for the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution if the apex court did not restore it. Taking a swipe at Bukhari, NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement: “The remarks are a failed attempt to save his credibility on ground. The radical changes in the views of Bukhari are well expected in view of people's immense support for the efforts of Farooq Abdullah for the restoration of J&K's constitutional status.” “His politics follows a simplistic maxim; it is to be on the good side of the BJP. But it has not fared well with the people. This recent statement of his should be seen as a last-ditch effort to save some credibility, if any at all,” he said. Bukhari, however, blamed traditional political parties for their policies of deceit and intrigue, saying it is not the BJP alone, but other political parties who have been pivotal in doing away with the special status of J&K. “History bears witness to the facts that how J-K's political parties have played a collaborators' role in eroding Articles 370 and 35-A from time to time for their lust of power,” he said. “Now, they are shedding crocodile tears and sermonising on the subject. It's a shame for them. They should rather confess and apologise to the people for their criminal silence,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-parties-vow-to-continue-struggle-for-restoration-of-jks-special-status-1016356.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Govt will have to tell who bought Pegasus: Kharge||On Wednesday, six Trinamool Congress MPs were suspended for a day for protesting on the Pegasus episode. What is your response to the decision of the Chair? I can't comment on the Chairman’s decision. But I feel it is not justified, it is not reasonable and it is not appropriate in these circumstances. Targeting a few MPs and asking them to withdraw for a day is not good, because MPs from other parties were also in the Well of the House. Bills are passed in din but Opposition MPs are not allowed to speak. If Bills are passed in din is a right thing, then MPs should also be allowed. You cannot say the entire protesters should go and only then, someone from the Opposition is allowed to speak. This is the third week of the Monsoon Session and no substantial business is held though bills are passed in din. Why is it so? Why is the government running away from discussion on the Pegasus issue? What is the hitch? They are running away because they are scared that they will get exposed. They will have to tell who bought Pegasus, as the NSO says it sells only to governments. All these things will come out. It is not the first time that suspension of business is demanded. During the UPA government, there were several such occasions to discuss inflation, FDI in retail and farmer suicides. Between 2014 and 2016 during the Narendra Modi government, there were four such occasions when business was suspended to discuss attack on the secular fabric of the country, agrarian crisis, Kashmir and demonetisation. However, now they are purposely not allowing it. It is because they will be exposed. Why is Pegasus an important issue for the Opposition? Several countries, including France, are investigating it. Richard Nixon had to resign after the Watergate scandal. The Irish Prime Minister had to resign. In Karnataka, Ramakrishna Hegde had to resign. Why no action is taken? Why is it that the government is scared? What is the government hiding? Pegasus is not an issue just concerning an individual. It has an impact on the security of the country. The government narrative is that it is the Opposition that is disrupting Parliament. Do you agree? They are putting the blame on the opposition. We have given notice on the Pegasus issue. You discuss that. We demand a response either by the Prime Minister or the Home Minister and not from the Information and Technology Minister. Does the IT Minister deal with intelligence gathering? He has no role in it. At the maximum, he may be a facilitator of technology. So that is why we demand the presence of the Prime Minister or the Home Minister. Government says you are not allowing a discussion on farmers issue, price rise etc. Pegasus is a non-issue. How will you respond to this? Farmers' issues are very important, so are price rise, inflation and fuel price hike. When your freedom, privacy and liberty are itself in danger, your democracy is itself in danger, shouldn't you give importance to that? If only democracy survives, we will survive. If liberty is there, then only we can speak. The farmers' issue is also most important. We have discussed earlier also. We will again discuss it because farmers are sitting on the borders of Delhi. We are also ready to discuss price rise, fuel price hike, inflation and other issues. Even we want to discuss the Rafale issue on which the French government itself has ordered a probe. There is a complaint from the Opposition benches that Opposition floor leaders are not getting a chance to speak? I have written a letter to the Chairman. When the Leader of the Opposition raises his hand, he should be given a chance to speak. It is the convention, unwritten rule of the House that whenever the Leader of the House intervenes anytime, he should be allowed to speak. At the same time, whenever the Opposition leader intervenes, he should be equally given the same importance as the Leader of the House. They are not following that. This is one thing. Why are they not allowed? I think the government is not interested. Has the government reached out to you? There is false propaganda that the government is reaching out to us. The Prime Minister's comments that the Opposition is disturbing the proceedings and it is a blot on Indian democracy. Show me one notice calling all Opposition parties for a meeting. Simply meeting in the lobby and requesting smooth functioning would not help. How united is the Opposition? We are fully united. We are fighting unitedly. Parties may have their own interests in respective states. Different voices may be there in states but here we are together in national issues. I am meeting all Opposition leaders almost on a daily basis. Rahul Gandhi has also taken an interest and he held meetings with Opposition leaders. He has also asked me to contact Opposition parties. What is the Opposition strategy for the rest of the Session? Our demands remain the same. The Pegasus issue should be taken first. Let people listen to the issue. Other issues should follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-will-have-to-tell-who-bought-pegasus-kharge-1016374.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Congress to run 'BJP gaddi chodo' campaign in Uttar Pradesh on August 9-10||The Congress will run the "BJP gaddi chodo" (quit power) campaign with marches and protests in all Assembly segments of Uttar Pradesh on August 9 and 10 on the issues of unemployment, women's security, corruption, farmers' grievances, expensive electricity and dues of sugarcane farmers. On the direction of party general secretary and state in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, marches and demonstrations will be held in all the Assembly constituencies of the state on August 9 and 10 against inflation, unemployment, farmers' problems, women's safety and corruption, Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said on Wednesday. All sections of the society are sad, disappointed and desperate due to the misgovernance of the BJP, he said, adding that a "jungle raj" is prevalent everywhere. There will be protests in the entire Uttar Pradesh on August 9-10 against the government's repressive attitude, Lallu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-run-bjp-gaddi-chodo-campaign-in-uttar-pradesh-on-august-9-10-1016384.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||No other choice but to resist to exist: Mufti on Article 370 abrogation anniversary||On the second anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said people had no choice but to "resist to exist" when "gross injustice" is heaped on them. "No words or pictures are enough to depict the pain, torment & upheaval inflicted upon J&K on this black day two years ago. When unbridled oppression is unleashed & gross injustice heaped there is no other choice but to resist to exist," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said in a tweet.  The Centre on August 5, 2019 revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories. Mufti and her PDP have been very vocal in their opposition to the Centre's move two years ago. Other mainstream political parties also have taken a public stand against the revocation of the special status but have given more importance to restoration of statehood. "August 5 will always be a negative milestone in the history of J&K. It was a political and psychological setback for the people of J&K," Khursheed Alam of the Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-other-choice-but-to-resist-to-exist-mufti-on-article-370-abrogation-anniversary-1016443.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says Pegasus a tool to silence people||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Thursday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Pegasus snooping row, saying the Israeli spyware was a tool to silence people. Addressing a 'Sansad Gehrao' protest here by the Indian Youth Congress, he targeted the prime minister over the issue of employment too. "Your mobile phone is your voice. Narendra Modi has put the idea of Pegasus in the mobile phone of every youth, not just mine. This idea is that if you speak the truth, Narendra Modi and Pegasus are there in your phones," he said. "Pegasus is a way to silence the voice of people," he said. While the Opposition has been attacking the government over the Pegasus issue and accusing it of spying, the ruling party has denied all charges. Gandhi said the day the youth of the country start speaking the truth, the Modi government will crumble. The youth of the country cannot get employment till Modi is the prime minister, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-pegasus-a-tool-to-silence-people-1016485.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram takes dig at govt over fuel prices||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday took a dig at the government over fuel prices, asking whether there was no change in them in the last 19 days as Parliament was in session or chiefs of oil marketing companies "cannot talk to each other because their phones are infiltrated by Pegasus spyware". He also asked if prices had not changed as all chiefs of oil marketing companies were in quarantine until August 15 or all those reasons were responsible for it. The Congress has been critical of the government for rising prices of petrol and diesel and Rahul Gandhi, accompanied by his party colleagues and Opposition leaders, rode a bicycle to Parliament earlier this week to protest over the issue.  Taking a dig at the government, Chidambaram tweeted, "Petrol and diesel prices have not been changed for 19 days because: a) Parliament session commenced on 19th July, i.e. 18 days ago b) Chiefs of Oil Marketing Companies cannot talk to each other because their phones are infiltrated by Pegasus spyware and the Israelis are listening. c) All the chiefs are in quarantine until 15th August d) All of the above." c) All the chiefs are in quarantine until15th August d) All of the above Petrol prices have crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark in several cities with the Opposition protesting the high fuel prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-takes-dig-at-govt-over-fuel-prices-1016491.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||'Mission UP' in mind, Akhilesh Yadav embarks on cycle yatra||With an eye on the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday embarked on a 'cycle yatra' here to raise issues like price rise, unemployment, farm laws and crime rate. Though the "cycle yatra" at the tehsil-level in all districts marks the birth anniversary of veteran socialist leader Janeshwar Mishra, the purpose, political observers say, is to galvanise the SP ahead of the upcoming state Assembly elections, barely few months away. Before pedalling down the streets of the state capital, Yadav told mediapersons at the party headquarters that the BJP government has "failed" in Covid management. "I condole death of all those who died during the second wave of Covid. The government did not help those who lost their family members. It could not arrange oxygen and medicines and left people to die," he said. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "I was saying that we will win 350 seats. But seeing the anger of people, I can say we can now win 400 seats". Attacking the BJP for allegedly inducting criminals, Yadav said that as elections are nearing, the saffron party has put its ideology on the back-burner. "Party has not read its election manifesto (of 2017). Now it is concentrating on 'money-festo'. The BJP has no work culture and could do nothing in the past over four years except renaming projects of previous SP regime," he charged.  The BJP has made Uttar Pradesh the number one state in terms of number of malnourished children, custodial deaths and disposing bodies in River Ganga, he charged. Taking a swipe at Yogi Adityanath, he said that as the chief minister did not know how to operate a laptop, he did not distribute it to children. The yatra, which will cover a distance of 5-10 km in all districts, is in protest against the "anti-people" policies of the ruling BJP, price rise, unemployment, farm laws, rising crime and to demand release of party leader Azam Khan, the party said. It said the cycle march in Lucknow will cover a distance of 6.5 km.       Incidentally, 'cycle' is the SP's election symbol and laying of cycling tracks along important thoroughfares, especially in the state capital, with demarcations painted red and green (colour of the party flag) has often incurred the wrath of its political rivals. The Samajwadi Party also plans to take out a 'Rath Yatra' in the state in October which will cover almost all the 75 districts of UP.         The SP recently concluded a series of meetings with the workers of over 300 of the 403 assembly constituencies. During these meetings, the names of probable candidates for assembly segments were also discussed. The party has made it clear that it will not have an electoral alliance with any of the major parties. However, it is open for alliance with smaller parties, Yadav had told PTI in a recent interview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mission-up-in-mind-akhilesh-yadav-embarks-on-cycle-yatra-1016503.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 4 pm amid Opposition uproar||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the third time on Thursday as the Opposition continued with their protests over alleged snooping through Pegasus spyware and other issues. As the House met at 2 PM, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan introduced The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021. However, Opposition leaders opposed the introduction with Congress' Manish Tewari saying that there is a time-honoured convention of the House that till the time the House is not in order no legislation can be discussed. "What is happening is completely unconstitutional, it is a murder of democracy," he said. As the uproar by the Opposition over issues such as the Pegasus snooping row and the farmers' bills continued, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, who was chairing the proceedings, adjourned the House till 4 PM. Earlier, when the House met for the day, Speaker Om Birla congratulated the Indian hockey team for an Olympic medal after 41 years as well as women athletes who won medals at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. When the Question Hour commenced, Opposition parties started protesting against various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and farm laws. Many members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and displaying placards. Despite the din, at least ten questions and supplementaries were taken up during the Question Hour. While urging the protesting members to go back to their seats, Birla said important issues are being discussed in the Question Hour and that they were not asking questions but only indulging in sloganeering. "This is not appropriate for Parliament traditions," the Speaker said and stressed that people want the House to run in accordance with traditions and rules. Crores of rupees are being spent and people are asking why the House is not running, Birla said before adjourning the proceedings till noon as the Opposition uproar over various issues continued. Earlier, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought to raise the issue of the death of a Dalit girl following an alleged sexual assault in the national capital but was not allowed. As soon as the House resumed at noon, Chowdhury again tried to raise the issue of the death of the Dalit girl in Delhi. He said he wanted the House to adopt a resolution condemning the incident. The Congress leader of Lok Sabha was immediately countered by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Meghwal who asked why the opposition party was silent on similar issues which had taken place in Rajasthan, a state ruled by the Congress. Meghwal objected to Chowdhury raising the issue and said that it was condemnable that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has failed to raise the Rajasthan issues. Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, ignored Chowdhury's appeal and allowed the papers related to various ministries to be laid in the House amidst the continued protests and sloganeering by opposition members. After about 10 minutes of business, Agrawal asked the protesting opposition MPs to go to their seats so that the House can function normally. As the opposition did not heed to the chair's appeal, Agrawal adjourned the House till 2 pm. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, Parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties. Making a mention of India's performance at the Tokyo Olympics, the Speaker earlier said the Indian men's hockey team winning bronze medal was a unique achievement. He also congratulated the country's women athletes on winning three medals at the Tokyo Olympics and also termed their victories as the symbol of "Nari Shakti" (women power). So far, India has won four medals at the Tokyo Olympics, including bronze by the men's hockey team. The three other medals have been won by woman athletes. Mirabai Chanu has won silver in weightlifting in the 49 kg category, boxer Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) has bagged a bronze and shuttler P V Sindhu has won bronze medal in the women's singles badminton.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-4-pm-amid-opposition-uproar-1016506.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||BJP attacks Congress over disruptions in Parliament||The BJP on Thursday hit out at the Congress over the continued disruption of Parliament proceedings due to the opposition protests on the Pegasus issue, and claimed there is no "prima facie evidence" to suggest that certain phone numbers were indeed tapped.  Senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said at a press conference here that his party is ready for a "meaningful" debate in Parliament be it on the Pegasus issue or those concerning farmers.  He, however, added that the opposition could have sought clarification from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw when he made a statement on the snooping controversy in Parliament which would have led to a debate but its members, he noted, instead tore the statement.  Prasad alleged that it is not the Congress' value to respect Parliament, and the opposition party would allow it to function only so long as it "subserves" the interests of the family.  He claimed that people who are "hostile" to the Modi government and has an obvious anti-Modi agenda are behind the Pegasus snooping controversy, and it was timed deliberately ahead of the beginning of Parliament's Monsoon session.  "Is there any prime facie evidence that (phone) numbers were indeed put under surveillance," Prasad asked, noting that Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020 and is now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, has said a mobile number of his allegedly put under surveillance was surrendered by him way back in 2014. The latest Pegasus story had named Mishra as among those who might have been targeted by the snooping spyware.  The fact is, Prasad said, the Congress has not been able to reconcile to Narendra Modi being the prime minister and that the BJP keeps winning under his leadership while the opposition party has been stumbling from one defeat to another.  With opposition parties pointing out that the BJP had also stalled Parliament when the Congress-led UPA was in power, Prasad sought to draw a distinction saying that the then government denied alleged scams involving 2G spectrum allocation and auction of coal blocks.  The Supreme Court had quashed the 2G allocations, he noted.  The ongoing disruption of Parliament has cost over Rs 130 crore, Prasad noted. With the opposition attacking the government for getting bills passed in Parliament amid uproar, he suggested that legislations were passed in a similar manner in 2007. He also cited the example of Emergency, which was imposed after an adverse court ruling against the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, and said the Congress stands to subserve the interest of a dynasty, a reference to the Gandhi family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-congress-over-disruptions-in-parliament-1016515.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||BJP readies ammunition for Pegasus discussion in Parliament||With the Opposition unrelenting on a discussion on Pegasus revelations in Parliament, BJP on Thursday went on an offensive targeting the “Congress dynasty” for the logjam and claiming that there was no prima facie evidence to support the snooping allegations. Addressing a press conference here, senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said the BJP was ready for a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus revelations but said that the Congress too should be prepared for sharp questions. “Are Congress and other opposition ready for a sincere discussion or only in throwing muck and staging walk outs as seen in the past,” Prasad asked. The BJP's defence of Pegasus is on three clear points – highlight the snooping incidents during the Congress rule, target it for disruptions in Parliament, and question the veracity of the claims made by the Pegasus Project. Prasad claimed that people who are “hostile” to the Modi government and have an anti-Modi agenda were behind the Pegasus snooping controversy, and it was timed deliberately to disrupt the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi had already said in Lok Sabha that Pegasus revelations was a “non-issue” and counselled the opposition to raise issues concerning the common man. On Thursday, Prasad kept up the attack on the Congress dynasty, accusing it of failing to reconcile to the fact that people had reposed their faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi in successive elections. Prasad said the Congress was never serious about Parliament and resorted to disruptions even in the past by boycotting the then Defence Minister George Fernandes in Parliament. “Congress has been raising the Covid-19 issue but they skipped the meeting on Covid called by the Prime Minister. They never take Parliament seriously. They tore apart the IT Minister's statement on Pegasus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-readies-ammunition-for-pegasus-discussion-in-parliament-1016516.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||'Janata Parivar' leaders on meeting spree - yet another unity move on the cards?||The Janata Parivar, with a reputation of frequent wars within and resultant splinter groups, seems to be making yet another attempt at coming together, though given the regional dynamics, it still looks to be a herculean task. With a very serious attempt in this direction, considering a cropper in 2015 with the last minute walkout by Mulayam Singh Yadav from a larger alliance in Bihar, the leaders are cautious not to make any tall proclamations this time and are open to some loose federation-like arrangements as well, in which the Parivar's splinter groups, though coming together, can still maintain their independent say in the states where they matter. "What will a political person do other than politics? There is neither any permanent enemy nor any permanent friend in politics. Right now the focus is state polls in six states, especially UP. 2024 is also definitely on the agenda. We will raise common issues," was the cryptic reply of LJD general secretary Javed Raza. Back in action after a long lull, Sharad Yadav met a number of leaders of erstwhile Janata Parivar in the last few days. He met H D Deve Gowda, Lalu Prasad and Mulauyam Singh Yadav on Thursday. Sharad Yadav called on the Samajwadi Party patriarch at his Ashoka Road residence in Delhi and tweeted, "I was very happy to meet our leader, the elder brother Mulayam Singh Yadav ji with whom we struggled to do away with inequality from the country and raise issues of India from Parliament to the street for the upliftment of the deprived sections." Kumar's friend-turned-foe-turned-friend Lalu Prasad of RJD fuelled speculation saying Nitish Kumar is close to his heart even as his son Tejashwi Yadav kept attacking the Chief Minister in the past few days. Prasad had one-to-one meetings with Sharad Pawar, Mualyam Singh Yadav and Sharad Yadav. After his meeting with Sharad Yadav on Tuesday, Prasad flagged how he and the two other Yadav leaders had fought many a battle together and that Sharad Yadav's absence in Parliament is being felt while he vowed to fight against the "communal forces" to his last breath. All the leaders have explained the visit to each other as a "courtesy" one but the frequency of these 'courtesy' visits in the last week have fuelled speculation of something big cooking up. All the leaders also shared the photographs of their 'courtesy' meetings on social media platforms and the political undertones of the comments, leaving no one in doubt about something coming on the political front. Sharing the picture of his meeting with "senior socialist leader Sharad Bhai" on Twitter Prasad said, "Struggle is the very character of us socialists. The fight against communalism and inequality will continue till the last breath." Prasad also said that a Third Front is the need of the hour and in the context of Bihar, batted for the unity of Tejashwi Yadav (RJD) and Chirag Paswan (faction of LJP led by late Ram Vilas Paswan's son). Meeting Mualyam Singh Yadav and his son Akhilesh Yadav on August 2, the RJD chief said, "Today the nation needs equality and socialism, not capitalism and communalism" and asserted "we have common concerns related to villages, inequality, farmers and the unemployed." All the three Yadav leaders from the Opposition side Chirag Paswan and even Nitish Kumar have spoken in one voice on the OBC census. JD(S)' Deve Gowda, who met Sharad Yadav on Wednesday, has already said that his is a regional party and it will not ally with anyone (ruling out backing BJP) and instead seek to strengthen its base.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/janata-parivar-leaders-on-meeting-spree-yet-another-unity-move-on-the-cards-1016632.html
05-08-2021||National Politics||Congress, Opposition parties to up the ante in final week of Monsoon Session||Even as the third week of Monsoon session of Parliament is set to end tomorrow on a note of disruption, the Congress on Thursday made it clear it will keep up the momentum against the government on issues of alleged snooping with Rahul Gandhi on Thursday addressing a 'Sansad Gehrao' protest here by the Indian Youth Congress and attacking Israeli spyware Pegasus by calling it a "tool to silence people". The other issue on which Congress will build its anti-government narrative is the farmers' distress. Rahul Gandhi, who earlier rode a tractor to Parliament to highlight the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws, is set to attend a symbolic protest of Opposition MPs at the site of farmers' agitation at Jantar Mantar on Friday. The strategy for the protest march will be finalised at an Opposition meeting on Friday morning, somewhat like the one that was held on August 3, after a breakfast meeting called by Rahul Gandhi. At the 'Sansad Gehrao' protest" on Thursday, Gandhi told the young workers, "your mobile phone is your voice. Narendra Modi has put the idea of Pegasus in the mobile phone of every youth, not just mine. This idea is that if you speak the truth, Narendra Modi and Pegasus are there in your phones...Pegasus is a way to silence the voice of people." The farmers, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha — who were given special permission to protest at Jantar Mantar till August 9 on weekdays — have already decided to observe Independence Day on August 15 as 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' and take out Tiranga marches across the country. With the Monsoon session coming to an end on August 13, parties in the Opposition are keen to keep the heat on the government even in the last week of the session. Hence, more protests both outside Parliament and in the well of the Houses, could be the order of the day for all the five working days of Parliament next week. The opposition parties have also decided to up the ante against the government in the last week of the session. Sources said that a decision has been taken to have at least one member from each of the opposition parties in the well when the House proceedings are underway. Addressing reporters outside Parliament, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, "if attempts are made to crush and muzzle our issues by targeting us, using threats, fear or pressurising us, the Congress and a united opposition are not going to budge and will keep fighting". Congress member Pratap Singh Bajwa said farmers are sitting on the borders of Delhi. "What is the job of Parliament. PM Modi has said the laws are in the benefit of farmers but they are not accepting. I had earlier told the PM I will come with him to the border. But repeal the laws if farmers don't want the laws," Bajwa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-opposition-parties-to-up-the-ante-in-final-week-of-monsoon-session-1016662.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Cash award of Rs 1 cr for each Punjab player in bronze-winning hockey team||The Punjab government on Thursday announced that it will give a cash award of Rs one crore to each of the state hockey player, who was part of the Indian men's team that won a bronze medal in the Olympic Games. Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi made the announcement after India beat Germany 5-4 in the bronze play-off. "On this historic day for #IndianHockey I am delighted to announce a cash award of Rs 1crore each to players 4m#Punjab We await ur return to celebrate the much deserving medal in #Olympics," Sodhi tweeted. Punjab had eight players, including skipper Manpreet Singh, in the Indian men's hockey team. The others are Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Hardik Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh and Mandeep Singh. On Friday, Sodhi had announced that the hockey players from the state participating in the Tokyo Olympics would get Rs 2.25 crore each if the team wins a gold medal. Before this bronze, India had won an Olympic medal in hockey way back in 1980 Games in Moscow. Sodhi said he was immensely proud of the entire Indian hockey team’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics. "It is time to enjoy & celebrate the historic bronze. As Sports Minister of #Punjab it is my duty & matter of pride to promote, encourage the national sport & motivate flag-bearers," Sodhi said in another tweet. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also congratulated the team for its achievement. "A proud & historic moment for the nation as Men’s Hockey Team wins Bronze Medal in #Olympics by defeating Germany in a scintillating match. A tremendous achievement to be finishing on the podium after 41 years and the Hockey Bronze is worth its weight in Gold. Congratulations," Amarinder tweeted. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also congratulated the team and said entire India is proud of its talented players.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cash-award-of-rs-1-cr-for-each-punjab-player-in-bronze-winning-hockey-team-1016454.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition uproar||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the second time on Thursday as the Opposition continued with their protests against alleged snooping by Pegasus spyware and other issues. The House was adjourned till 2 pm and prior to that, proceedings were adjourned for around half-an-hour till noon. As soon as the House met for the day, Speaker Om Birla congratulated the Indian hockey team for an Olympic medal after 41 years as well as women athletes who won medals at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. When the Question Hour commenced, Opposition parties started protesting against various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and farm laws. Many members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and displaying placards. Despite the din, at least ten questions and supplementaries were taken up during the Question Hour. While urging the protesting members to go back to their seats, Birla said important issues are being discussed in the Question Hour and that they were not asking questions but only indulging in sloganeering. "This is not appropriate for Parliament traditions," the Speaker said and stressed that people want the House to run in accordance with traditions and rules.   Crores of rupees are being spent and people are asking why the House is not running, Birla said before adjourning the proceedings till noon as the Opposition uproar over various issues continued. Earlier, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought to raise the issue of the death of a Dalit girl following an alleged sexual assault in the national capital but was not allowed. As soon as the House resumed at noon, Chowdhury again tried to raise the issue of the death of the Dalit girl in Delhi. He said he wanted the House to adopt a resolution condemning the incident. The Congress leader of Lok Sabha was immediately countered by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Meghwal who asked why the opposition party was silent on similar issues which had taken place in Rajasthan, a state ruled by the Congress. Meghwal objected to Chowdhury raising the issue and said that it was condemnable that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has failed to raise the Rajasthan issues. Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, ignored Chowdhury's appeal and allowed the papers related to various ministries to be laid in the House amidst the continued protests and sloganeering by opposition members. After about 10 minutes of business, Agrawal asked the protesting opposition MPs to go to their seats so that the House can function normally. As the opposition did not heed to the chair's appeal, Agrawal adjourned the House till 2 pm. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, Parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties. Making a mention of India's performance at the Tokyo Olympics, the Speaker earlier said the Indian men's hockey team winning bronze medal was a unique achievement. He also congratulated the country's women athletes on winning three medals at the Tokyo Olympics and also termed their victories as the symbol of "Nari Shakti" (women power). So far, India has won four medals at the Tokyo Olympics, including bronze by the men's hockey team. The three other medals have been won by woman athletes. Mirabai Chanu has won silver in weightlifting in the 49 kg category, boxer Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) has bagged a bronze and shuttler P V Sindhu has won bronze medal in the women's singles badminton||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-uproar-1016456.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Prashant Kishor quits as Punjab CM's principal advisor; what next?||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday resigned from his post of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's principal advisor, citing his "temporary break from active role in public life", a move that gave a new grist to the speculation over him being drafted in by the Congress to oversee its strategy and alliance. "In view of my decision to take a temporary break from my active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Advisor. Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position," Kishor wrote to the Chief Minister on Thursday. While Kishor said he is "yet to decide on his future course", there is already a strong buzz in Congress that Kishor's role could be very soon a reality. Kishor had, in the past, planned Congress' poll strategy for Uttar Pradesh and Punjab in 2017 elections, failing utterly at one and making a big success in the other. Even after that, he remained in touch with Priyanka Gandhi and had a few meetings with the Congress leadership in the last two three months This association was revealed only when he visited Rahul Gandhi's residence in the second week of July when he had a three-hour-long meeting with Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. Kishor is also learnt to have held a briefing for the party's senior leaders in Congress War Room at Rakabganj Road. Rahul Gandhi has spoken to a number of party leaders on the feasibility and possibility of inducting Kishor in the party. Many in the party are, however, skeptical about whether Kishor, who had an unceremonious exit from JDU, will be able to survive the rough and tumble AICC politics. Kishor's decision to kick his formal role with Punjab CM comes even as polls in the state are a year away. Also, it comes at a time when Amarinder's bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu has become Punjab PCC chief. Kishor has quit the post even though, as per the terms and conditions of his appointment, was to be co-terminus with Amarinder's tenure. His exit is a recent development as Kishor had held confabulations with first-time MLAs of Congress in March this year. The meeting was seen as a feedback exercise in order to chalk Amarinder Singh's campaign strategy for the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prashant-kishor-quits-as-punjab-cms-principal-advisor-what-next-1016458.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||J&K: Explosion near Srinagar Jamia Masjid, no casualty||An explosion took place near the Jamia Masjid in Nowhatta area of the city here Thursday, but no loss of life or injury were reported, officials said. They said the explosion, suspected to be an Improvised Explosive Device (IED), took place around noon. The security personnel deployed in the area fired some shots in the air after the explosion, they said. No loss of any life or injury were reported so far, they added. The police are investigating the matter, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-explosion-near-srinagar-jamia-masjid-no-casualty-1016459.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 12 people injured as Naxals blow up SUV in Dantewada||Twelve people were injured, three of them seriously, after Naxals blew up a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in which they were travelling using an improvised explosive device in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Thursday, a police official said. The incident took place at around 7.30 am near Ghotiya village under Malewadhi police station limits, located around 400 km from the state capital Raipur, on an under-construction route that connects Narayanpur to Dantewada, the district's Superintendent of Police, Abhishek Pallava, told PTI. “The vehicle, a Bolero, came under the impact of the IED blast, causing injuries to all 12 occupants, including a woman. Three of them received critical injuries," he said. After being alerted, a team of security personnel from a nearby camp rushed to the spot. The injured people were being shifted to the district hospital, Pallava said. The official further said they suspect the rebels might have planned to target security forces, but mistakenly attacked the civilian vehicle. He also said police never use four-wheelers while moving on that route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-12-people-injured-as-naxals-blow-up-suv-in-dantewada-1016460.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Haven't seen such devastation in 70 years, says MP CM as rain mayhem kills 2, wounds 2||With heavy rains ravaging the Gwalior-Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, leaving two people dead and damaging bridges and other infrastructure, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said the state has "not seen such devastation in the last 70 years". According to the state government, it has so far recorded two rain-related deaths -- one each in Shivpuri and Sheopur districts. Besides, seven people have been injured - four in Guna, two in Shivpuri and one in Morena, state revenue secretary Gyaneshwar B Patil told PTI, adding that they share death figures only after confirmation from district collectors. The heavy showers in the Gwalior-Chambal region damaged bridges near the Ratangarh temple (Datia) and Sankua because of which many people were stuck there, Chouhan said. In the morning, Chouhan spoke to commissioners and Inspector Generals of Gwalior and Chambal divisions (comprising Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena and Bhind districts) to take stock of the flood situation and rescue operations, an official from the state administration in Bhopal said. The chief minister also informed that an air operation was started to rescue people in the flood-hit Bhind district and Karera in Shivpuri district. “The state has not seen such devastation in the last 70 years that the rain-ravaged Gwalior-Chambal region is facing. Bridges near the Ratangarh Mata Temple and Sankua in the area were damaged and many people got stranded in those areas,” the official said quoting Chouhan. On Wednesday night, 57 people were rescued from Kali Pahadi in Shivpuri district, officials said, adding that efforts were on to rescue 35 more people stranded there. Besides, 13 people were rescued from Teela area in Shivpuri, they said. Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning to inform him about the latest flood situation, and rescue and relief operations. He told the PM about major damages caused to the infrastructure, crops, power and telecom networks and about the requirement of basic necessities, the officials said. The prime minister has assured all possible help to the state to deal with the situation, they said. Chouhan also briefed Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the flood situation in the state. He thanked Modi and Shah for the Centre's continuous help and support to the state during the crisis. Shah told the CM that the Centre will send an advance team to assess the damage caused in the state, the officials said. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu called Chouhan and enquired about the flood and rain situation, as well as the ongoing relief operations, they said. The work of air-dropping food packets was also started in some of the flood-hit areas, the officials said. In Sheopur, 13 locations were identified for the air-dropping of food packets, they said The chief minister also chaired a meeting in the morning at his official residence here to review the flood situation. Officials from the affected districts joined the meeting virtually. Meanwhile, the rainfall activity has reduced in the Gwalior-Chambal region in the last 24 hours, said P K Saha, the senior meteorologist at the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office. He said Shivpuri and Sheopur received 37 mm and 11 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Thursday. “The low pressure (formed) over north-west (Gwalior and Chambal) Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring areas now lies over central parts of north MP (including Bhopal) and adjoining areas,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/havent-seen-such-devastation-in-70-years-says-mp-cm-as-rain-mayhem-kills-2-wounds-2-1016468.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Hockey player's family abused with casteist slurs after semi-final loss at Tokyo Olympics||The family of Indian women's hockey team player Vandana Katariya allegedly faced ''casteist slurs'' from members of an upper caste after the team lost to Argentina in the semi-final at the Tokyo Olympics. According to reports, two youths, who hailed from an upper caste, hurled casteist slurs on the family and burst crackers in a ''mock celebration'' after the loss in front of their home at Roshnabad locality in Uttarakhand's Haridwar district on Wednesday. One of the alleged culprits, identified as Vijaipal, was arrested and a hunt was on to nab the other, who was identified as Sumit Chauhan. A senior police official in Haridwar said that an FIR was lodged under section 504 of the IPC (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and different sections of the SC/ST Act after a complaint was filed with the police by Katariya’s family members. The reports said that the family members of Katariya had demanded the registration of a case of ‘treason' against the culprits and had threatened to immolate themselves if their demand was not conceded. Police said that the charges of hurting national sentiments were also being examined. ‘’We will take stern action against the culprits,’’ said the official. Kataria’s brothers Saurabh and Pankaj said that the youths started bursting crackers in front of their home almost immediately after India lost to Argentina.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hockey-players-family-abused-with-casteist-slurs-after-semi-final-loss-at-tokyo-olympics-1016469.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Security tight in Kashmir for 'black day' anniversary||Hundreds of extra police and troops were deployed in the main city of Indian-administered Kashmir Thursday as separatist groups called for a shutdown to mark a "black day" on the second anniversary of New Delhi imposing direct rule. Kashmir has been divided between India and Pakistan since the end of British colonial rule in 1947 with both claiming the territory in full. Fighting in the Indian-controlled part has left tens of thousands, mostly civilians, dead. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government scrapped the region's partial autonomy on August 5, 2019, and split it into two federal territories, arresting thousands in a massive security operation and communications blackout that lasted months. Ahead of the second anniversary, security forces erected numerous new checkpoints and barricades across Srinagar with personnel in bulletproof gear checking vehicles and frisking residents on the roads. Suspected rebels fired at a police patrol in the northwestern Sopore area, but no one was injured, a police officer told AFP. However, district police refuted the incident on Twitter. Top separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, 90, called for a general shutdown to mark a "black day" to protest "India's naked aggression", in a Twitter statement by his Pakistan-based representative Syed Abdullah Geelani. The call was supported by several smaller separatist groups who also challenge India's rule of Kashmir. Police initially termed the Twitter handle and statement as "fake". But the ailing Geelani, under house arrest for most of the last 13 years, issued his first video in two years on Wednesday, confirming the statement via his "nominated special representative". On Thursday most shops remained closed in Srinagar and vehicular movement on the roads was thin. However, police were seen asking shopkeepers to open. Many shopkeepers and businessmen, without wishing to be named, told AFP that police had threatened them. Local reporters said officers were breaking locks on shutters. "I was recording video of shuttered shops when police officers arrived and took my photos while I was working and accused myself and journalists of instigating a shutdown," photojournalist Umer Asif told AFP. Former Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, along with dozens of other local politicians, spent months incarcerated after being arrested in the 2019 clampdown. Scores of people remain behind bars either in Kashmir or elsewhere, held under controversial legislation that allows them to be detained for up to two years without charge. Mufti issued an angry statement on Wednesday slamming New Delhi's actions as "daylight robbery" of people's constitutional rights. "When unbridled oppression is unleashed & gross injustice heaped there is no other choice but to resist to exist," she tweeted. Government minister Jitendra Singh said in an editorial in the Indian Express daily that Kashmir was now moving toward "deepening democracy, fulfilling people's aspirations, (and) increasing economic growth".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tight-in-kashmir-for-black-day-anniversary-1016488.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Ram Subhag Singh appointed Himachal chief secretary, Congress protests in Assembly||The Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday appointed senior IAS officer Ram Subhag Singh as the chief secretary replacing Anil Kumar Khachi who was made the state election commissioner, prompting the opposition Congress to stage a walkout in the Assembly in protest. The Congress said that a Himachal Pradesh resident was removed from the post of chief secretary to elevate an "outsider". In an order, the state government appointed Khachi as the state election commissioner (SEC) with immediate effect. Khachi, a 1986-batch IAS officer, served as the chief secretary for over one year and seven months. The senior most IAS officer after Khachi, Singh was appointed as the new chief secretary. Singh, a 1987-batch IAS officer, was the additional chief secretary (industries, transport, labour and employment) before his elevation. In the Assembly, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said a Himachal Pradesh resident has been removed for appointing an "outsider" to the topmost administrative post, that too in the middle of an Assembly session. He also wanted a discussion on the issue. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur stated that it is the prerogative of the state government to appoint the chief secretary. The House cannot decide who will be chief secretary and this matter cannot be discussed in the House, he added. To this, Congress legislators made an uproar and started raising slogans. Aginhotri said the chief minister had talked about Himachal and Himchaliyat while paying tributes to former CM Yashwant Singh Parmar on his 115th birth anniversary on Wednesday, but a day after he removed a HP resident from the topmost administrative post to pave the way for appointment of an "outsider". He said the new chief secretary would be the sixth during the current government. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said he cannot allow the Congress to raise the issue as it is the prerogative of the state government to appoint the chief secretary and other officers, and not of the House. To this, the Congress legislators staged a walkout in protest. The chief minister said the Congress should look back on how its government appointed an officer who was sixth in seniority as the chief secretary, whereas the current government has not violated any rule in the new appointment. Thakur said that Khachi has been removed from the post so as to appoint him to the constitutional post for the five years while only one year and nine months were left in his current tenure. Khachi was appointed to the new post after discussion with him, he added. A few minutes later, the Congress MLAs returned to the House and routine proceedings started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-subhag-singh-appointed-himachal-chief-secretary-congress-protests-in-assembly-1016512.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Will knock doors of Parliament to make BJP govt answerable: PAGD||On the second anniversary of abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the PAGD on Thursday said that they will knock on the doors of people of the country and the Parliament to seek the rights that were snatched on August 5, 2019. The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) - an alliance of six mainstream political parties was formed in October last by Kashmir-centric leaders with the pledge towards the restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Center on August 5, 2019. The alliance had called a meeting of its constituents at the Gupkar residence of the National Conference (NC) chief, Farooq Abdullah, who is also the president of the PAGD. During the meeting, sources said, the alliance leaders vowed that no force will deter them from seeking the constitutional rights, which were snatched from the people of Jammu and Kashmir on the same day in 2019. They said that the PAGD leaders decided to knock doors of the Parliament to seek their rights and to make the BJP government answerable about what has been achieved in the last two years after the Article 370 was scrapped.   Sources said that besides Abdullah, the meeting was attended by PDP chief Mehboob Mufti, CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and lasted for about an hour. On June 24, Abdullah, Mehbooba and Tarigami had also attended the Prime Minister’s all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi. Earlier, Mehbooba in a tweet said: “Today is a day of mourning for J&K. BJP government started oppression, barbarism in 2019. It is unfortunate that BJP is celebrating while Kashmir is mourning. We will resist this. We will force the government to speak to Pakistan to address external dimensions (sic).” In another tweet. she added: “No words or pictures are enough to depict the pain, torment & upheaval inflicted upon J&K on this black day two years ago. When unbridled oppression is unleashed & gross injustice heaped there is no other choice but to resist to exist.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-knock-doors-of-parliament-to-make-bjp-govt-answerable-pagd-1016526.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||August 5 decision an attempt to erase J&K’s status as ‘disputed territory’: Hurriyat||On the second anniversary of abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370, a moderate faction of Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Thursday termed the decision as “an attempt to erase its (J&K’s) status as a disputed territory.” “We would like to draw the attention of the citizens of India and the world at large, that the present Indian government’s actions of August 5, 2019, has only complicated the dispute over the state of J&K further,” a spokesperson of the separatist group said in a statement. He said the fresh complexities were illustrated by the fact that it ignited the flames along the Line of Actual Control (with China in Ladakh) “even as some measure of calm has been introduced along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. “It is worth pointing out that whereas before August 2019, New Delhi would argue that Kashmir was the main trouble spot in the state, today it is faced with four trouble spots of Leh, Kargil and Jammu as there is disaffection in these regions too,” the Hurriyat spokesperson claimed. He said going forward, “the Hurriyat is convinced that the government of India must accept the need to address the Kashmir dispute, engage with those who truly represent the political will and aspirations of its people, and diffuse the building geopolitical pressures in the region along its northern and western borders.” The separatist group urged the government of India to resume engagement with Islamabad and release all political prisoners “who were arrested arbitrarily or under draconian laws.” Before August 5, 2019, most of the separatist organisations, including both factions of the Hurriyat, would issue statements almost daily in which they used to bash the government of India and its policies in Kashmir. The statements would get prominent space in local newspapers. However, after the abrogation of Article 370, local media has almost not carried any news related to the separatists. The separatists too have found it difficult to issue statements or calls for a strike as most of their men are either in jail or are evading arrests. However, over the last few months, the moderate Hurriyat faction has started to issue some statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/august-5-decision-an-attempt-to-erase-jk-s-status-as-disputed-territory-hurriyat-1016529.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Ravi Dahiya's medal brings hopes to village for drinking water, electricity||Ravi Dahiya, won the silver medal at the Tokyo Olympic's in the men's 57kg event. While the country celebrates his success, his village hopes that this win, will bring some recognition and development, too. Dahiya hails from Nahri, a remote village in Haryana, and residents of the village have been hopeful for development in the village since he qualified for the Games in 2019. "Ab lagta hai bijli ki samasya door ho jayegi, paani bhi poora aa jayega (it seems our problems of electricty and water will now be resolved)," Ravi Dahiya's father, rakesh told the media outlet. "I hope his medal brings 24x7 electricity supply and proper road. We would like to believe that my son's medals would bring development to the village", his father added. After Lovlina Borgohain won her medal, the Assam govt announced that her native Baromukhia village in Assam’s Golaghat district will get cemented roads. A similar announcement for development is expected by the government of Haryana for Nahri village. The village also has a long standing demand for a government hospital, since the nearest hospital is in Sonipat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ravi-dahiyas-medal-brings-hopes-to-village-for-drinking-water-electricity-1016530.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Did not leak Disha Ravi's private chats to media, Delhi Police tells HC||Delhi Police Thursday told the Delhi High Court that it has not leaked any information to the media in relation to its probe in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers' protest. The court was hearing Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. Justice Rekha Palli said keeping in view that the petition raises an important question of public importance, it be listed for arguments on September 27. Advocate Rajat Nair, representing the Delhi Police, submitted that the leak has not happened from their end. The police, in its response filed through advocate Amit Mahajan, said the allegation that the information of chats of Ravi has been leaked by the police is “false and factually incorrect”. The affidavit, filed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell Unit) of Special Cell Anyesh Roy, said no information or document forming part of the case file including the subject chats have been shared by the police with any media house or individual except the information communicated officially through press briefing or broadcast, which is a matter of record. The court was informed by the senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Ravi, that the pleadings in the case are complete. He said while Ravi was in custody, her private chats were leaked to the media. While the police claim it has not leaked it, the media clearly says they got it from the police, he argued, adding that some protection or guidelines need to be considered in this regard. Ravi was arrested by Delhi Police on February 13 for allegedly being involved in sharing on social media a "toolkit" related to the ongoing farmers' protest against the Centre's three new agri laws, and was granted bail by a trial court here on February 23. In her petition before the high court, she has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Ravi, in her plea, has said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses". She has claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She has also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". She has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" — like alleged WhatsApp chats — the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. The high court had on February 19 said certain media coverage of investigation into the FIR against Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing farmers' protest indicates "sensationalism and prejudicial reporting", but declined to order removal of any such content at this stage. The issue of removal of content which was already in public domain shall be considered at a later stage, it had said. The high court, in an earlier order, had asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. The police had earlier also placed an affidavit categorically denying leaking of any information to the media. It also assured the court that it had no intention of leaking any information to the media. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had said the petition was not maintainable as no complaint was first made to it for taking action against any TV channel or media house for any alleged incorrect reporting of the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-did-not-leak-disha-ravis-private-chats-to-media-delhi-police-tells-hc-1016555.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Bill to amend Central Universities Act for establishing university in Ladakh introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill that seeks to amend the Central Universities Act, 2009, to provide for the establishment of a university in the Union territory of Ladakh was introduced in Lok Sabha on Thursday. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan introduced the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 amid a din by opposition members over the Pegasus spying row and farmers' issue. Opposition leaders opposed the introduction of the bill with Congress member Manish Tewari saying that there is a time-honoured convention of the House that till the time the House is not in order no legislation can be discussed. "What is happening is completely unconstitutional, it is murder of democracy," he said. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, piloted by Pradhan, at present there is no central university in Ladakh and therefore, the government has decided to establish a new central university there to ensure increase in accessibility and quality of higher education, and to facilitate and promote avenues of higher education and research for the people of the Union territory. This shall also cater to the regional aspirations for years to come, it said. According to the statement of objects, the bill seeks to amend the Central Universities Act, 2009, to provide for the establishment of a University in the name of "Sindhu Central University" in Ladakh. The Union Cabinet had last month approved the establishment of a central university and an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation for Ladakh. The decisions to set up the central university at a cost of Rs 750 crore and the corporation with a fund of Rs 25 crore for Ladakh had been taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by the prime minister. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur had said at a media briefing that the university will be set up with a total outlay of Rs 750 crore and will cater to all areas of Ladakh that include Leh and Kargil. Thakur had said the university will help reduce the imbalance in the region on the education sector and students of Ladakh to get quality higher education opportunities. It will help in intellectual development and better higher education and will help improve the quality of education, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bill-to-amend-central-universities-act-for-establishing-university-in-ladakh-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1016580.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Preparing for worst-case scenario; immediate lockdown in Delhi if Covid positivity rate reaches 5% again, says Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the city government was preparing to set up 37,000 beds for Covid patients in anticipation of the third wave of the pandemic, even as he emphasised that if the positivity rate reaches five per cent again, then lockdown will be immediately imposed. Addressing a virtual session hosted by Assocham India, the minister also said that the government was preparing to combat the pandemic's next wave, assuming a "worst-case scenario". "Over 37,000 dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients are being set up presently and the Delhi government is preparing for the worst-case scenario so that it can save precious lives," he said. The city government has learnt from the experiences of the second wave, and is taking all necessary measures to combat any potential wave and building all necessary health infrastructure from installing PSA oxygen plants to settings up more more oxygen, ventilator and ICU beds, Jain was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Health Department. The minister emphasised upon being vigilant and following Covid-appropriate behaviour which is crucial in checking the spread of coronavirus. "We have made public what our response would be. If the positivity rate now goes up to 5 per cent, then we will go for an immediate lockdown without delay," Jain said. On Thursday, the national capital recorded 61 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the disease, while the positivity rate slightly decreased to 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the Health Department here. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs would be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. While addressing questions on the second wave, Jain said, "We were caught off guard because of oxygen shortage and the logistical issues of procuring it, but now over 50 oxygen plants have already been built, and more are in the pipeline, so that such a problem doesn't arise again." During the session, 'Delhi Healthcare System: Preparedness to combat the third wave of Covid-19' a few senior doctors and industrial leaders also shared their viewpoints on the chance of the next wave. Jain also shared the experience of setting up field hospitals or makeshift facilities which were built during the second wave. The health minister said, "Makeshift hospitals created at Chattarpur, Sant Nirankari Colony, Ramlila Maidan are now being ramped up with ICU beds and ventilators, which count to more than 1,200. Further, the Delhi government is also training more medical staff and doctors belonging to different streams." On a query on the vaccination drive, the minister said, "Delhi has the capacity of administering three to four lakh doses every day provided we get the supplies required and one crore doses have already been administered in the state." "The cases are increasing again in the UK and the US, thus we must not drop our guard at this point. All possible efforts are being made to ensure that a third wave doesn't come and if at all it comes, we are to be prepared for the worst," he said. "Convened a virtual session with @ASSOCHAM4India & discussed Delhi Govt's preparedness to combat 3rd wave of #COVID19. We'll be proactive in our response. We're preparing for the worst-case scenario & are preparing 37k beds dedicated to Covid," Jain earlier tweeted. The Delhi government has also been augmenting facilities in pediatric departments and child hospitals in anticipation of the third wave, which experts have cautioned would prove more dangerous for children. He said the Delhi government is not leaving any stone unturned in its effort towards saving precious lives and "75,000 tests are still being carried out every day, and aggressive contact tracing is still on to ensure that the situation remains under control". He also said that various subsidy schemes have been launched by the Delhi government to facilitate building of PSA oxygen plants and LMO (liquid medical oxygen) facilities. Despite a fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the pandemic were quite real, and had asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in any way", while sounding a tone of caution. The coronavirus death toll in the city has risen to 25,060, according to the latest health bulletin. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Wednesday, while 67 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/preparing-for-worst-case-scenario-immediate-lockdown-in-delhi-if-covid-positivity-rate-reaches-5-again-says-satyendar-jain-1016647.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||Studies show Himalayan glaciers are retreating but not at rapid pace: Minister||Studies have revealed that the Himalayan glaciers are retreating in general but not at a rapid pace, Union Minister Prahlad Singh Patel told Lok Sabha on Thursday. The studies showed that glaciers with an area of more than 10 square km are unlikely to get affected appreciably in the coming years. However, smaller glaciers of less than 2 square km area are likely to show rapid changes, Patel said. Responding to a question on the stress on Himalayan rivers, he said snow and glaciers are perennial sources of water for rivers originating from the Himalayas. Glaciers receive and accumulate snow in winter and release meltwater in summer through surface flow, groundwater seepage. "Studies have revealed that the Himalayan glaciers are retreating in general but not at a rapid pace," Patel said. "The rate of melting/recession varies from glaciers to glaciers depending on its topography and climatic variability of the region. Studies have shown that glaciers with an area of more than 10 square km are unlikely to get affected appreciably in the coming years. However, smaller glaciers of less than 2 square km are likely to show rapid changes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/studies-show-himalayan-glaciers-are-retreating-but-not-at-rapid-pace-minister-1016664.html
05-08-2021||North and Central||5 terror incidents in Kashmir Valley on second anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||Officials said there were a total of five terrorist incidents during the day. No loss of life or injury to anyone was reported, they added. Other than these, there were no reports of any untoward incident in the valley. Shops and business establishments in some areas of Srinagar remained shut during the day and public buses did not ply, officials said. Though there was no call for a strike given by any separatist outfit, some areas in the city witnessed spontaneous shutdown, they said. Giving details of the attacks, the officials said the first one took place at Batpora in the Sopore area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district where militants fired at a police team from a long distance in the morning. There was no loss of life or injury to anyone. Around noon, an explosion -- suspected to be that of an improvised explosive device (IED) -- took place near Jamia Masjid in the Nowhatta area of Srinagar, the officials said. The security forces deployed in the area fired some rounds in air after the explosion, they said. In the evening, terrorists hurled a grenade on security forces patrolling team in Mehjoor Nagar here. Around 20:30 pm, terrorists hurled a grenade at Pulwama Police Station in south Kashmir and it exploded on the roadside outside its main gate, the officials said. The fifth attack took place around 9 pm when militants hurled a grenade at a security forces' post located at Bemina near Judge Quarters here which exploded without causing any loss of life or injury to anyone. Meanwhile, shops in several areas of the city, including Lal Chowk city centre, were closed. Those in other areas such as south Kashmir's Anantnag district and parts of Budgam, Ganderbal and Kupwara were open. Shopkeepers in many areas, including Lal Chowk, alleged that police forced them to keep their establishments open. Many of them claimed police broke open the locks of their shops. There was no strike call given by any separatist group. The police termed a letter in the name of hardline Hurriyat Conference chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who is under house-detention, calling for a shutdown "fake". They added that action was being taken against those uploading or sharing the letter. On August 5, 2019, the Centre announced nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-terror-incidents-in-kashmir-valley-on-second-anniversary-of-article-370-abrogation-1016682.html
05-08-2021||Opinion||Appoint a political negotiator for Naga peace talks||Six years ago this week, the nation was aflutter with excitement when Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to make a mid-afternoon announcement of a transitional peace agreement with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) or NSCN (IM). Dubbed the “framework agreement”, it was expected to lead to a permanent settlement of the Naga insurgency, the largest and the oldest in India’s northeast. However, true to a reputation of being high on publicity and low on delivery, the Modi government has not moved an inch forward since then. The incompetence of the government and its negotiators is rarely made public. The intransigence of the NSCN (IM) and disunity among the Nagas themselves are usually blamed for the peace process being stalled. The government, however, has thwarted the Naga peace process by the following mistakes: the appointment of its Chief Interlocutor for the Naga talks, RN Ravi, as Governor of Nagaland in July 2019; revocation of the separate flag and Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019; and Ravi countering the NSCN (IM)’s demand for Constitutional guarantees by promoting a rival body, the Naga National Political Groups who accept the Indian Constitution in its present form. The NSCN (IM) had objected to dealing with Ravi in a dual role as both Governor and Chief Interlocutor. It downgraded the talks, they said, from a political settlement to the level of a law and order problem. The NSCN (IM) reiterated this in a letter to the prime minister in June, asking him to appoint a new representative for the peace talks. They have refused formal discussions with Governor Ravi after January 2020. There have since been only informal discussions through Intelligence Bureau officials, and even these ceased after February 2021. It would be wrong to blame the Modi government’s J&K policy for delaying a Naga settlement. Specifically, the demand for a separate Naga flag and Constitution have been non-negotiable sticking points after similar symbols of political identity were struck down for J&K. This analysis does not recognise the huge movement forward achieved in the rest of the agreement with the Nagas over the sharing of competencies in the Union, State and Concurrent Lists. Moreover, the NSCN (IM) does not think that developments in J&K have any bearing on the Naga issue. The NSCN (IM)’s position is that the Kashmir and Naga issues are historically different, and the government of India admitted as much in 2002. J&K became a part of India through the Instrument of Accession. On the other hand, the Nagas, led by Angami Zapu Phizo and his Naga National Council, declared Independence on August 14, 1947, a day earlier than India. By the early 1950s, the Nagas had launched an armed insurgency for independence. None of the peace accords signed between the Nagas and the Government of India (GoI) in 1947, 1960 and 1975 accepted the special position of the Nagas. However, the present negotiations beginning with a ceasefire in 1997 did. A qualitatively new approach to negotiations by the GOI was reflected in a joint statement signed on July 11, 2002, that recognised the “unique history and position of the Nagas”. It enabled the NSCN (IM) to move from a position of “total independence and complete sovereignty” to negotiations for a close relationship binding the Nagas with India. The Framework Agreement of August 3, 2015, formalised it. If the history and position of the Nagas are accepted as “unique”, then the J&K developments should not impinge on the settlement with them, the Nagas argue. Indeed, the Framework Agreement went even further. It talks of “sharing” of sovereign power with the Nagas through a “new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities”. Thus it says: “Both sides have understood each other’s respective positions and are cognizant of the universal principle that in a democracy sovereignty lies with the people. Accordingly, the GoI and NSCN, respecting the peoples’ wishes for sharing the sovereign power as defined in the competencies, reached an agreement on August 3 2015, as an honourable solution.…it will provide for an enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of two entities.” Solutions around the flag and constitution issues may be found if there is a strong political will to do so. A Naga flag flown along with the Indian tricolour will not weaken India. As for a “separate” Constitution, the NSCN (IM) negotiators have proposed that the peace agreement signed with India incorporated into the Indian Constitution could be adopted as the Naga Constitution. So if the prime minister is serious about a peace settlement, he must remove Governor Ravi from negotiations and appoint a new political representative. The government’s penchant for relying on retired policemen and bureaucrats will not lead to peace in Naga areas. That needs a political negotiator with the self-confidence to think innovatively to secure India’s periphery in the northeast. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) (Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/appoint-a-political-negotiator-for-naga-peace-talks-1016546.html
05-08-2021||Opinion||Trinamool's Dilli Chalo via the northeast||In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the Trinamool Congress fielded veteran actor Biswajit Chatterjee from the New Delhi seat. The constituency had a history of electing Bengalis – Sucheta Kripalani in 1952 and 57 and Mukul Banerji in 1971. It had also sent a movie star to Parliament - Rajesh Khanna in a bypoll in 1992. While Chatterjee was both a Bengali and a faded movie star, none thought he could win. The most that the 77-year-old, and his party, hoped was to find support from the significant enough numbers of Bengalis from among the seat's electorate. However, neither Chatterjee's star power nor his linguistic identity could help. He managed an abysmal 909 votes of the 9.70 lakh votes polled. As the Mamata Banerjee-led political party plans its "Dilli Chalo" campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls via its home turf of Bengal and the northeastern states, it would do well to remember that episode from 2014. Of the northeastern states, Tripura and Assam have sizeable Bengali-speaking populations. But the Trinamool's previous outings in these two states and elsewhere in the northeast have taught it the importance of widening its support base beyond the Bengali speaking populaces. Apart from the 42-Lok Sabha seats of Bengal that the Trinamool would hope to sweep in 2024, the seven northeastern states and Sikkim together send 25 MPs to Parliament. But before the Lok Sabha polls, the Trinamool would get an opportunity to flex its muscles in the Assembly polls slated in four of these states by the winter of 2023. Manipur goes to polls in February 2022, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya by February 2023 and Mizoram by December 2023. Until now, the Trinamool has had thin electoral returns in the northeast. It had an MLA in Khonsa in Arunachal Pradesh and one in Manipur, who later joined the BJP. Its lone MLA in Meghalaya had later turned independent.  Tripura has 69 per cent Bengali speakers, while Mizoram has nearly 10 per cent, and eight per cent of Meghalaya's population is that of Bengali speakers. In Assam, which has 29 per cent of its populace as Bengali speakers, the Trinamool's presence had grown in the Bengali dominated Barak valley. But Bengali Muslims primarily support Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). In the recently concluded Assembly polls in the state, the Congress painted itself in a corner by allying with the AIUDF. In this context, Mamata Banerjee's offer to Akhil Gogoi to lead the Assam unit of the Trinamool is an interesting political move. Akhil Gogoi currently heads the fledgling Raijor Dal and is an MLA from the Sibsagar assembly seat. Meanwhile, the Congress has not thrown up a leader who could either fill the big shoes of Tarun Gogoi or someone who can rival BJP's Himanta Biswa Sarma. There is, therefore, political space for an umbrella centrist party in the state to take on the BJP by reaching out to not just Bengalis but also Assamese and tribals. Could Akhil Gogoi fill this vacuum? Akhil Gogoi has met Mamata Banerjee after his release from jail but is yet to join the Trinamool. He is young, popular and has led many peoples' movements. He was the face of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act agitation of 2020. However, his Raijor Dal is a small outfit struggling with resources. Would he join a bigger, more resourceful political party? Meanwhile, Trinamool's Tripura puzzle is more vexed. The state has 66 per cent, 69 per cent according to more recent estimates, Bengali speakers. Despite their majority, and as all national parties – the CPI(M), Congress, BJP and now Trinamool – have discovered over the years, they cannot ignore the over 30 per cent tribal population of the state. The 20 reserved seats of Tripura's 60 Assembly seats have proved crucial for government formation. Trinamool general secretary, the party's de-facto second in command, Abhishek Banerjee, visited Tripura earlier this week. His visit had come on the heels of the police detaining in a hotel a team from political strategist Prashant Kishor's IPAC that had landed in Agartala. While the BJP won a famous win in Tripura by defeating the CPI(M)-led Left Front in 2018, it is currently nervous amid the declining popularity of Chief Minister Biplab Deb. Party MLAs have visited Delhi to convey their unhappiness with him. Apart from the murmurs in the BJP, several Congress leaders are also inclined to join the Trinamool.     In such a scenario, would Trinamool persuade Pradyot Kishore Manikya, who has emerged as the unquestioned tribal leader in the state, to ally with the Trinamool Congress for the Assembly polls? Pradyot, a former royal, led his nascent political outfit to success in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) elections in April. The Tiprasa Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA), and its ally Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (INPT), swept the polls. The Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), a partner of the BJP, couldn't win a single seat. But Pradyot had quit the Congress in 2019 for moving the Supreme Court to demand the implementation of the National Register of Citizens, or NRC, in Tripura. The Trinamool is dead against the CAA and NRC. It is also unlikely that it could support Pradyot's demand for a "Greater Tipraland". In such a scenario, could the Trinamool approach the scion of Tripura's royal family for an alliance? Beyond that, the larger question is can the Trinamool negotiate the contradictions of India's northeast? What, however, Trinamool's foray in the northeast might achieve is for the Bengal-based party to force the Congress to seat alliances beyond Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trinamools-dilli-chalo-via-the-northeast-1016637.html
05-08-2021||South||Kerala CM flays Karnataka's fresh travel curbs on passengers from the state||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan flayed the interstate travel restrictions imposed by Karnataka, saying were against the Centre's directives. "As per the Home Ministry's directives, no restrictions should be imposed on inter-state travel and border roads should not be blocked. The restrictions imposed by Karnataka government on the border since August 2 are against this order. Kerala state police chief Anil Kant held discussions with his Karnataka counterpart in this regard and the latter assured to take necessary steps," Vijayan said in the Kerala Assembly on Thursday. He was replying to a submission of Manjeshwar MLA A K M Ashraf of the Indian Union Muslim League on the restrictions imposed by Karnataka authorities at the Kerala - Karnataka border in Kasargod. Vijayan said that Karnataka mandated a negative RT-PCR certificate no older than 72 hours prior to entering Karnataka from Kerala. Facilities have been made at the border to conduct RT-PCR test. Priority was being given to those who have to routinely travel to Mangaluru for various needs. The police also initiated steps to ensure that those who need to travel for medical purpose and other essential needs did not face much difficulty, said the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister also said in his reply that those producing certificates of two doses of vaccinations would be also given permissions for purposes for which RT-CR negative certificate in required. But sources at Kasargod said that Karnataka authorities were insisting on a negative RT-PCR test result even from those who produce vaccination certificates for entering Karnataka. Meanwhile, though the border area witnessed protest by political activists in Kerala over the last few days, on Thursday the political activists kept off from demonstrations. A local Congress leader, Harshad Vorkady, said that the Kerala police on Wednesday registered a case against those who staged protest against the restriction imposed by Karnataka and hence the political parties kept off from protests today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-flays-karnatakas-fresh-travel-curbs-on-passengers-from-the-state-1016476.html
05-08-2021||South||Resentment brews among Kerala traders over Covid rules||At least 20 persons, mainly small scale traders, in Kerala ended life by suicide over the last couple of months reportedly due to the financial stress caused by Covid, the latest being a woman running a beauty parlour and two traders in the last two days. Even as the state eased the lockdown restrictions on Tuesday, the resentment among traders continues over the fresh norm that customers should have certificate of at least one vaccine dose or Covid negative certificates of 72 hours prior RT-PCR test for visiting shops as well as all commercial establishments, including banks. Even as the opposition Congress staged a walkout from the house in protest against the norm on Thursday, Health Minister Veena George said that there would not be any further relaxations now. Traders in Kerala have been up in arms against the lockdown that has been prolonging for about three months. Many traders, especially small and middle scale traders, are in severe financial crisis. Most of those died by suicide owing to mounting financial obligations. In the latest instance, a 44 year old woman in Kollam ended her life, which is suspected to be due to mental stress caused by mounting financial obligations over the investments she made for starting a beauty parlour about an year back. Two small scale traders at Idukki and Palakkad were also reported to have taken the extreme steps earlier, owing to financial obligations. The traders in Kerala indeed heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday morning as the Health Minister announced the relaxations allowing shops to function on six days, while it was alternative working day for many categories of shops so far. Though there will be a total shutdown on Sundays, exception was given for August 15 in view of Independence day and August 22 in view of Onam festival. While the health minister's announcement was that it would be 'desirable' to have only vaccinated or those with Covid negative test results to visit shops, the government order issued by evening prescribed mandatory vaccine certificate or 72-hours prior RT-PCR negative test mandatory for customers as well as staff of shops and other commercial establishments. This dashed the hopes of the traders to revive the business soon, especially since Onam festival is approaching. Raising the issue in the Assembly, Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that it was quite impractical to have only vaccinated or those with RT-PCR test negative certificate to go for shopping and visit banks and commercial establishments. Meanwhile, though the fresh norms came into effect from Thursday morning, it was not strictly enforced during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-brews-among-kerala-traders-over-covid-rules-1016584.html
05-08-2021||South||TN launches scheme to take healthcare to people’s doorsteps||In a first in the country, Tamil Nadu on Thursday embarked on an ambitious journey to provide healthcare services, including home-based palliative cum geriatric care, to people at their doorsteps.  Known as Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam (Healthcare at the Doorstep), the scheme will cover 1,172 health sub-centres, 189 Public Health Centres (PHC), in 50 Community Health Centres, and in one zone each in Chennai, Coimbatore, and Tirunelveli in the first phase.  The first phase of the scheme, which will benefit 1 crore people in 30 lakh households, was launched by Chief Minister M K Stalin at Samanapalli, a remote village, in Krishnagiri district on Thursday morning. Stalin also visited a house along with healthcare workers who screened the residents as part of the project. The scheme to be implemented at a cost of Rs 257 crore will be expanded to the rest of the state by the end of 2021. The financial and logistical needs of the scheme will be met by utilizing the funds approved for respective programs under the National Health Mission – Tamil Nadu with additional support from Tamil Nadu Health System Reforms Program (TNHSRP). A field team comprising of Women Health Volunteers, ASHAs in tribal areas, mid-level health providers, village health nurses, health inspectors and physiotherapists will be deployed to provide home-based health services which will be expanded based on the needs of the community.  Projecting the scheme as a “gamechanger”, the government has roped in popular film actor Sivakarthikeyan for the short films on the ambitious project. The scheme envisages Population-Based Screening of those aged above 18 years covering 10 common conditions like hypertension, diabetes, oral cancer, cervical cancer, breast cancer, TB, and leprosy, while the volunteers will also motivate women for cancer screenings.  The focus would be on reducing the mortality rate due to non-communicable diseases by half, officials said, adding that the teams would deliver medicines to the needy at their homes without the beneficiaries having to come and collect at an outlet. Dr Amalorpavanathan Joseph, the man behind Tamil Nadu’s robust organ donation system, termed the scheme as “revolutionary” which could bring massive changes in the public healthcare system. “The government has provided necessary funds for the scheme which includes providing dialysis kits to the needy. This is a very good scheme, and the government should consider developing an exclusive team for the purpose. We cannot depend on volunteers for long,” he told DH. An official explained that palliative care staff nurses will also deliver peritoneal dialysis bags to patients under Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) and guide them and monitor the home-based dialysis therapy.  The government is also hiring outreach vehicles at the block level and will ensure mobility support for transporting drugs from PHC to the home-based health services level.  The scheme also envisages providing home-based palliative care services by staff nurses for patients with chronic debilitating illnesses who have difficulty in visiting health facilities, while physiotherapy facilities for elderly and home-bound patients will also be provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-launches-scheme-to-take-healthcare-to-people-s-doorsteps-1016601.html
05-08-2021||South||AIADMK presidium chairman Madhusudhanan passes away at 81||AIADMK Presidium Chairman E Madhusudhanan, one of the founding members of the party and a die-hard fan of the party's founder and legendary actor M G Ramachandran, passed away here on Thursday after a brief illness. He was 81.  Madhusudhanan took his last breath at 3.42 pm at the Apollo Hospitals where he was being treated since July 18 for multiorgan dysfunction and sepsis. “Despite all active medical measures, his condition deteriorated gradually and passed away today,” the hospital said in a statement.  Chief Minister M K Stalin and top brass of the AIADMK – O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami – condoled Madhusudhanan’s death. His mortal remains will be taken to his residence in Chennai and he is likely to be cremated on Friday.  Madhusudhanan was one of the senior leaders of the AIADMK and had sided with Panneerselvam when he rebelled against V K Sasikala in 2017, months after J Jayalalithaa died. Presidium Chairman is a powerful post in the AIADMK and Madhusudhanan has remained in the post since 2007 when he was appointed for the first time by Jayalalithaa.  The 81-year-old was a staunch loyalist of Jayalalithaa, who had heaped praise on him on more than one occasion. Madhusudhanan was an ardent fan of MGR and joined the AIADMK in 1972 when the legendary actor launched the party.  He was one of the powerful leaders of the AIADMK in Chennai and had served as a minister in Jayalalithaa’s first regime from 1991 to 1996. In March 2017, he had filed a petition with the Election Commission challenging the election of Sasikala as interim general secretary of the AIADMK leading to the freezing of the ‘Two Leaves’ symbol. A few months later, he along with Panneerselvam and Palaniswami got the symbol back after the two factions merged. With his death, the AIADMK will have to elect a new presidium chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-presidium-chairman-madhusudhanan-passes-away-at-81-1016635.html
05-08-2021||South||Unrest in IUML in Kerala after ED notice to party supremo in black money probe||All is not well with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala with differences among party top leaders over an Enforcement Directorate probe into the alleged black money deal of the party's mouthpiece coming out in the open. With the ED serving a notice to party supremo Panakkad Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal in connection with the probe, his son and party youth wing leader Sayyid Moyeen Ali Shihab Thangal accused party senior leader and MLA P K Kunhalikutty for the alleged fiscal mismanagement. In a dramatic development, some followers of Kunhalikutty abused Moyeen Ali while the press conference was progressing. IUML is a key coalition party in the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala. With 15 of the 41 MLAs, it is also the second largest party in the UDF. The ED probe concerns a money laundering allegation involving party Malayalam mouthpiece 'Chandrika'. The petitioner alleged that Rs 10 crore black money was deposited in the newspaper's bank account following demonetisation. The issue has been now raked up by dissident IUML activist K T Jaleel, who is now a left-front MLA and former minister in Kerala. Jaleel said that Kunhalikutty was the real culprit and that he betrayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal. Jaleel also alleged that black money was deposited in bank accounts of Kunhalikutty's son at a party controlled cooperative bank in Malappuram district. Moyeen Ali said that his father was now under stress over the issue and is in hospital. He also said that Kunhalikutty was dealing with party funds over the last many years. Finance director of the party mouthpiece was a close confident of Kunhalikutty, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unrest-in-iuml-in-kerala-after-ed-notice-to-party-supremo-in-black-money-probe-1016650.html
05-08-2021||South||Pulichintala project gate breaks off, flood alert sounded in two Andhra Pradesh districts||A flash flood alert has been sounded in Guntur and Krishna districts after one of the 24 gates of the Pulichintala project broke off in the wee hours of Thursday due to the high pressure outflow. The multipurpose project on river Krishna in Guntur district has a storage capacity of 46 TMC and has been receiving huge inflows from the upstream Nagarjuna Sagar project, because of the rains in Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana. Andhra Pradesh water resources minister Anil Kumar Yadav inspected the site and said an enquiry will be initiated to know the cause. The incident took place at 3:30 am when the dam gates were being raised. The hydraulic gate No 16 fell off in the waters. Project engineers are taking the help of experts from Polavaram etc places to fix the gate by Friday evening. Authorities are increasing the discharge to six lakh cusecs for the water level to become conducive for fixing a stop-lock gate. “The work can be carried out only if the storage is brought down to 10 TMC,” Yadav said. While the inflow was two lakh cusecs, the discharge at Pulichintala at 6 pm was recorded as 5.05 lakh cusecs, which is expected to go upto six lakh cusecs by Thursday night. The inflow at the downriver Prakasam Barrage at Vijayawada was over 1.13 lakh cusecs at 7 pm. People living in the downstream areas in the city are warned to move to safer places as the rapid floodwater flow would be around four lakh cusecs by midnight. Krishna district collector J Nivas has cautioned the people not to venture into the river for any reason. People living in the low-lying areas near the Pulichintala project are a worried lot, expressing concern over the safety of the dam. Officials, however, assured that there is no threat to the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pulichintala-project-gate-breaks-off-flood-alert-sounded-in-two-andhra-pradesh-districts-1016674.html
05-08-2021||State||Kids in Karnataka spend long screen hours in absence of govt guidelines||The absence of guidelines by the Karnataka government on holding online classes for kids of various grades, despite the commencement of the academic year a month ago, has left several parents agitated in the city. Unlike the previous year, the education department has not issued any guidelines on conducting the online classes leaving the schools to experiment with their own idea and putting the health of kids at risk. Much to the dismay of many, a few schools have begun online teaching to kids belonging to the age group of 4 to 6-years for four to five hours a day. During the 2020-21 academic year, the education department had regulated the duration of online classes based on the report by Prof M K Sridhar Committee. The department had then warned the private schools of action if they conduct online classes by violating the guidelines. However, the department has not issued any such guidelines to date this academic year. Several parent groups have complained that a few private schools are conducting online classes for even first-grade students from 8 am to 12 noon. “The prolonged timings are unacceptable and if we question, the schools argue that it is necessary to teach kids,” rued Prashanth Rao, a parent. Many parents said that their kids have begun to experience intense irritation of the eyes, water discharge from the eyes, back pain and headache as they are glued to the glowing screens of gadgets, laptops and desktops for hours.   The last year order instructed the schools to follow a maximum of 30-minute screen time per session for kids between 3 and 6 years and for children above grade 6, the duration would be 30 to 45 minutes. All schools across the state, irrespective of the boards, were asked to stick to these guidelines while conducting online classes. “Waking up kids so early and sitting next to them for 2 to 3 hours is next to impossible for working parents,” said Rishita Rai, yet another parent. “We need to check if the recommendations are valid for this year as well. If so, we will issue a fresh regulation,” a senior official of the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kids-in-karnataka-spend-long-screen-hours-in-absence-of-govt-guidelines-1016370.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Another outbreak? Karnataka's Covid-19 reproduction rate crosses 1||Karnataka’s effective reproduction rate (Rt) of the novel coronavirus has crossed 1, indicating the beginning of another outbreak. According to epidemiologists and analysis run by the University of Michigan, the state’s effective R number is currently 1.13. If the Rt exceeds 1, each existing infection will cause more than one new infection, leading to an outbreak. In Karnataka, there has been a 15.4% increase in the number of new cases in the last seven days. In Bengaluru Urban, cases have increased by 8.7%, but municipal officials are watching the situation carefully. New numbers being projected by mathematical models are discomfiting. The University of Michigan’s projections say that Karnataka will add at least 28,700-odd new cases in the next 29 days. However, the group’s “upper confidence interval” projections suggest several lakh cases.  The BBMP war room has been conducting AI-based modelling, which is cross-referenced with third waves in countries like the UK, Japan and Indonesia. They have been coming up with some disturbing numbers: between 10-15,000 cases daily in the city once a surge begins. “At the same time, hospitalisations will be brief because clinical outcomes are expected to be better,” a BBMP source said. Of the rising cases, D Randeep, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP, said they are due to the further opening up of the economy. “At the same time, I do not think it is the beginning of the third wave,” he added. Echoing the views, epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said, it is too early to determine if this is the beginning of a new wave. “These are early signals. The rising RT today, will show cases later. Naming the second or third wave is purely semantic in nature. Technically, there has to be an intermittent period of lower levels of transmission, after some time which cases will increase,” he said. However, he cautioned that districts or areas with low vaccination coverage and low seroprevalence will have higher cases, higher need for hospitalisation and more deaths. This uncertainty has in part, prompted municipal authorities in Bengaluru to kick-start a four-day serosurvey on Wednesday, covering about 2,000 people to determine where the city stands in terms of seroprevalence. In DJ Halli ward, for example, there has not been a single case in the last seven days. “Bommanahalli has one of the largest numbers of containment zones. We want to find out why,” Randeep said. There are 1,919 households in 27 containment zones in the Bommanahalli zone. Hospitalisation rising At Manipal Hospital on HAL Airport Road, more Covid-19 patients have started to filter in. Among them are people who had been vaccinated in June coming in with breakthrough infections. “But their case severity is not high. The bulk do not require respiratory support,” explained Dr Anoop Amarnath, an expert in geriatric care and a member of the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU). According to Manipal, the hospital had 37 new ICU patients in July, of which only two were fully vaccinated. “Data suggests that the risk of death is less than 0.5% in vaccinated people,” the hospital said. In Bengaluru Urban, 75% of the target adult population has been vaccinated while nearly 20% have the second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/another-outbreak-karnatakas-covid-19-reproduction-rate-crosses-1-1016351.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks Karnataka govt to justify postponement of local body polls||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to file an affidavit justifying the Cabinet decision to postpone all scheduled local body elections till December 31. The Cabinet had taken the decision on May 17 to request the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone elections to zilla panchayats, taluk panchayats and other municipal bodies citing the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed that the decision was not binding on SEC to postpone the already overdue elections. “When people are allowed to visit religious places, how come they are not allowed to go to polling stations,” it asked. It said the situation has improved since the Cabinet decision, adding that Assembly polls were conducted during the pandemic. Senior advocate K N Phanindra, appearing for the SEC, said a decision will soon be taken on holding polls to city corporations of Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Hubballi-Dharwad and municipal councils of Doddaballapur and Tarikere. The hearing has been posted to August 13. The high court had registered the suo moto petition after noticing that elections were not being held as per the mandate of Clause (3) of Article 243 (U) of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-karnataka-govt-to-justify-postponement-of-local-body-polls-1016354.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,769 new Covid-19 cases, 30 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday logged 1,769 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 29.12 lakh while 30 deaths took the total toll to 36,680. The day also saw 1,714 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,50,717, leaving 24,305 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district reported 411, the highest number of infection cases and four deaths. Dakshina Kannada logged 350 cases and six fatalities, the highest among districts. Mysuru district recorded 143 cases while Udupi recorded 140 and Hassan 112. The positivity rate stood at 1.04% and the case fatality rate at 1.69%. On Wednesday, 1,69,411 Covid tests were conducted, taking the cumulative number of samples examined so far to 3.9 crore. A total of 1,28,594 people were vaccinated, taking the overall number to 3.18 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1769-new-covid-19-cases-30-deaths-1016372.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Won’t back down on Mekedatu, says Karnataka CM Bommai||While there is much opposition from Tamil Nadu for the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project, Karnataka is firm on the project implementation and there is no "backing down". Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, Chief Minister Basavaraja Bommai said Tamil Nadu was opposing the project for political reasons. "Everyone knows that the project will benefit both states for distributing water during a crisis," he said.  Recently, a team of Karnataka's MPs have met Union Jal Shakti minister Gakendra Singh Shekawat and urged him to authorise permission for the project soon, according to Bommai. "I am confident that the Centre will soon grant us permission for the DPR. As soon as we get the nod, we will start the work immediately. There is no backing  down on this," he added.   Meanwhile, the Aam Admi Party of Karnataka unit will stage a hunger strike on Thursday asking the government to speed up implementation of the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/won-t-back-down-on-mekedatu-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-1016487.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ED raids on properties of MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan politically motivated: Congress||Coming to the defence of party MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan, the Congress in Karnataka on Thursday termed the Enforcement Directorate's searches on properties linked to him as "politically motivated", inviting a strong rebuttal from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Congres accused the ruling BJP of using the central agencies to target leaders of opposition parties. Hitting back at the Congress for attacking the BJP and terming the searches politically motivated, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai termed it as the "usual slogan" of that party's leaders to cover their misdeeds. Several of Khan's supporters and Congress workers wearing black bands gathered near Khan's residence where searches are on and shouted slogans accusing the ruling BJP of targeting party leaders and questioned as to why the central agencies were not probing saffron party leaders allegedly involved in corruption. "The ED raid on former minister Zameer Ahmed Khan is politically motivated and an attempt by BJP to intimidate leaders from opposition parties. I strongly condemn this undemocratic act of BJP to use institutions like ED, IT, etc," senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Siddaramaiah said. Condemning the searches, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar said it is an attempt to harass Khan, who has the capacity to face it legally, as he accused the central agency of discrimination by targeting only opposition leaders. "About one-and-a-half to two years ago, the ED had issued him (Khan) notice and questioned him and he had told me that he had answered all the queries. When such is the situation, it is my feeling that raids were not required. Probably this is to harass him, but I'm confident that he will come out clean within the framework of law," he said. Questioning as to why central agencies were not probing allegations against BJP leaders, Shivakumar claimed things are being done to their (BJP leaders) own benefit. "Is everyone in the BJP clean? Is their businesses and transaction pure...there is lot of discrimination (by central agencies)," he alleged. Some supporters of Khan even held a small prayer meeting outside his residence, in support of their leader. The simultaneous searches at houses and offices belonging to the Chamarajpet legislator at about six locations began at 6 am, official sources said. Security personnel were seen at Khan's new bungalow near Cantonment railway station here and other properties like his flats and businesses, including the National Travels offices in the city, where ED officials are conducting searches in connection with a money laundering investigation into the alleged Rs 4,000 crore IMA ponzi scam. Responding to a question on Congress' allegations, Chief Minister Bommai said, "I'm neither an ED or IT officer to answer all this. Congress people have become experts on ED and IT, they have experience. Those who are involved in illegal activities will be raided.. can everyone's house be raided?" Describing comments by Congress leaders terming searches as politically motivated as their "usual slogan", he said "to cover their misdeeds they have been saying this.. this is not the first time. The raids and seizures will be under the scrutiny of the court in coming days." To Congress' question as to why raids are not being conducted on BJP leaders, Bommai said agencies like ED and IT conduct raids based on the information they have. "They can't do it just because someone has made certain allegations." A four-time MLA, Khan was earlier with the JD(S) and is now with the Congress party. He had even served as a Minister in the Congress-JD(S) coalition government in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ed-raids-on-properties-of-mla-zameer-ahmed-khan-politically-motivated-congress-1016548.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cauvery Water Management Authority nod must for Mekedatu project: Centre||The Centre on Thursday said the Mekedatu project, proposed by Karnataka, required the approval of the Cauvery Water Management Authority's (CWMA). The Detail Project Report (DPR) sent by Karnataka was tabled in the CWMA several times for approval, but the discussion on this issue could not take place due to a lack of consensus among party states Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat informed Lok Sabha on Thursday. Replying to JD(S) MP Prajwal Revanna's question, the Minister said that Karnataka had submitted a Feasibility Report (FR) of Mekedatu project in 2018 to the Central Water Commission (CWC) seeking "in-principle" clearance for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the project. The Screening Committee of Central Water Commission accorded “in-principle” clearance for preparation of DPR by project with certain conditions in October 2018. Subsequently, Karnataka had submitted the DPR to the Central Water Commission in January 2019. The Commission referred the matter to the CWMA for consideration, but the Authority failed to make a decision due to lack of consensus among the riparian states, Shekhawat said. Since the project was proposed across an inter-state river, it required approval of lower riparian state(s) as per the interstate water dispute act. When Karnataka submitted the DPR to Jal Shakti Ministry for seeking approval, the Ministry informed the state that the project required approval of lower riparian states as well, he said.   Shekhawat also said that as per the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal's final award, which was modified by the Supreme Court, acceptance of CWMA would be a prerequisite for consideration of the DPR by the Jal Shakti Ministry. He also said that the project proposal was also considered by the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment and Forests in July 2019, its final decision was deferred after Tamil Nadu requested not to grant ToR (Terms of Reference). The EAC had opined that once an amicable solution is arrived at by the two states, the proposal can be put up for reconsideration for grant of ToR. To another question, the Minister said the Ministry of Environment and Forests has not accorded environmental clearance for the project so far. Karnataka proposed to build a balancing reservoir across Cauvery at Mekedatu near Kanakapura to supply drinking water to Ramnagara, Kanakapura and surrounding areas and produce electricity. However, the project has been opposed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cauvery-water-management-authority-nod-must-for-mekedatu-project-centre-1016588.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NDA govt targeting only Opposition party leaders: Shivakumar||Criticising the ED and IT raids against former Karnataka minister Zameer Ahmed Khan, Pradesh Congress president D K Shivakumar on Thursday said the NDA government is targeting only opposition parties' leaders, not BJP leaders.  Questioning the timing of the raid, Shivakumar said, "About one-and-a-half to two years ago, the ED had issued him (Khan) notice, questioned him and he had told me that he had answered all the queries. When such is the situation, it is my feeling that raids were not required. Probably this is to harass him, but I'm confident that he will come out clean within the framework of the law."   The ED raid is politically motivated and an attempt by BJP to intimidate leaders from opposition parties. I strongly condemn this undemocratic act of BJP to use institutions like ED and IT," he said.   Questioning as to why central agencies were not probing allegations against BJP leaders, Shivakumar claimed things are being done to their (BJP leaders) own benefit. "Is everyone in the BJP clean? Is their businesses and transaction pure...there is lot of discrimination (by central agancies)," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nda-govt-targeting-only-opposition-party-leaders-shivakumar-1016619.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to allocate portfolios to ministers on August 6||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said allocation of portfolios to 29 ministers inducted into his new cabinet, will be done on August 6. "Allocation of portfolios will be completed tomorrow," Bommai told reporters. A week after taking over as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, Bommai on Wednesday had expanded his new cabinet, by inducting 29 ministers. In the cabinet expansion exercise that was seen as the first challenge before the new Chief Minister, Bommai has tried to play safe, as he has by and large retained the old faces, as 23 of them were ministers in the previous B S Yediyurappa cabinet, while six are new. While some ministers are hoping to retain the portfolio they had in the previous cabinet, some are hoping to get bigger portfolios. Senior party leader and Minister K S Eshwarappa said he was not aspiring for any specific portfolio and would abide by the decision of the CM and party leadership. Pointing out that he had held departments like water resources, Energy and Revenue in the past, Eshwarappa, who was Rural Development Minister in the previous Yediyurappa government said, he has never asked for any specific portfolios and has effectively performed in what was given to him. Minister Prabhu Chauhan though said, he is looking to get back the Animal Husbandry department, the portfolio he was in-charge of in the previous cabinet and work for the protection of "Gaumata" (Cows). "Work in the department is half done, I as a Minister introduced anti cow slaughter law, we are setting up gaushalas, animal helpline, so Animal Husbandry department is my priority, but if I'm given some other also I will perform," he said. Minister B C Patil, who held Agriculture portfolio in the previous cabinet also said, he would like to retain the same portfolio as more work needs to be done in the department, but if CM allocates any other, he would perform happily. "The CM asked me which portfolio I wanted.. I leave it to him... I'm ready to do whatever I'm allotted," he said. B C Nagesh, who has become Minister for the first time said, he had never expected to become a Minister, so there is no aspiration for any specific portfolio. "I will do my best in whichever department I'm given."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-to-allocate-portfolios-to-ministers-on-august-6-1016636.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,785 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,785 fresh cases of coronavirus and 25 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29.13 lakh and toll to 36,705, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 1,651 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,52,368. Out of 1,785 new cases reported on Thursday, 414 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 554 discharges and only 5 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 24,414. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.10 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.40 per cent. Out of 25 deaths reported on Thursday 5 are from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada and Kolar 3, Mandya, Mysuru and Udupi 2, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 414, Dakshina Kannada 337, Udupi 134, Hassan 125, Mysuru 105, Kodagu 100, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,29,340, followed by Mysuru 1,73,599 and Tumakuru 1,18,136. Cumulatively a total of 3.93 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,61,662 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1785-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-1016641.html
05-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only those who’ve done illegal work are raided: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said only those who have done wrong will be raided by central agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate, while defending his predecessor BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra.  Bommai was responding to the Congress’ charge that the ED raids on former minister BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan were politically motivated.  “Congressmen have become experts on IT and ED because they have much experience,” Bommai said. “Those who have done illegal things will be raided. Can everybody be raided,” he asked. “That the raids are politically-motivated is the Congress’ slogan to hide their mistakes. They’ve said this before. Whatever is retrieved during the raids will have to be scrutinized before the court,” he said.  Bommai also questioned the Congress’ locus standi in demanding why BJP leaders were not being raided, such as Vijayendra. “Who are they to ask? IT and ED conduct raids based on their own information and not because someone has made an allegation,” he said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah slammed the BJP following the ED raids on Khan, his loyalist. “ED raid on Khan is politically motivated and an attempt by BJP to intimidate leaders from opposition parties. I strongly condemn this undemocratic act of BJP to use institutions like ED, IT etc,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-those-who-ve-done-illegal-work-are-raided-cm-bommai-1016643.html
05-08-2021||West||After threat to Olympian Pravin's family, police ensure their safety||Jadhav’s parents live in Satara district of Maharashtra where the local goons are forcing them to vacate the land where they live in a small kaccha house. The land on which Jadhav’s parents are residing reportedly belongs to the government and, hence, it cannot be privately owned. However, the local administration assured to allot the land to his family. Requesting anonymity, a resident in Satara told the publication, “After the locals staked claims over the land, tensions quickly escalated and Jadhav was informed. He immediately called the local police station and requested to look after the safety of his parents till he was back.” The Satara police have kept the goons in the police station to ensure Jadhav’s safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-threat-to-olympian-pravins-family-police-ensure-their-safety-1016423.html
05-08-2021||West||Mumbai cop dances his way into people's hearts on social media||A 38-year-old cop in the Mumbai police has become a social media sensation with his dance videos that have gone viral and garnered thousands of likes. Amol Yashwant Kamble, who is posted at Naigaon police headquarters, dances after his duty hours or on his days off, and his talent came to light after he posted one of his dance videos on Instagram. A video of the policeman dancing to the song “Aya hain raja” from the film 'Appu Raja' garnered a lot of attention and turned the spotlight on him. "The dance was based on the theme of an on-duty policeman asking a two-wheeler rider to wear his mask properly, and later both of them show their dance moves," Kamble said, adding that he has gotten lakhs of likes for some of his videos. For Kamble, a resident of Mahim who joined the police force in 2004, dancing has been a passion and he has been performing since he was a child. "My elder brother is a choreographer and I did some dance shows with him before joining the police force," the policeman said, adding that he started dancing on his weekly offs and in free time. "As a policeman, I have a responsibility to maintain law and order and to protect citizens first, but on my weekly offs, I dance with my children, my sister's children and have fun," Kamble said. Kamble has also shaken a leg with Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan during a police event. "Some people comment on my videos and say my dance inspires them. These comments make me happy. People should pursue their hobbies and take some time out to follow their passion and think positively," the dancing policeman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cop-dances-his-way-into-peoples-hearts-on-social-media-1016514.html
05-08-2021||West||Goa CM should lead all-party delegation to PM against central Ports law: Congress||The Opposition in Goa on Thursday demanded that Chief Minister Pramod Sawant lead an all-party delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to oppose the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021, which former CM Luizinho Faleiro claimed would lead to nearly dozen state laws into redundancy. Addressing a press conference in Panaji at the state Congress headquarters, the former state Congress president and sitting MLA Luizinho Faleiro also urged all village panchayats, zilla panchayats and municipalities to pass special resolutions condemning the central legislation, which Faleiro said encroaches on the state's power to legislate its territory. "I appeal to the Chief Minister and Minister of State, if they feel they are impotent and they cannot do anything, to lead an all party delegation to the PM and to press the need to repeal this act which will otherwise destroy Goa and this landscape," Luizinho Faleiro told a press conference. "This law is harmful to Goa and Goans... My first appeal to all three MPs is to immediately explain their role to Goans and if they have a role, they have to immediately get this act cancelled," Faleiro further said. Goa sends three lawmakers to both houses of the Parliament, out of one is a Congress Lok Sabha MP. "None of the three MPs have spoken. The CM has not spoken. The bill was passed in LS and RS and a notification was issued. What are we waiting for? It is very, very shocking that from our three MPs, our member of North Goa (Shripad Naik), is a Minister for this Portfolio. He has also not said anything," the former two-time Chief Minister also said. Quoting a reply of deputy Chief Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar tabled during last week's session of the state assembly, Faleiro said that Kavlekar in his written reply to a legislative assembly question had said that between "10 to 12" state laws like the Goa Town and Country Planning Act, the Regional Pan and the ODPs, Goa Municipalities Act, Goa Revenue code, would be made redundant once the Goa government incorporates the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021. Faleiro also said that local government bodies like village panchayats, zilla panchayats and municipalities should also raise their voice against the encroachment potential of the central Ports legislation. "The said law must be repealed without any further delay in the interest of the state. All VP, ZP and Municipalities should convene gram sabhas and special meetings and oppose draconian law which has potential to usurp powers of local bodies," Faleiro said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-should-lead-all-party-delegation-to-pm-against-central-ports-law-congress-1016596.html
05-08-2021||West||RSS headquarters, Nagpur airport likely to be declared as ‘no drone’ zones for security purpose||The headquarters of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) located in Mahal area of Nagpur and the city-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport are likely to be declared as “no drone” zones, a senior police official said on Thursday. A decision about this will be taken during the meeting of the vital installations security audit committee, comprising police and other officials, which is scheduled to be held later this month, he said. Sources said that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had sounded an alert to all states and Union Territories to take a review of the security arrangements of vital installations in the wake of twin blasts at the Jammu air force station using drones in June this year. Officials had said that it was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations, in which two bombs were dropped at the IAF station in Jammu, causing minor injuries to two airmen. Following the instructions by the MHA, Nagpur city police started taking a review of security arrangements and a detailed report of declaring vital installations as 'no drone' zone was being prepared, the police official said. The proposed move is likely to get the nod of the city police commissioner during the security audit committee meeting, he said. Once a particular vital installation is declared as a ‘no drone’ zone, flying such objects in two km radius of that area will invite strict legal action, sources said. If found, such objects will be destroyed or seized by the police, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-headquarters-nagpur-airport-likely-to-be-declared-as-no-drone-zones-for-security-purpose-1016651.html
05-08-2021||West||Gujarat HC questions law that treats interfaith marriages as religious conversion offence||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday issued notice to the state government (advocate general) on a petition challenging the recently implemented Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, also described by the Vijay Rupani government as an "anti-love jihad" law. The controversial law came into existence from June 15 and since then nearly half-a-dozen FIRs have been registered and as many people have been arrested. The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Biren Vaishnav while issuing notice also questioned the government's reasoning behind making the "conversion by marriage" as a criminal act. The court asked the government pleader to clarify how an offence can be made out simply because one converts after marriage. "Either you say marriage by force or by fraudulent means, and if there is a conversion, then it is not right..fair enough, but if you say merely because of marriage somebody converts then it is an offence?" the division bench questioned. The government pleader Manish Lavkumar sought time to explain and said that "the law has to be examined in its totality." The Vijay Rupani led BJP government's Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion by marriage and has provision for punishment of 3 to 10 years in jail. In the earlier law, of 2003, conversion was prohibited in cases where force and allurement were made. In the new law, the government aims to "ensure that no one is converted under the influence of greed, coercion or any kind of violence in Gujarat." The new law has also broadened "allurement" for conversion by adding words such as "better lifestyle, divine blessings or otherwise so that the person who offers any person for a better lifestyle, divine blessings or otherwise may be punished under the provision of the said Act." A new section in the act also allows any aggrieved person related by blood to lodge an FIR in such cases. The law has been challenged in the high court by Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind, Gujarat and others. The petition says that "defining allurement to include even an exhortation to better lifestyle, divine pleasure/displeasure, virtually, all propagation activity is covered and criminalized." It says that the new law also "renders illegal and further criminalizes the institution of marriage which is an inherently legal and the most basic fundamental right guaranteed to every person." Besides raising issues of putting women and minors in the same category for "protecting" them against conversion, the petitioner's lawyer senior counsel Mihir Joshi pointed out how the law has taken away rights of two adults' of two religions to marry merely based on the complaint by their father, mother or uncle claiming that the marriage is only for conversion and entire police machinery is set into motion. "The locus is given to any wise uncle to file a complaint in case two adult persons have agreed to marry," Joshi said. He further argued, "I am more concerned with how the state intrudes into marriage. You are putting conversion by marriage or a person getting married or aiding a person to get married. This completely flies in the face of article 21 and supreme court judgement which stated that law and court can't enter this field." He argued that other ingredients such as use of force, fraudulent means, among others, for conversion are already criminal deeds prescribed under the law but this new law is bringing interfaith marriage, which is not illegal in itself, as a criminal offence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-questions-law-that-treats-interfaith-marriages-as-religious-conversion-offence-1016675.html
