06-08-2021||First Edit||Bommai’s cabinet, made in Delhi||The BJP, which for years accused the Congress of furthering the ‘high command’ culture, has itself fallen into the same trap, going by the way the formation of the new government in Karnataka was executed. While the MLAs had little say in the selection of Basavaraj Bommai as Yediyurappa’s successor, the new chief minister seems to have had little role in the appointment of his own council of ministers. Bommai seemed clueless about who his ministers would be even three hours before the swearing-in ceremony, repeatedly appearing before television cameras to say that he was waiting for the list from the party president and admitting that the decision to do away with the post of deputy chief minister was also that of the high command, not his. Bommai may have used this as a ploy to insulate himself from attacks by aspirants who did not make it to the ministry, but in the process, he has painted himself as a weak chief minister who submits easily to the diktats of the party’s ‘high command’. While some fresh blood was infused into the cabinet, with a few seniors being dropped, the BJP could have used this opportunity to install a much more credible cabinet, considering that Assembly elections are just about two years away. With 13 districts going unrepresented in the council of ministers, the effort seems to have been more at satisfying caste and other political compulsions than on merit and regional representation. A lion’s share of eight ministries has gone to the Lingayat community, to which both Bommai and his predecessor Yediyurappa belong, while 10 of the 29 new ministers are ‘migrants’ from the Congress and Janata Dal (S), thus leaving little room for others. While at one level, the central leadership has acquiesced to Yediyurappa’s demands, particularly in choosing his successor, it has also sent a clear signal that his writ will no longer run large, by refusing to make his son B Y Vijayendra a minister. The decision not to induct some strong supporters of Yediyurappa as well as those who had openly revolted against him should be seen as a message to all that indiscipline will not be tolerated. Bommai is the fourth chief minister after the 2018 Assembly elections. The state cannot afford any more instability. While it is going to be a tightrope walk for Bommai, who has to keep both different factions within the state unit and an overbearing high command in good humour, he will nonetheless be required to display some strong leadership and, at least, a modicum of independence, to steer the state toward progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bommai-s-cabinet-made-in-delhi-1016802.html
06-08-2021||First Edit||No country for journalists||The India Press Freedom Report 2020, released by the Rights and Risks Analysis Group, presents a bleak picture of the state of media freedom in the country, buttressing it with many details and facts and figures. The report is exhaustive and gives accounts of attacks on journalists, classifying them on the basis of the regions where they took place, the gender of the journalists, the nature of the attacks and the laws which were invoked against them. It says that at least 228 journalists, including 12 female journalists, and two media houses were targeted during the year. Thirteen journalists were killed, 37 arrested or detained and 101 physically assaulted. At least 64 FIRs were filed and a variety of laws, including the UAPA, were invoked against them. Uttar Pradesh leads the states in targeting journalists. Both State actors and non-State actors like mobs, miscreants, members of political parties and social media users have targeted journalists. The report is not surprising. Press freedom has been declining in the country and the pressures and attacks on the media have steadily increased over the years. It has been recognised and pointed out within the country and outside by journalists, their organisations and other agencies. There is also increasing awareness of the dwindling of freedom in general society. Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders has created a gallery of world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who have constrained press freedom. In the World Press Freedom Report 2021, India is ranked 142 out of 180 countries, and it has moved down by nine positions in the last five years. India is classified as a country that is “bad’’ for journalism and one of the most dangerous countries for journalists. Freedom House has also downgraded India’s status from “free’’ to a “partly free’’ country on the basis of the level of civil liberties and political rights of citizens. Press freedom is an important indicator of these rights. There are various ways in which press freedom is suppressed, curbed or circumscribed. There are physical attacks on or intimidation of journalists. Cases are filed against them under draconian laws which make even bail difficult to get. It is not only individual journalists but media organisations also come under pressure. Posts on social media attract adverse notice and action. The report cites a range of reasons, like reporting on various matters, protests against the actions and policies of the government and expression of critical opinions on certain issues, for filing cases against journalists or for taking other actions against them. Apart from governments, non-State actors also pose threats to press freedom. Freedom of the press is the breath of democracy. Its diminishment will endanger democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/no-country-for-journalists-1017051.html
06-08-2021||In Perspective||Centre, not RBI, can help fight inflation||The ‘Delta’ variant of coronavirus, which became prominent even as the second wave of the pandemic subsided, has upset all previous growth projections. India’s growth projection has been revised downward from 12 per cent to 9.5 per cent. Another matter of concern is inflation, reflected in increases in the monthly Wholesale Price Index (WPI) and Consumer Price Index (CPI) since January 2021. The WPI covers manufactured goods, raw materials, food and fuel items. Their transport costs to retailers, using diesel and petrol, are taken into the computation. However, the CPI excludes the prices of food and fuel, on grounds of their volatility. Eventually, the CPI captures inflation in the WPI with a lag of about one month. India is the world’s third largest importer of petroleum crude, importing 83 per cent of its requirement. World crude prices determine domestic inflation. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is entrusted with the goal of ensuring price stability, targeting CPI-based inflation. Its mandated goal is to maintain inflation at or less than 4 per cent, plus a margin of 2 per cent, for a maximum of 6 per cent.  Due to the worldwide pandemic-induced recession, the price of the benchmark Brent crude crashed to $20/barrel in April 2020. The crude price started to look up following the arrival of Covid-19 vaccines in December 2020. As the worldwide demand for crude revived, its price rose from $48.73/barrel in December 2020 to $53.70 in January 2021 and went up to $66.40 in May. In June and July, it was hovering around $75/barrel. In India, petrol price at the pump crossed the psychologically disturbing mark of Rs 100 per litre in June. Challenge before RBI The CPI inflation rose from 4.06 per cent in January to touch 6.31 per cent in May. That is a high level, exceeding the upper band of the RBI’s mandate. In June, it was 6.26 per cent, still above the upper limit of 6 per cent. July data will be available in mid-August. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee faces a challenge as it is to make its policy announcement on August 6. In the context of its stand that economic recovery “still needs to be nurtured”, any increase in the policy rate from 4 per cent to fight inflation would be disruptive to the growth process. Any rise in interest rate will raise the interest rate differential. Speculative inflows from overseas risk-loving investors would result in money supply increasing, pushing up inflation. So, the question before policymakers is: “Would a fiscal policy action be more appropriate?” Reduction in fuel taxes? A joint decision-making process between the two policymakers, the RBI and the Union Ministry of Finance, is the need of the hour. Such coordination is consistent with shared national objectives, growth and price stability, fiscal policy decisions, include taxation policy for facilitating growth, as well as reducing inflationary pressures. In 2019-20, the tax revenue from the petroleum sector for the Centre and the states was Rs 5.6 lakh crore; and for the states, Rs 2.6 lakh crore from VAT or 18 per cent of the revenue of the Centre and 7 per cent of the states’ revenue. The petrol retail selling price (RSP) on August 4 was Rs 102 per litre. A major component, taxes (central excise and state VAT) amounted to Rs 59, or 57 per cent of the price per litre. The tax rate as a percentage of the net price was 137 per cent. On diesel, central excise and VAT is Rs 45, or 61 per cent of diesel RSP, the tax rate being 101 per cent of the net price. The payable price by petrol bunks for petrol and diesel, including the basic price, freight and dealer commission, was Rs 43 and Rs 45 per litre, respectively. If central excise on petrol (Rs 32.8/litre) is suspended for one year, the tax burden would only be the state-imposed VAT, Rs 26/litre, and the tax rate would be 60 per cent of the net price of Rs 43. If the Centre also decides on suspension of excise on diesel (Rs 31.8/litre) for one year, the state VAT would be Rs 13.04 per litre. The Centre’s loss would be about Rs 3.46 lakh crore, the estimated revenue for the current fiscal. It will be an addition to the estimated fiscal deficit of the central government of 7.8 per cent and to states fiscal deficit of 4 per cent -- in all, a total deficit of 11.8 per cent of GDP.  Increase in deficit by suspension of central excise is worth incurring as gains from the anti-inflationary measure would be considerable. The size of reduction in central excise can be calibrated by authorities to meet the objective: reducing inflation.    The suspension of central excise on fuel would be a relief to states as their VAT system on fuel would not come under pressure. Consumers would be relieved with petrol and diesel prices falling to Rs 63 and Rs 57 per litre, respectively. Above all, once announced and implemented, the CPI inflation will come down.  (The writer is an Honorary Adjunct Professor, Amrita School of Business, Bengaluru Campus)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/centre-not-rbi-can-help-fight-inflation-1016799.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tahsildar organises birthday party, violates Covid-19 norms in Mandya||In a move that drew flak, Mandya Tahsildar Chandrashekar Shyam violated Covid-19 norms by celebrating his son's first birthday in a grand manner at a private hotel at Krishnaraja Sagar in Srirangapatna taluk on Wednesday night. He invited a large number of friends and relatives to the party. Those attending the birthday party did not wear masks and neglected social distancing, which was a blatant violation of Covid-19 norms.  It is said that Tahsildar Chandrashekar had not taken any permission for organising the event. The party was held till late night, locals complained. They also sought action against him. The locals also complained against KRS Police for not registering a case. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi has sought a report in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tahsildar-organises-birthday-party-violates-covid-19-norms-in-mandya-1016827.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore professor booked for sexual harassment||A professor at the University of Mysore (UoM) was booked for sexually harassing one of his Ph D students at his home. The professor was caught red-handed by his wife. The accused is Professor Ramachandran who invited a student of his to his house when his wife Lolakshi, also a professor, was not at home. When Lolakshi returned home, the incident came to light. Lolakshi alleged that her husband misused several of his students and now he was caught red-handed. She brought the incident to the notice of the Vice-Chancellor.Jayalakshmipuram police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-professor-booked-for-sexual-harassment-1016832.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad announces retirement from politics||Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad, 75, announced his political retirement on Friday. Speaking to media persons at his Jayalakshmipuram residence, after celebrating his 75th birthday with children of Odanadi Seva Samsthe on Nanjangud Road, Prasad said he is retiring from politics with a content heart. “I wanted to retire from politics four years back. But due to some political developments and circumstances, it was postponed. I will not contest any more elections,” he said. It has to be recalled that Prasad had declared that it was his last contest in any election during the 2013 Assembly polls. However, when Prasad was dropped as Revenue Minister in 2016, by then-chief minister Siddaramaiah, Prasad resigned as MLA. Later, he joined the BJP and contested the bypoll from Nanjangud Assembly constituency in 2017, which he lost. Again, a reluctant Prasad was fielded in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by the BJP. Earlier in 2018, his son-in-law B Harshavardhan was elected on a BJP ticket from Nanjangud segment. A six-term MP from Chamarajanagar, Prasad had won on a Congress ticket four times (1981 to 1991) and on a JD(U) ticket once (1999). He was also minister of state in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet (1999 to 2004). He was elected as MLA from Nanjangud twice (2008 and 2013). Former minister N Mahesh, who joined the BJP in Bengaluru on Thursday, and Mysuru-Chamarajanagar District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited Prasad at his house on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/chamarajanagar-mp-v-srinivas-prasad-announces-retirement-from-politics-1016817.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||All MLAs can't be made ministers: Minister Basavaraj||District in-charge Minister B A Basavaraj stated that all legislators can't be given ministerial berths and disappointment is quite common when they are denied a minister's post. "But we would work together by resolving all such issues," he said. Speaking to media persons after inspecting rain affected area at Kondajji village in Harihar taluk on Friday, he said allocating portfolios to the ministers is the discretionary power of the chief minister. No discussion has been made with the chief minister so far. "I am ready to manage any portfolio effectively." On raid by the officials of Directorate of Enforcement on the premises of Congress MLA Zamir Ahmed Khan in Bengaluru, he said the law would take its own course. Reacting to Siddaramaiah's remark that BJP has many leaders who have amassed wealth, the minister said let Congress leader release the list of such leaders or lodged complaint with the authorities concerned. Channagiri MLA Madal Virupakshappa who was denied ministerial berth, said the party had to accommodate migrant legislators in the cabinet as they are responsible for the formation of BJP-led government in Karnataka. So, many districts in the state did not get representation in Bommai-led cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/all-mlas-cant-be-made-ministers-minister-basavaraj-1016983.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet formation: Unhappy MLAs ganging up?||Unhappy over missing the Cabinet bus, a section of BJP legislators reportedly met at former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s residence late on Thursday evening. MLAs Arvind Bellad, Raju Gouda, Srimanth Patil and Mahesh Kumtahalli and MLC C P Yogeshwar were among those who participated in the meeting. The development came after several legislators felt they were treated unfairly as Bommai’s list of new ministers did not feature their names. Primary among the disgruntled included Bellad and Yogeshwar - they reportedly lobbied extensively for the ouster of B S Yediyurappa as the chief minister - apart from Jarkiholi who was forced to resign after an alleged sex scandal.  Bellad and Yogeshwar were reportedly expecting plum berths in the Cabinet after Yediyurappa resigned, but were left disappointed. Both Bellad and Yogeshwar had camped in Delhi before the new list of ministers was announced. Bellad’s name had even done the rounds as a possible replacement for Yediyurappa before the BJP central leadership chose Basavaraj Bommai for the top post. There was speculation that Ramesh’s brother Balachandra Jarkiholi would make it to the Cabinet. That did not happen. The current Cabinet is the first since 2004 to not have any member of the Jarkiholi family. Kumtahalli and Patil are also learnt to have expressed their disagreement. Kumatahalli is a loyalist of Ramesh and was among the first to jump ship to the BJP from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition. Apart from this group of leaders, other MLAs, too, have expressed their dissatisfaction. On Thursday, MLA Nehru Olekar had warned that a team of disgruntled legislators will be formed shortly. He even blamed Bommai for his name being left out of the Cabinet. When asked about MLAs’ meeting at Jarkiholi’s house, Bommai dismissed it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-formation-unhappy-mlas-ganging-up-1017040.html
06-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||RSS insists on including 'original' BJP leaders in Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai's cabinet||The overwhelming presence of 'migrant' MLAs in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's council of ministers has set off murmurs within the BJP. Only one-third of the 30-member council of ministers, including the chief minister, are dyed-in-the-wool BJP leaders, while the rest have a history of being in either the Janata Parivar or the Congress. It was after this realisation that dawned on the top BJP leadership while finalising the list of ministers earlier this week that efforts were made to ensure that at least 10 ministerial berths went to legislators who originally belong to the saffron party. The RSS leadership was appalled at the large number of Janata Parivar leaders becoming ministers and asked the BJP leadership to include “original” party leaders in the cabinet, BJP sources told DH. After the intervention by the RSS, leaders such as K S Eshwarappa, R Ashoka, Murugesh Nirani, Prabhu Chauhan, Araga Jnanendra, B C Nagesh, S Angara, V Sunil Kumar, Shashikala Jolle and Kota Srinivas Poojary found place in the council of ministers. Jolle, who was embroiled in controversy after a sting operation by a private television channel that claimed to have found her demanding bribes, was included in the list at the last moment. Though Bommai favoured Hiriyur MLA K Poornima and a woman representative in the council of ministers, RSS leaders prevailed upon him to include Jolle. According to Sangh leaders, Jolle joined BJP in 2008 and unsuccessfully contested against Kaka Saheb Patil from Nippani while Poornima, whose father A Krishnnappa was in Congress and JD(S), became a BJP MLA in 2018. Though Laxman Savadi, who was aspiring to be a minister from Legislative Council, the party preferred Poojary, who has a Sangh Parivar background. According to BJP leaders, Savadi came from Janata Parivar. Of the 29 ministers, 10 are original BJP or with Sangh Parivar background, 10 were from migrants who joined the party under Operation Kamala and remaining nine trace their roots to the Janata Parivar or Congress, said a leader. Even from the original BJP, they retained senior leaders like Eshwarappa, Ashok and Nirani to protect the interest of Sangh Parivar in the government, said the leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rss-insists-on-including-original-bjp-leaders-in-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommais-cabinet-1017047.html
06-08-2021||Main Article||Hiroshima Day: Major Eatherly's remorse||On the morning of August 6, 1945, a sudden terrifying flash and then a giant mushroom cloud covered the clear skies over the Pacific above the city of Hiroshima, Japan. The first witnesses to the mushroom cloud and its indescribable colours of annihilation were perhaps the pilots who dropped the bomb themselves. While the first-ever use of a nuclear weapon brought relief to the Allies in the anticipation that this would end World War II, one person bore the guilt of that catastrophe, the Hiroshima pilot Major Claude Eatherly, who flew one of the accompanying planes that fateful morning. His story is both fascinating and troubled. Eatherly expressed remorse for his role in the bombing. He was declared by the establishment as mentally insane for his outbursts and moral indignations, and was confined in a mental institution. He turned a pacifist and anti-nuclear activist, and struggled for his freedom from detention to propagate his views against nuclear weapons. The Texan pilot’s suffering for his sanity symbolises the human sickness in the atomic machine age, of a constant search for responsibility for actions whose effects are no more humanly controllable -- an anxiety of being “guiltlessly guilty.” In one stroke, the cities of Hiroshima and then Nagasaki and their people were blown to pieces. The justification for the bombings has been largely self-serving. Besides the versions of history written about this massacre, acts of mass human destruction raise insoluble moral questions about the obligation of individuals executing these terrible acts, even if admittedly in this case it was not a pogrom but in the course of a war. Should they blindly obey orders, or ought they instead to exercise individual conscience? “Morality…not my business” Colonel Paul Tibbets had been specially recruited to command the mission to drop the bomb from a B-29 airplane taking-off from a US airbase in the western Pacific Ocean. The mission comprised a squadron of pilots and engineers who trained intensively for months together in isolation even as the scientific development and testing of the bomb was still underway. This was a first-of-its-kind experiment in warfare: there was no previous data surrounding the bomb; a model airplane had to be specially made to carry something as heavy as 9,000 pounds; the target had to be aimed at from an altitude of 30,000 feet; and finally, the planes had to be manoeuvred out in time so as not to be caught in the explosion. From received accounts, none of the pilots had any real idea about the bomb’s destructive potential, but they knew they were part of a historic mission, delivering a final blow to a bloody war. When asked later whether he felt any regret for his role in it, the self-assured Tibbets emphatically stated that he “never lost a night’s sleep thinking about it”; the morality of dropping that bomb, he said, was not his business. He’d not hesitate advocating nuclear weapons if he had another chance, “I’d wipe ‘em out!” Three days later, Major Charles Sweeny led the mission to drop a more powerful bomb over Nagasaki. Even if Sweeny’s reflections about atomic weapons seem more sobering than Tibbets’, Sweeny, like the rest of the crew members of the mission, saw it as America’s exemplary redemption for future generations. Conscience stricken Major Eatherly piloted the weather reconnaissance airplane over Hiroshima which signalled the “go ahead” to release the bomb. After the war, he was tormented by guilt for the role he played in the tragedy. He rebelled by committing various petty acts, such as sending envelopes containing currency notes to Hiroshima, forging a cheque for a paltry amount, attempted robberies where he strangely did not steal anything, and tried to commit suicide on more than one occasion. The courts declared him insane and confined him for treatment in a mental hospital. It was not until he began what is a remarkably thoughtful and moving exchange of letters with the philosopher and pacifist Gunther Anders that he could make sense of his own victimhood in new light (Burning Conscience, 1961). The dialogue bears testimony to the transformative power of friendship. Eatherly went on to exchange letters with the real victims of Hiroshima as a way of reconciliation, and spread his message of freeing the world of nuclear weapons and war. The correspondence draws on the human incapacity in the machine age to reflect on the consequences of one’s actions. Anders explained to Eatherly that his desperate attempts to prove his own guilt was a way of trying to master his condition. What makes this new kind of guilt peculiar, however, is that the technology of weapons of incalculable destructive force have led to a vicarious moral existence, wherein we have invented objects to clinically destroy what matching face-to-face strength could not imagine in the pre-nuclear age. Modern violence is invisible, routinised, and systematically reproduced in society through its norms and structures. As a result, we are in a perpetual guilt complex despite no fault of ours, since our actions are parasitic on a machine, which soon becomes autonomously acting. These complex interactions underlie the military, legal and political establishment’s predisposition to treat Eatherly’s pangs of conscience as a form of deviance that needed isolation and correction. It was Anders who put his petty criminal acts in perspective by observing, “only the abnormal do not behave abnormally in such situations”. The letters reveal Eatherly’s measure of agony as well as hope to be set free from hospital confinement. Not surprisingly, both Tibbets and Sweeny dismissed Eatherly’s mental suffering as spurious, calling him a “loose cannon”. A preliminary response to the larger question of responsibility can be gleaned from the philosopher Hannah Arendt, who coined the famous phrase “banality of evil” after she witnessed the trial of the Nazi bureaucrat Otto Adolf Eichmann in 1961, for crimes committed during the Holocaust. She contended that the prosecution's attempt to depict Eichmann as a sadistic monster was wrong, for Eichmann was an “uninspired bureaucrat” who simply sat at his desk and followed orders. The upshot of this is that ordinary people, by thoughtlessly doing their job, and without any hostility from their side, can cause greater havoc than any evil genius can. As the nuclear weapons powers clamour to increase their nuclear arsenals, the Eatherly case is a reminder that violence that individuals carry is produced by society, and ultimately makes everybody a victim. Man in the atomic age is unable to morally reflect on ends because the nature of our knowledge prevents us from knowing how to act well. Claude Eatherly’s moral response did not resolve these puzzles, yet it is his extraordinary care for the human condition that make him Hiroshima’s first victim and activist, who dared to cry “no more Hiroshima”.   (The writer teaches at OP Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/hiroshima-day-major-eatherlys-remorse-1016800.html
06-08-2021||Main Article||A democracy we can’t keep||When Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of the United States, was asked after a session of the Constitutional Convention, “What kind of a government have you given us, republic or monarchy?” he is said to have replied, “A republic, if you can keep it.”  If you survey the internal affairs of our major political parties, you begin to wonder if they are all personal fiefdoms of self-styled monarchs. Can we keep our republic, our democracy, if our political parties are little monarchies or dictatorships? It is common knowledge that since the Indira Gandhi era began, chief ministers have become puppets on a string, and the elected representatives of the people have been relegated to being mere pawns of their parties. What is common to all our political parties? They all have a ‘high command’ that takes unilateral decisions. It may be a family dynasty like in the Congress, a ‘supreme leader’ surrounded by a coterie of one or two like in the BJP, or a single autocrat, as in Mamata Banerjee of TMC in Bengal, KC Chandrashekhar of TRS in Telangana, MK Stalin of DMK in Tamil Nadu, Arvind Kejriwal of AAP in Delhi, Deve Gowda of JD(S) in Karnataka. Like emperor Louis XIV, they say, ‘I am the party.’ The party is their kingdom. And as Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “Difference of opinion is the one crime which kings never forgive.” The supreme leaders of all parties are surrounded by a phalanx of courtiers and sycophants. Their job is to create echo chambers to reinforce and amplify their leader’s voice. External ideas and diverse voices are shut out. This was best exemplified during UPA 2 when the Congress high command lived in a bubble, cut off from reality when their palace gates were being breached and Narendra Modi rode to power. Let us begin with Congress, which is now drifting under a doddering dynasty incapable of steering the party through rough seas yet unwilling to let go of the wheel. Rahul Gandhi, who was anointed party president after much dithering, resigned in the wake of the Congress’ dismal performance in the 2019 parliamentary elections. He abandoned his post without enabling an election to choose a successor or appointing to it someone from outside the family. The party is adrift under an ad hoc president, an ailing Sonia Gandhi, and now the troika of mother, son, and daughter Priyanka, without authority or accountability, is presiding over the destiny of a party fast disintegrating. What do you make of Rahul Gandhi, who takes it upon himself to decide the fate of Sachin Pilot, the rebel Congress leader in Rajasthan at war with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot? How do you explain that he arrogates to himself the power to decide the fate of the government in Punjab by appointing as state Congress president Navjot Sidhu, a temperamental former cricketer and former BJP member who was recently flirting with AAP, a loose cannon with doubtful loyalties, a fierce baiter of the feisty Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh, thereby discommoding the latter and paving the way for the destabilisation of his own party government. The toadies continue to worship the Gandhi totem, unmindful of an imminent shipwreck. What about the sordid affairs of Karnataka? B S Yediyurappa became the Chief Minister of Karnataka, illegitimately in a sense, by orchestrating the defections of Congress and JD(S) legislators and luring them into the BJP fold. He was, in turn, ousted ignominiously by his own high command, instead of being removed by the elected representatives. The defections caused heartburn among both the defectors and party loyalists who were not rewarded with cabinet berths, who in all likelihood were egged on by senior leaders of their own party to revolt. In a classic replay from the Congress’ playbook, when dissidence peaked, the high command was swift in coercing Yediyurappa, a thorn in their flesh, to quit his post. Even as he sobbed and thanked those who sacked him in a tragicomedy as he resigned, he lamented that he had been hobbled by the party high command and was not allowed to form his cabinet for months even as the state was in the throes of floods and the pandemic. This week, the new chief minister had to wait for the BJP high command to decide on his cabinet as legislators watched mutely. The third fatal malaise that has afflicted all our political parties and the public is what Will Durant called the shameless disease of hero worship. It is good for a country to be inspired by great leaders, but they should not be blindly worshipped. They must be continually and critically evaluated. On November 25, 1949, in his last speech to the Constituent Assembly, Babasaheb Ambedkar called upon the country to work towards not only political but also social democracy and to avoid hero worship. Quoting John Stuart Mill, he urged the people not “to lay their liberties at the feet of even a great man, or to trust him with powers which enable him to subvert their institutions.” Ambedkar went on to warn that “Bhakti in religion may be a sure road to the salvation of the soul. But in politics, Bhakti or hero-worship is a sure road to degradation and to eventual dictatorship.” In our impatience with institutions and dissenting opinions that are blamed for slowing the country’s progress, there are temptations to emulate autocratic States like China. The worst democracy, with all its imperfections, is better than the best dictatorship. All political parties desire a vibrant democracy when it comes to state or national elections and demand free and fair elections, but they deny it to members of their own parties. Can there be genuine democracy in the country when there is dictatorship within its political parties? Even after he was thrown out of office by his people just months after he had led Britain through its greatest peril to victory in World War II, Winston Churchill remarked, “Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all the others that have been tried from time to time.” Who would know better? (The writer is a farmer, soldier and entrepreneur) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-democracy-we-can-t-keep-1017050.html
06-08-2021||National||Jaishankar meets his counterparts from Kuwait, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Oman in Iran||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday met with his counterparts from Kuwait, Nicaragua, Bolivia and Oman on the sidelines of the swearing-in ceremony of Iran’s new President Ayatollah Sayyid Ebrahim Raisi here. Jaishankar in a tweet said he was "delighted to catch up" with Kuwaiti foreign minister Dr Ahmed Nasser Mohammed AlSabah. "Took forward our discussions on post Covid economic and health cooperation. Useful exchange of perspectives on regional developments," he added, sharing a photograph of their meeting. In another tweet, Jaishankar said he appreciated Nicaragua foreign minister Denis Ronaldo Moncada Colindre's "warm words for our projects in power, health and ICT". "Our cooperation is a model of South-South solidarity," the External Affairs Minister said. In his meeting with Bolivian foreign minister Rogelio Mayta, Jaishankar discussed the development partnership and multilateral cooperation between India and Bolivia. Jaishankar discussed "our strong bilateral partnership, GCC developments and regional issues" with his Omani counterpart Badr Albusaidi. "Look forward to working with him closely," he tweeted. Jaishankar represented India at the swearing-in ceremony of Raisi. Raisi, the former judiciary chief who is believed to be close to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was sworn in during a ceremony in parliament, which was attended by representatives from over 70 countries. Last month, Jaishankar had called on Raisi and handed over a personal message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a stopover in Tehran on his way to Russia. Raisi won a landslide victory in Iran's presidential election in June. In June, Prime Minister Modi congratulated Raisi and said he looked forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-his-counterparts-from-kuwait-nicaragua-bolivia-oman-in-iran-1016719.html
06-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Modi celebrates India's hockey Olympic bronze||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded the hard work of the Indian men's hockey team and its Australian coach Graham Reid during a telephonic conversation with skipper Manpreet Singh and the support staff after the team's bronze medal win at the Olympic Games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-modi-celebrates-indias-hockey-olympic-bronze-1016722.html
06-08-2021||National||Man held for passing casteist remarks against hockey player Vandana Katariya||Police arrested a man in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district for allegedly mocking and passing casteist remarks against the family of Vandana Katariya who was part of India's women hockey team which lost a semifinal match at the Tokyo Olympics. Soon after the Indian team went down to Argentina in the semifinal, two men allegedly danced and burst firecrackers outside Katariya's house in the Roshnabad area of Haridwar in a gesture of mockery on Wednesday evening, an official at SIDCUL police station said. When some members of Katariya's family came out hearing the noise outside their house, the two men also passed casteist remarks against them, saying the hockey team had lost because it had too many Dalit players in it, he said. A heated argument also took place between members of the family and the two men involved in the incident, following which a complaint was lodged by Katariya's brother, the official said. A man, identified as Vijay Pal, has been arrested and booked in connection with the incident under section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code and the SC-ST Act, the official said. The other man involved in the incident has not been arrested yet, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-held-for-passing-casteist-remarks-against-hockey-player-vandana-katariya-1016751.html
06-08-2021||National||India sees 44,643 new Covid-19 cases, 464 deaths||India recorded 44,643 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,18,56,757, while the active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,754 with 464 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 3,083 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,40,287 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 47,65,33,650. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.72 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 11 days.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.41 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10,15,844 and the case fatality rate  stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 49.53 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 464 new fatalities include 120 from Maharashtra and 117 from Kerala. A total of 4,26,754 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,530 from Maharashtra, 36,705 from Karnataka, 34,230 from Tamil Nadu, 25,060 from Delhi, 22,770 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,193 from West Bengal and 17,328 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-44643-new-covid-19-cases-464-deaths-1016756.html
06-08-2021||National||RT-PCR report shouldn't be required for fully vaccinated persons for travel: NTAGI chairperson||With more people travelling across states, the central government informed state governments that RT-PCR test reports should not be mandatory for those who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Earlier, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) had come to the conclusion that fully vaccinated persons do not need a negative RT-PCR test report for travelling even as many states were demanding a Covid-19 negative certificates from fully vaccinated people. States across the country are continuously updating travel guidelines based on the situation in their own states and others. Some states mandated negative RT-PCR tests while others had scrapped this requirement. Seeing the rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the Tamil Nadu government had made a negative RT-PCR test report or full Covid-19 vaccination certificate mandatory for people coming from Kerala. Similarly, Goa made a negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for travellers from Kerala while Karnataka also mandated a negative report for people coming from Kerala and Maharashtra. Chhattisgarh had made the negative RT-PCR report mandatory for every traveller coming by air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rt-pcr-report-shouldnt-be-required-for-fully-vaccinated-persons-for-travel-ntagi-chairperson-1016764.html
06-08-2021||National||Narrowly missed medal but women's hockey team reflects spirit of new India: PM||Hailing the Indian women's hockey team's performance at the Olympics, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said it narrowly missed a medal but it reflects the spirit of new India, "where we give our best and scale new frontiers". The history-making Indian women's hockey team's dream of securing its maiden Olympic medal remained unfulfilled as it lost 3-4 to Great Britain in a hard-fought bronze play-off match at the ongoing Games in Tokyo on Friday. "We narrowly missed a medal in Women's Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India -- where we give our best and scale new frontiers," Modi tweeted after the match. "More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team," he said. Modi said people will always remember the great performance of our women's hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics. "They gave their best throughout. Each and every member of the team is blessed with remarkable courage, skill and resilience. India is proud of this outstanding team," the prime minister said. The team had already created history and surpassed all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Games for the first time. But the maiden Olympic medal remained out of bounds as world no. 4 Great Britain, who were gold-winners in the 2016 Rio Games, came out on top in the pulsating encounter. The heartbreak came a day after the Indian men's team ended a 41-year-old medal drought by clinching a bronze with a 5-4 win over Germany.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narrowly-missed-medal-but-womens-hockey-team-reflects-spirit-of-new-india-pm-1016771.html
06-08-2021||National||New trend developed to malign judges, complaints to CBI, IB do not get due response: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed its exasperation on a new trend developed in the country to malign the judges, if people do not get favourable orders, and complaints made by judges to the CBI and Intelligence Bureau do not elicit any positive response. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said in some cases where gangsters and high-profile accused are involved, they attempt to intimate judges physically and mentally, and some people, who do not get orders of their choice, circulate messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms with an intent to malign judges. "It is a new trend developed in the country. No freedom is given to judges. If judges complain to the IB and CBI, they are not helping the judiciary at all. This is a serious matter. I am saying it with a sense of responsibility," the CJI said. The observations by the court came in hearing of a Suo Motu case in connection with the mowing down of ADJ Uttam Anand by an auto-rickshaw. The court sought a status report on the investigation, even as the Jharkhand government handed over the probe to the CBI. It also pulled up the state government for saying boundary walls have been erected and CCTVs installed for security of judges, saying hardened criminals are deterred by these measures. Attorney General K K Venugopal said in criminal cases, the judges are vulnerable and there should be a body to assess such situations. It is time some strong measures are put in place, he said, adding he had a list of judges who were attacked. The court also took up a PIL filed by advocate Durga Dutt on behalf of Karunakar Mahalik for establishing a dedicated and specialised force for giving “foolproof security” to all courts, judges, lawyers, litigants and witnesses in the country. The court asked the states, which have not filed any response in the matter so far, to do it by August 17, the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-trend-developed-to-malign-judges-complaints-to-cbi-ib-do-not-get-due-response-sc-1016775.html
06-08-2021||National||About 100k green cards could go to waste this year; resentment among Indian professionals||About one lakh employment-based green cards are at the risk of being wasted in less than two months, causing resentment among Indian IT professionals whose wait for legal permanent residency now runs into decades. A Green Card, known officially as a Permanent Resident Card, is a document issued to immigrants as evidence that the bearer has been granted the privilege of residing permanently in the US. This year’s quota for employment-based immigrants is 261,500, far higher than the usual 140,000, Indian professional Sandeep Pawar told PTI. “Unfortunately, under the law, if these visas aren't issued by September 30, they are lost forever,” he said. The US federal government runs on an October 1 to September 30 fiscal year. The current pace of processing by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) suggests they will waste more than 100,000 green cards, a fact recently confirmed by the Department of State officials in-charge of determining visa usage, he said. If the USCIS or the Biden administration doesn’t take any steps, the extra 100,000 green cards that are available this year will be wasted, Pawar rued. The White House did not comment on the issue. Meanwhile, a group of 125 Indian and Chinese nationals living in the US filed a lawsuit to prevent the administration from wasting the green cards. “There are hundreds of thousands of gainfully employed legal immigrants in the US who would benefit from these green cards. Many of them have been waiting for a decade or more to adjust to permanent resident status but have been unable to do so due to a lack of available visa numbers,” he said. “But this year, if the USCIS does its job efficiently and promptly, these immigrants finally have the opportunity to become permanent residents, something which would otherwise take decades,” said Pawar, who has been fighting for the rights of Indian professionals waiting for several decades for green cards. “Most potential beneficiaries, such as myself, are from India, a country that is the most backlogged due to inherently racist and discriminatory per-country quotas. Many have spouses, mostly women, who are unable to work until they become permanent residents,” Pawar said. “Many have kids who will age out and be forced to self-deport even though this is the only country they know. The harm is both immense and irreparable if these green cards are not used,” he said. IMPACT executive director Neil Makhija, who met President Joe Biden as part of a delegation, said he urged him to reform the immigration laws by abolishing Green Card caps and quotas and include 200,000 children of long-term visa holders in efforts to protect all dreamers. In an op-ed in The Washington Post, David J Bier, a research fellow at the Cato Institute, alleged that the Biden administration is responsible for this waste of green cards. Last week, the US government announced that it has processed Green Card applications at such a slow pace that it will come at least 100,000 slots short of using up the annual limit. “Without drastic revisions in the glacial processing times, President Biden will have presided over one of the largest cuts to legal immigration in US history — and almost no one is talking about it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-100k-green-cards-could-go-to-waste-this-year-resentment-among-indian-professionals-1016786.html
06-08-2021||National||1,058 km metro network under construction in 27 cities: Union minister Puri||Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said 1,058 km of metro network is under construction in 27 cities to boost urban mobility across the country. He was speaking after inaugurating a section of about 289 metres between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations on the Delhi Metro's Pink Line via video-conference. The DMRC has been a trailblazer in urban mobility, and the missing link at the Trilokpuri section of its Pink Line was bridged with least possible disruptions, the minister said. He said 721 km of metro line was operational in 18 cities in the country at present, and a network of 1,058 km was under construction in 27 more. Puri praised the DMRC on running services with due protocols amid the coronavirus pandemic, and said that in the pre-Covid period, its ridership was about 65 lakh per day, and the hope is to reclaim it gradually while ensuring comfort and safety of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1058-km-metro-network-under-construction-in-27-cities-union-minister-puri-1016795.html
06-08-2021||National||AIMPLB says inter-faith marriage not valid under 'shariat', presses for early marriage||Amid raging debate over 'love jihad' (Muslim youths marrying Hindu girls under false pretenses) and laws against religious conversion through deceit, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means or for the purpose of marriage, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, an apex body of the Muslims in the country, has termed inter-faith marriages 'un-islamic' and asked the Muslim parents not to delay marriages of their children. In a seven point appeal to the community, the Board attributed the rise in the number of inter-faith marriages to "co-education, ignorance about religion and men and women working together at offices" and asked the parents to "keep a watch" on the mobile phones of their children. The Board also asked the Muslim parents to admit their daughters in girls schools as far as possible and ensure that they did not spend much time out of home. "The parents should impress upon their children that only a Muslim can be a good companion for another Muslim...they should also provide religious education to their children," Board's acting general secretary Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani said in a release. "The clerics should discuss these issues in their sermons after Friday prayers and appraise the community about the drawbacks of inter-faith marriages," he said. The Board also said that the parents, teachers of Islamic schools and other senior members of the community should try to discourage Muslim boys and girls from marrying members of different faiths if they came to know that such a marriage was going to take place. The appeal of the Muslim Board comes at a time when alleged 'love jihad' has been made a major issue by saffron outfits and has also triggered violence on some occasions. Uttar Pradesh government had recently made a law to curb religious conversion that provides for a maximum of ten years imprisonment and fine to the violators. It put religious conversion under duress, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means or for the purpose of marriage under the category of an offence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimplb-says-inter-faith-marriage-not-valid-under-shariat-presses-for-early-marriage-1016818.html
06-08-2021||National||Supreme Court expresses displeasure over filing of bulky documents||The Supreme Court Friday expressed displeasure over set of bulky documents being filed before it in a matter and observed that voluminous materials are filed to “terrorise” the judges. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant made the observations while hearing a batch of petitions arising out of the Bombay High Court verdict on pleas concerning the validity of a tariff order passed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India last year. The apex court said that 51 volumes have been filed in the matter. “Yesterday, we had to arrange a lorry to carry these materials. What is the purpose of filing 51 volumes? We cannot keep on reading them. We cannot hear such a matter. You want to terrorise us by filing so much volumes,” the bench said. At the outset, the bench observed that the purpose of filing 51 volumes seems to be that the judges does not read them. It asked the advocates appearing in the matter to sit together and file a convenient compilation so that the matter could proceed. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on August 18. While hearing another case, the bench pointed out that hundreds of volumes are being filed to terrorise the judges. The counsel appearing in the matter said he would file a short convenience compilation. However, the bench said despite so many volumes being filed, the judges have read the files.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-expresses-displeasure-over-filing-of-bulky-documents-1016821.html
06-08-2021||National||Pralhad Joshi meets high-level Australian delegation||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi has held discussions with a high-level delegation led by former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and requested the delegation to collaborate with India regarding sharing of technology in areas such as surface and underground coal gasification. The delegation had called on Joshi to discuss expanding trade and economic relationship between India and Australia, especially regarding broader developments in the energy sector, including the use of Australian resources to support India's energy needs and ambitious policy agenda, the coal ministry said in a statement. "... Joshi, held discussions with a high-level delegation led by former Prime Minister and Special Trade Envoy of Australia Tony Abbott here yesterday," the statement said. Abbott was accompanied by Barry O’Farrell AO, Australian High Commissioner and Hugh Boylan, Economic Counsellor, Australian High Commission. The Union Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs, requested the Australian delegation to collaborate with India regarding sharing of technology in areas such as surface and underground coal gasification and extraction of Coal Bed Methane (CBM) etc. Informing the delegation about the opening of the coal sector under the present regime, the Minister highlighted the importance of coal as a major source of energy in India and the focus of the government is giving the right fillip to further augment coal production in India. The minister also highlighted the importance of Australia as a source of critical and strategic minerals for electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing in India. Coal Secretary Anil Kumar Jain, Ministry Secretary Alok Tandon and other senior officers of both the ministries participated in the discussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pralhad-joshi-meets-high-level-australian-delegation-1016828.html
06-08-2021||National||RBI Governor praises Centre on retrospective tax move, post-Covid fiscal response||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday welcomed the government's decision to end retrospective taxation and termed it as a "timely" move. The career bureaucrat-turned-central banker also welcomed the government's approach to the pandemic-triggered crisis as a prudent and calibrated one. On Thursday, the government brought a bill in the Lok Sabha to withdraw all back tax demands on companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone and said it will refund about Rs 8,100 crore collected to enforce such levies. "It is my assessment – I have been revenue secretary and economic affairs secretary – that this (retrospective taxation) had been a long-pending issue. It (introduction of the bill) is a very good step, it's a timely step and it is definitely a welcome measure," Das told reporters during the customary post-policy conference call. Responding to a specific question on the move, he wondered why we blame the government if it does not take any action by calling it indifferent while when the government initiates an action it is termed as one taken under pressure. "It cannot be a situation where you say 'heads I win and tails you lose'," Das said. Meanwhile, the fiscal response from the government to navigate the economy out of the reverses of the pandemic was also welcomed by Das, who was appointed to the post after the sudden resignation of Urjit Patel in 2018. "I think the government's fiscal response has been very prudent, calibrated and responsive," Das said, adding that there is a "pattern" to the response as well. He said the government first responded to the stress at the individual level where it tended to the poor sections, and followed it up with measures to boost credit offtake and then veered to the sectoral interventions. Das said we "have not heard the last word" from the government and RBI expects it to continue with the same fiscal response. As for the central bank's own monetary response, Das said it has done whatever was possible for them to do and will keep at it. "We (RBI) are still in the 'whatever it takes' mode. The pandemic is still on. We have to be very vigilant," Das said. He said the economic recovery has been uneven and varies from sector to sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-governor-praises-centre-on-retrospective-tax-move-post-covid-fiscal-response-1016833.html
06-08-2021||National||RS adjourned for the day amid opposition protests||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day on Friday after opposition members continued to create uproar over the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' issues.  The upper house witnessed one adjournment a few minutes after it met for the day and was then adjourned for the day a few minutes after it met again at 12 PM. The Congress, TMC and other members continued to raise slogans in the well soon after it met for Question Hour. Surendra Singh Nagar, who was in the chair, announced that the meeting of the business advisory committee of Rajya Sabha would be prepped to 12.15 PM on the request of some opposition parties. It was to be held at 1.10 PM earlier. The chair continued with the Question Hour amid the din but adjourned the House for the day after opposition members continued to create noisy scenes by raising slogans in the well. The House will now meet at 11 AM on Monday, August 9, 2021. Earlier soon after the House met for the day, it was adjourned within minutes after the laying of papers, as opposition members stormed the well and started raising slogans against the government.  Deputy chairman Harivansh first urged members to allow the House to function but adjourned the House till 12 PM amid the din. Earlier when the House met, Harnath Singh Yadav (BJP) demanded the government restore the medium of education in mother tongue, while Ram Nath Thakur (JDU) urged the government to fill up vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court. Sasmit Patra (BJD) sought the ratio of Centre-State assistance be changed from 60:40 to 90:10 for development of Odisha keeping in mind the state always gets affected by floods and other natural disasters. Patra even urged the government to declare Odisha as a 'special focus state of infrastructure development. The Rajya Sabha has failed to transact any significant business during the past three weeks ever since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-opposition-protests-1016840.html
06-08-2021||National||'Chin up, you did us proud': Women's hockey team gets lauded for fighting Olympic show||The bronze medal slipped out of its grasp but the Indian women's hockey team earned plaudits for its gritty display against Great Britain in the play-off match as the country celebrated the side's best-ever performance at the Olympics. The history-making Indian women's hockey team, which had already surpassed all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Games for the first time, signed off with a fourth place finish after going down to Great Britain 3-4 in the bronze medal play-off. President Ram Nath Kovind congratulated the team for its stellar performance. "Indian Women's Hockey team excelled on the field and won the hearts of every Indian with their stellar performance. We are proud of you all," Kovind wrote. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the team can take pride from a campaign, in which it stunned three-time champions Australia 1-0 in the quarterfinals. "We will always remember the great performance of our Women’s Hockey Team at #Tokyo2020. They gave their best throughout. Each and every member of the team is blessed with remarkable courage, skill and resilience. India is proud of this outstanding team. "We narrowly missed a medal in Women's Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India- where we give our best and scale new frontiers. More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team," Modi tweeted. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said he is proud of their effort. "India's daughters - our determined athletes; we are immensely proud of you!" he wrote. "A giant leap of faith & fighting spirit by our women's hockey team; a legacy that will inspire us to do even better! You have shown us the way," he said. Former sports minister Kiren Rijiju said hockey's golden era is back. "Don't break down girls, you all played superb at Tokyo2020 by reaching top 4 in the world! I appreciate our Women's Hockey for making India proud.!!" he posted. Men's team skipper Manpreet Singh and former hockey player Viren Rasquinha said the women's side's journey at the Olympics was one of the best stories of the ongoing Games. Manpreet and his teammates were there to cheer the team from the stands during the match. "The performance of the Indian women's hockey team has been one of the best stories of the Tokyo Olympics They played as a team and gave it their all. Cannot ask for any more. Thank you for giving us fans so many wonderful memories," Rasquinha said. "This being our #TheHockeyIndia eves highest finish at the Olympics - tough luck but they fought superbly till the end! They have won the nations heart and we are proud of them," Manpreet tweeted. Batting legend Sachin Tendulkar said "Well done TeamIndia on giving your best and fighting till the very end. You may have lost the match but you have won our hearts. We are all very proud of you." Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, whose government has supported both the hockey teams, also congratulated the side. "Congratulate Indian Women's Hockey Team for putting up a brave fight against Great Britain at #Tokyo2020. Keep your fighting spirit up and keep inspiring. Wish you all the very best for future." The Rani Rampal-led team also earned the respect of its opponents as the official account of Great Britain Hockey tweeted "What an amazing game, what an amazing opponent @TheHockeyIndia you've done something special at #Tokyo2020 - the next few years look very bright." Former cricketers Virender Sehwag, Anil Kumle and VVS Laxman said the spirit with which the team performed will serve as an inspiration for the next generation. "Brilliant Effort girls. You must hold your heads up high for the magnificent effort and the spirit with which you fought. You have been instrumental in making the nation ho crazy for Hockey again @TheHockeyIndia #IndvsGBR," Sehwag said. "You gave it your all. Proud of how you played. Won a billion hearts. Created history and inspired the next gen," Kumble said. "Nothing but respect for our girls who gave their best. We are very proud of you and I am sure they will only get better," Laxman tweeted. Shooter Heena Sidhu, shuttler Jwala Gutta and gymnast Dipa Karmakar, who had finished fourth in the Rio Olympics, too paid rich tributes to the side "GB played better than us no doubt. We have lost to a better team there's no shame in that. We celebrated the medal yesterday, we must stand with them during this loss as well. They give it their all. Proud of #Ourgirls," Sidhu wrote. "Played like tigresses…..chin up girls….you were outstanding…there’s more to come!!! @TheHockeyIndia @Tokyo2020hi #womenhockeyindia," Gutta wrote. "Just so emotional. Each and every member of this team must be celebrated for the fight they have put up. #womenshockey #Hockey #Tokyo2020," Karmakar said. Indian Olympic Assoaciation Secretary General Rajeev Mehta said "The Indian Women's @TheHockeyIndia team gave it their all and delivered a brilliant performance at #Tokyo2020. The country is absolute proud of your fightback spirit today against Great Britain! More power to you #StrongerTogether #TeamIndia." Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, who famously played the coach of the women's hockey team in Chak De India, also chimed in. "Heartbreak!!! But all reasons to hold our heads high. Well played Indian Women's Hockey Team. You all inspired everyone in India. That itself is a victory," Khan tweeted. Saluting the team's passion, two-time Paralympic gold medallist javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia said "You have strengthened the roots of hockey, your passion will teach the coming generations that standing back up after losing is what sports is all about. I salute your passion."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chin-up-you-did-us-proud-womens-hockey-team-gets-lauded-for-fighting-olympic-show-1016841.html
06-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: J&J jab could be a breakthrough for India's supply crunch||The decline in antibodies does not necessarily mean the shots will lose their protection, though how fast they wane could still serve as an important indicator of the immune response, Zhu Tao, chief scientific officer at China's CanSinoBIO, said in an online presentation. A third booster shot of CanSinoBIO's vaccine three to six months after the second shot of an inactivated vaccine generated significantly higher antibody levels, versus using an inactivated vaccine as a third-dose booster, Zhu said. He cited data from about 200 participants in a clinical trial.  With the debate over booster shots heating up, the call highlighted a moral and scientific case long pressed by humanitarian groups: With the staggering gaps in vaccination rates around the world and cases surging as the Delta variant spreads, vaccine doses should be given first to vulnerable people in poorer nations. Fully-vaccinated people are protected against the worst outcomes of Covid-19 caused by the Delta variant. As both the numbers of vaccinations and coronavirus cases rise, people are becoming more and more worried about 'breakthrough infections'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-jj-jab-could-be-a-breakthrough-for-indias-supply-crunch-1016849.html
06-08-2021||National||Bring on record latest facts on non-selection of 5-time Paralympian for Tokyo games: HC tells PCI||The Delhi High Court Friday granted time to the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) and Naresh Kumar Sharma to bring on record the latest facts concerning the non-selection of the five-time Paralympian shooter for the upcoming Tokyo Games which are scheduled to begin from August 24. “Put on record facts after the Supreme Court order – email of respondent no 1 (PCI) to World Shooting Para Sports (WSPS) and reply of WSPS”, said a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh as it opined that these developments “would go to the root of the case”.  Advocate Varun Singh, representing Sharma, urged the court to expeditiously decide the issue in view of an order passed by the apex court and said, “whether I or Deepak (the other player) can go can be deliberated upon in view of the favouritism (shown by PCI)”. In response, advocate Mahavir Rawat, appearing for PCI, stated that the last date for sending names for the Indian contingent has passed and the concerned international body has already rejected Kumar's name as an additional candidate for the shooting event. Rawat added that there could be no allegations of bias against PCI over the selection of another player as the process is based on scores and not discretion. “This is not like cricket selection. This is a mathematical selection. Whoever gets more marks goes,” Rawat explained. On August 2, the Supreme Court had directed PCI to immediately include Sharma as an additional participant for the sporting mega-event in Japan. The next day, after being informed that "Tokyo has refused to allot additional slot", the apex court had granted liberty to Sharma to approach the high court for expeditious consideration of his plea against non-selection.   On July 27, the high court's single-judge order had said that PCI's conduct in relation to the selection of another player over Sharma for the R-7 shooting event was unbecoming of a public sporting body which has to maintain a fair, transparent and inclusionary approach. The court had, however, refused to interfere with the selection of the other player over Sharma at this belated stage, noting that the shooting team was already in a bubble. It had however asked the Union Sports Ministry to examine the aspect and take action, if necessary. On July 30, the bench headed by Chief Justice Patel had sought responses of the PCI and the Centre on Sharma's appeal against its single-judge order, following which Sharma had moved the apex court.   The matter would be heard next on August 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bring-on-record-latest-facts-on-non-selection-of-5-time-paralympian-for-tokyo-games-hc-tells-pci-1016862.html
06-08-2021||National||Mandaviya holds meeting with Biological-E MD on progress of Covid vaccine||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said he held a meeting with Biological-E Managing Director Mahima Dalta on the progress of the company's upcoming Covid-19 vaccine, Corbevax. The minister on Thursday had also held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy regarding the production and supply of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. "Met Ms Mahima Datla, MD of @Biological_E , who briefed me on the progress of their upcoming #Covid vaccine, Corbevax. I assured all the Government support for the vaccine," Mandaviya said in a tweet. Earlier in June, the Union Health Ministry had finalised arrangements with Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Biological-E to reserve 30 crore of Covid-19 vaccine doses. "These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021. For this purpose, the Union Ministry of Health would be making an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore to M/s Biological-E," the Health Ministry had said in a statement. The arrangement with Biological-E is part of the wider endeavour of the Centre to encourage indigenous vaccine manufacturers by providing them support in research and development and also financial support. The Biological-E Covid vaccine candidate has been supported by the Centre from preclinical stage to phase-3 studies. The Department of Biotechnology has not only provided financial assistance in terms of grant-in-aid of over Rs 100 crore but has also partnered with Biological-E to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies through its Research Institute Translational Health Science Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, the health ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-holds-meeting-with-biological-e-md-on-progress-of-covid-vaccine-1016863.html
06-08-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes bill for setting up central university in Ladakh ||A bill that seeks to establish a central university in the Union Territory of Ladakh was passed on Friday in the Lok Sabha, which has been witnessing opposition protests over the alleged snooping by Pegasus spyware and other issues. In his brief statement on the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said every year, about 7,000 students go out of Ladakh for study and with the establishment of the central university, about 2,500 students will get the opportunity to study there. “We want to set up a central university in Ladakh. It is a happy coincidence that the bill is being brought on the second anniversary of the scrapping of Article 370,” he said. Pradhan said abrogation of Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was not a slogan but a commitment. “Under that commitment, we have given Ladakh a Union Territory status and going to set up the Sindhu central university at a cost of Rs 760 crore,” he said. After a brief clause-wise discussion of the bill, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, announced the passage of the bill by voice vote. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, at present there is no central university in Ladakh and therefore, the government has decided to establish a new central university there to ensure increase in accessibility and quality of higher education, and to facilitate and promote avenues of higher education and research for the people of the Union territory. This shall also cater to the regional aspirations for years to come, it said. According to the statement of objects, the bill seeks to amend the Central Universities Act, 2009, to provide for the establishment of a University named "Sindhu Central University" in Ladakh. The university will cater to all areas of Ladakh that include Leh and Kargil. The government had said the university is expected to reduce the imbalance in the region on the education sector and students of Ladakh to get quality higher education opportunities. The university will help in intellectual development and better higher education and will help improve the quality of education, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-for-setting-up-central-university-in-ladakh-1016873.html
06-08-2021||National||No proposal yet to restore concessions in ticket fares: Railways minister||The railways on Friday said there is no proposal yet to restore concessions offered to certain categories of people in ticket fares after the facility was stopped due to coronavirus pandemic. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said, “In view of the pandemic and Covid protocol, concession to all categories of passengers (except four categories of Divyangjan, 11 categories of patients and students) have been withdrawn from March 20, 2020 till further advice. At present, there is no proposal to restore the concessions.” The national transporter offers 51 different types of concessions to a variety of people, including senior citizens who enjoy up to 50 per cent rebate on tickets of all trains. Teachers, war widows, awardees, artists, sportspersons, farmers, medical professionals and youths are among the different classes who enjoy concessional travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-yet-to-restore-concessions-in-ticket-fares-railways-minister-1016876.html
06-08-2021||National||Police investigating, don't want to comment: Vandana Katariya on alleged casteist slurs hurled at family||Indian women's hockey team forward Vandana Katariya on Friday sought to steer clear of commenting on the allegedly casteist slurs hurled at her family after the side lost to Argentina in the Olympic semifinals, saying that the police is probing the incident. Soon after the Indian team went down to Argentina in the semifinal on Wednesday, two men danced and burst firecrackers outside Katariya's house in the Roshnabad area of Haridwar in a gesture of mockery, an official at SIDCUL police station said. When some members of Katariya's family came out hearing the noise, the two men also passed casteist remarks against them, saying the team had lost because it had too many Dalit players in it, the official said. "I won't like to comment on this matter. I have heard a little bit about it. I have spoken to my family and they said all is well with them. The police is investigating this," Katariya said after the team's fourth-place finish in the Games here following a 3-4 loss to Great Britain in the bronze play-off. The arrested man, identified as Vijay Pal, has been booked under section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code and the SC-ST Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-investigating-dont-want-to-comment-vandana-katariya-on-alleged-casteist-slurs-hurled-at-family-1016887.html
06-08-2021||National||Rs 5.05 crore approved for families of 101 journalists who succumbed to Covid: Government||The government approved Rs 5.05 crore for granting Rs 5 lakh each as assistance to the families of 101 journalists who died due to Covid-19, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed Lok Sabha Friday. Responding to a question, Pawar said in a written reply the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting undertook a special drive for providing financial assistance to the families of such journalists. "On the basis of applications received by the Press Information Bureau, which fulfill the criteria laid under the Journalist Welfare Scheme (JWS) administered by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a sum of Rs 5.05 crore was approved during 2020 and 2021 for financial assistance at a rate of Rs 5 lakh per family to each of 101 families of journalists who died due to Covid-19," Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-505-crore-approved-for-families-of-101-journalists-who-succumbed-to-covid-government-1016899.html
06-08-2021||National||Ladies writes new chapter in history of mountaineering in India||Writing a new chapter in the history of adventure sports in India as lady mountaineers from Pune-based club, Giripremi, scaled two six-thousand meters mountain named Kang Yatse 1 and Kang Yatse 2 in the first week of August. The two mountains are in the Ladakh region of the Himalayan ranges. It was the first successful ‘team expedition of women’ from Maharashtra since 1984. Priyanka Chinchorkar, Smita Karivadikar, Padmja Dhanvi, Sneha Gude, Sayali Budhkar, Anjali Katre participated in the dual expedition. The team was trained under Samiran Kolhe who also participated in the expedition. Umesh Zirpe, renowned mountaineer and Shri Shiv Chhatrapati Awardee, has been mentoring the women's team for the last two years. “It is a proud moment for us,” said Zirpe, a veteran expedition leader and President of Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh. “The success of Kang Yatse 1 and Kang Yatse 2 is a great beginning. Now onwards, women expedition should be a norm and not a rarity. Women have the capabilities and enthusiasm needed for a mountaineer. In my opinion, institutes and clubs couldn’t spot this all these years,” said Ushaprabha Page, Founder-President, Giripremi, who is considered the pioneer of women’s mountaineering expeditions in India. The first team consisting of Priyanka Chinchorkar and Smita Karivadikar summitted Kang Yatse-1 (6494 M), one of the most difficult peaks to climb, in unfavourable weather. The duo was accompanied by Samiran Kolhe, who also summitted the  mountain on August 2. The other team consisting of Padmja Dhanavi, Sneha Gude, Sayali Budhkar and Anjali Katre summitted Kang Yatse-2 (6270 M). Anjali Katre is a 51-year-old mountaineer who has shown us that age is just a number. Meanwhile, Padmaja couldn’t summit the peak in the first attempt. She had to return to the base camp due to the severe weather conditions. She missed the summit by just 200 meters in the first attempt. However, she didn’t give up. After consulting the team members, trainer and the mentor, she planned the second attempt on August 4 and 5. Priyanka, the expedition leader, accompanied her and both mountaineers summit the peak on August 5. Mingma Sherpa, Sanjiv Roy, Ming Temba Sherpa and Sunny Sharma, the team of high-altitude guides, supported the expedition, whereas White Magic provided the critical logistic support. Kang Yatse group of peaks is located at the far end of Markha Valley in Ladakh. Kang Yatse-1 stands tall with 6494 meters height, whereas Kang Yatse-2 has 6270 meters altitude. Kang Yatse-1 peak is considered as one of the toughest peaks to climb. Most of the climbing route has loose rocksand steep climb is exhausting and tests the ability of climbers. 550-meter-long stretch from Camp 2 to Summit challenges the climbers as there are 15 to 20 ice walls positioned in 70 to 80 degrees angle. Giripremi’s team of determined mountaineers overwhelmed all the challenges to reach the summit. “The Himalayan peaks will prove a pivotal change in Indian mountaineering fraternity. Giripremi’s initiative to build a strong team of women mountaineers is established as one of the successful experiments in Indian mountaineering,” said Zirpe. Added Zirpe: “Just after the announcement of the dual expedition, we witnessed the devastating Corona pandemic. In this difficult time, getting together and preparing for the dual expedition was near to impossible. Hence, we followed the digital route. Giripremi set up Gurukul for women mountaineers only. Sanjay Sathe helped the team in mental fitness with the Brahmavidya session, whereas Samiran Kolhe looked after the physical fitness. I was constantly monitoring the progress and I am glad to share that more 15 women mountaineers participated in Gurukul who all are ready to face the challenge of mighty Himalaya.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladies-writes-new-chapter-in-history-of-mountaineering-in-india-1016905.html
06-08-2021||National||Iran's new President Ebrahim Raisi pledges support to India's role in ensuring security in Afghanistan||Iran will support India if it seeks to play a more prominent role in securing Afghanistan, the new President of the Persian Gulf nation, Seyyed Ebrahim Raisi, indicated when External Affairs Minister called on him in Tehran on Friday. “Iran and India can play a constructive and useful role in ensuring security in the region, especially Afghanistan, and Tehran welcomes the New Delhi’s role in establishment of security in Afghanistan,” a press release issued by the Iranian Government quoted Raisi telling Jaishankar during a meeting, when they exchanged views on the resurgence of the Taliban. Jaishankar called on Raisi on Friday, a day after the conservative cleric, who was the Chief Justice of Iran till July 1, took oath as the new President of the Islamic Republic in West Asia. This was the second meeting between the External Affairs Minister and the new President of Iran. He had earlier called on Raisi on July 7 – a couple of weeks after the conservative cleric, who was the Chief Justice of Iran till July 1, had won the presidential elections in the West Asian nation. “A warm meeting with President Ebrahim Raisi after his assumption of office. Conveyed the personal greetings of PM @narendramodi. His commitment to strengthening our bilateral relationship was manifest. So too was the convergence in our regional interests,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter after meeting Raisi on Friday. Raisi’s comment during his meeting with Jaishankar is signifiant as India and Iran had joined Russia in supporting the Northern Alliance, which had fought a war against the ruling Taliban in Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. As the Taliban of late stepped up its military offensives and once again occupied several districts across Afghanistan taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the Unites States and its NATO allies, India has been discussing the situation with Iran and Russia. New Delhi has been worried over the strategic advantage Pakistan and its ‘iron brother’ China would gain over India in the region if the Taliban could return to power in Afghanistan. The governments of Russia and Iran recently hosted the delegations of the Taliban in Moscow and Tehran. New Delhi too reached out to a section of the Sunni Muslim militants, albeit informally. India also made it clear that if the Taliban returned to power in Afghanistan through violence without going through a political process, it would lack legitimacy. “The fate of Afghanistan must be decided by the Afghans themselves, and we believe that if the Americans do not sabotage the situation, this issue will be resolved quickly,” Raisi told Jaishankar during the meeting on Friday. New Delhi also maintains that the peace-process between the Taliban and the government and civil society in Afghanistan should be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. The Taliban’s military offensive in Afghanistan was high on the agenda, when Jaishankar hosted the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, in New Delhi on July 28. India over the past few years contributed over $ 3 billion to support reconstruction of infrastructure in Afghanistan. It, however, refrained from sending troops to Afghanistan and kept its military support to the conflict-hit country limited to providing training to officials and soldiers of Afghan National Army and the supply of non-lethal defence hardware. It was in December 2015 that India started providing helicopters to the Afghan Air Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irans-new-president-ebrahim-raisi-pledges-support-to-indias-role-in-ensuring-security-in-afghanistan-1016910.html
06-08-2021||National||Hopeful of launching Covovax for adults in October, Q1 2022 for children: SII CEO||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said he is hopeful that Covovax, another Covid-19 vaccine being manufactured by his company in India, will be launched in October for adults and for children by the first quarter of 2022. He also thanked the government for all the support provided to Serum Institute and said the company is always trying to expand its Covishield production capacity to meet the demand. Poonawalla met Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament and the meeting between the two lasted for 30 minutes. "The government is helping us and we are facing no financial crunch. We are thankful to Prime Minister  Narendra Modi for all the cooperation and support," Poonawala told PTI after his meeting. When asked about vaccines for kids, he said, "The Covovax vaccine for kids will be launched in the first quarter of the next year most likely in January-February." Poonawala said he is hopeful that for adults Covovax will be launched in October, depending on DCGI approvals. It will be a two-dose vaccine and the price will be decided at the time of launch, he added. On production capacity of Covishield, the vaccine being manufactured and supplied by Serum in India under a licensing agreement with Oxford and AstraZeneca, he said the present capacity is 130 million doses per month and always try to increase it further. Earlier in the day, Poonawalla also met Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The minister tweeted that he had a productive discussion on the supply of the Covishield vaccine with Poonawalla. "I appreciated their role in mitigating #Covid19 & assured continued Government support in ramping up vaccine production," Mandaviya said. Last month, an expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority recommended granting permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions, official sources had earlier said. The trials would cover 920 children, 460 each in the age group of 12-17 and 2-11 across 10 sites. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company had submitted a revised protocol for inclusion of pediatric cohort in the ongoing Covovax phase 2 and 3 observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in Indian adults aged 18 years and above to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the jab. In the revised application, SII director (government and regulatory affairs) Prakash Kumar Singh and director Dr Prasad Kulkarni had stated that globally, all adults aged 18 and above are being vaccinated and after this population is protected against Covid-l9, children will remain the most susceptible group. Currently, only those who are 18 or above are eligible for vaccination against the coronavirus. The SII is learnt to have informed that their collaborator, Novavax, Inc, US  has already generated a large amount of data in adults in different countries and that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data on the Novavax Covid-I9 vaccine are very robust which includes a safety database of more than 50000 adults with data from Australia, South Africa, UK and USA and preliminary safety data in 2248 children. "Further in the ongoing Phase 2/3 study in India, more than 1400 participants have received at least first dose of the vaccine with no safety concerns reported so far," the application stated. "This will ensure that a life-saving vaccine can be brought at the earliest for our pediatric population also in addition to the adult population immediately after the grant of Emergency Use Authorisation. The SEC on June 30 had recommended against granting permission to SII for conducting phase 2 and 3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years following which the company had submitted a revised study protocol last week. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hopeful-of-launching-covovax-for-adults-in-october-q1-2022-for-children-sii-ceo-1016912.html
06-08-2021||National||Glad we have put an end to 8-year-long retrospective tax issue: Chidambaram||With Lok Sabha passing a bill that aims to end all retrospective taxation, senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram Friday said he is glad that an issue that had been troubling India for eight years has been put to an end. 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' was passed by the Lok Sabha Friday.  When it is also passed by Rajya Sabha, all tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012 will be withdrawn. "On the withdrawal of the Retrospective Tax (Vodafone), I am glad that we have put an end to an issue that has been troubling us for 8 years," Chidambaram said in a tweet. On the withdrawal of the Retrospective Tax (Vodafone), I am glad that we have put an end to an issue that has been troubling us for 8 years. The Finance Act 2012, which amended various provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 with retrospective effect, contained provisions intended to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company, which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets, such as Vodafone's transaction with Hutchison in 2007 or the internal reorganisation of the India business that Cairn Energy did in 2006-07 before listing it on local bourses. Besides creating uncertainty in the minds of investors, the retrospective taxes have in recent months been overturned by international arbitration tribunals in two high profile cases -- UK telecom giant Vodafone Group and oil producer Cairn Energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/glad-we-have-put-an-end-to-8-year-long-retrospective-tax-issue-chidambaram-1016922.html
06-08-2021||National||Had to get a lorry to carry files to court: SC reproaches litigant for filing 51 volumes||The Supreme Court on Friday reproached a litigant for filing voluminous documents, running into 51 volumes, and asked if the appellant wanted to "terrorise" the top court. "We had to get a lorry to carry your files to court," a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant told Indian Broadcasting Foundation's counsel The court was taking up an appeal by the Foundation against the Bombay High Court order upholding TRAI's new tariff order. "You've filed 51 volumes. We had to get a lorry to carry your files to court. Do you want to terrorise us? File small volumes if you want to be heard," the bench told the counsel. At the outset, the Chief Justice expressed shock at the length of the pleadings and documents filed by the petitioners. "We will not hear this. Imagine 51 volumes in one case. File one compilation and serve it on us then we will take it up," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing TRAI, submitted that he will file only a two-page affidavit. The bench said it will not go into the matter now and posted the case for further hearing on August 18. The matter arose out of the Bombay High Court's judgement, which partially upheld the validity of the New Tariff Order (NTO) issued by TRAI in January 2020 prescribing price ceilings on the rates charged by television channels. In June, the High Court, while upholding the NTO, had struck down one of the pricing conditions as unconstitutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/had-to-get-a-lorry-to-carry-files-to-court-sc-reproaches-litigant-for-filing-51-volumes-1016928.html
06-08-2021||National||Bommai meets Pawar, discusses water dispute||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai met NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday and held discussions on issues relating to water-sharing between Karnataka and Maharashtra. According to a statement from the Chief Minister's Office, a meeting will shortly be scheduled in Delhi between leaders of both the states. Pawar, who met Bommai at his home office Krishna for a courtesy visit, also agreed to extend cooperation between the states over flood management along the River Krishna basin. Districts in the two states where the river flows have suffered devastating floods for three consecutive years since 2019. The two leaders have preferred to resolve any disputes over water sharing between the states by holding talks, the CMO release added. "For detailed discussions on water disputes and water sharing, the two agreed to hold a meeting soon," the release said. Both the governments are expected to announce a date for the talks in Delhi over these issues shortly. Pawar tweeted to say that he got a call from Bommai. "On my visit to Bangalore, I got a call from [Bommai] who expressed his wish to meet me. Keeping the respect of his position in mind, I decided to go and pay a courtesy call on him," the veteran NCP leader said. "I am thankful for his warm hospitality and hoping that the two states would continue to work together with a Cooperative vision in the years to come." Later in the day, Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayanth Patil also met Bommai and greeted him on becoming the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bommai-meets-pawar-discusses-water-dispute-1016936.html
06-08-2021||National||SC asks Centre to come clean on vacancies in tribunals ||The Supreme Court on Friday told the Centre to come clean on the long list of vaccines in tribunals across the country, and asked if it wanted to continue or close them down. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said the delay in filling up vacancies in various tribunals was effectively crippling their functioning and leaving people without legal remedies.  The bench read out the long-list of vacancies across the tribunals and added that 19 presiding officers, 110 judicial members, and 111 technical numbers are pending in all the tribunals.  “This is the scenario of the tribunal. We do not know, what is the stand of the government,” the bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre. "Whether you want to continue these tribunals or want them to close…. something needs to be done," the bench told him further. Mehta sought 10 days time to respond to the query made during the hearing on a PIL filed by advocate Amit Sahni for setting up a national and regional GST Tribunals.  "The impression we are gathering that it appears the bureaucracy does not want the tribunals. You cannot make the tribunals defunct. If you don't want the tribunals, we will restore jurisdiction of the high court. We cannot keep people without remedy," the bench told Mehta. The court also cautioned the Centre that it would seek presence of top-level officers, if urgent action is not taken in the matter. The court also referred to recent judgment in Madras Bar Associations related to minimum tenure and qualifications for tribunal members. "This is unending thing. How many times did Madras Bar file petitions? Three judges, five judges and then again three judges passed judgements," the bench said. The court issued notice to the Centre on Sahni's plea and put the matter for further consideration on August 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-come-clean-on-vacancies-in-tribunals-1016950.html
06-08-2021||National||India working relentlessly to eliminate corruption in all possible forms: Rijiju||Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday told the eighth meeting of the Ministers of Justice of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member states that it will be appropriate for India to continue to deal with legal assistance and legal relations on criminal and civil cases on bilateral basis. He also said that India has been working relentlessly to eliminate corruption in all possible forms. "The approach of the Indian government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is of zero tolerance to corruption and black money," Rijiju asserted, according to a spokesperson of the Law Ministry. India, the minister said, has a sound legal framework backed by strong institutional mechanism to deal with corruption. An independent and effective judicial system with inherent constitutional powers to take up public interest litigations is another robust safeguard to deal with corruption he told the meet. Referring to the SCO convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil cases, Rijiju said, "When it comes to SCO convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil cases, our views (are) not necessary for the SCO context as there are existing mechanism on the same issue on bilateral level. "So it will be appropriate for India to continue to deal with legal assistance and legal relations on criminal and civil cases on bilateral basis," he said. The ministers of law and justice, senior officials and experts from the ministries of law and justice of India, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan were to participate in the virtual meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-relentlessly-to-eliminate-corruption-in-all-possible-forms-rijiju-1016963.html
06-08-2021||National||Dewan of Ajmer dargah condemns attack on Hindu temple in Pakistan||The spiritual head of Ajmer Sharif dargah on Friday condemned the recent attack on a Hindu temple in Pakistan saying the act is against the teachings of Islam. “The damage done to a Hindu temple in Pakistan is highly deplorable and unpardonable. The act is against the teachings of Islam,” said Syed Zainul Abedin Ali Khan, Dewan of the dargah. He said the incident is an outrageous act and performed by those individuals who are blinded by the cloth of communalism. They are the real enemies of Islam, Khan said. He demanded from the Pakistan government to immediately restore the temple and punish the culprits. The mob attacked the Hindu temple in reaction to an alleged desecration of a Muslim seminary by a Hindu boy, according to police there. PTI SDA HDA||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dewan-of-ajmer-dargah-condemns-attack-on-hindu-temple-in-pakistan-1016967.html
06-08-2021||National||Parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury likely to visit Kashmir, Ladakh||A parliamentary panel chaired by leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is likely to visit Kashmir and Ladakh on a five-day trip, sources said on Friday. According to them, this will be the first visit by parliamentarians of various parties, including the opposition, after the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. Members of the Public Accounts Committee will visit Srinagar, Drass, Kargil and Leh during the trip, sources said. Sources in the panel said the members will visit Kargil on August 15 and will celebrate Independence day by hoisting the national flag. They are expected to review the high-altitude clothing and food provided to personnel of the armed forces deployed in the Kashmir Valley and Ladakh region. Also, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, chaired by Congress leader Anand Sharma, is scheduled to visit Kashmir and Leh starting August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-chaired-by-congress-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-likely-to-visit-kashmir-ladakh-1016970.html
06-08-2021||National||Govt to launch 'PM-DAKSH' portal, app to make skill development schemes accessible||The government will launch 'PM-DAKSH' portal and app on Saturday to make the skill development schemes accessible to the target groups of Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Safai Karamcharis. The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, in a statement issued on Friday, said the Pradhan Mantri Dakshta Aur Kushalta Sampann Hitgrahi (PM-DAKSH) Yojana is being implemented by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment from the year 2020-21. He said under the scheme, eligible target groups are being provided skill development training programmes on up-skilling/reskilling, short term training programme, long term training programme and entrepreneurship development program (EDP). Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Dr Virendra Kumar will launch 'PM-DAKSH' portal and 'PM-DAKSH' mobile app on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-launch-pm-daksh-portal-app-to-make-skill-development-schemes-accessible-1016977.html
06-08-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 50-crore mark in 203 days||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed the 50 crore landmark on Friday, 203 days after it launched the immunisation drive against the infectious disease. “India’s fight against Covid-19 receives a strong impetus. Vaccination numbers cross the 50 crore mark. We hope to build on these numbers and ensure our citizens are vaccinated under Sabko Vaccine Muft Vaccine movement,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. As per the provisional report at 7:00 pm, the cumulative Covid vaccination coverage stood at 50,03,48,866 with 43.29 vaccine doses administered on Friday. India had launched the vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16 and it picked up momentum after the new phase of universal free vaccination began on June 21. Five states — Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than one crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-44 years age group, the health ministry said. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the 18-44 years age group for the first dose of the vaccine. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said India had taken 85 days to cross the 10 crore mark of cumulative vaccination, while it took 45 days to reach the 20 crore mark. He said the 30-crore mark was achieved in the next 29 days, while the 40-crore milestone was reached within 24 days. The journey from 40 crore to 50 crore has taken 20 days, the minister said. Currently, three vaccines – Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's homegrown Covaxin and Russia-made Sputnik V are being administered across the country. Between January 16 and August 5, Serum Institute had supplied 44.42 crore doses of its Covishield vaccine, while Bharat Biotech had delivered 6.82 crore doses of Covaxin for the national immunisation drive. The two vaccine makers are ramping up manufacturing capabilities to further speed up the vaccination drive. Serum Institute has assured to increase the production capacity of Covishield from 11 crore doses per month to 12 crore doses per month, while Bharat Biotech plans to produce 5.8 crore doses of Covaxin per month from its current capacity of 2.5 crore doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-50-crore-mark-in-203-days-1016999.html
06-08-2021||National||7 yrs since Street Vendors Act, several states yet to carry out vendor surveys, says Parliamentary panel||Several states have not carried out vendor surveys and formed town vending committees even after seven years of Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, a parliamentary panel said in its report. The Standing Committee on Urban Development, which presented its report in Lok Sabha on Friday, sought to know the reason for the delay and recommended taking up the issue at the highest level, according to an official press release. The panel, headed by Jagdambika Pal, also recommended preventing eviction of street vendors without formation and consultation of town vending committees (TVC) in states. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) must explore the possibility of revisiting the ceiling on the number of street vendors at 2.5 per cent of the population of the city, town, zone and ward, the committee observed. "The committee considers the figure as grossly inadequate in thickly populated cities like Mumbai, Delhi and others," it said. In its report, the committee observed that the ministry lacks any mechanism to monitor the conduct of TVC meetings and that it is directed to issue guidelines to states and Union territories with regard to the minimum number of meetings, advance intimation of schedule and uploading of minutes on the official website of urban local bodies among others. "Even after seven years of enactment of the Act, several states have not carried out vendor surveys, formed town vending committees and notified vendors' zone/market which are essential for the implementation of the Act," the committee also observed. The press release stated that in the report, the committee said vending zones should be developed in vacant spaces adjacent to parks and community centres in order to address the issue of location of such zones and markets far away from residential areas. "With a view to avoid issuing multiple cards and vending certificates, the committee suggested to issue smart cards consisting of details of the ID cards, certificate of vending and any other details to the vendors," the report said. It also said the MoHUA must take up the publication of street vendor charter by all the states and Union territories to ensure transparency. "Social audits are crucial for successful implementation of any social sector scheme, the committee thus, recommends maintenance of database on conduct or otherwise of social audit by states/UTs under the provision of the Act," it also stated. The committee recommended that MoHUA must encourage states to declare Natural Markets and also maintain a centralised database of the same, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-yrs-since-street-vendors-act-several-states-yet-to-carry-out-vendor-surveys-says-parliamentary-panel-1017003.html
06-08-2021||National||'India's fight against Covid-19 receives strong impetus': PM hails 50-crore vaccination landmark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday said India's fight against coronavirus has received a strong impetus as the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 50-crore mark. The Union Health Ministry said the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 50 crore with more than 43.29 lakh doses given on Friday. "India's fight against COVID-19 receives a strong impetus. Vaccination numbers cross the 50 crore mark. We hope to build on these numbers and ensure our citizens are vaccinated under #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine movement," Modi tweeted. The vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged above 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fight-against-covid-19-receives-strong-impetus-pm-hails-50-crore-vaccination-landmark-1017020.html
06-08-2021||National||JEE-Mains results announced, 17 score 100 percentile||Seventeen candidates have scored 100 percentile in the third edition of engineering entrance exam JEE-Main, results of which were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday. The perfect scorers included Karnam Lokesh, Duggineni Venkata Paneesh, Pasala Veera Siva and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu from Andhra Pradesh, Vaibhav Vishal from Bihar, Anshul Verma from Rajasthan, Ruchir Bansal and Pravar Kataria from Delhi, Harsh and Anmol from Haryana, Gaurab Das from Karnataka, Polu Lakshmi Sai Lokesh Reddy, Madur Adarsh Reddy and Velavali Venkata from Telangana and Pal Aggarwal and Amaiya Singhal from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 7.09 lakh candidates had registered for the exam conducted at 915 examination centres in 334 cities, including 12 cities outside India in Bahrain, Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait. "Examination of the 1,899 candidates in the flood-affected districts of Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sangli, and Satara in Maharashtra who could not appear on July 25 and 27 was conducted on August 3 and 4, 2021,” the NTA said in an official statement. "A total of 162 candidates from Bahrain who could not appear for session 1 due to lockdown also appeared on August 3 and 4. A total number of 707 observers, 293 city-coordinators, 19 regional coordinators, 6 special coordinators and 2 national coordinators were deployed at these centres to oversee the smooth and fair conduct of the examination," it said. The examination was conducted in 13 languages --English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. According to officials, NTA scores are normalised scores across multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in one session. "The marks obtained are converted into a scale ranging from 100 to 0 for each session of examinees. NTA score is not the same as the percentage of marks obtained," a senior official said. Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but those were postponed in view of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic that raged through the country affecting lakhs. The third edition was held from July 20-25 while the fourth edition is scheduled from August 26 to September 2. After all four sessions of the examination, the ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-mains-results-announced-17-score-100-percentile-1017043.html
06-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Casteism: India's worst open secret||Police arrested a man in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district for allegedly mocking and passing casteist remarks against the family of Vandana Katariya who was part of India's women hockey team which lost a semifinal match at the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-casteism-indias-worst-open-secret-1017048.html
06-08-2021||National||Rekha Sharma gets 3-year extension as NCW chief||Rekha Sharma was Friday given a three-year extension as the chairperson of the National Commission for Woman (NCW), according to an official order. In a notification, the Women and Child Development Ministry said, "Central Government hereby nominates Rekha Sharma as Chairperson of the National Commission for Women, for another term of three years wef 07.08.2021, or till the age of 65 years or until further orders whichever is the earliest." Sharma, 57, assumed the charge of NCW chairperson on August 7, 2018. She has been associated with the Commission as a member since August, 2015 and held the additional charge as the chairperson from September 29, 2017 before becoming its regular chief. She has been a vocal advocate of gender sensitisation of police personnel since they are the first point of contact for victims.  She was also the pioneer in setting up a special 'Happy to Help' task force during the coronavirus pandemic to help the elderly stuck at homes alone. She has also been credited for starting a WhatsApp number for women to lodge complaints during the pandemic. Sharma also courted some controversies with her comments. Last October, she had stirred up a controversy with her comment that there is a "rise in love-jihad cases" in Maharashtra, drawing the ire of netizens, politicians and activists who demanded her resignation for giving credence to such a term. In 2018, she also controversially called for the practice of confession in churches to be abolished after allegations emerged of abuse and blackmail of women who had made confessions. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rekha-sharma-gets-3-year-extension-as-ncw-chief-1017063.html
06-08-2021||National||Amendment on retrospective tax law a message to investors, says PM Modi||The Prime Minister stressed the importance of stability in doing business. He said that the decision to get rid of retrospective taxation showed consistency in policies and gave a clear message to all the investors that India was not only opening the doors of new possibilities, but the decisive Government of India had the will to fulfil its promises. His comment came on a day the Lok Sabha passed a Bill to amend the Income Tax Act 1961, which would end retrospective taxation of capital gains arising out of the sale of assets located in India. It was one of the promises the Bharatiya Janata Party had made for the Lok Sabha elections in 2014 when Modi led the party to a landslide victory and had taken over as the Prime Minister. His government delivered on the promise seven years later. The Prime Minister had a virtual interaction with the heads of India’s missions in foreign nations as well as the stakeholders of the trade and commerce sector. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also attended the interaction. The interaction also witnessed the participation of Secretaries of more than 20 departments, state government officials, members of the Export Promotion Councils and Chambers of Commerce. The Prime Minister listed four factors that are very important for increasing exports. Manufacturing in the country has increased manifold and that has to be qualitatively competitive. Second, The problems of transport, logistics should be removed for that centre, states and private stakeholders will have to work continuously. Third, The government should walk shoulder to shoulder with the exporters and, finally, the international market for Indian products needs to be expanded. He said only when these four factors are synergized, India will be able to achieve the goal of Make in India for the world in a better way. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amendment-on-retrospective-tax-law-a-message-to-investors-says-pm-modi-1017066.html
06-08-2021||National||Taliban continue to enjoy a safe haven in Pakistan: Afghan UN envoy Isaczai||The Taliban continue to enjoy a safe haven, supply and the logistic line extended to their war machine from Pakistan, Afghanistan’s UN envoy has told the Security Council, asserting that it leads to further erosion of trust and confidence towards establishing a collaborative relationship with Islamabad to end the war in his country. Ghulam Isaczai, Afghanistan’s Permanent Representative to the UN, said the graphic reports and videos of Taliban fighters congregating close to the Durand Line to enter Afghanistan and treatment of the injured Taliban fighters in Pakistani hospitals were widely available. “The Taliban continue to enjoy a safe haven in Pakistan and supply and the logistic line extended to their war machine from Pakistan,” Isaczai told the Security Council. “This is not only a naked violation of the 1988 UN Security Council sanction regime, but also leads to further erosion of trust and confidence towards establishing a collaborative relationship with Pakistan to end the war in Afghanistan,” he said. The 15-nation UNSC, currently under India’s Presidency for the month of August, held a meeting on the situation in Afghanistan on Friday. Isaczai told the Council that consistent with the agreement of the leadership of Afghanistan and Pakistan in Tashkent last month, "we urge Pakistan to help with removing and dismantling Taliban sanctuaries and supply lines and establish with us a joint monitoring and verification mechanism to make the fight against terrorism and international effort for peace, effective and credible.” He reiterated that Afghanistan desires nothing but friendly relations and peaceful coexistence with Pakistan based on mutual respect for each other's sovereignty. The Afghan envoy said millions of people are now vulnerable to indiscriminate shelling, death, injuries, destruction and displacement. “Our cities and public infrastructure that we have rebuilt with your support over the past two decades are now exposed to an unimaginable level of Taliban destruction,” he said. Isaczai said that in this “deliberate act of barbarism”, the Taliban are not alone. “They are assisted by foreign fighters from transnational terrorist networks. Together they are threatening our peace, security and stability not only in Afghanistan, but also in our region and beyond,” he said. He asserted that “it is our collective responsibility” to stop them from destroying Afghanistan and threatening the world community. “The scale, scope and timing of their military offensive is akin to an invasion unprecedented in the last 30 years of our conflict,” he said. Isaczai said since mid-April the Taliban and their affiliate foreign terrorist groups have launched more than 5,500 attacks in 31 of 34 provinces of Afghanistan. “These attacks have been launched with direct support of more than 10,000 foreign fighters representing 20 groups, including al Qaeda, LeT, TTP, IMU, ETIM and ISIL who entered our country, and are fighting alongside Taliban against our population and security forces,” he said. Isaczai said there is mounting evidence that the East Turkistan Islamic Movement and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which have pledged allegiance to ISIS fought alongside Taliban in provinces of Afghanistan where they are currently present with their families under Taliban control. “The link between the Taliban and these transnational terrorist groups is stronger today than at any point in recent times. Just as indicated numerous times by the Sanction Monitoring team of the UN Security Council, the Taliban, contrary to their commitments under the Doha agreement, have not broken ties with their regional and international terrorist organisations. “In fact, these links are unbreakable, as they have been cultivated and built on shared ideology interest and goals and intermarriages which have been translated into joint attacks, logistical and material support,” he said. US President Joe Biden said in April US troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan by the end of August, ending a 20-year foreign military presence. The Taliban in recent days has swept across Afghanistan, pushing back the Afghan military and taking over significant swaths of territory as the US nears the end of its withdrawal. Approximately 650 troops are set to remain in the country to secure the US diplomatic presence in Afghanistan, including the embassy, and to assist in securing Kabul’s international airport, which is a necessary facility for the movement of diplomats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-continue-to-enjoy-a-safe-haven-in-pakistan-afghan-un-envoy-isaczai-1017070.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Vice President Naidu hails Sushma Swaraj's service to the nation||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday paid rich tributes to former Union minister Sushma Swaraj on her death anniversary and said her selfless service to the nation will always be remembered. Former external affairs minister Swaraj died of cardiac arrest in 2019 at the age of 67. "Remembering my dear sister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj on her Punya Tithi today. She was a distinguished parliamentarian and an eloquent orator, who strove relentlessly for the empowerment of women & downtrodden sections," the vice president said on his official Twitter handle. "She was a dedicated leader whose compassion knew no bounds. Her selfless service to the nation will always be remembered," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-naidu-hails-sushma-swarajs-service-to-the-nation-1016774.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||LS adjourned for the day amid protest by Oppn members; retrospective tax bill passed||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day shortly after noon on Friday after passage of two bills, including the one which proposes to end a controversial retrospective tax policy, amid protests by Opposition members over Pegasus and other issues. As the House convened for the day at 11 am, Speaker Om Birla took up the Question Hour. However, the members resorted to sloganeering over Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws.  As the protests continued, the Speaker urged the agitating members to go back to their seats. The proceedings lasted for around 15 minutes after which Birla adjourned the House till noon. When the House resumed at noon, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, allowed discussions on 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021', which proposed amendments to the Income Tax and Finance Act 2012 to make it clear that no tax demand will be raised for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken prior to May 28, 2012. After a brief statement by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and clause-wise consideration of the bill, it was passed by voice vote. Similarly, another bill 'The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021', to set up a central university in Ladakh was passed by the House following a brief statement by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. After the two bills were passed, the chair announced the adjournment of the House for the day. Lok Sabha will now resume on Monday after the weekend break||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ls-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-protest-by-oppn-members-retrospective-tax-bill-passed-1016782.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||BSP will support Centre if it takes concrete steps for holding OBC census: Mayawati||BSP chief Mayawati on Friday said it will support the central government in parliament and outside if it takes constructive steps for conducting census of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Her remarks come close on the heels of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the tricky issue of caste-based census which the Centre has proposed to hold only for SCs and STs. “BSP has been demanding census of OBCs in the country. If the central government takes any positive step in this direction, BSP will definitely support it both inside and outside the parliament,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. देश में ओ.बी.सी. समाज की अलग से जनगणना कराने की माँग बी.एस.पी. शुरू से ही लगातार करती रही है तथा अभी भी बी.एस.पी. की यही माँग है और इस मामले में केन्द्र की सरकार अगर कोई सकारात्मक कदम उठाती है तो फिर बी.एस.पी. इसका संसद के अन्दर व बाहर भी जरूर समर्थन करेगी।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-will-support-centre-if-it-takes-concrete-steps-for-holding-obc-census-mayawati-1016783.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs visit 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar, witness no-confidence motion against Modi||Rahul Gandhi and other senior Opposition MPs on Friday visited farmers' protest in the national capital and witnessed the "historic" 'Kisan Parliament' where the agitators moved a no-confidence motion against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not repealing the contentious farm laws. Opposition leaders from 14 parties drove to Jantar Mantar, where the farmers are holding 'Kisan Parliament' since July 22 as part of their protest, from Parliament after Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day following protests over farmers' issue and Pegasus. The decision to visit the protesters was taken at a meeting of Opposition floor leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge and attended by Rahul, DMK's T R Baalu, RJD's Manoj K Jha, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem, CPI's Binoy Viswam, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and RSP's NK Premachandran among others. Interestingly, Trinamool Congress and AAP, which attended the morning meeting of Opposition floor managers, did not join the joint programme. Three Trinamool MPs visited the protest site earlier in the day. BSP was also absent. The MPs who reached Jantar Mantar sat in the "Visitors' Gallery" and witnessed the proceedings of 'Kisan Parliament' and the moving of the no-confidence motion against the Modi government. While none of the leaders addressed the farmers, Rahul told reporters, "we all have come here to convey our full support to the protesting farmers and their demand for repeal of the three black laws. You all know what is happening in Parliament. We want Pegasus to be discussed. They are not allowing it. Narendra Modi has intercepted every Indian's phone." Premachandran said the Opposition MPs had a first hand knowledge of what the peasantry thinks about the issues and were witness to a "historic parallel Parliament". "The Indian Parliament is not functioning because the government is not allowing discussions. They have a hegemonic approach. That is why this parallel Parliament has a historical value. The MPs sat in the Visitors' Gallery of the Kisan Parliament and witnessed the moving of the no-confidence motion against Modi," the RSP MP told DH. Kharge said the entire opposition stands in solidarity with the 'annadatas' (providers of food) and fully endorse their demand of withdrawing the "anti-farmer" laws. Besides Rahul, those who went to Jantar Mantar included Kharge, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, Kareem, Viswam, Jha, Premachandran and Raut among others. Asked about the protest, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, "if the Opposition is really concerned about farmers, then the government is ready to discuss the issues in both Houses. Why is the Opposition not ready to talk? This shows they just want to be in the media's limelight." Earlier in the day, Opposition MPs in both the Houses of Parliament raised slogans in support of farmers while demanding an immediate discussion on the Pegasus episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-visit-kisan-parliament-at-jantar-mantar-witness-no-confidence-motion-against-modi-1016808.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Pardeep Chhabra quits party||Senior Congress leader from Chandigarh Pardeep Chhabra, who has been at loggerheads with the party's city unit president and has also attacked senior leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, on Friday resigned from the party's primary membership. Chhabra's move comes a day after the Congress’ city unit served him a notice over his alleged anti-party activities. "Today, I resign from the primary membership of @INC India,” Chhabra tweeted. Chhabra was the Congress’ city unit president till February this year. He was replaced by Subhash Chawla. “An upright man shall never tolerate indignation & lies. Knowing when to walk away is #Wisdom, being able to is #Courage, Walking away with your head held high is #Dignity…,” Chhabra further wrote on Twitter. In the past few weeks, Chhabra had been attacking Chawla, alleging that he was being ignored and not being called for party meetings. However, in one of the latest invites for a party meeting sent to him on Tuesday by the city unit, Chhabra had expressed his inability to attend it citing personal reasons. In his resignation letter addressed to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Chhabra said he was resigning from all posts and primary membership of the party. He also attacked former Union minister and ex-MP Pawan Kumar Bansal alleging he treated him as a “puppet”. “I had joined as a member of NSUI in Chandigarh 35 years back as I believed in the ideology of the party and the vision of inclusive, liberal and progressive politics of Indian National Congress. I had served for the people of Chandigarh as councillor for 15 years, senior Deputy Mayor of Chandigarh and Mayor of Chandigarh,” he wrote in his letter. “...I have never asked, sought rewards or returns for myself in the hope that the party will respect my contributions,” Chhabra said. He said in the last few years certain things have convinced him that “neither my services are valued nor I was getting the respect that every individual deserves”. “I was being treated as a puppet who was controlled by Pawan Kumar Bansal. I had no other option but to take this step which I hadn't imagined even in my dreams because of the dictatorship attitude of Bansal,” he said, adding he was now feeling “suffocated”. In an open letter to the city's Congressmen last week, Chhabra had alleged that those who had been working for the party for more than three decades had been ignored in the recent list of office bearers released by the party's city unit. While he congratulated those who had been made office bearers in the committee constituted by the city unit of the Congress, he said the “Chandigarh Congress leadership has today started a new innings for 'Congress-mukt Chandigarh'”. Chhabra also questioned why women had not been given 30 percent representation in the newly constituted committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-pardeep-chhabra-quits-party-1016813.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Centre weakening 4 pillars of democracy: Sanjay Raut on Pegasus row||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday accused the Modi government of weakening the four pillars of democracy through alleged snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus. Talking to reporters in Delhi, Raut expressed surprise that the central government was not even paying heed to the Supreme Court’s observation that the Pegasus case, if true, was a serious matter. On Thursday, the apex court had said that allegations of Pegasus-related snooping are "serious in nature" if reports on them are correct. It also asked the petitioners seeking probe into the Israeli spyware matter whether they have made any efforts to file a criminal complaint on this. "The Centre is weakening the four pillars of democracy with Pegasus spyware. The opposition's demand for a debate on Pegasus is being rejected by the government. The Centre doesn't want to discuss this issue as well as that of the farmers’ agitation,” he said. An international media consortium had earlier reported that several verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, various journalists, some opposition leaders and a sitting judge besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The government, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people. When asked about the Maratha reservation issue, Raut said, "Unless the 50 per cent cap on quota is relaxed, reservation to this community cannot be restored." I n May this year, the Supreme Court had struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it as "unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict. Replying to another question, the Rajya Sabha member criticised Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for not clearing the state cabinet's recommendation of appointing 12 members from his quota to the state Legislative Council. "By not approving the names, he is not adhering to the Constitution. It is an insult of the state legislature and the people of Maharashtra," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-weakening-4-pillars-of-democracy-sanjay-raut-on-pegasus-row-1016830.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes bill to end all retrospective taxation; FM Sitharaman recalls Jaitley||It took all of eight minutes on Friday for the Lok Sabha to take the first step to bury the ghost of retrospective tax, a UPA-era legacy that had made global investors wary of investments in India. The Lok Sabha passed the 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' that seeks to end all retrospective tax claims made on indirect transfer of assets prior to May 28, 2012, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserting that the BJP was always opposed to the move introduced by then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee. With opposition parties raising slogans and waving placards in the Well of the Lok Sabha, the presiding officer put the bill to voice vote after brief remarks by Sitharaman. The Finance Minster utilised the opportunity to put on record BJP's opposition to retrospective taxation as “bad in law” and also “bad for investor sentiments”. Sitharaman acknowledged the role of her predecessor and mentor Arun Jaitley, who as Finance Minister set up a high-level committee to ensure that no tax claims were made by the government using the retrospective tax provisions. She said 17 demands were raised using retrospective tax provisions before the NDA came to power in 2014 out of which two went to court and the government and later for international arbitration. “We could not act on it even at that time in 2014 because there were two cases going on, and the then Finance Minister had very clearly said that: 'We will wait for them to reach the logical conclusion',” Sitharaman said. She said the “logical conclusion” was reached in the two cases in September and December last year and the government had brought the amendment to the taxation laws to keep up the word given by late Jaitley. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, we are keeping up the commitment of BJP that we don’t believe in retrospective application of tax. We are fulfilling that word,” the Finance Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-end-all-retrospective-taxation-fm-sitharaman-recalls-jaitley-1016864.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||TMC hits out at Centre over 'hurried' passage of Bills in Parliament||The TMC hit out at the Centre on Friday over the "hurried" passage of bills in Parliament, stating that 25 bills were rushed through in the last eight days, on an average of one every 10 minutes. The party also walked out of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) on the same issue. "Are we moving from democracy to autocracy? Disregard towards Opposition and constitutional provisions. Bills are being passed without any discussion. Within eight days in the Rajya Sabha and six days in the Lok Sabha, 25 bills have been passed in less than 10 minutes (per bill). Absolute disregard to the MPs. "In the Lok Sabha, a member asked for division, he was not granted it. Instead, the House was adjourned. This government is moving towards ordinances," Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said at a press briefing. She said in the first 30 years of Parliament, there was only one ordinance and in the next 30 years, there were two. "This time, there has been 3.7 ordinances. When in session, the primary function of the House is to pass those ordinances. Why call Parliament at all? Every time a member stands up, we are not allowed to speak. The Business Advisory committee is like a kirana (provisional) store. We have to haggle to discuss people-centric issues. We have important issues to discuss. We wanted to discuss the anti-farmer agriculture bills, price hike and Covid mismanagement, but there is no discussion," Ghosh Dastidar said. She alleged that while during the previous governments, at least 40 per cent of the bills were referred to the standing committee, now only one out of every 10 bills follows that route. "When the Israeli government, the French government are investigating (the Pegasus snooping issue), why can't we? Who is spying on us? Who is unleashing this military spyware? Hasn't the country got the right to know? We have the right to ask. We want to discuss the issue complying with the norms. They (Centre) are bulldozing it. This is not acceptable," Ghosh Dastidar said. TMC's Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Shekhar Ray brought up the issue of the absence of a deputy speaker in the House, stating that the post has been lying vacant for 782 days. "Our request for the prime minister's presence in the House has not been heeded. This government is dangerous for people. The prime minister has gone on record saying due to disruptions, the House is not functioning properly. In every Parliament, whenever the Opposition does not get space to place people's concerns, disruptions are obvious. "From day one till today, neither the adjournment motion nor (rule) 267 notice was allowed. For the past four-and-a-half years, not a single 267 notice has been admitted in the Rajya Sabha. The government is running away from a discussion. Why are (Home Minister) Amit Shah and the prime minister silent?" he asked. Ray is an invitee to the BAC as he is one of the members of the panel of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. While both Ghosh Dastidar and Ray pointed out that for the Opposition, the Pegasus issue remains primary, on Friday morning, a three-member delegation of TMC MPs comprising Prasun Banerjee, Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar visited the "Kisan Sansad" at Jantar Mantar to "show solidarity with farmers". Leaders from the Congress and 14 other opposition parties too visited the site to not only stand with farmers, but also to display unity among the anti-BJP parties on similar issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-hits-out-at-centre-over-hurried-passage-of-bills-in-parliament-1017054.html
06-08-2021||National Politics||Petition against PM Modi, Union home minister dismissed||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday dismissed a petition which sought that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah be disqualified under the Representation of the People (RP) Act, 1951. The court also imposed a cost on the petitioner Ram Khobragade, a lawyer. The petition demanded that Modi and Shah be declared guilty of "corrupt practices" under section 123 of the RP Act and disqualified for alleged violation of the model code of conduct during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Killor said the petition was not maintainable as it was filed "in ignorance of the provisions made in sections 80-81 of the RP Act" and also Article 102 of the Constitution. Sections 80 and 81 deal with under what circumstances a petition challenging election can be filed, and Article 102 explains how an MP can lose the membership of Parliament. The petitioner, instead of pursuing other remedies under the law, moved the high court even when he himself is an advocate, the judges noted. The court dismissed the petition and imposed a cost of Rs 1,000 on the petitioner. He will have to deposit the amount with the HC legal services committee. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/petition-against-pm-modi-union-home-minister-dismissed-1017067.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||SC upholds Singapore arbitrator's order restraining Future Group from going ahead with Reliance deal||In a big relief to e-commerce giant Amazon, the Supreme Court on Friday upheld the Singapore's emergency arbitrator’s order restraining the Kishore Biyani-led Future group from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The top court said the emergency arbitrator's order is enforceable in India and the Indian Arbitration laws also allowed it. It declared that the Future’s Group’s appeal against the Delhi High Court’s single judge order that stalled the deal was not maintainable. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai set aside the Delhi High Court division bench’s February 8 and March 22 orders that lifted stay on the Future Retail-Reliance Retail deal. The top court said the Delhi High Court’s single judge was right in upholding the EA’s October 25 order. It also held that no appeal would lie under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act against an order of enforcement of an EA’s order made under Section 17(2) of the Act. After the Friday's judgement, the Future group may approach the top court and seek stay on the single judge’s order that stalled the Reliance deal.  Notably, during the pendency of the appeals in the SC and HC, the SIAC had constituted a three-member tribunal which has reserved its final judgment. Once the tribunal’s final judgment comes, all the cases arising from the EA’s order will become invalid. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and Future Retail Ltd have been locked in a bitter legal battle over the deal. Dealing with the issue of emergency arbitrator's order, the court in its 103-page judgement said, “Such orders are an important step in aid of decongesting the civil courts and affording expeditious interim relief to the parties." The court said that it is “wholly incorrect to say that Section 17(1) of the Act would exclude an EA’s orders. Rejecting the Future group’s stand that the EA's order is a "nullity" in absence of an arbitration agreement, Justice Nariman, writing for the bench, said, “a party (the Future group) cannot be heard to say, after it participates in an Emergency Award proceeding, having agreed to institutional rules made in that regard, that it will not be bound by an EA’s ruling."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-upholds-singapore-arbitrators-order-restraining-future-group-from-going-ahead-with-reliance-deal-1016763.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Missing link on Delhi Metro's Pink Line plugged; becomes network's longest corridor||In a major boost for Delhi Metro, a small segment of its Pink Line at Trilokpuri, which had proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, was inaugurated on Friday, making it the longest operational corridor of the network. With this, the 59-km-long Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line, which spans 38 stations, has been fully linked for the first time. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal jointly inaugurated the section of about 289 metre between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, via video-conferencing. The Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had become a bottleneck, due to which the line remained disjointed there. Now, with the missing link plugged after much delay, Delhi Metro's Pink Line has become its longest operational corridor. And, it will also connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said. The end-to-end linking of the Pink Line will also immensely benefit residents of east Delhi or people travelling to that region, as the gap at Trilokpuri was causing the corridor to be operated in two separate segments. The gap in the line was expected to be plugged by September 2020, but it was delayed due to repercussions of the Covid-19 pandemic, sources had said early October. The bottleneck near Trilokpuri station had risen due to multiple issues, including land acquisition, resulting in a portion of the metro segment, then about a few kilometres, remaining incomplete, rendering the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake station a terminus. Passenger services on the line is slated to begin from 3 pm onwards on Friday. DMRC authorities said with this seamless connectivity, commuters will also save time and money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missing-link-on-delhi-metros-pink-line-plugged-becomes-networks-longest-corridor-1016778.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Two unidentified militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's border district of Rajouri on Friday. Officials said the encounter erupted after the security forces launched a joint operation in a forest area of Thanamandi, Rajouri, on Thursday night. “In the gunfight, two terrorists were neutralized,” they said and added the operation was on to trace any other militants hiding in the area. The identification and group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. However, sources said, they may be part of a newly infiltrated group of militants, who may have sneaked into J&K from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) last month. This year no infiltration has been reported along the LoC in Kashmir. Last year too, there was a marked decrease in infiltration attempts, with 99 such incidents being recorded in 2020 as compared to 216 in 2019. A senior police officer told DH that as the infiltration has dried up along the LoC in Kashmir, the militant handlers across the border may use the Rajouri and Poonch districts in Jammu region for pushing in militants in the coming months. In J&K, the LoC is guarded by the army and at many places, the Border Security Force also keeps a watch on the movements along with police who continuously gather inputs about fresh infiltration bids. In February this month, India and Pakistan agreed to observe a strict ceasefire along the LoC and since then the situation has remained peaceful on the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-district-1016811.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||MP eyes to set up helipad for CM near his residence or state secretariat to ease VIP movement||The Madhya Pradesh government is planning to set up a helipad either near the state secretariat here or close to the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's residence to facilitate VIP movement and reduce traffic woes caused due to it, a senior official said on Friday. "We have received a request from the state aviation department for setting up a helipad near the secretariat or the chief minister's residence with a view to ease VIP movement," MP Public Works Department's principal secretary Neeraj Mandloi told PTI. The department has been looking for suitable sites for the purpose, but no specific location has been finalised so far, he said. The places being considered by the department are close to the state secretariat (Vallabh Bhawan), Old Jail premises, Lal Parade Ground and Shyamla Hills, where the official residence of the chief minister is located, he said. "The proposal is under consideration, but nothing has been finalised so far,” Mandloi said. When asked about the reports that such a facility will be set up on the rooftop of the secretariat, the principal secretary said that so far, the aviation regulatory authorities have not given their go-ahead to any such provision in the country. "The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has ruled out this option,” he said. The distance between the airport and the chief minister's residence or the secretariat in Bhopal is around 13-15 km from both places and the VIP movement takes about 15-20 minutes one way to reach the aerodrome, which causes a lot of inconvenience to people, officials said. The chief minister uses helicopters more often than airplanes and he has to spend nearly an hour both ways every time, they said. Setting up a helipad near the state secretariat or the chief minister’s residence will not only save the CM's time, but also substantially reduce inconvenience faced by others, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-eyes-to-set-up-helipad-for-cm-near-his-residence-or-state-secretariat-to-ease-vip-movement-1016823.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||India, China withdraw troops from Gogra Post, but no deal to end face-off at Demchok, Depsang||India and China have withdrawn front-line troops from Gogra Post in eastern Ladakh, even as the stand-off continues at several other locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with no agreement yet even for disengagement from Hot Springs, which too was considered a “low hanging fruit” in the negotiation between the two sides. The troops of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have now returned to the respective permanent bases ending the face-off at Gogra Post a.k.a ‘Patrol Point 17 A’ on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two sides. It was the second location, where the face-off could be brought to an end, albeit almost six months after the first such disengagement took place on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (Lake) between February 10 and 21. Apart from ceasing forward deployments, the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA have on Wednesday and Thursday dismantled “all temporary structures and other allied infrastructure” they had created in and around the Patrol Point 17 A after the stand-off along the LAC started in April 2020, the Ministry of Defence and Ministry of External Affairs stated. The dismantling of infrastructure and withdrawal of troops were mutually verified by the local military commanders of the two nations. The landform in the area has been restored by the both sides to pre-April-2020 state, according to a press release issued in New Delhi on Friday. The agreement on ending the face-off at Gogra Post ensured that the LAC in the area would be “strictly observed and respected by both sides” and no attempt would be made to unilaterally change the status quo, it added. The two sides however could not yet reach an agreement on withdrawal of troops from Hot Springs (a.k.a Patrol Point 15) area on the LAC. The Chinese PLA also continued to stall discussion with the Indian Army for disengagement in other face-off points in eastern Ladakh, like Demchok and Depsang Plains. The two sides, however, expressed commitment to take the talks forward and resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector, according to the press release issued in New Delhi After India and China pulled out troops from both the banks of Pangong Tso earlier this year, the disengagement in Gogra Post and Hot Springs were perceived to be the “low hanging fruits” for the negotiations to resolve the stand-off along the LAC. But the 11th round of talks between the military commanders of the two sides on April 9 last ended in a stalemate, which was broken only after the senior diplomats of the two sides had a video-conference on June 25 and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Dushanbe on July 14. The senior military commanders of India and China finally had the 12th round of talks at Chushul-Moldo meeting point on the LAC on July 31. The two ides discussed a possible agreement on disengagement on Gogra and Hot Springs. But the Chinese PLA backtracked from a deal with the Indian Army on withdrawal of troops from Hot Springs and only agreed on disengagement from Gogra Post, a source in New Delhi said. The top brass of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi finally gave its nod for resolving the face-off at Gogra Post only, although some Indian Army officials initially had reservation about clinching yet another limited-scope deal with the Chinese PLA, without any progress in negotiation for disengagement at Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang Plains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-withdraw-troops-from-gogra-post-but-no-deal-to-end-face-off-at-demchok-depsang-1016877.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||With Covid on decline, Friday prayers resume at Srinagar’s Jamia Masjid||For the first time since the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April, Friday congregation prayers were held in Srinagar’s historic Jamia Masjid after a gap of four months. The prayers had been suspended at the 600-year-old mosque due to the rise in the Covid-19 pandemic in April. The prayers had been suspended due to the rise in the Covid-19 pandemic in April. “All arrangements were made by the Auqaf to ensure Covid SOPs were in place and were observed by all who offered prayers at the Masjid,” a statement of Anjuman Auqaf Jamia Masjid, said. However, moderate Hurriyat Conference chairman, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who is also chief cleric of Kashmir, didn’t appear to pronounce Friday sermon from the mosque pulpits.  The Auqaf statement claimed that Mirwaiz continues to remain under detention at his posh Nigeen residence, here. Emotional scenes were witnessed as elderly men were seen kissing the walls of grand old masjid. “This place is our spiritual center. We missed its aura and ambience for the last more than four months. Thanks to Allah that this place is again open for worshippers,” said Tariq Ahmad, a resident of nearby Gojwara locality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-covid-on-decline-friday-prayers-resume-at-srinagar-s-jamia-masjid-1016895.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||ED summons mother of former J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday once again summoned Gulshan Ara, mother of the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case. Gulshan Ara, wife of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the former Union Home Minister, has been asked to appear before the central probe agency at its office in Srinagar on August 18 at 11 am. The ED summon said that it was making an investigation under the provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (15 of 2003) and the attendance of Gulshan Ara was necessary in connection with the said investigation. Earlier, she was summoned by the ED in the same case on April 9 and July 14. However, on both the occasions, Gulshan Ara didn’t appear after the investigating agency failed to respond to her letter that sought details of the case for which she was to be questioned. The case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED, after raids on an associate of Mehbooba, in which some purported payments made from then chief minister’s discretionary fund were made in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the tenure of Mehbooba as the CM of the erstwhile state. After her five-hour-long questioning on March 25, Mehbooba had told reporters that central agencies like the NIA, CBI and the ED were being “misused” to silence the opposition. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of J&K police had also rejected the passport applications of Gulshan Ara and Mehbooba following ‘adverse police reports’ against the mother and the daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-summons-mother-of-former-jk-cm-mehbooba-mufti-in-money-laundering-case-1016901.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||DU defers decision to resume physical classes for science students from August 16||The Delhi University on Friday deferred its decision to resume physical classes for science students from August 16. The university on Thursday had issued an official notification announcing that it would hold classes for science stream students in view of a decline in Covid cases, following which a section of teachers expressed displeasure over the decision to call students to campus. The new notification issued by Registrar Vikas Gupta said, "The instructions issued for conduct of classes for PG and UG Programmes in respect of science courses in university and its colleges in physical mode with effect from 16.08.2021 has been deferred." "The decision has been deferred since the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has not issued any guidelines on reopening of schools and colleges. Reopening the campus would have been a violation. We will wait for the guidelines," Gupta told PTI on Friday. He clarified that the decision was not deferred because of the criticism of the move by a section of teachers. Professor Hansraj Suman, in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party Teachers' Wing, Delhi Teachers' Association (DTA), said the circular should have been issued after due consultation with teachers. "The circular was withdrawn because of the opposition by the teachers. There is a possibility of third wave of Covid coming which could be dangerous than the second wave and the decision to reopen the campus was made in haste," he said. Professor Abha Dev Habib welcomed the new notification issued by the university. "It is good that the university has reviewed its decision because of responses received. The sudden notification regarding classes and labs in physical mode for science PG and UG courses had resulted in immense panic," she said. "As the vaccination for 18+ has just started in the country, the university should give time to students to complete their dose. Teaching in overcrowded rooms and labs would have meant health hazards for all. Many teachers and non-teaching staff, who fell ill during the second wave, are taking their first dose of vaccination now," she added. Habib also said that teachers are waiting for normalcy to be restored. "As teachers, we are worried about the dilution online teaching and examination has caused. However, the university needs to bring a well-thought of plan. Reopening cannot be a rushed exercise," she said. The university was closed since March last year due to Covid but allowed final year students to return to colleges for accessing labs and take practical classes in February this year. However, the classes were suspended again in April due to the second Covid wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-defers-decision-to-resume-physical-classes-for-science-students-from-august-16-1016969.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt likely to undertake advanced sero survey to asses Covid prevalence||The Delhi government is likely to undertake an advanced sero survey to determine the prevalence of Covid-19 variants and identify susceptible pool among the residents of the city, according to discussions held during a DDMA meeting on Friday, officials said. The meeting to review the Covid situation in the city was attended by Lt Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and others. It was suggested that in view of the "comfortable situation" due to a drop in new Covid cases, an advanced sero survey should be undertaken, officials present in the meeting said. "The survey will take into account extended epidemiological dimensions so as to identify susceptible pool and augment the genome sequencing efforts with an aim of prioritising vaccination," they said The health department has been instructed in this regard, said an official. "The health department was advised to take all necessary steps relating to preparedness for any probable surge of infections in terms of augmenting hospital infrastructure and ensuring adequate availability of oxygen and drugs, besides ensuring timely conduct of sero survey," Baijal tweeted after the meeting and optimum utilization of available genome sequencing capacity. As regards the suggestion for opening of schools and educational institutions, as advised by the experts it was decided to set up a committee of experts including officials of Education and Health Departments It was also decided to undertake aggressive and targeted surveillance and testing in areas, locations and specific activities to ascertain and address any trends of concern as the next wave of Coronavirus is being anticipated, he said. In the discussions during the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting, the experts emphasised on continued vigil and caution. "They suggested that all steps relating to preparedness for any probable surge of infections, in terms of hospital infrastructure and oxygen and medicine availability, should be put in place and operationalised by the end of August," officials said. The issue of opening of schools and educational institutions was also deliberated upon in detail and it was decided to set up a committee to finalise a plan including standard operating procedure for it, they said. The need for continuing the test, treat and track strategy and constant vigil and strict enforcement on Covid-appropriate behaviour was also adviced in the meeting. The Lt Governor also stressed on vaccinating people from the vulnerable sections of society. "After detailed discussions and deliberations it was decided to continue with the test, track and treat strategy along with strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and continued efforts towards vaccination with special focus on the vulnerable population," Baijal tweeted. After detailed discussions & deliberations it was decided to continue with the Test, Track & Treat strategy along with strict enforcement of COVID Appropriate Behaviour and continued efforts towards vaccination with special focus on the vulnerable population. The meeting was also attended by Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot, V K Paul from NITI Aayog, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and top health experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-likely-to-undertake-advanced-sero-survey-to-asses-covid-prevalence-1016987.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Lady teacher beats UP school principal with sandal for harassing her||A video of a school principal being thrashed with a sandal by a lady teacher for allegedly harassing her in neighbouring Siddharthnagar district has gone viral on social media, officials said. The incident took place at Agardih primary school under Itwa Tehsil on Thursday and a probe was ordered after the teacher (shiksha mitra) registered a complaint with the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA). According to the complaint, principal Manoj Kumar called the teacher to his office on Thursday morning and tried to harass her. When she resisted, he used derogatory language against her and asked her to leave. The video begins with the teacher thrashing Kumar with her footwear. Moments later, the principal is seen running away to save himself from the beating while the furious teacher chases him with a sandal in hand. The teacher gave a complaint to BSA Rajendra Singh who has asked the block education officer to probe the matter and warned that strict action will be taken against whosoever is found guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lady-teacher-beats-up-school-principal-with-sandal-for-harassing-her-1017017.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Negative Covid report or full vaccination must to enter temples in Himachal Pradesh during coming festival||The Himachal Pradesh government has made mandatory a negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination for visiting temples in the state during 'Shrawan Ashtmi Navratras', according to an official order. The order issued by Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said that people intending to visit various state temples during 'Shrawan Ashtmi Navratras' from August 9 to August 17 will be allowed to enter the state and district borders only if they possess a full vaccination certificate (both doses) or an RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours. The decision has been taken in view of the concern regarding a third wave of Covid-19, he said in the order. There is a possibility of thousands of pilgrims assembling at various temples and religious shrines during the said period in all the districts which may lead to huge gatherings, he added. Such gatherings in confined spaces may become 'super spreader' events and may precipitate Covid-19 cases in various parts of the state and the country, he added. The mela officer and police mela officer shall ensure that ‘No Mask No Darshan’ policy is implemented strictly during the period, he added. He said thermal screening has to be ensured at the entrance of religious places and provisions made for hand sanitisation or washing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/negative-covid-report-or-full-vaccination-must-to-enter-temples-in-himachal-pradesh-during-coming-festival-1017039.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit girl's death: Crime Branch team visits crematorium ground at Delhi Cantt||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch on Friday visited the crematorium ground at Delhi Cantt in connection with the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, officials said. On Thursday also, the Crime Branch team probing the case had visited the crime scene as part of its investigation. The local police have handed over all the case details and evidence collected by them for further investigation. Since Monday, agitated locals have blocked a stretch of road in the area demanding justice for the girl. The parents of the girl, along with several others, staged a sit-in near the site of the alleged crime on Tuesday and demanded capital punishment for the culprits. However, the police have cleared one carriageway of the road. "We have been engaging in constant talks with protestors and persuading them to vacate the spot,” a senior officer said. The girl died under suspicious circumstances even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village. The police had earlier said that based on the statement of the victim’s mother, the charge of rape was added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested. The girl lived with her parents in a rented house in front of the crematorium. Around 5.30 pm on Sunday, she went to get water from a cooler at the crematorium. Around 6 pm, the crematorium's priest Radhey Shyam and two-three others called the girl's mother to the spot. Showing the girl’s body to her mother, they claimed that she got electrocuted while getting water from the cooler. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow, and her lips were also blue. The priest and the others dissuaded her mother from making a PCR call, saying police will make a case out of it and during post-mortem, doctors will steal the girl's organs, so it was better to cremate her. The girl was cremated but subsequently, her parents alleged that it was done without their consent. A crowd of around 200 villagers gathered at the crematorium and the police were informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-girls-death-crime-branch-team-visits-crematorium-ground-at-delhi-cantt-1017056.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh rape accused sentenced to `life till death'||A fast-track court in Chhattisgarh's Bilaspur district has sentenced a 24-year-old man to life imprisonment till death for raping a nine-year-old girl in 2019. Special Judge Vivek Kumar Tiwari also imposed a fine of Rs 1,250 on the convict in the ruling delivered on Tuesday, said public prosecutor Ajit Singh. Generally, life sentence ends after 14 years, but in rare cases it can run for the convict's entire life. Bhola Sahu, the accused, was convicted under IPC section 376 (rape) as well as provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act dealing with sexual assault on a girl below 12 years of age. The judge observed that “sexual violence is not only an inhuman act but also violation of the right to privacy and sanctity of a woman which affects her entire life". "It is not appropriate to have a soft view on these crimes which are presently rising excessively. In the case the accused had raped a 9 year old girl at knife point ..... Such tendency compels one to think whether human beings are really the best creation of God? Because this tendency is not there even in animals," the judge said. According to the prosecution, the incident took place on December 4, 2019. The girl was unwell, so her parents left her at her grandmother's house and left for work. The accused entered the house stealthily and raped the girl at knife point while her grandmother was away, the prosecution said. Sahu was later arrested and put on trial in a fast-track court set up for such offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-rape-accused-sentenced-to-life-till-death-1017057.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||Share of electric vehicles increased by three times within a year, says DDC||The Delhi government on Friday said the share of EVs in new vehicle sales of the national capital has increased by three times in the last one year. The numbers were revealed at the 'Delhi EV Forum', organised by the Delhi government to mark one year of the implementation of the Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy. A statement by the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) noted that the share of EVs increased from 1.2 per cent between August 2019 to July 2020 to 3.3 per cent during August 2020-July 2021. "In the same period, the number of electric two-wheelers have doubled from 1,013 to 2,243 and the adoption of e-cars have grown by 20 per cent, from 813 to 1,002, in Delhi," said . The forum was attended by over 140 participants from auto, charging and fleet sectors. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the city now has over 1,12,321 electric vehicles. "This is primarily due to the execution of the policy which has been systematic, including the rollout of financial incentives for EVs and a city-wide campaign on spreading awareness – Switch Delhi. We are committed to our vision of making Delhi a global EV capital," Gahlot said. He added that the Delhi government will soon sign an MoU with Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) to set up public charging infrastructure on all DTC properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/share-of-electric-vehicles-increased-by-three-times-within-a-year-says-ddc-1017061.html
06-08-2021||North and Central||ED files money laundering case in fake Covid-19 testing during Kumbh; conducts raids on labs||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted multiple raids in connection with a money laundering probe into fake Covid testing during the recently-held Kumbh mela in Uttarakhand's Haridwar. Searches were conducted at the offices of Novus Path Labs, DNA Labs, Max Corporate Services, Dr Lal Chandani Labs Pvt Ltd and Nalwa Laboratories Pvt Ltd and also at the residential premises of their directors in Dehradun, Haridwar, Delhi, Noida and Hisar, the agency said in a statement. The ED said it has seized "incriminating documents, bogus bills, laptops, mobile phones and property documents and Rs 30.9 lakh cash" during the raids that were ongoing. The agency recently registered a criminal case under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the accused companies and their directors after studying Uttarakhand Police FIRs against them. This was followed by the raids. These labs were given the contract by the Uttarakhand government for conducting rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests for coronavirus during the Kumbh Mela, the ED said. These labs hardly carried out any Covid-19 test and made "fake entries" for the testing and raised "bogus" bills in order to earn illegal financial gains, it said. "An amount of Rs 3.4 crore has already been received by them from Uttarakhand government as part payment," the ED said. The agency said its investigation found that the "modus operandi used by these labs was that they used single mobile number or a false mobile number, single address or same specimen referral form (SRF) for multiple persons for showing the inflated numbers of coronavirus testing without actually doing the testing". "Testing was claimed to be done in the name of the persons who never visited the Kumbh mela in Haridwar," it claimed. Due to false negative testing by these labs, positivity rate of Haridwar at that time was shown at 0.18 per cent against the actual 5.3 per cent, the ED said. One of the world's largest religious gatherings, the Kumbh was held in the state from April 1 to 30, and the notified area for the congregation covered various places in Haridwar, Dehradun, and Tehri districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-files-money-laundering-case-in-fake-covid-19-testing-during-kumbh-conducts-raids-on-labs-1017068.html
06-08-2021||Oasis||Medicine for 'mental fever'||Amidst the gloom and despair due to the pandemic, there have been oases of human kindness and selfless service. Doctors have worked tirelessly for days, providing succour to the suffering. Nurses, caregivers and other frontline staff have risked their lives to provide care. Auto drivers have converted their vehicles into ambulances, fitting them with oxygen cylinders to ferry the seriously ill to hospitals. The common thread running through all these examples is the concern for fellow beings and doing service without any expectations or any other personal motive. They have done is exactly what the Gita speaks of in its chapter on Karma Yoga. As the Lord says: “Man is constantly being influenced by this material world and is subject to intense passions and desires. The two greatest enemies of man are desire and egotism/arrogance.  Desire is expectation of reward, material or otherwise for one’s actions. Egotism and arrogance is the thinking that ‘I am doing this work. Everyone should see it and appreciate it and say that it is because of me that this work has been accomplished and if not for me, it would not have been done” and so on. So when these two devils beleaguer man, his mind is in a constant state of churning, an incessant inner turbulence. This is a sort of mental fever. “Vigatajwara” is the term to describe this malady. The cure for this illness lies in "doing your duty as an offering unto me”. When the Lord speaks in the first person and says “me” he means that he, the supreme one, resides in everyone’s heart and man has to do his duty sincerely. In fact, while advising Arjuna, Lord Krishna uses the term “Mahabahu”. Its literal meaning is the strong, well-built fearsome warrior Arjuna with formidable arms and shoulders. But, as revered Swami Chinmayananda says, this term really means “he who engages in relentless battle with his internal enemies of desire and egotism and attains victory over them”. This is the “war or Yuddha” for every man whose aim should be to continually evolve emotionally and spiritually so that he becomes a better human being, contributing to the welfare of society. Corona Warriors have exemplified the Lord’s advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/medicine-for-mental-fever-1016804.html
06-08-2021||Opinion||Tax move may not be enough to repair India’s bad reputation||By Andy Mukherjee, After pussyfooting for seven years and damaging its international reputation, India’s government has finally taken a decisive step toward ending “tax terror,” fulfilling a pledge it had made during the 2014 campaign that first brought Prime Minister Narendra Modi to power. Is this a fresh start, the beginning of an open, predictable, and fair relationship between New Delhi and global capital? It’ll require a lot more evidence to answer that question in the affirmative. Vodafone Group Plc was sent a Rs 20,000 crore ($2.7 billion) bill for buying, in 2007, a Cayman Islands-based investment firm that controlled Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing’s Indian wireless business. India’s own Supreme Court had held the deal to be beyond the pale of domestic taxation. The Congress government, which by then was facing a major scandal over telecom licenses, lashed out and went after the British operator by changing the tax code retrospectively. Revenue officials lost no time in rolling their juggernaut down the newly paved path to perdition. Cairn Energy Plc was hauled up for a restructuring whereby the UK energy explorer had transferred ownership of its Indian oil field in 2006 to Cairn India Ltd to prepare for the local unit’s initial public offering. The $4.3 billion (Rs 31,881 crore approximately) tax demand came in March 2015. By that time the government in New Delhi had changed, but not — as it would become clear later — the statist mindset. Embarrassment ensued. Last Christmas, the Edinburgh-based firm won a $1.2 billion (Rs 8,897 crore approximately) international arbitration award to restore the losses it suffered after India seized its shares in Vedanta Ltd (with which Cairn had merged the Rajasthan oil field, India’s biggest onshore discovery in two decades), kept the dividends and sold the stock. Vodafone had won its victory earlier, when a panel in The Hague threw out the tax demand, finding it to be in breach of fair treatment under India’s investment protection pact with the Netherlands, and awarded costs to the telco. If retrospective taxation dented India’s image, the stubborn refusal to accept arbitration awards tarnished it further. Cairn is seeking enforcement action against Indian sovereign assets from New York to Paris, putting a major future power in the same league as Venezuela, Qatar, Lithuania and Tunisia. It remains to be seen if the passage of the tax amendment bill will lead to a fair settlement of Cairn’s claims. A 26 per cent one-day surge in the firm’s London-traded shares suggests that investors are optimistic. Vodafone Idea’s fortunes in India, though, have dwindled. The tax overhang and the price war unleashed by petrochemicals czar Mukesh Ambani’s 2016 telecom entry frustrated the local unit’s plans to go public. It merged with metals magnate Kumar Mangalam Birla’s wireless service in 2018, but found itself once again on the wrong side of the state. This time, the government brandished a court-blessed $7.8 billion (Rs 57,846 crore approximately) demand as its share of past revenue from Vodafone Idea Ltd. With $30 billion (Rs 2.22 lakh crore approximately) of debt, the telco is teetering on the precipice. Should the service provider to 28 crore subscribers go under, India would earn yet more bad rep by being seen as the world’s most treacherous telecom market. Cairn can expect to see real money from the scrapping of retrospective taxation, but not Vodafone. Unless there’s a solution to the existential challenge facing its Indian unit, Chief Executive Officer Nick Read would be unlikely to provide meaningful rescue capital. To that extent, the finance ministry’s belated move to unwind the previous government’s mistake becomes a damage-control PR tool: “Look, we did our best.” Did they? Retrospective taxes are just one facet of arbitrary state action. Multinationals that have committed billions of dollars, drawn by the potential of India’s 1.4 billion-people market, have many other legal minefields awaiting them. Walmart Inc. is battling a draft consumer protection regulation that threatens to undermine the business model of Flipkart, the local ecommerce site it bought for $16 billion (Rs 1.18 lakh crore) in 2018. Facebook Inc.’s WhatsApp service has taken the Indian government to court over rules that it says will destroy end-to-end message encryption.   From fintech and online gaming to ride-hailing and after-school tutoring, Beijing is taking much harsher steps to bend the private sector to its will. But in India, the state seems to be targeting global firms, reducing competition and turning the economy into a monopoly board for local capitalists. Telecom is about to become a two-horse race, led by Ambani. One firm, Adani Airport Holdings Ltd., now accounts for 25 per cent of all passenger traffic and 33 per cent of air cargo. Mastercard Inc. has been barred from taking new customers for alleged noncompliance with data localization rules, handing over the market to Visa Inc. and RuPay, a local network that state-run banks have been asked to promote.  Had the Modi government scrapped retrospective taxation after taking power in 2014, it would have been enough to signal India’s intentions to keep the economy open, transparent and rules-based. Now it will take a lot more work. Some of it might be done by the judiciary, like the Indian Supreme Court’s decision Friday to allow enforcement of a Singapore arbitration order in India, giving major relief to Amazon.com Inc. The emergency arbitrator had, on Amazon’s plea, halted the $3.4 billion (Rs 25,215 crore) sale of cash-strapped Indian retailer Future Retail Ltd to Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd. But the political executive will also need to strive for a fairer playing field. Getting rid of retrospective taxation is a welcome first step. ($1 = Rs 74.14)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tax-move-may-not-be-enough-to-repair-india-s-bad-reputation-1016788.html
06-08-2021||Opinion||Covid management: A failure of political leadership||Given the passage of 20 months since the outbreak of Covid-19, it is time to make an assessment of India’s Covid management. The World Health Organisation declared a public health emergency in January 2020 and a pandemic two months later. The first Indian case was reported in January 2020. The lockdown of March-June 2020, announced at short notice and causing enormous human suffering, was imposed under the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), with the Prime Minister as chairman and administered by the Union Home Ministry. It was envisaged that under NDMA’s mandate, ministries, states and all agencies would take coordinated action, but the NDMA was rapidly made redundant, its Response Force not deployed even for evacuation of lakhs of helpless migrants from high-density, low-hygiene urban areas. Covid-control was left largely to the states. Ad hoc-ism and the absence of strategic thinking were revealed from the outset. There was no declared plan for the Centre to coordinate with states with the strict exclusion of politicking. By the end of May 2020, 182,143 confirmed Indian cases and 5,164 deaths were recorded. The Covid crisis was squarely upon the nation. In other democracies, the political leadership communicated regularly with the public, an outreach strategy often led by the president or prime minister, or at least by health ministers and authoritative public health officials. In the US and UK, there were daily such briefings to guide the public and answer media questions. By contrast, the Indian political leadership absented itself, except from high profile events such as the South Asian Covid Summit in March 2020 when India laid plausible claim to regional leadership – a status now lacking credibility. The PM as head, and the Union Home Minister in charge of the administrative ministry of NDMA, were not to be seen. Health Ministry briefings were left to a joint secretary, showing lack of gravitas.     India's initial 'vaccine diplomacy' of donations of stocks needed domestically recoiled on the country. India claimed 60% of the world capacity to produce vaccines, but rich countries hoarded vaccines while India was profligate, which cannot be justified by international obligations or competing with China. The global story of vaccines is shocking; as of May 2021, over 75% of all vaccine doses were administered in just 10 countries; in most low-income countries, less than 1% had got even one dose while in the UK and Holland, tens of thousands of doses were discarded due to expiry dates. One million doses were destroyed by 10 American states since last December whereas in India vaccines have been in short supply from the start. Government messaging on social distancing and masking was inconsistent and irresponsible, blatantly seeking political advantage through events hazardous to health, like religious festivals and election rallies. In this, both Union and state governments have been culpable. The second wave of infections in April/July 2021 was portrayed in foreign media negatively. Gruesome scenes of burning pyres, floating corpses, and patients fighting for oxygen were more striking than casualty figures in the US, Brazil or Italy. Additionally, notwithstanding WHO's delinking of names of virus mutations from countries of origin, the Delta variant is firmly associated with India. This all-pervasive, highly infectious mutation has a far higher viral load and faster spread, making it most difficult to control or eliminate. In consequence, Indians became pariahs in the environment of travel regulations. New Delhi’s efforts to restore the country's image by presenting the factual position in a hopeful and credible way were absent or inadequate. New cases run between 40,000 and 50,000 per day over a one-week period, slightly above the US and UK that have much smaller populations. Our total cases of over 31 million lies second only to the US’; deaths at nearly 450,000, in third place after the US and Brazil. And still an ambiance of emergency in mobilisation for vaccination is lacking. Only about 8% or 104 million of the population is fully vaccinated and the target of vaccinating all adults by December 31 is improbable. It is not only the government that is culpable. Covid ranks low in media priority, often relegated to topics from Pegasus to Shilpa Shetty’s husband. With some laudable exceptions, no electronic or print media gives statistics on daily infections or vaccinations. The Director of AIIMS in Delhi, a virologist from CMC Vellore, and some other experts appear in the media, but these are professionals, not in charge of policy. There is no outcry that the political leadership remains almost invisible. This suggests that media management is superior to Covid management. Opposition politicians who raise objections to mismanagement are met with abuse by the ruling party’s ministers and trolls.  The rise in Covid infections in Kerala and the North-East generates forebodings. If the nation experiences a third wave, we expect visible political leadership, clear messaging, absence of politicking, and less meddle and muddle. (The writer is a former foreign secretary) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-management-a-failure-of-political-leadership-1017049.html
06-08-2021||Panorama||Indian Ports Bill 2021: Back to central planning and inspector raj?||India has 12 Major Ports and nearly 200 Non-Major Ports (NMPs), and they handle about 95% of its foreign trade by tonnage. Major Ports figure in the Union List and NMPs in the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. So, Major Ports come under the jurisdiction of the central government and NMPs under the respective state governments, but the Centre has overriding legislative and executive powers. Two key central legislations governed the port sector: (1) the Indian Ports Act, 1908, which is common to all ports, and (2) the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963. Recently, the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963, was replaced with the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021. The Indian Ports Bill, 2021, proposes to do the same with the Indian Ports Act, 1908. In comparison, in China, the central government has decentralised the control of ports. Chinese ports are now managed at the municipal level. In the US, most ports are owned and managed by counties and municipalities, but port operations are largely in the hands of private enterprise. In Canada, the federal government owns the port lands and infrastructure but leaves administration to local authorities. In Germany, Denmark and Belgium, ports are owned and managed at the municipal and regional levels. The port sector in India needs less centralisation, not more. The maritime states and port cities must not only have a substantial stake in Major Ports but should be allowed to manage them. The Centre should limit itself to the ‘higher’ functions of border control, competition policy, port security, environment protection and hinterland connectivity. NMPs have done better Between 1993-94 and 2020-21, the cargo traffic of NMPs increased from 14 million tonnes (MT) to 575 MT while that of Major Ports increased from 179 MT to 673 MT. During this period, NMPs’ share of the cargo traffic went up from 8% to 46%. They are perceived as “more business-oriented, customer-friendly, cheaper and, in general, more efficient” (World Bank, 2011). How did the maritime states do this? They set about developing NMPs almost entirely through private investments, without too much red tape and regulation. Gujarat started the trend back in the 1980s, by developing captive/commercial ports and jetties through public-private partnerships (PPP). Gujarat’s notable achievements are India’s first private port at Pipavav (with APM Terminals Rotterdam); biggest captive port at Sikka (with Reliance Industries); biggest commercial port at Mundra (with Adani), besides India’s first two LNG Terminals at Dahej and Hazira.  In contrast, the Major Ports operated as “Service Ports”, performing the various port functions with their own staff and equipment. The lack of commercial orientation, low labour productivity, sluggishness in adopting innovations, and excessive supervision by the Union Ministry of Shipping had negative consequences. From 1996 onwards, the ministry decided to shift to the “Landlord Ports” model, in which the Port Trust continues to own the land and basic port infrastructure while port operations are contracted out, and the creation of new port facilities given in concession to private enterprise on PPP basis. But the transition was painfully slow. So, India’s port sector needs less regulation, not more. The way forward is to provide a level playing field by freeing Major Ports of their administrative handicaps, not to impose the same on NMPs. What makes the Indian Ports Bill 2021 controversial are the provisions of Chapters II and III relating to the Maritime State Development Council (MSDC). MSDC was created by an executive order in 1997, with the Union Minister of Shipping as chairperson and the ministers in charge of ports of the maritime states/Union Territories as members. It served as an apex advisory body for the coordinated development of Major Ports and NMPs. MSDC has met only 17 times in the past 24 years. The Bill proposes to make MSDC a permanent body with its own office, staff, accounts and audit and gives it wide-ranging powers and functions (Section 10). MSDC is empowered to formulate a National Plan, to be notified in the official gazette, for development of Major and Non-Major Ports, for both existing and new ports, and revise the plan from time to time. It can monitor the development of NMPs to ensure their integrated development with Major Ports and the National Plan. If any port contravenes the National Plan, then MSDC can order an appropriate enquiry. The central government has the power to make a port non-operational if it is not in consonance with the National Plan. The Bill is pioneering a dangerous new jurisprudence wherein mere administrative lapses are criminalised. It prescribes draconian penalties, including imprisonment (Section 83) for non-compliance with MSDC’s directions by Port Authorities, port officials and other persons. This is a replay of the socialist-era follies of central planning and inspector raj. History has shown that central planning never works. Nobel Laureate Friedrich A. Hayek called it “the fatal conceit”. An empowered MSDC is less about the efficient allocation of economic resources and more about control by the Centre. The Rakesh Mohan Committee’s India Transport Report (2013) had projected a total port capacity requirement of 4,000 MT by 2031-32. As of 2020-21, port capacity was 2,490 MT (Major Ports 1500 MT, NMPs 990 MT). The new, overly regulatory regime is likely to choke future development of NMPs, leading to serious shortfall in port capacity by 2031-32, with adverse consequences for the Indian economy. This is as worrisome as the Bill’s anti-federal features. Moreover, the Bill is likely to stifle novel initiatives by the maritime states like what Gujarat did on its own long before the Centre. It is therefore recommended that Chapters II and III of the Bill relating to MSDC, and the draconian penalties in Section 83 for non-compliance with MSDC’s directions, should be scrapped entirely. MSDC should remain an apex advisory body as before. International experience and India’s own past history are proof that “less is more” when it comes to regulation of the port sector. In its present form, the Indian Ports Bill, 2021, is poised to kill the goose that laid the golden eggs. (The writer is a former IAS officer and a former Vice Chancellor of the Indian Maritime University, Chennai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/indian-ports-bill-2021-back-to-central-planning-and-inspector-raj-1016793.html
06-08-2021||Panorama||Realising demographic dividend||According to the Population Foundation of India, the median age of India’s population is between 28 to 29 years, and over 62 per cent of the population is between 15 and 59 years of age. Demographic dividend is the potential economic growth from such a population structure. Another mechanism enabling it is the prevalence of declining fertility rates, seen in the middle stages of demographic transition of nations. In the first stage, fertility and mortality rates are high and they gradually begin to decline in latter stages, bolstering the increasing workforce numbers. Demographic dividends are realised when labour productivity and per-capita income increases in the country.  Consider Japan, which had a Total Fertility Rate (TFR) below 1.5 in 2020, not unlike most first-world nations in the final stages of their demographic transition. High fertility rates in Japan in the 1930s led to an expansion of labour force in the 1960s resulting in increased wealth. Japan reaped the benefits of its demographic dividend in the 1980’s, when it became a major tech and financial centre with the largest per-capita GNP and was the second largest economy in the world.   India has a TFR of around 2.2, which is projected to decline in the near future, and is currently in the middle stage of demographic transition. Lower TFR allows people to invest in advancing their human capital, which can increase personal incomes. If appropriate policies are in place to support productive employment, individual workers can be more productive than in the past, boosting per-capita income. Not having had a distinct industrial revolution in its history, the distribution of India’s workforce presents another variable. More than 88 per cent of workers are in the informal sector, most of whom are employed in the agriculture sector, which engages around 49 per cent of the total workforce. While India is known for its engineers and entrepreneurs, the majority of the country's young workforce is unprepared to participate in a services sector-led revolution. Only a quarter of the workforce between the ages of 18 and 24 has completed secondary or high school, and even then job-related skills are typically lacking (according to the National Sample Survey). For a workforce characterised by low skill intensity and informal jobs, there is an urgent need to create productive avenues for work with good security. Studies suggest workforce absorption is slow in India and can take more than five years to produce an impact (according to the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University). Also, India lacks the institutional capacity to sustain a virtuous cycle of accumulating dividends. This means that an initial investment in the economy must bring real growth in terms of better education, higher salaries, more jobs etc., which in turn will enable additional investments. For this to occur, policy reforms need to arrive at a faster pace— property rights, tax laws, restructuring of corporate laws etc. are needed to derive maximum benefits of the demographic dividend. Regulations are volatile when concerning the digital economy and thus need to be revised. Our population is set to overtake China by the end of the current decade and the implications of overpopulation and accruing dividends to the emerging productive populace are complicated. There is a need for an appropriate population policy tailor-made to suit each state. Uttar Pradesh’s new population control policy has drawn criticism, because history has shown that enforced one or two-child norms have ended in failure (According to UNFPA). However, India’s population is set to stabilise in a few decades and the end of this century might even witness a population decline in the country (according to The Lancet). This is why the demographic dividend needs to be actively realised because the window of opportunity is limited. Keeping in mind these factors and the losses in human capital formation due to Covid-19, we must brace for the possibility that the economy will only reach a middle-income status and the full benefit of a demographic dividend will not arrive in the future. (The writer is a student of Economics at BASE University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/realising-demographic-dividend-1016803.html
06-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Reading between the lines||“I drew an extra line of Kajal today, in the hope that I will meet you. I miss you so much, that it hurts,” these were the lines in a poetry which I wrote and shared with a select group of friends on WhatsApp. A slurry of comments followed: “Oh wonderful. But who is it that you wrote it for?” I wrote an article titled She, an acid tongue, bothered me no end and immediately, there were a lot of comments and inbox messages asking who I was referring to: “Is something happening that we are not aware of?” and “you’re always welcome to share your pain with me. I’m there to lend you a shoulder anytime you need”. Every time I write something, people try to read between the lines. They say: “Who is she referring to?", "who is that 'he' in her poems?”, "who is being referred to in her stories?”, "a human interest story?", "a Story involving marital conflicts?", "an article about how to deal with workplace relationships," and "oh, something is cooking in her life, for sure." These are generally the thoughts which come to people’s mind when they read something. Folks try to read the author’s mind; and more. No one thinks of a story by itself. Everyone tries to associate the plot with something or someone. "Am sure it’s something which could possibly have occurred in the authors life. Is he or she trying to hide something? Let’s uncover it fast. Try to read between lines. Let us try to make it difficult." For those who are writing, just write.  I recently wrote about how men flaunt their relationships and second marriages without giving a thought on what the society thinks. It also asked if women, on the other hand, could do the same. The article came about after I attended a book reading session where the author started off the session by saying: “As you all know. I have 2 wives”. Many people misunderstood what I meant. They thought I meant women also should be allowed to have multiple marriages and relationships and if I lamented the fact that they were not permitted to do so. People tried to draw parallels with some mythological figures who had multiple husbands. Some asked me if I knew that many women have multiple relationships, especially in the modern era. Very few understood what I was talking about.  Why can’t we just read, rather than trying to read between the lines. Trying to make sense of things that are which aren’t there. Trying to relate everything personally to the author or take it personally, if one knows the author. Doesn’t maturity also involve reading without judgment, empathising, without knowing about who it was written about. Let authors talk about what they feel, without worrying about who thought what, how and about whom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/reading-between-the-lines-1017044.html
06-08-2021||Second Edit||Telecom duopoly is not a good idea||Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter to Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba about the debt-ridden Vodafone Idea Ltd, in which he holds a 27 per cent stake, is an SoS that has important implications for the future of the telecom industry in India. Birla finds the company no longer viable and has offered to hand over his stake to the government or any other entity that can keep it operational. Vodafone Idea has a share of 24 per cent in a market dominated by two other players, Reliance and Airtel. Two public sector companies, BSNL and MTNL, have about 10 per cent share. A 24 per cent share is not bad, but the company finds itself in an environment in which some factors and circumstances have made it unviable. The telecom sector once had too many players. If Voda Idea goes down now, it will be reduced to a duopoly which will be dominated by one company. Voda Idea has been losing ground for some years. It has an Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore, has to pay Rs 96,270 crore by way of deferred spectrum payments and owes Rs 23,080 crore to banks and financial institutions. The sector has seen a lot of tumult and the entry of Reliance Jio in 2016 hit other players hard. The Supreme Court’s decision on the AGR dispute, which allowed inclusion of non-telecom revenues in the calculation of fees, increased the companies’ liability. Last month, the court dismissed a review plea in this respect. Voda Idea has been trying to attract foreign investors but according to Birla, potential investors would want some assurances from the government before considering any investment. He says that they want clarity from the government on the AGR liability, a moratorium on spectrum dues, and a floor pricing regime above the cost of service. Above all, the letter says, an assurance is needed from the government that it wants a three-player market. The government’s response is not known. The letter was sent in June, and one can only guess as to the reasons for a lack of response. Birla resigned on Wednesday as chairman of the company. The government’s response has to be in terms of both policy and revenues, and there are constraints in both areas. It should consider how healthy competition can be brought back into the sector. The collapse of Voda Idea will hurt not only its customers but the customers of the other two service providers also. In a duopoly, all customers will be at the mercy of the service providers. Only healthy competition among multiple players can ensure better quality of services and advancement of the sector with improved terms of service and technologies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/telecom-duopoly-is-not-a-good-idea-1016801.html
06-08-2021||Second Edit||J&K circular: Unfair, excessive response||A recent circular of the Jammu and Kashmir Criminal Investigation Department (CID) warning of denial of passports and government jobs to those who were at one time involved in law and order disturbances is a wrong and excessive exercise of executive power. Apart from law and order incidents, the circular mentions involvement in stone-throwing and activities “prejudicial to national security.’’ Some of these are vague terms and could be used prejudicially against people applying for jobs or passports. Routine police verification for passports and government jobs is common practice but the circular goes beyond that with detailed instructions for collection of evidence of such activities and strict enforcement of the order. Kashmir has seen stone-throwing as a form of protest for many years, and thousands of young people and others may be affected by the rule. Protests of any kind could also be interpreted as inviting action under the circular.  Enforcement of such a rule will amount to treating Kashmir differently from other places in the country. Though verification is done, it is not done with such rigour in other states as is sought to be done in Kashmir. The idea behind the government’s policies in Kashmir is claimed to be to make Kashmir equal to other parts of the country. Law and order situations and violent protests take place in other states, too. But these are not cited as grounds for denial of jobs and passports to those who participate in them. Many times, protests happen as emotional responses, and to punish people for them is not the right response from governments in a democracy. It is an unfair and disproportionate response, and will only help to deepen the sense of alienation that exists among people in Kashmir. The government can promote goodwill in Kashmir only with fair and democratic steps, not with punitive measures. Such steps are also against the spirit of accommodation needed to bring normalcy back to Kashmir. Two years after the scrapping of the special status under Article 370 and its reorganisation, there is no normalcy in the erstwhile state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to the political parties was welcome but there is still no clarity on the follow-up of the ideas discussed at the meeting. If the government wants to create a congenial atmosphere to restart the political process, steps like those prescribed in the CID circular will not help. They may also give a boost to militancy, which is still a reality in Kashmir. It is unwise to hold people’s past against them and punish them for it, if the government wants a different future for Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/jk-circular-unfair-excessive-response-1017052.html
06-08-2021||South||Time for out-of-the-box ideas, not fiscal correction, says Kerala FM||At a time when "we are in the worst crisis in a century", it is not right to think about scaling down public spending to meet the larger fiscal goals as such a suicidal approach will only shrink the economy further, Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal has said and emphasised the need for "out-of-the-box" ideas to tide over the crisis. The statement from the minister assumes significance as Kerala, the only communist-ruled state in the country now, is known for its sweeping public welfare measures that almost match the best-in-class models in the Scandinavian countries. However, the southern state has been facing one of the worst fiscal crises for the past many years, which is reflected in its stagnating revenues, galloping expenditure and the resultant massive spike in public debt, which is over 36 per cent of the state GDP now. And the pandemic has further worsened the fiscal situation. "This is not the right time to think of fiscal corrections, and there is no question of us cutting down on spending. Rather, this is the time to think out-of-the-box, because as a democratic government we've to ensure the livelihoods are protected, which demands that we continued to spent so that economic activity doesn't get stalled further and shrink an already-ravaged economy," Balagopal told PTI in a recent interview. He also warned that "we're in a time that's worse than the Great Depression, and my fear is that we may face more difficulties going forward". Between FY15 and FY19, Kerala's revenue plunged from 61 per cent to 55 per cent, according to the CAG report release in January. According to the minister, the revenue decline accelerated after the roll out of GST as the state's overall tax collection dropped by a third since then. Non-tax revenue halved to Rs 6,000 crore and tax component of the state budget is down from Rs 95,000 crore to Rs 87,000-88,000 crore now. As a result, public debt crossed 36 per cent of GSDP in FY21 but nothing can be done now to correct it as the times are so bad, the minister said. The state's total debt burden increased to 70.21 per cent in the five years to FY19 -- from Rs 1,41,947 crore in FY15 to Rs 2,41,615 crore in FY19, the CAG report showed. As a result, per capita debt has also jumped from Rs 42,499 in FY15 to Rs 66,561 in FY19. "When you are discussing fiscal corrections in the present scenario, you have to accept that the government has to ensure that social welfare measures are run properly which means paying for public good and services; ensure economic growth, and protecting the livelihoods among others, all at a time when your revenue is shrinking. "So, the only way out is to think out-of-box," the minister said, adding that only a loose fiscal regime can help. While admitting that there has been a constant stagnation in government revenues, Balagopal claimed that the situation is "not the state's own making as we have since 2018 been ravaged by one natural calamity after another and now the pandemic too". Calling for some radical changes to the basic structure and design of GST as there are rampant tax leakages, the minister said since its roll out in July 2017, the state has lost a third of its revenue and it is time to undo "some of the damages to state's finances". Also, the centre is not fully clearing the state's GST dues. While last month, the centre said it would pay Rs 4,523 crore of the GST dues, only less than Rs 4,200 crore has been paid. It’s also to clear past dues of over Rs 3,600 crore. "Given all these, our priorities are clear: we're in a public health emergency and are now preparing for a third wave, too. We've to make sure that every person is freely treated, fed and taken care of. "Then, we must protect the livelihoods of all, especially the poor. Since the pandemic, the state has been supplying free food kits to as many as 85 lakh families/ration cardholders, irrespective of their income designated-card category because in times of the pandemic, having just cash will not help. In short, we've ensured that nobody goes to bed hungry since the pandemic began," he said. Kerala is a home to a large number of public pensioners, totalling over 54 lakh apart from more than 10.5 lakh government pensioners, the minister said pointing out the last salary increase alone needs Rs 14,500 crore of additional budgetary allocation. "Given this, there's no question of shrinking the economy by cutting down investment or borrowings as that will only further aggravate the problem. Tell me which expenditure can be cut? This is not the time for any such measures. We can't tide over this crisis by shrinking the economy but only by increasing economic activities. "In fact, we've increased our capex on health and education--the human capital. I wonder why most economists do not consider investing in human capital as productive investment. I for one consider the biggest investment that Kerala has made all these years is in human capital," Balagopal said. He has also demanded that the centre allow the states to continue to borrow 5 per cent of GSDP, as it did last year, without any conditions. "I cannot draw up a fiscal road map now because this is not the right time to contain debt. What is needed is for the centre to devise some special and innovative measures to allow the states to spend/ borrow more, so that more jobs are created in times like this and the needy is taken care of," he concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/time-for-out-of-the-box-ideas-not-fiscal-correction-says-kerala-fm-1016825.html
06-08-2021||South||Kerala will not cut down on public spending, says FM Balagopal||The Communist party-ruled Kerala will not cut down on public spending at a time when the state is facing the worst crisis in a century, Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal has said. The statement from the minister assumes significance as Kerala, the only communist-ruled state in the country now, is known for its sweeping public welfare measures that almost match the best-in-class models in the Scandinavian countries. However, the southern state has been facing one of the worst fiscal crises for the past many years, which is reflected in its stagnating revenues, galloping expenditure and the resultant massive spike in public debt, which is over 36 per cent of the state GDP now. And the pandemic has further worsened the fiscal situation. "This is not the right time to think of fiscal corrections, and there is no question of us cutting down on spending. Rather, this is the time to think out-of-the-box, because as a democratic government we've to ensure the livelihoods are protected, which demands that we continued to spent so that economic activity doesn't get stalled further and shrink an already-ravaged economy," Balagopal told PTI in a recent interview. He also warned that "we're in a time that's worse than the Great Depression, and my fear is that we may face more difficulties going forward". Between FY15 and FY19, Kerala's revenue plunged from 61 per cent to 55 per cent, according to the CAG report release in January. According to the minister, the revenue decline accelerated after the roll out of GST as the state's overall tax collection dropped by a third since then. Non-tax revenue halved to Rs 6,000 crore and tax component of the state budget is down from Rs 95,000 crore to Rs 87,000-88,000 crore now. As a result, public debt crossed 36 per cent of GSDP in FY21 but nothing can be done now to correct it as the times are so bad, the minister said. The state's total debt burden increased to 70.21 per cent in the five years to FY19 -- from Rs 1,41,947 crore in FY15 to Rs 2,41,615 crore in FY19, the CAG report showed. As a result, per capita debt has also jumped from Rs 42,499 in FY15 to Rs 66,561 in FY19. "When you are discussing fiscal corrections in the present scenario, you have to accept that the government has to ensure that social welfare measures are run properly which means paying for public good and services; ensure economic growth, and protecting the livelihoods among others, all at a time when your revenue is shrinking. "So, the only way out is to think out-of-box," the minister said, adding that only a loose fiscal regime can help. While admitting that there has been a constant stagnation in government revenues, Balagopal claimed that the situation is "not the state's own making as we have since 2018 been ravaged by one natural calamity after another and now the pandemic too". Calling for some radical changes to the basic structure and design of GST as there are rampant tax leakages, the minister said since its roll out in July 2017, the state has lost a third of its revenue and it is time to undo "some of the damages to state's finances". Also, the centre is not fully clearing the state's GST dues. While last month, the centre said it would pay Rs 4,523 crore of the GST dues, only less than Rs 4,200 crore has been paid. It’s also to clear past dues of over Rs 3,600 crore. "Given all these, our priorities are clear: we're in a public health emergency and are now preparing for a third wave, too. We've to make sure that every person is freely treated, fed and taken care of. "Then, we must protect the livelihoods of all, especially the poor. Since the pandemic, the state has been supplying free food kits to as many as 85 lakh families/ration cardholders, irrespective of their income designated-card category because in times of the pandemic, having just cash will not help. In short, we've ensured that nobody goes to bed hungry since the pandemic began," he said. Kerala is a home to a large number of public pensioners, totalling over 54 lakh apart from more than 10.5 lakh government pensioners, the minister said pointing out the last salary increase alone needs Rs 14,500 crore of additional budgetary allocation. "Given this, there's no question of shrinking the economy by cutting down investment or borrowings as that will only further aggravate the problem. Tell me which expenditure can be cut? This is not the time for any such measures. We can't tide over this crisis by shrinking the economy but only by increasing economic activities. "In fact, we've increased our capex on health and education--the human capital. I wonder why most economists do not consider investing in human capital as productive investment. I for one consider the biggest investment that Kerala has made all these years is in human capital," Balagopal said. He has also demanded that the centre allow the states to continue to borrow 5 per cent of GSDP, as it did last year, without any conditions. "I cannot draw up a fiscal road map now because this is not the right time to contain debt. What is needed is for the centre to devise some special and innovative measures to allow the states to spend/ borrow more, so that more jobs are created in times like this and the needy is taken care of," he concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-will-not-cut-down-on-public-spending-says-fm-balagopal-1016854.html
06-08-2021||South||Setting up feeding centres for dogs would make them less aggressive: Kerala HC to state govt||The Kerala High Court on Friday said that setting up feeding centres for stray dogs would ensure they do not become aggressive and attack colony residents and would also remove fear regarding the canines from people's minds. "If you identify the feeding centres/ areas, all these problems would be addressed," a bench of Justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and PGopinath said while dealing with the issue of poisoning of street dogs in Thrikkakkara municipality area of Ernakulam district. The court also said that only those organisations or volunteers who are registered with the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) can carry out feeding or birth control activities. The high court also directed the state government to issue, without any further delay, a circular with regard to registration of pets by their owners with the local bodies and obtaining a licence. The court on July 14 had directed the state government to "immediately" order the local authorities to forthwith issue public notices requiring owners of animals -- cattle, pets, etc -- to register them with the local authority concerned and obtain a licence as mandated under the Municipality/Panchayat Act/Rules. "The government may, if found necessary, also prescribe the forms of licences and fix the fee that can be collected for the registration/ licensing procedure, and ensure that as a first step, the registration/ licensing of all such animals presently kept by owners is completed within six months from today. "The instructions issued by the government shall also require the future owners of animals to register their animals with the local authority concerned within three months of acquiring the animal," the bench had said. The lawyer for the state government assured the court that the circular would be issued immediately. Meanwhile, court appointed amicus curiae -- advocate Suresh Menon -- told the bench that presently there are only 7 animal welfare organisations in the state which are registered with AWBI and four private shelters. Besides that, there are 17 shelters run by private people at their residences, but these are facing harassment from local residents and municipal authorities, he said. The court said running shelters by private persons from their homes in residential colonies would be a nuisance for their neighbours and therefore, a balance has to be struck. The bench suggested that presently, all the stray dogs can be captured from the Thrikkakkara municipality area and relocated at some private animal shelter or the cattle shelter run by the local body. It further suggested that at the shelter, the injured or sick dogs can be kept there for treatment and care, while the others can be later released back in the area from where they were picked up after sterilising them. It asked the state government and the municipality to take instructions on the issue of setting up feeding centres and rehabilitating the dogs in private shelters for the time being and listed the matter for further hearing on August 9. On the last date of hearing, the court had observed that a dog was made ferocious by its circumstances and it was a myth that stray dogs were dangerous by nature. The court had also said that killing or maiming the street dogs was not the way to make people safer and the better option was to capture the canines and rehabilitate them at animal shelters. The court had taken up the issue of the poisoning of the dogs after a video on the same was brought to its attention. While seeking the stand of the municipality over its role in the entire matter, the bench had also directed the civic body to ensure no such incident takes place within itsterritorial limits in future and to put in place suitablemachinery to ensure the same. The municipality had, thereafter, told the court that it had no role in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/setting-up-feeding-centres-for-dogs-would-make-them-less-aggressive-kerala-hc-to-state-govt-1016867.html
06-08-2021||South||65 Zika virus cases reported in Kerala as on August 2: Health Minister Mandaviya tells Lok Sabha||Kerala has reported 65 Zika virus cases as on August 2, 2021, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. The state capital Thiruvananthapuram has reported 61 such cases, Ernakulam two cases, and Kottayam and Kollam one case each, he said in a written reply. Elaborating on the measures taken by the government, Mandaviya said the Union Ministry of Health has prepared and widely disseminated Zika action plan, detailing control and containment activities to be followed in the event of an outbreak. The ministry conducts vector surveys through regional offices of the Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, in international airports and their surroundings in the country. The minister further noted that the Central Cross Checking Organisation (CCCO) of NVBDCP carries out entomological surveys in the assigned international airports of the country to maintain Aedes breeding free status. Advisories are issued to all states and UTs for intensification of vector control activities and availability of insecticides and functioning of fogging machine status is monitored through monthly reports from the state. Surveillance for microcephaly in newborns is being undertaken under the Ministry of Health's Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK), he told the House. No rise in cases of microcephaly has been reported from Kerala so far, he said. Mandaviya also said that central multi-disciplinary teams have been deployed to investigate and support state health departments in control and containment activities during all these outbreaks. In the current outbreak in Kerala too, a multi-disciplinary central team had visited Kerala from July 10 to 21, 2021 for aiding state health department in control and containment measures, he said in the written reply. Zika virus disease is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by bite of Aedes mosquitoes. It is usually a mild disease manifesting as fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or headache. Most people with Zika virus infection do not develop symptoms. However, Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause infants to be born with microcephaly and other congenital malformations, known as congenital Zika syndrome, the reply stated. The disease was first reported in India in 2017, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/65-zika-virus-cases-reported-in-kerala-as-on-august-2-health-minister-mandaviya-tells-lok-sabha-1016888.html
06-08-2021||South||Schools in Tamil Nadu to reopen for classes 9-12 on September 1; medical colleges to reopen on August 16||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday proposed to resume physical classes for students from classes IX to XII from September 1 and allow re-opening of medical colleges in the State from August 16. Chief Minister of the State M K Stalin arrived at this decision after reviewing the Covid-19 situation with medical experts in the light of a marginal rise in the cases of late in the State. The medical experts expressed the need to re-open the schools as the students were experiencing mental pressure since they were confined to their homes for months. This was also creating "learning gaps" in society, the Chief Minister said in a statement. Further, many children have no access to online education, he said. "Considering the opinion of various sections, it has been proposed to re-start schools for classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 with 50 per cent of students from September 1 in adherence to Covid-19 standard operating procedure," Stalin said. The Department of School Education has been asked to start preliminary work in this connection, he added. Further, medical colleges, institutions of nursing and other related ones can resume functioning from August 16. Students and teachers of these institutions have been already inoculated with Covid vaccines, he said. To prevent crowding at places of religious worship, the Chief Minister said they would not be open on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Local bodies should ensure prevention of crowding in the meat and fish markets for which separate shops should be put up, said the Chief Minister. Commercial establishments must have hand-sanitizers at the entry point and thermal-screen customers besides ensure social distancing, he said. Violation of these regulations would entail action, the Chief Minister said. To control the pandemic, test-track-treat-vaccination- Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and micro-level management programmes would be implemented, he said. In containment zones, only essential services such as medical services should be allowed while teams would conduct door-to-door checks, he said. People should avoid venturing out unnecessarily, refrain from crowding and strictly follow Covid protocols, he said. Officials should launch initiatives to create awareness on the coronavirus and take steps to prevent its further spread, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-tamil-nadu-to-reopen-for-classes-9-12-on-september-1-medical-colleges-to-reopen-on-august-16-1016944.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Schools for classes 9-12 to start from August 23, night curfew from 9 pm, says Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday announced the resumption of high schools - Classes 9-12 - from August 23. The government also decided to impose a night curfew across the state starting 9 pm till 5 am everyday. At present, Karnataka has a night curfew daily that starts 10 pm to 5 am. It has now been advanced by an hour. A decision on resuming primary schools has been deferred till the last week of August to factor in the possible third wave of Covid-19 and the way the infection is likely to spread. “We have decided to reopen schools in two phases,” Bommai said after a meeting of experts, ministers and officials. “In the first phase, Classes 9-12 will start from August 23 subject to conditions. There will be two batches of students - the first batch will have classes for three days and the second batch on another three days,” he said. “In effect, students will have classes on alternate days.” The government will decide on resuming classes up to Class 8 based on the projections for the third wave of the pandemic and its intensity. “Experts said this will be decided in the last week of August,” Bommai said. Concerned over the spread of the virus from the neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, all Karnataka districts bordering the two states will have a weekend curfew, Bommai said, adding that a detailed order would be issued soon. The meeting was attended by Narayana Health chief Dr Devi Shetty who heads a task force to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19, cardiologist Dr CN Manjunath, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar and other ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-schools-for-classes-9-12-to-start-from-august-23-night-curfew-from-9-pm-says-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1016831.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka's first Eta variant case found in Mangaluru||The State revealed its first Eta variant or B.1.525 case in Mangaluru on Thursday. Dr Vishal Rao, member of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee told DH, "This case is from last month from Mangaluru and is a couple of weeks old. But this is not a variant of concern yet." Currently, we are pushing for the gap between samples being sent for genomic sequencing to result being conveyed to respective civic bodies of districts to three days. This will help us mount an appropriate public health response." As of March 5, the Eta variant had been detected in 23 countries. The first cases were detected in December 2020 in the UK and Nigeria, and as of 15 February, it had occurred in the highest frequency in Nigeria. As of 24 February 56 cases were found in the UK. Denmark, which sequences all its Covid-19 cases, found 113 cases of this variant from 14 January to 21 February, of which seven were directly related to foreign travel to Nigeria. As of July 2021, UK experts are studying it to ascertain how much of a risk it could be. It is currently regarded as a "variant under investigation", but pending further study, it may become a "variant of concern".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnatakas-first-eta-variant-case-found-in-mangaluru-1016845.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After AP, highest hospital claims for cashless Covid treatment raised in Karnataka||Karnataka accounts for the second-highest number of hospital claims raised in the country under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) after Andhra Pradesh for cashless Covid treatment, data from Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) revealed. The state has received 2.68 lakh claims for Covid treatment since March 2020. As many as 1.02 lakh claims worth Rs 504 crore have been paid for as of August 4. The government says the scheme's appeal is due to the fact that during the pandemic, even interstate migrants and returnees were covered for Covid treatment under the scheme, increasing its reach. While 62.09 lakh below poverty line families are supported by the Government of India under AB-ArK, another 53 lakh below poverty line families of Karnataka are taken care of by the state government under the scheme. SAST executive director N T Abroo, who oversees AB-ArK, said, "Andhra leads with the number of claims, but it has a hybrid model of providing insurance and not a trust model like Karnataka. Also, the number of empanelled hospitals is highest in Karnataka." Another plus point of the state is human resources. "No other state has 900 arogya mitras deployed in each empanelled hospital hand-holding the public and a team of 100 doctors verifying each claim raised by hospitals leading to a quick turnaround time," she said. Pre-pandemic, there were only 500 arogya mitras for facilitating patients' treatment. An additional 200 arogya mitras were deployed after the Covid pandemic started. Deputy commissioners of various districts also deployed around 200 arogya mitras in hospitals across the state to help patients' families. On the non-Covid front, the state has given 15.78 lakh pre-authorisations worth Rs 2,655 crore. Claims submitted so far are 14.46 lakh worth Rs 2,281 crore, out of which paid claims include 10.85 lakh worth Rs 1,872 crore. On complaints of private hospitals of non-payment of Covid dues by the state government, Abroo said, "Covid plus non-Covid claims of around 11.87 lakh worth Rs 2,052 crore have been settled. Claims received amounted to Rs 2,281 crore. So the leftover claims to be settled are worth only Rs 129 crore. This means, 89.96% claims have been settled. How can private hospitals claim non-payment of dues?" She further said that 95% of the claims from the first Covid wave had already been paid for. Only 4% payment for hospital claims were denied as hospitals had not given proper documents. "Second wave claims are being submitted only now," she said, adding that 14.5 lakh citizens have been treated under AB-ArK so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-ap-highest-hospital-claims-for-cashless-covid-treatment-raised-in-karnataka-1016923.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar surprised as Zameer Ahmed Khan claims ED raid was about assets||ED officials on Thursday raided the houses and offices of Khan, a former minister, in Bengaluru. Khan later said the raids had nothing to do with the IMA scam. He said the ED came following complaints against his bungalow-like house. “Our MLA (Khan) has said that the raids were connected with his personal assets and that they had nothing to do with the IMA scam. It’s surprising to me that the ED would conduct a raid in connection with assets,” Shivakumar said. “The Income Tax (IT) department should do it. If the IT department finds money laundering, then the ED comes in. I’m saying this based on the little experience I have,” he said. Citing his own example, Shivakumar said he was first raided by the CBI, followed by IT and then ED. “So, there’s a procedure involved. Let’s see...once Zameer gets free, I’ll find out from him,” he said. Shivakumar also pointed out that Khan had made a statement in the Legislative Assembly on the IMA scam, in which thousands of depositors lost money. “Khan said in the Assembly that the poor who were cheated in the scam should get their money back. This is the stand of our party also,” he said. Khan is loyal to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. Recently, Khan’s projection of Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister did not go down well with Shivakumar. In Mysuru, BJP minister S T Somashekhar wondered if Shivakumar had anything to do with the ED raids on Khan. “Maybe Shivakumar couldn’t digest Khan projecting Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister. So, why can’t it be that Shivakumar had a hand in the raids on Khan,” he asked. Shivakumar laughed off Somashekhar’s statement. “I’m so happy. My old friend Somashekhar believes that ED is under my control.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-surprised-as-zameer-ahmed-khan-claims-ed-raid-was-about-assets-1016927.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bring humanitarian values within frame of law to make judiciary people-friendly||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday emphasised bringing humanitarian values within the frame of law, which will not only resolve several problems, but will also make the judiciary more humane and people-friendly. He was speaking after inaugurating the national webinar on 'Socio-legal values in Mitakshara, Vachana, Dasa and folk literature in Karnataka'. The event was organised by the Vijnaneshwara Adhyayana Peetha, Karnataka State Law University, a statement issued by his office said. The Vachana, Dasa and Janapada literature of Karnataka has articulated equality, tolerance, gratitude and forgiveness very effectively. The Vijnaneshwara Adhyayana Peetha must work towards inculcating these values within the frame of law, Bommai said. "Legal aspects have transformed along with the changes in society. There is a sea of change in the social situation, individual relations and societies. Similarly, people's thinking on law is also undergoing change. The Peetha must conduct a study on these aspects," the Chief Minister suggested. Stating that the revolution in the field of literature in Karnataka is significant, Bommai also pointed out that the Indian constitution, which is the foundation of the law of the country, reflects the principles of Basavanna (A 12th century social reformer). The Chief Minister hoped that the Adhyayana Peetha, which was established by former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, will make a mark at the national and international level. Several legal luminaries including Justice Shivaraj Patil, chairman, Vijnaeshwara Adhyayana Peetha and former Supreme Court Judge, Justice B N Srikrishna and Dr Eshwar Bhat, Vice Chancellor of Karnataka State Law University were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bring-humanitarian-values-within-frame-of-law-to-make-judiciary-people-friendly-1016941.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,805 Covid cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,805 new cases of Covid-19 and 36 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,15,317 and death toll to 36,741, the health department said. The day also saw 1,854 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,54,222. Bengaluru Urban logged 441 new cases, as the city saw 434 discharges and 7 deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 24,328. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.11 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.99 per cent. Kolar reported five deaths, Mysuru (4), Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Mandya (3), Chikkaballapura, Chitradurga, Dharwad and Udupi (2), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the next highest in number of new cases with 411 followed by Udupi 153, Hassan 103 and Mysuru 90. Bengaluru Urban district has a total of 12,29,781 cases, followed by Mysuru 1,73,689 and Tumakuru 1,18,194. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,05,312, followed by Mysuru 1,70,017 and Tumakuru 1,16,148. Cumulatively a total of 3,95,52,008 samples have been tested, of which 1,62,338 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1805-covid-cases-36-deaths-1016951.html
06-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New Covid-19 guidelines in Karnataka: All you need to know||Karnataka on Friday issued new guidelines for controlling the spread of coronavirus in the state. Besides revising the night curfew to 9 pm to 5 am, the state authorities introduced curbs on districts bordering  Kerala and Maharashtra, in light of a surge in the neighbouring two states. Here is all you need to know:  — The night curfew across the state is now enforced from 9 pm to 5 am. Earlier, the restrictions on movement in the night began at 10 pm. — In addition to a night curfew, a weekend curfew will be introduced in districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala. The districts include Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi in the north and Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagara in the south. Restrictions will be in place from Friday 9 pm to Monday 5 am. — All gatherings including social and cultural continue to be prohibited. — Marriage functions will not have more than 100 people and 20 people are allowed to congregate for a funeral, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.  — Religious places like temples, mosques and churches are allowed to open and activities related to them can go on but no festivals, processions are permitted.  —  During weekend curfew, essential services continue to function. People can step out for vaccinations.  —  Groceries, fruits and vegetable shops, liquor stores can remain open from 5 am to 2 pm during weekend curfew hours in the districts mentioned above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-covid-19-guidelines-in-karnataka-all-you-need-to-know-1016971.html
06-08-2021||West||77% of Maharashtra’s cropped area vulnerable to climate change: Study||As the farmers from Maharashtra have been worst hit by the recent floods and extreme weather events, a recent study highlights how such climate change impacts might get worse from here on. Of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, 11 districts were found highly vulnerable to extreme weather events, droughts, and dwindling water security and account for almost 40 per cent of the cropped area across Central Maharashtra. In the same way, 37 per cent of the state’s agricultural area spread over 14 districts were moderately vulnerable, which takes the tally to three-fourths of Maharashtra’s cropped regions as high to moderate vulnerable to the prevailing climate crisis. A research study —‘Socio-economic vulnerability to climate change — Index development and mapping for districts in Maharashtra’, revealed that extreme climate conditions highly affect the livelihoods and agrarian economy of Maharashtra. The study conducted by Chaitanya Adhav at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, Haryana, under the guidance of Dr R Sendhil from ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, revealed that  Nandurbar was the most vulnerable district to cyclones, floods, droughts, changing rainfall patterns and extreme temperatures affecting its crop production. "Other highly vulnerable 10 districts include Buldhana, Beed, Jalna, Aurangabad, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Amravati, Washim,” said Adhav. The study also lists down 14 districts as moderately vulnerable, which include Dhule, Jalgaon, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Solapur, Osmanabad, Latur, Yavatmal, Wardha, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli.   The dominant crops from these districts that will bear the brunt of the climate suggest that farming of jowar, rice, wheat, sugarcane, cotton, ragi, cashew nut, barley, millets could get adversely affected more in the future. Adhav said their findings showed that most of the highly vulnerable districts fell under the Central Maharashtra Plateau Zone, which makes up to 22.22 percent share of the total cropped area in Maharashtra. The Central Vidarbha Zone has an additional share of 6.78 percent area as highly vulnerable. The authors explained that to quantify the climate change-induced risk, the socio-economic vulnerability index (SEVI) was calculated using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) approach considering key climatic parameters such as exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity of districts to climate vulnerability. The data was collected on 44 indicators related to climatic as well as socio-economic variables which were identified based on experts’ opinions. The author mentioned that the study did not include Mumbai City and suburban districts in the analysis. According to India’s Livelihoods Report 2019, farming is the prime livelihood source for 51 percent of Maharashtra’s population. “Mapping of districts shows that there is an instant need for focussed policy efforts to address the socio-economic vulnerability in Central Maharashtra Plateau Zone, Scarcity Zone (Dhule, Part of Nandurbar and Aurangabad), and Eastern Vidarbha Zone,” Adhav said. Nine districts including Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Nashik, Satara, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and Pune were found to be least vulnerable to climate agricultural distress.   Meanwhile, climate experts said that as states like Maharashtra develop their climate action plans to tackle the climate crisis and reduce emissions, this study is indicative of the dire consequences of not acting on climate with urgency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/77-of-maharashtra-s-cropped-area-vulnerable-to-climate-change-study-1016822.html
06-08-2021||West||Former BJP minister in Goa Mahadev Naik joins AAP||Eyeing the Goa Assembly elections early next year, the AAP on Friday netted Mahadev Naik, a two-time MLA who was a minister in the Manohar Parrikar government, to further its electoral fight in the coastal state. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal welcomed Naik, who met him here, saying both will work together to serve the people of Goa and give them a better quality of life. Naik, who was Social Welfare Minister in the Parrikar government, was inducted into AAP at a function at the party headquarters by Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain and MLA Aatishi. Jain said Naik joined the AAP after being "distressed" by the current political situation in Goa and seeing the work done in Delhi. "AAP did phenomenal work in Goa when the second Covid-19 wave struck. AAP provided relief to Goa’s people by providing ration, by providing oximeters, and by doing many such things. This is why day by day a large number of people are being attracted towards the AAP such as myself," Naik said. Naik claimed that the BJP government in Goa does nothing for the people and unemployment has increased in Goa. Kejriwal visited Goa on July 13 where he held a series of meetings with party leaders after tweeting, "Goa wants change. Enough of parties buying and selling MLAs. Enough of dirty politics. Goa wants development. There is no shortage of funds, only shortage of honest intent. Goa wants honest politics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-bjp-minister-in-goa-mahadev-naik-joins-aap-1016916.html
06-08-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra to reopen schools from Aug 17||Physical classes will start from August 17 for classes 5th to 7th in rural areas and 8th to 12th in urban areas, the Maharashtra government said on Friday. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement after a meeting with senior officials. “In the rural areas where classes for standard classes 5th to 7th will also resume. In the urban areas where no physical classes were being held, those of 8th to 12th will be restarted first," Gaikwad said. This would be implemented only in the areas where Covid-19 infection figures are consistently low, she told reporters. "Committees will be formed for each area and it will decide whether to open schools for various classes or not," she added. Classes for grades 7 to 12 were already allowed in districts with low infection rates. Most of these districts are in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. But this concession was not extended to urban areas such as Mumbai and Pune because of higher number of Covid-19 cases there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-to-reopen-schools-from-aug-17-1016994.html
06-08-2021||West||This Maharashtra district is now Covid-free||Bhandara district of Maharashtra on Friday became coronavirus-free after the lone patient under treatment was discharged from hospital and no new case reported during the day, the local administration said. A release from the district information officer said tracing, testing and treatment along with proper planning and collective efforts have helped make Bhandara free of coronavirus after 15 months. The lone Covid-19 patient under treatment was discharged from hospital on Friday, while 578 persons were tested for coronavirus in the last 24 hours and all of them returned a negative result, the release said. "There are no coronavirus patients in the district now," it said. District collector Sandip Kadam said collective efforts of the administration and cooperation of people played an important role in making Bhandara, located in eastern Maharashtra, free of the disease. "Although, the number of coronavirus patients in the district is zero today, people need to be careful in the coming days and follow Covid-19 protocols," he said. District civil surgeon Dr RS Farooqui said coronavirus is a communicable disease and the only way to prevent its spread is to follow a set of protocols like wearing face mask, maintaining social distancing and hygiene. The health department has taken necessary steps to deal with a potential third wave of the pandemic, he added. So far, Bhandara district has reported 59,809 coronavirus cases and 1,133 deaths, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-maharashtra-district-is-now-covid-free-1017026.html
06-08-2021||West||Gujarat government terms resident doctors' strike as illegal, warns of action||The Gujarat government on Friday termed the ongoing strike called by 2,000 resident doctors of six government medical colleges as "illegal", and threatened to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act if they did not return to duty. The agitating resident doctors, mostly those who have recently finished their post-graduate course, belong to government-run medical colleges of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar. At least 2,000 resident doctors of these hospitals have been on strike since Wednesday evening, mainly over the issue of bond service period and the 7th Pay Commission. In Gujarat, medical students of government colleges are required to sign a bond, which mandates that they serve for a year in rural areas after completing their studies. Doctors can break the bond by paying Rs 40 lakh. In April this year, when Covid-19 cases were on the rise, the state government had announced that one day of Covid-19 duty will be considered equivalent to two days of bond duty. Thus, six months in Covid-19 wards will be considered as one year of bond period. However, in July, when Covid-19 cases dropped significantly, a new notification was issued stating that the ratio has been restored to 1:1 instead of the previous 1:2, the Junior Doctors' Association said in a statement. Now, the resident doctors have demanded that the old 1:2 days formula be restored, and sought salaries as per the 7th Pay Commission. Instead of remote rural areas, the agitating doctors also want the government to deploy them in their "mother institutes" during the bond period. However, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who handles the Health portfolio, rejected their demands and asked the resident doctors to return to their duties. "Very few Covid-19 cases are being detected these days, and a large number of doctors are needed in rural areas. We have issued an order asking bonded doctors to join their respective duties in rural areas. It is mandatory for them to serve in villages as per the bond conditions. If they do not wish to serve in villages, they have to deposit Rs 40 lakh," Patel said in a statement. "This strike is illegal and meant to put undue pressure on the government. They are holding patients to ransom. We will not tolerate this. We will take action against these agitating doctors under the Epidemic Diseases Act if they don’t return to their duties after winding up their strike," the deputy chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-terms-resident-doctors-strike-as-illegal-warns-of-action-1017064.html
06-08-2021||West||Pornography case: Cops record actor Sherlyn Chopra's statement||Police on Friday recorded the statement of actor-model Sherlyn Chopra for nearly eight hours in connection with the porn films case in which businessman Raj Kundra has been arrested, an official said. Chopra appeared before the property cell of the Mumbai crime branch at around 12 pm to record her statement and left at around 8 pm, the official said. Last month, the crime branch had arrested Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, and his company's IT head Ryan Thorpe in the case which relates to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through apps. Earlier this week, the police had quizzed the director of Armsprime, a company linked to the alleged porn racket. Last week, a court had rejected the pre-arrest bail application filed by Chopra. In her plea, Chopra has said she apprehended arrest in the case registered under IPC sections 292, 293 (sale of obscene material), as well as relevant provisions the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. The crime branch is investigating the case that was registered at the Malwani police station in suburban Mumbai in February 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pornography-case-cops-record-actor-sherlyn-chopras-statement-1017065.html
