07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Essential businesses remain open in Mangaluru as weekend curfew imposed in Dakshina Kannada district||Barring shops selling essential services, Mangaluru wore a deserted look amid the weekend curfew imposed in the Dakshina Kannada district. The shops are allowed to stay open till 2 pm. Only a few of the city service buses were on the road. Buses continued to ply between Mangaluru and Udupi. Streetside vendors were carrying out their business normally. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that 18 check posts including inter-state border check posts have been set up in Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction to enforce the weekend curfew. Action will be initiated against those who loiter without any valid reasons under Epidemic Diseases Act and NDMA Act, he said. Banks, post offices and other government offices were also open. The Kukke Subrahmanya, Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala and Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temples, however, remained closed for the devotees. A majority of the hotels, too, were closed as only takeaway food is allowed during the weekend curfew. The police were seen strictly checking all vehicles at entry points to the city on Friday night itself with the imposing of night curfew. Meanwhile, a large number of people had arrived at Wenlock Hospital in the city to get a jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/essential-businesses-remain-open-in-mangaluru-as-weekend-curfew-imposed-in-dakshina-kannada-district-1017164.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru man murders brother over 'affair' with wife||A man murdered his brother after suspecting him of having an illegitimate affair with his wife at Bondala Shanthigudde in Bantwal taluk. According to DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane, the accused is Ravi and the victim is his brother Sundara (30). Sundara, it is said, was unmarried and was staying alone in his ancestral house. Ravi’s wife was supplying food to him daily. Ravi suspected his brother of having an affair with his wife and quarrelled with them frequently.  On Friday late night, Ravi entered into a quarrel with Sundara. When their other brother Ramesh visited the spot, he saw Ravi hitting Sundara on his head. Writhing in pain, Sundara collapsed on the floor and breathed his last. The Bantwal town police have visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-man-murders-brother-over-affair-with-wife-1017206.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain gains pace in Dakshina Kannada||After a lull for a couple of days, rain gained steam in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday morning. Intermittent rain continued to lash various parts of the district and the sky remained overcast throughout the day. According to the forecast, widespread light to moderate rains are likely over Coastal Karnataka. Scattered to fairly widespread very light to moderate rains likely over Malnad districts in the next 24-hours up to 8.30 am on August 8. Moodaru in Karkala taluk, Udupi district recorded the highest rainfall of 121 mm in the last 24-hours up to 8.30 am on August 7. Eedu in Karkala taluk recorded 107 mm during the period. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada district has received 2311 mm rainfall from January till August 6. From April to date, as many as 87 houses have been fully damaged and 491 houses have been partially damaged in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-gains-pace-in-dakshina-kannada-1017215.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four nabbed for trying to sell Ambergis worth Rs 8 crore in Kushalnagar||The Forest Mobile Squad (FMS), Mysuru unit, busted a gang of four for allegedly trying to sell Ambergris (vomit of a sperm whale), worth Rs 16 crore and weighing 8.2 kilograms, near Kushalnagar in Kodagu district. FMS personnel arrested Kodagu based K A Ibrahim, B A Raffique, Tahir Naqqash, and K M George of Kerala. The prime accused Riyaz is absconding. Ambergris is a very expensive wax that originates as a secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale. It can be found floating in seas and is used in the manufacturing of perfumes and medicines. It costs up to Rs 3 crore per kilo in Khatar, Dubai and China. An officer said it is yet to be ascertained from where the accused obtained the Ambergris. They might have collected it from a sea or they might have extracted from a dead whale, the official added. The gang was were nabbed while trying to sell secretion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-nabbed-for-trying-to-sell-ambergis-worth-rs-8-crore-in-kushalnagar-1017293.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Corrupt politicians, Quit politics' campaign from Shikaripur from Sunday||Karnataka Rashtra Samithi is launching state-wide campaign- 'Corrupt politicians, Quit politics' on August 8 from Esuru village in Shikaripur taluk.  Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, Karnataka Rashtra Samithi State President Ravi Krishna said social activist S R Hiremath will launch the campaign. Writers Savita Nagabhushan, writer D S Nagabhushan will be the chief guests. "We are launching the movement in Esuru, the first village in the country, to declare Independence from British even before India got independence. The valedictory of the campaign will be held on September 8 in Tumakuru."  He said corrupt people and those imprisoned on charges of corruption have become ministers, and even chief ministers. They have annihilated democracy. Police who are expected to maintain law and order in the society have become the centres of harassment. He said bike rally will be taken out in all districts across the state demanding corrupt politicians to quit politics. August 8 marks the 79th anniversary of Quit India movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942 during freedom struggle. So, we are launching the campaign on that day, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/corrupt-politicians-quit-politics-campaign-from-shikaripur-from-sunday-1017301.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Golden boy gives Sirsi village a reason to rejoice||Neeraj Chopra became the toast of the medal-starving nation on Saturday after clinching India's first ever gold medal in athletics, track and field to be precise. His path-breaking 87.58 throw at Tokyo Games also gave Bengle a nondescript village in Sirsi taluk, Uttara Kannada, a reason to rejoice. Yes, Kashinath Naik, a native of Bengle, was among the formative year coaches for the golden boy Neeraj Chopra Naik spotted young Neeraj's talent in Javelin and trained him for three years from 2015 to 2017 at the Indian Army facility at Patiala. Coach Naik, himself a bronze medal winner in Javelin at 2010 Commonwealth Games, shared with DH his joy over his ward's Olympic success, training stint at Patiala and Chopra's gold medal winning throw at Tokyo. "Neeraj Chopra has done India proud with a historic gold medal in track and field event. I take pride in the fact that I was his coach in his formative years. I polished his techniques of the grip, the run-up and the throw at Patiala," a beaming Naik told DH over the telephone call. "Two months before leaving for Tokyo, Neeraj had visited me at Army Sports Institute in Pune. He had asked me for a few tips. Chopra also had a brief and fruitful training stint in Sweden ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. I knew he would finish on podium after qualifying for final. I am happy that he ended India's Olympic medal drought in athletics," Kashinath Naik said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/golden-boy-gives-sirsi-village-a-reason-to-rejoice-1017340.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two boys drown in farm pond in Hiriyur||Two boys drowned in a farm pond while swimming at Vaddigere village in Hiriyur taluk of the district on Saturday evening. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Raghu (13), son of Prakash and Siddesh (10) son of Venkatesh, both Class 6 students. The duo went to a farm pond to learn swimming with three other friends Naveen, Kumar and Siddesh. Prakash and Siddesh saw the duo drowning in the farm pond and alerted the elders. They rushed to the pond and retrieved them from it and took them to the district general hospital in Chitradurga where they were declared brought dead. Aimangala police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-boys-drown-in-farm-pond-in-hiriyur-1017354.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Hospitality sector stakeholders in Mysuru oppose new Covid-19 restrictions||While the state government has announced weekend lockdown overs fears of Covid third wave, stakeholders of the hospitality sector have opposed the restriction and launched an online campaign. The travel operators launched the campaign with the slogan, 'Seize the border not the city. We are not participating in weekend lockdown.' The government had also ordered a night curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to hotel owners, more than 50,000 people will be affected by the restrictions. "We have been suffering loss from March 2020 and the government must drop initiatives like lockdown and should instead take alternative measures to curb the spread of infection," said Jayaswamy, a hotel owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hospitality-sector-stakeholders-in-mysuru-oppose-new-covid-19-restrictions-1017176.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basavaraj Bommai govt gives Cabinet-rank facilities to B S Yediyurappa||The Basavaraj Bommai administration on Saturday ordered that former chief minister BS Yediyurappa will receive all facilities at par with Cabinet-rank ministers. This will be applicable until Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is in office, the protocol wing of the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) said in a notification. Other than a salary, the CM and Cabinet ministers get a sumptuary allowance of Rs 3 lakh, house rent of Rs 1 lakh, fuel allowance for up to 1,000 litres, conveyance allowance at Rs 30 per km, Rs 10 lakh for purchase of furniture, vehicle facility with a limit of Rs 21 lakh, free telephone connection at home and office, daily tour and dearness allowance of Rs 2,000 within the state and Rs 2,500 for outside among other things. Earlier, the Congress-JD(S) government had plans to accord Cabinet-rank status to former chief minister Siddaramaiah, who headed the coalition coordination committee. Apparently, this did not come through fearing a conflict with the ‘office of profit’ rules. But unlike Siddaramaiah, Yediyurappa does not hold any official position besides being a legislator representing Shikaripura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basavaraj-bommai-govt-gives-cabinet-rank-facilities-to-b-s-yediyurappa-1017272.html
07-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Rename Indira Canteens after Annapoorneshwari: C T Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi on Saturday triggered a war of words with the Congress by asking Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to rename Indira Canteens as “Annapoorneshwari Canteen”. “Don't see any reason why Kannadigas should be reminded of the dark days of Emergency while they are having food,” Ravi said in a tweet, which irked the Congress. Launched in 2017, the Indira Canteen, which serves highly subsidised food, was former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s brainchild. The canteens were initially meant to serve the urban poor in Bengaluru, but were later set up in district-taluk headquarters as well. These canteens serve breakfast for Rs 5 and lunch/dinner for Rs 10. “Renaming the canteens will amount to politics of hatred,” Siddaramaiah said. “Naming projects and public places after national leaders is a long-held tradition in the country. There’s a flyover in Bengaluru named after Deendayal Upadhyay, bus service named after Vajpayee, a stadium in Gujarat has PM Modi’s name. Let the Centre rename all these,” he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shviakumar warned of protests if the Indira Canteens are renamed. “We won’t keep quiet,” he said. “Every conscious citizen acknowledges Indira Gandhi’s sacrifice and the schemes she gave to the poor,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rename-indira-canteens-after-annapoorneshwari-c-t-ravi-1017308.html
07-08-2021||National||Government augmenting facilities of Bharat Biotech, 3 PSUs to enhance Covaxin output: Mandaviya||Facility augmentation of Bharat Biotech and three public sector enterprises is being supported for enhancing production of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, Parliament was informed on Friday. The Department of Biotechnology has informed that the facility augmentation of Bharat Biotech and 3 public sector enterprises (PSEs) – Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd,  Indian Immunologicals Ltd; and Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Corporation Ltd – is being supported for augmented production of Covaxin, Minister of Health & Family Welfare and Chemicals & Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. This is being done under the 'Mission Covid Suraksha– the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission', he added. Further, technology transfer of Covaxin production to Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium – comprising Hester Biosciences, OmniBRx Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd and Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre – is being facilitated by the Department of Biotechnology, with a view to enhance the production of Covaxin in the coming months, Mandaviya said. "Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has provided 100 per cent advance to domestic vaccine manufacturers in respect of procurement order placed with them. These funds can be used by such manufacturers for their capacity augmentation," he added. The government has also provided financial assistance to one of the vaccine manufacturer,  Biological E, for 'At-risk manufacturing' of Covid-19 vaccine, the minister said. Further, the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO) has put in place a system for fast track processing of applications for clinical trial and approval for Covid-19 vaccines, he added. The government is also providing 15-day advance visibility of vaccine availability to states/UTs with an advice to prepare and publicise in advance district-wise and Covid-19 vaccination centres wise (CVCs) plan, Mandaviya said. It is expected that adequate quantities of Covid-19 vaccine will be available between January 2021 and December 2021, to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-augmenting-facilities-of-bharat-biotech-3-psus-to-enhance-covaxin-output-mandaviya-1017092.html
07-08-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi's tweet with pic of victim's kin 'no longer available' on website||A controversial tweet of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi with a picture of him meeting the family members of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who died here following an alleged sexual assault showed as "no longer available" on the microblogging website for violating its rules. Posting a picture of his meeting with the girl's family on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." A click on the tweet led to a message that read: "This tweet violated the Twitter rules." Gandhi met the girl's family members on Wednesday and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhis-tweet-with-pic-of-victims-kin-no-longer-available-on-website-1017120.html
07-08-2021||National||UK moves India to Covid 'amber list': Here are the new travel regulations||The rules come into effect from August 8, according to the UK Transport Secretary. What are the new regulations to keep in mind for travel to the UK? These rules apply to all passengers, irrespective of vaccination status. What to do after arrival if you are fully vaccinated? Take a Covid test upon arrival or before the second day since arriving. Who does this apply to? What to do after arrival if not fully vaccinated? If one has been in a 'red list' country during 10 days before their travel they have to follow rules for the red-listed countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-moves-india-to-covid-amber-list-here-are-the-new-travel-regulations-1017158.html
07-08-2021||National||J&K schools to be renamed after Army men killed in militant violence: Report||All the Deputy Commissioners of all 10 districts of Jammu region have been directed to identify schools and submit the list before August 5, 2021, Divisional Commissioner Jammu Dr Raghav Langer stated in an order. DH couldn't independently verify the report. A committee may be constituted at the district level to prepare such details after due verification, the report added. Reacting to the order, PDP leader Mohit Bhan attacked the government for "politicising armed forces & civilians in the name of nationalism”. ”8000 political workers in J&K have given the supreme sacrifice of their lives to keep the democracy alive since 1947 - 2021 where's their honour ?” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-schools-to-be-renamed-after-army-men-killed-in-militant-violence-report-1017169.html
07-08-2021||National||Eight states with the highest Covid-19 R-value||The rising Covid-19 R-value (reproductive number) in eight states has become a matter of concern, but experts believe that such states should not be declared "red zone" merely on the basis of the R-naught. The CDC had recently declared the Delta Covid variant to be more contagious than chicken pox and that could be the reason why India’s R-naught has risen from 0.93 a month ago to 1.01 now. What does R-naught mean? The R-naught is the average number of people contracting Covid from an infected individual. The R-value is a tool used by epidemiologists to keep tabs on whether Covid cases are ‘growing faster or shrinking quicky’. During the peak of the second wave, India’s R-value in March was approximately 1.4, but it dropped to about 0.7 in May as a decline in cases was witnessed. However, experts say just R-value spike does not require states or districts to be classified as ‘red zones’. "A combination of epidemiological factors including infection growth rate, increasing number of deaths and hospital occupancy rate explain the risk," Dr Manoj Murhekar, National Institute of Epidemiology director, told TOI. 8 states which have recorded an R-value above or same as the national average (1.01) are: Madhya Pradesh (1.31) Himachal Pradesh (1.30) Nagaland (1.09) Kerala (1.06) Delhi (1.01) Maharashtra (1.01) Karnataka (above 1) Andhra Pradesh (above 1) However, the risk factor is not proportional to the R value in each of the mentioned states, according to the expert. For example, Madhya Pradesh, despite having the highest R-value among the 8 states, has also been seeing less than 30 cases in a day. “The R value is high because of the erratic daily numbers, but that does not indicate risk because the percentage of people who test positive over the total number of people tested (test positivity rate) is still low,” Dr. Murhekar told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-states-with-the-highest-covid-19-r-value-1017170.html
07-08-2021||National||Hard to be happy with 4th place at Olympics: Aditi Ashok||In any other tournament, Aditi Ashok would have gladly taken a fourth-place finish but this was the Olympics and the golfer said it is hard for her to be happy even though she produced the best ever performance by an Indian at the showpiece. Overnight sole second, Aditi finished fourth with a three-under 68 in the final round that left her 15-under 269 overall at the par-71 Kasumigaseki Country Club where world number one Nelly Korda of the USA took gold with a four-round total of 17-under 267. "In any other tournament I would be really happy, but it's hard to be happy with fourth place. I played good and gave it my 100 per cent," she said. The 23-year-old was not particularly happy with her final round show even though it was studded with five birdies against just two bogeys. "I was just missing so many fairways. The front nine I just hit one and the back nine I think I must have hit maybe three of four more. "That was bad today, put me out of position. I couldn't get close to the flag," she rued. But she is hopeful that her stellar performance would ignite unprecedented interest in the sport, which is perceived to be elitist. "I wish I had a medal, but I hope everyone is still happy. Going into the round, I didn't think about it (people watching her on TV) too much," she said. "Just having more top finishes, even if it's not exactly a podium finish, will maybe bring more support to the sport, (with) more kids picking it up. That helps build the game," she said. Golf returned to Olympics in 2016 after over a 100-year gap and Aditi had competed at that edition, finishing tied 41st. "Obviously, when I started golf, I never dreamt of contending at the Olympics. Golf wasn't even an Olympic sport. "You just pick it up, work hard and have fun every day. And then sometimes you get here," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hard-to-be-happy-with-4th-place-at-olympics-aditi-ashok-1017171.html
07-08-2021||National||Man dies after Bluetooth headphone explodes in Rajasthan||A 28-year-old man died when his Bluetooth headphone device exploded, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Udaipuria village of Chomu town in Jaipur district on Friday when Rakesh Kumar Nagar was preparing for a competitive examination at his residence, they said. He was using the Bluetooth headphone device while it was plugged into an electrical outlet, police said. The device exploded all of a sudden leaving Nagar unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment, they said, adding both his ears had suffered injuries. Dr L N Rundla of Siddhivinayak Hospital said the man was brought to the facility in an unconscious condition. He died during treatment at the hospital, Rundla said. The man probably died of cardiac arrest, he added. According to police, Rakesh was married in February this year and was the eldest of siblings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-dies-after-bluetooth-headphone-explodes-in-rajasthan-1017173.html
07-08-2021||National||Chidambaram slams govt over vacant posts of HC judges, tribunal chairpersons||Pointing at several vacant posts of high court judges and tribunal chairpersons, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday alleged the government is not able to fill these vacancies as it is looking for people who sympathise with its "retrograde" philosophy and ideology. "Out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of HC judges, 416 are vacant. There is a huge number of vacancies in Tribunals. Posts of Chairperson of several Tribunals are vacant! They include DRT, NCLAT, TDSAT etc " the former Union minister said. Why is Mr Modi’s government that is ensconced in office for 7 years not able or willing to fill these vacancies? He questioned why the Modi government which is ensconced in office for seven years is not able or willing to fill these vacancies. Chidambaram asserted that the country is not short of lawyers and judges qualified to fill these posts. "The REAL reason is the government is looking for persons who will sympathise with its retrograde philosophy and ideology," he said in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-slams-govt-over-vacant-posts-of-hc-judges-tribunal-chairpersons-1017177.html
07-08-2021||National||80 crore Indians got free ration during Covid-19 pandemic: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said his government gave top priority to address the problems faced by the poor during the Covid-19 pandemic and had taken steps to provide succour during the most difficult times. Modi was addressing the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana in Madhya Pradesh who had received free food grains during the pandemic. The prime minister slammed the previous governments, an apparent reference to Congress regimes, saying they only paid lip service to the poor and continued to deny them benefits such as good roads, pucca houses, bank accounts or clean drinking water. He accused the previous governments of indulging in hypocrisy by chanting the word “poor” a hundred times in a day but did not make enough efforts to provide succour. “We have risen from amongst you and have experienced closely the bitter-sweet moments that you face. Hence, we also work differently to empower you,” Modi said. He said not only more than 80 crore citizens were getting free ration but more than eight crore poor families also got free gas cylinders during the pandemic. “Cash transfers to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore were directly made to the Jan-Dhan accounts of more than 20 crore women and thousands of crores of rupees were transferred to the accounts of labourers and farmers,” the prime minister said. Modi accused the previous governments of keeping the poor away from basic necessities such as good roads, pucca houses or bank accounts. “They used to wonder why the poor would need good roads, as they need food first. Why would the poor need bank accounts when they have no money,” the prime minister said. Modi said such questions kept the poor away from basic facilities and became an excuse for not doing anything.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-crore-indians-got-free-ration-during-covid-19-pandemic-pm-modi-1017184.html
07-08-2021||National||Covaxin data under active review of Canadian health regulator: Ocugen||Ocugen, the US and Canada partner of Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, has said it has submitted all data to the Canadian government and it is under active review of the health regulator there. In June, Ocugen entered into an agreement with Bharat Biotech to develop, manufacture and commercialise the Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin in Canada in addition to the existing rights in the United States. Ocugen has already approached Health Canada and submitted the Phase 3 clinical trial data of Covaxin seeking authorization to sell the jab in that country. "We have submitted all the data, what is needed for the submission -- for Canadian submission. And again, on the specific timeline and the approval clock, we can't give you that at this stage,"Shankar Musunuri--Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ocugen said on Friday in an Earnings call. "All I can say is it's under active review by Health Canada. As we get questions, we're ready to respond to them very promptly and provide any information they need," he said. Replying to a query he said Bharat Biotech is capable of supplying required quantities of Covaxin to USA and Canada as the Indian vaccine maker is ramping up production, targeting to produce more than half a billion doses per year. Ocugen in a release said discussions with the US Food and Drug Administration are underway, and the company is still proceeding with a strategy focused on the agencys requested Biologics License Application pathway. In a move that could potentially delay the launch of Covaxin in the US market, the FDA had earlier "recommended" Ocugen, to go for Biologics LicenseApplication (BLA) route with additional data, nixing hopes ofEmergency Use Authorisation for the jab. "We have most of the data from Phase III clinical trial, including all the manufacturing. We are still discussing the regulatory path for the BLA, what is required, if any, additional studies," Musunuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-data-under-active-review-of-canadian-health-regulator-ocugen-1017192.html
07-08-2021||National||Over 2.29 crore Covid vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Govt||More than 2.29 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 51.66 crore (51,66,13,680) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources and a further 55,52,070 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 49,74,90,815 doses (as per data available at am on Saturday), the ministry said. More than 2.29 crore (2,29,36,394) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerate the pace and expand the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination had commenced on June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost, it said. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs, according to the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-229-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-govt-1017194.html
07-08-2021||National||Qatari special envoy for conflict resolution meets EAM S Jaishankar||The rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan is a "serious matter", External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday after meeting Qatari special envoy for conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani. Al-Qahtani, the Special Envoy of the Foreign Minister of Qatar for Counter-terrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution, is on a visit to India ostensibly to discuss the latest developments in Afghanistan. In a series of tweets, Jaishankar said a peaceful and stable Afghanistan requires that the rights and interests of all sections of the society are promoted and protected. "Pleased to receive Qatar Special Envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani. Shared the Indian perspective on recent developments in Afghanistan. Also the concerns of the region that I heard during recent interactions," he said. Pleased to receive Qatar Special Envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani. "Rapid deterioration of the security situation is a serious matter. A peaceful and stable Afghanistan requires that the rights and interests of all sections of society are promoted and protected," the external affairs minister added. Al-Qahtani had played a key role in the Afghan peace process and his visit to India comes amid mounting global concerns over escalating violence by the Taliban in Afghanistan. On Friday, Al-Qahtani met J P Singh, the Joint Secretary in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the Ministry of External Affairs. Singh has been India's point-person for Afghanistan. As a key stakeholder in Afghanistan's stability, India has been holding talks with countries of the region and all leading players on the fast-evolving situation in the war-torn country. Qatar's capital Doha has been the venue for the intra-Afghan peace talks and the Gulf country has emerged as a crucial player in facilitating the Afghan peace process. Al-Qahtani's visit to India also comes days ahead of talks among Russia, China, the US and Pakistan on the situation in Afghanistan. The 'extended Troika' convened by Russia is scheduled to be held in Doha on August 11. In June, Al-Qahtani suggested that Indian officials were engaged in talks with the Taliban. "I understand that there has been a quiet visit by Indian officials...to speak with the Talibans. Why? Because not everybody is believing that the Taliban will dominate and take over, because Taliban is a key component of, or should be or is going to be a key component of the future of Afghanistan," he said. Al-Qahtani made the remarks while replying to a question during a discussion on the theme "Looking towards peace in Afghanistan after the US-NATO withdrawal." The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/qatari-special-envoy-for-conflict-resolution-meets-eam-s-jaishankar-1017201.html
07-08-2021||National||13.45 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in July: Union health Ministry||The coronavirus vaccine administration is rapidly increasing in the country every month, with a total of 13.45 crore doses administered in July which also saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 50 crore-mark on Friday. "India is going strong in the fight against #COVID19. Charting a path to #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, vaccine administration is rapidly increasing every month. July saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses and a total of 13.45 crore doses," Mandaviya tweeted. In India, a total of 50,10,09,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 58,08,344 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. According to the health ministry, 49,55,138 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1345-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-july-union-health-ministry-1017203.html
07-08-2021||National||Railways invites bids for hydrogen fuel-based tech for trains||The railways has invited bids for hydrogen fuel cell-based technology by retrofitting on the Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) in 89 km Sonipat-Jind section of the Northern Railway, the ministry said in a statement on Saturday. This is an attempt by the national transporter to explore whether existing diesel-run trains can be retrofitted to use hydrogen instead. "The retrofitting of diesel-powered DEMU and converting it into hydrogen fuel-powered train set will not only save the cost to the tune of Rs 2.3 crore annually by converting from diesel to hydrogen, but also save the carbon footprint (NO2) of 11.12 kilo tons per annum and particulate matter of 0.72 kilo tonnes per annum," the statement said. It also said that after successful implementation of this pilot project, all the rolling stock which will operate on diesel fuel after electrification can be planned to run on hydrogen fuel. Initially, two DEMU rakes will be converted, and later two hybrid narrow gauge locos will be converted based on hydrogen fuel cell power movement. After conversion, the train will run on hydrogen fuel, the greenest mode of transport as hydrogen can be generated by electrolysing the water from solar energy, the statement added. Presently, very few countries are using this method. The trial of one rake is being done in Germany and the trial of the other in Poland, it said. The bidding date for hydrogen fuel cell-based DEMU rake will start from September 21, 2021 and the closing date will be October 5, 2021 A pre-bid conference will be held on August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-invites-bids-for-hydrogen-fuel-based-tech-for-trains-1017218.html
07-08-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for Rs 1 cr aid for lung replacement of Covid-infected man||The Supreme Court has sought a response from the Union government on a woman's plea to provide Rs 1 crore aid from the PM Cares Fund for her husband who suffered huge health complications due to Covid-19 and incurred Rs 1 crore in cost for treatment and required the sum for replacement of his lungs. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose issued notice to the Union the Madhya Pradesh governments on a writ petition filed by Sheela Mehra. The bench initially asked the petitioner's counsel under what right he can seek reimbursement of the money spent on treatement of the man. The counsel, however, said he was seeking financial assistance for the medical procedure under Article 21 of the Constitution. The court finally decided to seek the Centre's reply and put the matter for consideration on Tuesday, August 10. In her plea filed through advocate Krishna Kumar Singh, the woman said no life should meet its end for reason of financial constraints and the State is duty-bound to extend help in appropriate cases as the PM Cares Fund is a national endeavour to provide relief to persons in distress.  The counsel said Rs 3 lakh from PMO's office and Rs two 2 have been sanctioned from the MP Chief Minister's Relief Fund to the woman, which was highly insufficient. On May 4, 2021 the man got infected with Covid-19. With high doses of steroids, the condition of her husband got worsened. He was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). After initial treatment at AIIMS Bhopal, he was shifted to Yashoda hospital, Secunderabad on June 11 for lungs transplant. At present, he was at KIMS hospital, where his treatment was costing Rs 2 lakh per day and he required Rs 1 crore for lungs transplant due to his grim situation.  Her plea contended failure to provide necessary financial assistance to save life of her husband would be violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution and it can be construed as inaction on part of the State in providing adequate health care to the citizens, particularly during the prevailing Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-rs-1-cr-aid-for-lung-replacement-of-covid-infected-man-1017233.html
07-08-2021||National||India will hopefully get highways of American standard in next three years, says Nitin Gadkari||National highways are being constructed at a very fast pace under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entire country can hope of getting highways of an American standard in the next three years, Union Highways and Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday. He also said that 38 km of roads are being constructed every day now compared to just two km per day in the past. Gadkari on Saturday virtually dedicated to the nation a 3.75-km long four-lane elevated corridor in Deesa town of Banaskantha jointly with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Stating that a large number of projects of the Road Transport and Highways Ministry are underway in Gujarat under the Bharatmala Pariyojana, Gadkari asked Rupani to resolve the issues of land acquisition to quicken the pace of infrastructure development. “National highways are growing at a very fast pace under the leadership of Modiji. In the coming three years, the entire country will get highways of American standard, so I believe. At one time we were constructing two km of road per day, and today we are constructing 38 km per day,” he said. Gadkari said the Highways ministry has undertaken many projects in Gujarat, including 1,080 km (road construction) projects worth Rs 25,370 crore under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. Among the projects is an expressway between Delhi and Mumbai that will pass through seven districts of Gujarat. “I would request the Chief Minister (Rupani) to personally offer his guidance so that a way is found soon to resolve the issues of land acquisition. This will certainly help expedite (road construction) projects being undertaken in Gujarat,” Gadkari said in an address delivered virtually at a programme organised by the state government to mark the completion of five years in office by Rupani. He said a national highway project in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat, as requested by Union minister Parshottam Rupala, will start “only when the tough land acquisition issue is resolved by the Gujarat government.” He did not elaborate further on the projects being affected by land acquisition issues. Notably, aggrieved farmers had approached the Gujarat High Court challenging acquisition of their land for certain projects, mainly on the issues of compensation. Gadkari said his ministry is going to launch 1,080 km (road construction) projects worth Rs 25,370 crore in Gujarat under the Bharatmala Pariyojana- the ambitious Road and Highways project that aims to build highways from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and then cover the entire string of Himalayan territories. He said the construction work of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is also moving at a fast pace, of which Gujarat's eight-lane Vadodara-Mumbai Expressway is a part. Gadkari said the 125-km stretch connecting Vadodara to Kim in south Gujarat at an investment of Rs 8,711 crore will be completed by December 2021. “This expressway will prove to be a big boon for tribals and backward areas of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The highway will bring industry and trade which will benefit farmers. The expressway will work as a growth engine and will certainly take Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to the path of growth,” he added. Gadkari said the work on the Amritsar-Jamnagar economic corridor has started and the Prime Minister has been requested to take time out for its groundbreaking ceremony. A part of the 109-km Dholera-Ahmedabad Expressway, which is being constructed for Rs 3,000 crore, will be awarded by October 2021, he said. Gadkari also said that the six-laning of the national highway between Shamlaji and Chiloda will be completed by December 2021 and four-laning of the highway between Varsala and Bhuj by March 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-hopefully-get-highways-of-american-standard-in-next-three-years-says-nitin-gadkari-1017237.html
07-08-2021||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court to promote diet healing, naturopathy and Ayurveda||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Ayush Ministry for promoting naturopathy, acupressure and promote diet healing science of Ayurveda to the common people. The plea filed by an advocate, Shailendra Mani Tripathi also sought to establish parameters for products to qualify to be labelled as Ayurvedic, as all kinds of chemicals are being sold in the name of Ayurvedic or Herbal products. The plea also urged the top court to issue a direction to the Ayush Ministry to focus on all streams of traditional systems of health equally, as streams like naturopathy and acupressure etc are being eclipsed by excessive commercialisation of Ayurveda. The petitioner also contended the Union government should be directed to establish parameters for products to qualify to be labelled as Ayurvedic. He said the government should also be directed to increase the budget for AYUSH and to establish separate branches of Meditation and Shathkarma and research institutes. He also asked the Centre to establish Ayush TV Channel to promote naturopathy, yoga and meditation to the masses. "The ancient wellness systems and medical sciences available in India have the potential to fight pandemics like Covid-19. Immunity can be increased manifold by practicing Yoga, Naturopathy, Meditation, Shathkarma etc which in turn can shield the body from the negative effects from any virus and bacteria," Tripathi said in his petition. Ayurveda is not a single dimensional medical system but a holistic approach to a healthy body and balanced mind, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-to-promote-diet-healing-naturopathy-and-ayurveda-1017256.html
07-08-2021||National||BJP readying world's largest volunteer health force to prepare for third Covid wave: Tarun Chugh||In the view of a possible third wave of coronavirus in the country, the BJP is a readying the world's largest volunteer health force and it aims to train 4 lakh people for it by August end, party's national general secretary Tarun Chugh said here in Saturday.  The trained volunteers, of which 51,000 will be from Delhi alone, will help the needy with relief assistance in case the third wave strikes, he said at a Delhi BJP event. The kind of dedication and commitment the top party leadership and workers showed during the first and second wave of the pandemic has set an example in the world, Chugh said. "If there is a third wave, the BJP is even better prepared now, and its workers and health volunteers will be ready for public service in every village and town of the country," he claimed. Launching the health volunteer campaign at the Delhi BJP office, Chugh said the party will train over 4 lakh health volunteers across the country by August 31.   "In Delhi alone there is a target to have 51,000 such volunteers," said Chugh, who is also the convener of the national health volunteers' campaign of the BJP. Fighting coronavirus is like saving humanity and for it the party workers are ready to put their own lives at stake, he said. He said while the opposition seemed busy "raising doubts and complaining", the BJP leaders and workers went among people to provide respite to them in the earlier waves of the pandemic. "So far, under the health volunteers' campaign of the party, already 1.48 lakh people have got themselves registered as health volunteers, and in Delhi alone this number has crossed 3,000," Chugh said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said a team of volunteers would be deployed at every booth and added that while he prayed that there should not be a third wave of Covid, there was no harm in being ready for any eventuality. He released a helpline number for registering as a health volunteer and said it will also serve as a service number for seeking help in case of a third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-readying-worlds-largest-volunteer-health-force-to-prepare-for-third-covid-wave-tarun-chugh-1017258.html
07-08-2021||National||History has been scripted: PM on javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra's gold medal win at Olympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said history has been scripted with javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra winning the gold medal at the Olympics and stressed that what he has achieved today will be remembered forever. Chopra on Saturday became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics, out-performing the field by quite a distance to notch up the first track-and-field Games medal for the country. "History has been scripted at Tokyo! What @Neeraj_chopra1 has achieved today will be remembered forever. The young Neeraj has done exceptionally well," Modi tweeted. "He (Chopra) played with remarkable passion and showed unparalleled grit. Congratulations to him for winning the Gold," he said. Chopra, who is from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, produced a second-round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world and end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. Chopra won the country's seventh medal and first gold in this Olympics and joined shooter Abhinav Bindra (2008 Beijing Games) as India's individual gold winner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/history-has-been-scripted-pm-on-javelin-thrower-neeraj-chopras-gold-medal-win-at-olympics-1017265.html
07-08-2021||National||Over 9.75 crore farmers to receive income support on Monday||Over 9.75 crore farmers will receive income support of Rs 2,000 each on Monday under the PM-KISAN initiative. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of the PM-KISAN scheme by transferring more than Rs 19,500 crores to 9.75 crores beneficiary farmer families. The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme was launched by the government in 2019 and aims to provide income support to all landholder farmer families across the country with cultivable land, subject to certain exclusions. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal installments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. In this scheme, Samman Rashi of over Rs 1.15 lakh crores has been transferred to farmer families so far, the statement said. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to interact with the farmers and expected to highlight the initiatives the government has taken over the years for the agriculture sector. A section of the farmers has been protesting on the borders of the national capital for the past eight months demanding rollback expressing strong disapproval of the agriculture sector reforms unveiled by the government last year. The farmer groups have been demanding complete roll-back of the reforms and have turned down appeals by the government to point out problem areas in the reforms for which corrective steps can be taken. After 11 rounds of talks with farmers, the government has ruled out the repeal of the three farm laws to reform the agriculture sector but offered to take corrective measures if specific problems were highlighted by the protestors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-975-crore-farmers-to-receive-income-support-on-monday-1017281.html
07-08-2021||National||Congress, Rahul Gandhi congratulate Neeraj Chopra for winning Olympic gold||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday lauded javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra for winning the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics and said he has made all Indians proud. Chopra, who is from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, produced a second-round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world and end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. "Neeraj Chopra take a bow! A billion hearts beat for you today and each one of us couldn't be more proud," Rahul Gandhi said on Instagram.  In another Instagram post, he also congratulated Bajrang Punia for winning the bronze medal in wrestling. "Congratulations to Bajrang Punia on a phenomenal performance. You have made our nation proud," Gandhi said on Instagram. The Congress congratulated Chopra for his stupendous performance at the Olympics in Tokyo saying he has created history. "Neeraj Chopra creates history! What a stupendous performance to clinch the gold medal in javelin throw at the Olympic Games. "It is the first ever individual Gold in athletics for India at the Olympics.  The nation swells with tremendous joy and pride," the Congress said on its Twitter handle. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted, "Neeraj Chopra brings home the gold! What an outstanding performance. History has been made. India is so proud of you. Congratulations." The party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala extended his congratulations for the win and said, "Best wishes to Haryana's lad and younger brother Neeraj Chopra for the lone gold medal success in Tokyo Olympics. The entire country and Haryana state is proud of you. टोक्यो ओलंपिक में देश के लिए एकमात्र स्वर्णिम सफलता दिलाने के लिए हरियाणा की माटी के लाल और छोटे भाई नीरज चोपड़ा को हार्दिक बधाई और अनंत शुभकामनाएँ । Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also said that it was a great performance by the young man. "Watched the Javelin event from the beginning till the end. Neeraj Chopra led throughout; he was in the lead at the half way mark and he won finally leaving others 2 metres behind," he said. "A glorious victory for the 23-year-old. At least 3 more Olympics beckon him in 2024, 2028 and 2032," the former Union Minister said. Watched the Javelin event from the beginning till the end Neeraj Chopra led throughout; he was in the lead at the half way mark; and he won finally leaving others 2 metres behind A glorious victory for the 23-year old. At least 3 more Olympics beckon him in 2024, 2028 and 2032||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-rahul-gandhi-congratulate-neeraj-chopra-for-winning-olympic-gold-1017300.html
07-08-2021||National||Delhi court sends Ambience group promoter to judicial custody in Rs 800 cr bank loan fraud case||A Delhi court on Saturday sent Ambience group promoter Raj Singh Gehlot, arrested in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged bank loan fraud of Rs 800 crore, to judicial custody after the ED said his further interrogation was not required. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana sent the accused to jail till August 21 after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) produced him before court on expiry of his custodial interrogation and moved a plea seeking his judicial custody for two weeks. The ED case against Gehlot, who is also a promoter of the Ambience Mall in Gurgaon, is based on a 2019 FIR of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Jammu against AHPL and its directors for alleged money laundering in the construction and development of the five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel located at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, near the Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi. The central probe agency had raided Gehlot, his company Aman Hospitality Private Limited (AHPL), some other firms of the Ambience group, director in the company Dayanand Singh, Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates in July last year. The ED probe found that "a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs 800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project, was siphoned off by AHPL, Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned and controlled by them". "A substantial part of the loan money was transferred by AHPL to several companies and individuals on the pretext of payment of running bills and advance for supply of material and work executed," the agency had alleged. The employees of the Ambience group and Gehlot's associates were made directors and proprietors in these companies and Gehlot was the "authorised signatory" in many of these entities, it had said. No material was supplied and no work was executed and almost the entire amount was immediately routed back to the entities owned by Raj Singh and Sons HUF (Hindu undivided family) and his brother's son, it said. "Money was further siphoned off through multiple layers in a complex web of group entities," the ED had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-sends-ambience-group-promoter-to-judicial-custody-in-rs-800-cr-bank-loan-fraud-case-1017302.html
07-08-2021||National||CBI books Shri Lakshmi Cotsyn in Rs 6,833 crore bank fraud case||Registering one of its biggest bank fraud cases, the CBI has booked Kanpur-based Shri Lakshmi Cotsyn and its Chairman-cum-Managing Director Mata Prasad Agarwal and others for allegedly causing a loss of over Rs 6,833 crore to a consortium of 10 banks led by Central Bank of India, officials said on Saturday. Besides Agarwal, the CBI has also named Pawan Kumar Agarwal, Jt Managing Director and Guarantor, Sharda Agarwal, Director and Guarantor and Devesh Narain Gupta, Deputy Managing Director as accused in the FIR registered on the complaint of Central Bank of India, they said.  The Central Bureau of Investigation carried out searches at nine locations in Noida, Roorkee Kanpur and Fatehpur on Saturday, the officials said. The bank in its complaint, now part of the FIR, alleged, "The said accused persons/entities have fraudulently and dishonestly, intentionally cheated the complainant bank to cause wrongful losses to it." The misrepresented facts on the basis of false and fictitious documents have committed the act of forgery, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-books-shri-lakshmi-cotsyn-in-rs-6833-crore-bank-fraud-case-1017309.html
07-08-2021||National||IndiGo announces unlimited free travel for 1 year to Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra||IndiGo announced that it will offer unlimited free travel for one year to javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra after he won the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday. Chopra on Saturday became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics, outperforming the field by some distance to immortalise himself as the first track-and-field Games medal-winner for the country.  In a statement, Ronojoy Dutta, Chief Executive Officer, IndiGo said, "Neeraj we were all overjoyed to hear about your remarkable achievement. You have made the country proud, and I know all IndiGo employees would be truly honoured to welcome you onboard one of our flights."  "With all humility we would like to offer you free flights on IndiGo for a year. You have shown us what hard work, resilience and passion can achieve and I am sure you will be a torch bearer for future Indian athletes. Well done, Neeraj," he said. The airline said that the javelin thrower can travel for free on its flights till August 7 next year. Chopra, the 23-year-old son of a farmer from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, produced a second round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world and end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. Brimming with confidence with hardly any nerves on display in his debut at the Games, Chopra walked in like a rockstar to make the Tokyo Games India's best ever Olympic outing in what was the country's final competitive outing at the ongoing edition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-announces-unlimited-free-travel-for-1-year-to-olympic-gold-medallist-neeraj-chopra-1017318.html
07-08-2021||National||You did wonders despite obstacles: PM Modi to Neeraj Chopra in phone call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Olympic gold-medallist Neeraj Chopra after the javelin thrower's momentous achievement in the Tokyo Games on Saturday, applauding him for not letting injuries and break in momentum to come in the way of his performance. The 23-year-old Chopra became India's first track-and-field Olympic medallist with his gold, which was India's first since shooter Abhinav Bindra came out tops in the 2008 Beijing Games. "Many many congratulations to you, you have brought joy to the country on the last day of competitions for us," Modi said in a telephonic conversation with the youngster, who is employed with the Indian Army. An excited Chopra responded by saying, "I wanted to do well, gold jeetna bohot badi baat hai (it's a huge thing to win gold). I got support and good wishes from a lot of people." The PM then jokingly made a reference to his home town Panipat. "Panipat ne paani dikha diya," Modi laughed. "You had to work harder for one year because of the delay in Olympics and the Covid-19 lockdown. You also battled a shoulder injury (in 2019). You have done wonders despite all these obstacles, it is all hard work," he added. Chopra acknowledged that the task wasn't easy for him. "Bohot mushkil tha sir (It was difficult)," he said. Modi spoke about Chopra's confident body language, which was eye-catching during the Olympic finals but something that the PM said he noticed before he left for the Games. "I saw confidence on your face the day I spoke to you," he said. "I only wanted to give my 100 per cent," responded the champion. Modi told Chopra that he has inspired a generation of youngsters with his achievements. "You have inspired the young generation. We have shown good performance in sports where we are not normally good. Sports is essential for the country. It's a moment of honour for your family. "I will see you on August 15. Many congratulations," PM Modi said. India finished its Olympic campaign with an unprecedented seven medals, including two silver and four bronze medals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-did-wonders-despite-obstacles-pm-modi-to-neeraj-chopra-in-phone-call-1017319.html
07-08-2021||National||Army extols Neeraj Chopra’s Olympic feat||The winning of an Olympic gold in track and field has special resonance for the Indian Army, as the winning Olympian, Neeraj Chopra, is a serving subedar in the army’s southern command. On Saturday, Chopra became the first Indian athlete in history to win a gold for Javelin throwing. In the process, he set a new Olympic Record with 87.6 metres. The Army said that Chopra had trained at the Army Sports Institute in Pune. Chopra is one of only two Indians to win a gold medal for individual achievement at the Games. The first was Abhinav Bindra who took home gold for 10-meter air rifle shooting at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Hailing from a farming family of Khandra village, Panipat district, Haryana, Chopra was enrolled as a Junior Commissioned Officer in the rank of Naib Subedar in the Indian Army on 26 August 2016. He was subsequently awarded the Arjuna Award in 2018 and the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2021 for his meritorious service. Lt General J S Nain, Army Commander, Southern Command, complimented the athlete on his historic performance and for making the Indian Army and the country proud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-extols-neeraj-chopra-s-olympic-feat-1017324.html
07-08-2021||National||India forging a maritime security coalition with five other Indian Ocean nations||India and five of its maritime neighbours are forging a security coalition amid China’s bid to expand its footprints in the Indian Ocean region. India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval will join his counterparts in the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Bangladesh and Seychelles for a meeting in Malé later this year, when the “Colombo Security Conclave” launched a few months back will formally turn into a six-nation coalition to promote security cooperation in the region. The conclave was launched after a trilateral consultation among India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives were revived with a meeting the National Security Advisor and his counterparts in the two island nations had in Colombo in November 2020. India’s Deputy National Security Advisor Pankaj Saran had another meeting with his counterparts from Sri Lanka and the Maldives in Colombo earlier this week, adding momentum to the initiative to turn it into a formal coalition. The representatives of Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles participated in the meeting on August 4 as ‘observers’, but it was decided to admit the three nations into the conclave as members. The meeting was chaired by General L H S C Silva, the Chief of Defence Staff and Commander of Army of Sri Lanka, and it ended with the decision that the representatives of Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles would join the next session of the “Colombo Security Conclave” in Malé later this year as members. The move came amid China’s bid to expand its geo-political influence in the neighbourhood of India and its People’s Liberation Army Navy’s growing presence in the Indian Ocean region. The six nations identified four pillars of cooperation under the framework of the “Colombo Security Conclave” – Marine Safety and Security, Terrorism and Radicalization, Trafficking and Organised Crime and Cybersecurity. Saran and his counterparts from the five other nations discussed specific proposals for cooperation, including holding regular interaction, joint exercises, capacity building and training activities. “All participants stressed the vital role of cooperation and coordination in dealing with contemporary security challenges in the region, as well as capacity and capability enhancement among themselves, in keeping with the spirit of regional cooperation,” according to a press release issued by the High Commission of India in Colombo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-forging-a-maritime-security-coalition-with-five-other-indian-ocean-nations-1017349.html
07-08-2021||National||Modi govt's 'TOPS' policy for athletes led to India winning its best-ever tally in Olympics, says Sarbananda Sonowal||The Modi government's 'TOPS' policy to help athletes that was started in 2014 led to the country winning its best-ever tally in Olympics and its first gold in athletics, Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Saturday. He said the 'Target Olympic Podium Scheme' (TOPS) was started in September 2014 under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur led the selection panel comprising experts to search for potential medal winners, said Sonowal who was the sports minister till 2017 in the first dispensation of the Modi government before becoming the chief minister of Assam. Sonowal said under this scheme the government provided financial assistance, training, coaching and medical help whenever required to athletes and sportspersons. He further said the main target of the scheme was to win medals in 2020 Olympics. Debutant javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra shattered several glass ceilings to become the country's first gold-medallist in 13 years in the Olympics. With the addition of Chopra's gold on the last day of their competitive schedule, India signed off with seven medals in all, including two silver and four bronze||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govts-tops-policy-for-athletes-led-to-india-winning-its-best-ever-tally-in-olympics-says-sarbananda-sonowal-1017350.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||PM Modi ensured pace of development continues even amid Covid-19: Amit Shah||India did not let the pace of development slow down even during the pandemic that affected the entire world, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday and added that the country has won the fight against coronavirus. “When the wheel of development came to a halt across the world, in India, under the leadership of Narendra Modi, the pace of development continued. We fought strongly against coronavirus and even won the fight, and at the same time, carried on with the development,” the Union home minister said in his address delivered virtually to mark the completion of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's five years in office, which is being celebrated as 'Vikas Divas'. Shah also virtually inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects collectively worth Rs 5,300 crore. Shah said projects worth around Rs 900 crore (of the total project cost of Rs 5,300 crore) are taken up in his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency while projects worth Rs 630 crore were inaugurated and foundation stones were laid for other projects worth Rs 241 crore. "The fact that the projects worth Rs 3,322 crore related to roads, bridges, water and electric supply, houses for the poor etc., being inaugurated today means that they were constructed and completed entirely during the coronavirus pandemic period. “In Gujarat, the inauguration of projects worth Rs 3,322 crore and (launching) many such projects in the last ten days shows that even during the coronavirus pandemic period, Gujarat ensured that the development never stops,” said Shah, who also holds the Cooperation Ministry. Rupani and Nitin Patel had sworn in as chief minister and deputy chief minister, respectively, of Gujarat on August 7, 2016. They assumed office once more in December 2017 after the BJP won again in the Assembly elections. He said the people of Gujarat fought against the pandemic well under the leadership of PM Modi, CM Rupani and Deputy CM Patel, and with the unforgettable contribution of BJP workers. “We have crossed both the first and second waves (of the coronavirus pandemic) once again to continue on the path of development,” he said. Shah said Gujarat is either ranked first or is on its way to get top ranking in different areas. He praised the leadership of Rupani and Patel for ensuring that even after Modi became prime minister (for the first time in 2014), the development works in Gujarat continued without interruption. He also hailed the CM and the deputy CM for the Covid-19 vaccination work in Gujarat. “Narendrabhai has started a new system in the country's democracy so that even when a leader is not serving as the chief minister, the development work continues on its own. “I am proud that Narendrabhai started a system in Gujarat where even after he went (to the Centre as PM), the development work continued, and Vijaybhai (Rupani) and Nitinbhai (Patel) added momentum to development on the path shown by Narendra Modi. They have ensured peace, safety in Gujarat and are working for all-around development,” he said. Shah thanked his cabinet colleague Nitin Gadkari, who heads the Road Transport and Highways ministry, for the construction of five over-bridges, two of which were inaugurated on Saturday, on the road connecting Ahmedabad to Gandhinagar. Shah appealed to Gujaratis settled outside the state to participate in the “Vatan Prem Yojana” under which they can make a monetary contribution for the development of their native villages or districts, with the state government making 40 per cent contribution. The Yojana was launched by the Gujarat government at the function on Saturday. He also slammed the Opposition for questioning the feasibility of the Sujalam Sufalam Yojana which was proposed by Modi when was chief minister of Gujarat. Under the Yojana, various works such as deepening of lakes, desilting and repairing of existing water bodies, cleaning of water canals are being carried out. "The Opposition had criticised that scheme saying will the pipes carry air? I would like to say to my friends in Opposition that the water from these pipelines has reached Banaskantha, and to every village in the Saurashtra region. The work to rid the state of 'tanker raaj' started by Modi is almost complete today,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-ensured-pace-of-development-continues-even-amid-covid-19-amit-shah-1017225.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||Modi slams Congress for ‘hypocrisy’ towards poor; says previous govt had ‘distortion’ in system||In a veiled attack on the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the previous government of indulging in hypocrisy, and said it used to recite the word 'poor' hundred times a day like a "song", but did not work for their welfare. Speaking during a video interaction with Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) beneficiaries from Madhya Pradesh, he also said that there was ‘vikriti’ (distortion) in the system of the previous government. Asserting that with the change in the functioning of the government now, the schemes were reaching the beneficiaries, Modi also said work was on to mitigate the problems being faced on the employment front. "The schemes of the government are reaching the ground and are being implemented at a fast pace because of change in the functioning of the government. There was 'vikriti' in the previous government's system. They used to ask questions about the poor and also give answers themselves,” he said. He accused the previous government of keeping the poor and villagers away from basic amenities like roads, electricity, housing, cooking fuel, banking etc, and said, "They used to speak the word poor hundreds of times a day. They recited the word poor like a song, but did not adopt their welfare in practice. Such acts are called 'pakhand' (hypocrisy). They did not give these facilities to the poor but used to express false sympathy." He said that the fight against Covid-19 was more difficult for India than other parts of the world given the problems caused by large population, lives and jobs affected by migration in addition to the medical infrastructure woes. "India gave the first priority to the poor in its strategy to combat the crisis due to coronavirus. Be it Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana or Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana, we thought about food and employment of the poor from day one itself,” he said. Praising the Madhya Pradesh government for its welfare works and taking the state from the category of BIMARU states, Modi said that this is the benefit of the "double engine" governments (same party ruling in state and Centre) as the state strongly implements the Centre's schemes. He said that measures were being taken to reduce the impact of job losses due to pandemic in India. "Work is being done to mitigate the effect of problems being faced on the employment front. The government is working at a fast pace in the field of construction and infrastructure, which provides jobs in large numbers. Small scale industries are being helped. Relief is being given to farmers,” he said. The quality of roads in Madhya Pradesh used to be very poor earlier and they would hear news of scams under the previous (Congress) government, he said, adding that the present dispensation worked at a fast pace to develop the infrastructure. He said that the Madhya Pradesh government purchased wheat from 17 lakh farmers and paid Rs 25,000 crore to them. Stressing his government's 'vocal for local' initiative, Modi said Indians should buy handicraft items during the festival season to encourage those working in this sector. Before his address, Modi interacted with some beneficiaries of the PMGKAY in different parts of Madhya Pradesh, including Chandrabhan from Niwari, Maya Uike from Hoshangabad and Rajendra Sharma of Burhanpur. While interacting with Chandrabhan, Modi asked whether the benefits of Centre's and state's various schemes were reaching to him or not. When replied in the positive, the PM expressed satisfaction and said, "All hundred paise of one rupee sent by the Centre is now reaching the villages. The money is not reaching the mediators." Speaking with Maya Uike, Modi asked how she likes to see the future of her children. When she said that she would ensure their study, Modi said that several girls, who are participating in the Tokyo Olympics from India, belong to very poor families but are putting up amazing performances. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also addressed the virtual programme that was broadcast from Bhopal's Minto Hall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-slams-congress-for-hypocrisy-towards-poor-says-previous-govt-had-distortion-in-system-1017230.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||Mamata writes to PM to oppose Centre's move to place 'anti-people' Electricity Bill in Parliament||Criticising the Centre’s move of place the Electricity (Amendment) Bill,2020 in Parliament, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged him to refrain from going ahead with the decision as the Bill in its current format was "anti-people" and against the federal structure of the country. Mamata in a letter to the Prime Minister dubbed the Bill as “unilateral interferences" alleging that despite electricity being on the Concurrent List of the Constitution, the Centre did not hold any proper consultations with the states. "In the present case, there has been some tokenism of consultations, but no real exchange of views, which is antithetical to the federal structure of our polity," stated Mamata. She further stated that in a letter to the Prime Minister last year, she had pointed out that she was against the Bill as it seeks to undermine the States’ role in the power sector in favour of private players. "Such a laissez-faire approach would result in concentration of private profit-focused utility players in the lucrative urban industrial segments, while poor and rural customers would be left to be tended by public sector DISCOMs," stated Mamata. She further alleged that through the Bill the state will have to give up its “commanding heights" and state PSUs will become “sick and ailing" and will be forced to serve where no corporate body would be interested. "Allowing cherry picking to select private entities cannot be the goal of public policies, particularly in a strategic sector like power," stated Mamata. She further alleged that even though the stated objective of the Bill is to provide “plural choices" to the consumers", it will actually end up in “profiteering" by the new service providers through tariff hikes. "I am dismayed also by the centrist design to make the entire State electricity grid (right from the local substation) an appendage of the National grid," stated Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-writes-to-pm-to-oppose-centres-move-to-place-anti-people-electricity-bill-in-parliament-1017235.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||UP Congress to hold protest marches against Yogi govt on Quit India movement anniversary||With the Monsoon session of Parliament coming to an end next week, Congress has mounted the offensive against the BJP in the streets--from Monday march in 403 Assembly seats of UP on peoples' problems to giving more teeth to its campaign on farmer issues in states including Punjab. "Party leaders have been asked to visit their regions for the protest. The BJP government in UP has become the second East India company government. We will uproot it. Hence the protest is planned on Monday, the anniversary of the Bharat Chhodo (Quit India) movement. We are saying BJP Gaddi Chhodo," said UP Congress spokesperson Akhilesh Prasad Singh. BJP has accused Congress of doing politics with a narrow mindset. Sharpening its protest over issues such as price rise, unemployment, Covid mismanagement, farmers' plight and the snoopgate, Congress has chalked out plans for a two-day campaign in UP beginning Monday.  The party has also decided to carry out protests on these issues in other poll-bound states in days to come with a special focus on protests on farm issues in Western UP and Punjab. Releasing a video documentary on ongoing farmer agitation on Delhi borders, the party said, "finally the annadata will emerge victorious" and hit out at the Central government for "suppressing their voice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-congress-to-hold-protest-marches-against-yogi-govt-on-quit-india-movement-anniversary-1017286.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul only political leader who questions BJP without fear: Congress||Days after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee stole the Opposition unity show during her five-day visit to the national capital, Congress on Saturday pitched for Rahul Gandhi's leadership qualities, launching a campaign on social media hailing him as the "voice of India" and "only one in the nation's politics", who questions BJP and Modi without any fear. Amid this controlled but palpable tension on the leadership issue within the Opposition on whether the Congress or a strong regional leader should lead any such future coalition, socialist leader Sharad Yadav batted for the need for an overarching Opposition front having all – Congress, Left and regional parties. Yadav's remarks come after his packed meeting schedule in the last one week during which he met CPI's D Raja, JDS' HD Devegowda, SP's Mulayam Singh Yadav and RJD's Lalu Prasad, besides other Opposition leaders. "The need is the common front, not the third front or fourth front. The time has come for all, the socialists, the congress, the communist and the regional parties to join hands to save the future of the nation, future of Indian constitution & democracy," Yadav said. Meanwhile, Congress appeared in a campaign mode for brand building of Rahul Gandhi ahead of the party's internal elections this year in which a new chief would be chosen to replace Sonia Gandhi. Tweeting with the hashtag  #BJPFearsRahulGandhi, the party claimed how Gandhi has been in in the forefront of working out joint Opposition strategy on issues like Pegasus during Parliament's Monsoon session and taking out a tractor ride and cycle march to protest against the government on issues like the contentious farm laws and fuel price hike. "There is only Rahul Gandhi in the nation's politics who questions the BJP without any fear. BJP fears Rahul Gandhi and his questions. BJP runs away from accountability and responsibility but we will not allow the BJP to escape. BJP fears every voice raised against it. Rahul Gandhi has emerged as the bold voice of the entire country," the Congress said. The Assam Congress tweeted that Rahul is the only political leader in India who fearlessly takes on the fascists. Unlike in the past, Gandhi has been making pronounced attempts to reach out to the Opposition. On August 3, Gandhi while hosting a meeting with leaders of 15 Opposition parties, had underlined the need to "come up with the principles of the foundations of our unity" and told them "the single motive to invite you is that we should unite."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-only-political-leader-who-questions-bjp-without-fear-congress-1017291.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||Congress claims Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account temporarily suspended, Twitter denies; party later says it is 'locked'||The Congress on Saturday claimed that Twitter has "temporarily suspended" the account of its former chief Rahul Gandhi, but later said it has been "temporarily locked" after the microblogging platform denied having suspended the account and stated that it continues to be in service. The action by Twitter came over a controversial post of Gandhi with a picture of him meeting the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who died here following an alleged sexual assault. Twitter has deemed that the account violated its rules against posting private information. According to party sources, some features of Gandhi's account have been temporarily limited, and while he could browse the social media site and send direct messages to his followers, no tweets, retweets, follows, fleets or likes were allowed. Twitter has communicated that all the features of the account could be restored in 12 hours once the tweet violating its rules is deleted by him, the sources said. Sources in the party claimed that Gandhi had done nothing wrong and they had the consent of the family of the girl for posting the photograph. "Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration," the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle. Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind! "Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!" the party said. Responding to queries about the Congress' claim, Twitter said it can confirm that the account has not been suspended and continues to be in service. When any account is suspended, Twitter removes it from global view, the microblogging platform said. Tagging its previous tweet, the Congress later tweeted, "The account has been temporarily locked." Posting a picture of his meeting with the girl's family on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Gandhi posting the photo of the girl's family on the microblogging website, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Gandhi met the girl's family members on Wednesday and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-claims-rahul-gandhis-twitter-account-temporarily-suspended-twitter-denies-party-later-says-it-is-locked-1017299.html
07-08-2021||National Politics||BJP will have only one engine ahead of 2024 polls: Fadnavis on pre-poll alliance with MNS||Suspense over any possibility of an alliance between the BJP and Raj Thackeray-led MNS deepened on Saturday with senior leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra unit president Chandrakant Patil evading a direct reply. While Patil is in New Delhi to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders, Leader of Opposition Fadnavis cryptically said the saffron party will have only one engine to contest the 2024 general elections. The railway engine is the poll symbol of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS). Speaking to reporters in Pune, Fadnavis said, “Patil has already clarified his position and the party's stand regarding a possible pre-poll alliance with the MNS. However, the BJP is going to have only one engine ahead of the 2024 (general) polls.” Fadnavis, a former chief minister, did not elaborate whether he meant joining hands with the MNS or going solo in the general polls. Responding to a query on speculations that Patil might be replaced as state BJP chief, Fadnavis said, “The party is doing fine under the leadership of Patil in the state and all leaders are with him. There are no talks of changing leadership in the state at the moment”. After meeting the MNS chief at the latter's residence in Mumbai on Friday, Patil said the alliance was not on the cards at the moment. The meeting, however, triggered speculation about a possible tie-up as elections to the Mumbai civic body are due next year. "Raj told me that he does not hold any grudge against the non-Marathi people living in Mumbai. We still have some political differences and there is no proposal to join hands ahead of the polls at this moment," Patil had said. On Saturday, Patil told reporters in Delhi, “I am here to apprise senior party leaders about the meeting with Raj Thackeray. Any decision will be taken by these leaders. Senior leaders will have to consider the national interest as well". Before Patil, Fadnavis and former Mumbai unit BJP president Ashish Shelar had separately held meetings with senior BJP leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah. When asked about these meetings, Patil said, “It is common in the party that leaders pay a visit to Delhi separately. There is nothing to read too much into it.” Patil is accompanied by other leaders from Maharashtra including Ram Shinde, Jaykumar Rawal, Shrikant Bharatiya and Sanjay Kute. The BJP has maintained that it was not allergic to any party as far as forging a pre-poll alliance is concerned but with a condition that their political stands should match. Some leaders in the BJP are of the view that the MNS is not untouchable provided it mellows down its anti-migrant stand. The Shiv Sena has been in power in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for over three decades. In the 2017 Mumbai civic polls, the BJP contested separately and won 82 of the total 227 seats. The MNS had won seven seats but six of its corporators later joined the Shiv Sena. The Sena won 97 seats and Congress 31. Speaking to the media in Pune recently, Raj Thackeray, who took a strident anti-North Indian line after leaving the Shiv Sena over 15 years ago, had said he was not going to change his political stand for electoral benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-have-only-one-engine-ahead-of-2024-polls-fadnavis-on-pre-poll-alliance-with-mns-1017325.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt to give Rs 25 lakh to hockey player Vandana Katariya||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami announced a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh on Friday to Indian women's hockey team member Vandana Katariya for her performance at the Tokyo Olympics. "We are proud that Uttarakhand's daughter Vandana Katariya made an unforgettable contribution to India's great performance in women's hockey at the Tokyo Olympics. In recognition of this, she would be given a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh," Dhami said. An attractive new sports policy will soon be introduced in the state that will help nourish budding talent in different games, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-to-give-rs-25-lakh-to-hockey-player-vandana-katariya-1017108.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Unidentified militant killed in encounter, another arrested in J&K’s Budgam||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Mochwa area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Saturday, while another escaped cordon but was arrested in Pulwama, police said. The gunbattle broke out in the wee hours of Saturday after the army and J&K police cordoned off the area following a tip-off about the presence of militants there. In the ensuing firefight, a police official said, a militant was killed while an AK 47 rifle and a pistol were recovered from the slain ultra’s possession. The identification and affiliation of the slain militant was not known immediately. Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar said another militant, who had escaped from the encounter site was arrested from Khrew area of southern Pulwama district. "He was taken from Mochuwa to Khrew, a distance of nearly 20 km, by a truck driver, who has also been arrested," Kumar said and added a pistol and a grenade were found in the truck. Pertinently 93 militants and 18 security forces and police personnel have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July which included several top commanders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Among 93 militants, only 10 are Pakistanis while the rest are all locals. According to the army, there are still 200-225 militants active across J&K despite the fact that almost no infiltration has taken place so far this year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unidentified-militant-killed-in-encounter-another-arrested-in-jk-s-budgam-1017143.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||2 injured in mysterious blast in J&K's Ramban||Two people, including a teenage boy, were injured in a “mysterious explosion” along the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway near Banihal town in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Saturday. The blast occurred at M G Construction site at around 11.15 pm on Friday, they said. Two people, Gopal Sharma (35) of Udhampur and Mohammad Aquib (16) of Mangit-Khari, were injured in the incident. They were shifted to hospital where their condition is stated to be stable, police said. The police said the blast took place under mysterious circumstances and an investigation is on to ascertain its cause. Officials said police and security forces immediately cordoned off the entire area near the scene of the explosion. The blast occurred between M G Company office and workers' accommodation, they said, without ruling out the possibility of hurling of grenade by suspected terrorists to create panic among the people. M G Company is constructing Banihal bypass, a portion of the four-lane Jammu-Srinagar highway project. The officials said police have registered a case in connection with the blast and the probe is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-injured-in-mysterious-blast-in-jks-ramban-1017149.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||J&K LG Manoj Sinha flags off run for 'polythene-free Srinagar'||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday flagged off a run for 'polythene-free Srinagar' from the city's historic Lal Chowk. The initiative is aimed at making streets, lakes and communities cleaner to bring about better environmental sustainability in the union territory, he said. "Flagged-off 'Run for Polythene-Free Srinagar' from iconic Ghanta Ghar, Lal Chowk," Sinha tweeted after the event. "The rally of around 600 children passed through various areas of the city to generate awareness against the use of polythene to make Srinagar polythene-free zone," Sinha said. Earlier, the L-G flagged off a Cyclothon event, 'Pedal for Dal', as a run-up to Independence Day Celebrations. "Such activities of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' gives hope to the entire humanity," he said. "More than 200 children from different age groups, along with professional cyclists, enthusiastically participated in this Cyclothon. The young generation has a huge responsibility to ensure peace, prosperity and unity of the nation," Sinha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-flags-off-run-for-polythene-free-srinagar-1017163.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Indian citizens no longer need Inner Line Permit to visit protected areas in Ladakh||To attract more domestic tourists, the Union Territory of Ladakh has removed inner line permit (ILP) restrictions for Indian citizens to visit the protected areas, bordering China and Pakistan, in the region. In a notification, Ladakh UT’s Home Department said the requirement of an ILP for the Indian nationals, including domestic tourists and local residents, to visit the notified protected areas has been completely removed. However, foreigners intending to visit these protected areas still need to apply for a permit (Protected Area Permit). But the validity of the permit for foreign tourists has now been extended from seven days to 15 days. For obtaining the permit, Indian citizens were required to provide a valid identity proof while foreigners needed to provide a valid passport with visa or OCI card. Earlier, it was mandatory for the Indian tourists also to apply for an ILP from the district administration to travel to notified protected areas of Ladakh, which include Nubra Valley, Pangong Lake, Tsomoriri Lake and the Aryan villages. Nubra Valley covers Diskit, Hunder, Sumer and Panamik. The protected areas are located near the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. There are several check posts on the roads leading to these areas. Doing away with the ILP system is likely to encourage more tourists to visit Ladakh which can in long run boost the economy of the newly carved UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-citizens-no-longer-need-inner-line-permit-to-visit-protected-areas-in-ladakh-1017167.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||8,832 rescued, 29,280 shifted from flood-hit areas in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that 8,832 people have been rescued from the flood-affected parts of the state, while 29,280 others have been shifted to safer places from these areas so far. He made the statement while addressing 'Anna Utsav' programme in the morning. State officials have earlier said that Gwalior and Chambal divisions in north Madhya Pradesh have been hit hard by rains over the last few days and at least 12 persons have died so far. In a series of tweets earlier, the chief minister said that about 40 people were rescued from three flood-hit districts of the state on Saturday morning. “I took a stock of the flood situation and the ongoing rescue operation this morning in Guna, Ashoknagar, Vidisha districts. Rescue operation of IAF resumed this morning. The teams of SDRF and NDRF are also working since night to rescue the people trapped in villages,” Chouhan tweeted. अशोकनगर के बर्री और सिरसोरा गाँव में बाढ़ में फँसे 15-15 लोगों को आज सुबह हेलीकॉप्टर द्वारा रेस्क्यू कर लिया गया है। अशोकनगर के घाट वासुनिया गाँव के 6 लोगों को सुबह रेस्क्यू कर सुरक्षित स्थान पर पहुँचाया गया है। He said that during the rescue operations carried out using helicopters, 15 persons each were rescued from Barri and Sirsora villages of flood hit Ashok Nagar district on Saturday morning. Six more persons were rescued from Vasunia Ghat village from the same district and shifted to a safer place. From Vidisha district, the teams rescued six persons, who were trapped on a tree at Riniya village of Vidisha district, he said. Chouhan said that the people trapped in Sondha village in Guna district are safe and the NDRF team has reached the village. A helicopter is also reaching from Gwalior to Sondha village of Guna district for the rescue work, the chief minister said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8832-rescued-29280-shifted-from-flood-hit-areas-in-madhya-pradesh-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1017178.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Rainfall in Delhi, adjoining areas; more expected in the next few hours||Rains lashed parts of the national capital and adjoining states on Saturday morning, bringing the mercury down. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It said thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rainfall would occur over most places in Delhi, and Greater Noida, Noida, Ghaziabad, Khekra, Daurala, Barut, Meerut, Modinagar, Hapur, Khurza, Kasganj, Jattari, Narora, Raya, Nandgaon and Barsana of Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours. 07-08-2021; 1120 ISt; Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over Most places of Delhi, Greater Noida, Noida, Ghaziabad, Khekra, Daurala, Barut, Meerut, Modinagar, Hapur, Khurza, Kasganj, Jattari, Narora, Raya, Nandgaon, Barsana(U.P) Bhiwani, Taking to Twitter, the IMD predicted similar conditions for Bhiwani, Gurgaon, Manesar, Kosli, Gannaur, Gohana, Sonipat, Kaithal, Faridabad and Sohana of Haryana, and Bhiwari, Tizara, Nadbai, Nagar, Deeg and Laxmangarh of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Delhi's relative humidity was recorded at 81 per cent, and the maximum temperature in the city is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius, it said. The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 106 at 9.05 am, real-time data by the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rainfall-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-more-expected-in-the-next-few-hours-1017185.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Johnson and Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine approved for emergency use in India||The Government on Saturday announced that Johnson and Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine has been granted Emergency Use Approval (EUA) in India. With the approval J&J’s vaccines, India now has five vaccines for its nationwide immunisation drive which clocked over 50 crore doses on Friday. “This will further boost our nation's collective fight against Covid-19,” Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, announcing the grant of EUA to J&J. J&J had applied for the EUA on Friday and it was granted the same day. The faster approval came under the relaxed guidelines that allow use vaccines approved by the regulatory authorities in the US, Britain, Europe and Japan, or which were on the World Health Organization's Emergency Use Listing. India’s vaccine basket now has five vaccines – Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson (J&J). Earlier, J&J had applied for clinical trials for its vaccines in India but withdrew the proposal when informed about the new vaccine approval guidelines. Indigenously developed Corbevax, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Biological-E and Covovax produced by Serum Institute too would be available for the vaccination drive soon. Over the past week, Health Minister Mandaviya held meetings with vaccine manufacturers and took updates about the production capabilities of the vaccines. Among those who met Mandaviya were Mahima Datla, Managing Director of Biological E, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla, Satish Reddy, Chairman of Dr Reddy’s Labs. India has administered 50.10 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines since the vaccination drive began on January 16 of which over 39 crore persons have received one dose of the vaccine, while more than 11 crore persons have received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/johnson-and-johnsons-single-dose-covid-19-vaccine-approved-for-emergency-use-in-india-1017189.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Ravi Dahiya thanks CM Khattar for announcing indoor wrestling stadium in Nahri||Tokyo Olympics silver medalist Ravi Dahiya has thanked Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for announcing the construction of an indoor wrestling stadium at his native village Nahri in Sonepat. "I thank the chief minister for announcing construction of a wrestling indoor stadium in our village," Dahiya said in a video message, which Khattar posted on his twitter handle. टोक्यो ओलंपिक में हरियाणा और देश का नाम रोशन करके रवि दहिया आपने देशवासियों को जो खुशी दिलाई है, उसके लिए हम सब आपका धन्यवाद करते हैं। Dahiya also thanked the chief minister for encouraging the players by announcing jobs and cash rewards. In his tweet, Khattar said, "Ravi Dahiya, we all thank you for the happiness you have brought to the countrymen by making Haryana’s and the country’s name shine at the Tokyo Olympics." "We have made several announcements to encourage other talented players like you. We want to make Haryana the biggest sports hub." Earlier, Khattar had praised Dahiya for his effort after he became only the second Indian wrestler to win a silver medal at the Olympics. Dahiya lost the men's freestyle 57kg title clash 4-7 to reigning world champion Zavur Uguev. He will get a cash award of Rs 4 crore as per state government's policy for silver winning Olympic medallists, a Class-I job and a piece of land at concessional rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ravi-dahiya-thanks-cm-khattar-for-announcing-indoor-wrestling-stadium-in-nahri-1017197.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Om Birla takes aerial survey of Kota's flood-hit areas, Army leads rescue operations||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday took an aerial survey of flood-hit areas here even as the Army was roped in to lead rescue operations after several people were trapped inside their houses due to the deluge, officials said. At least 140 people were rescued at various places in the Sangod area of the district and evacuated to safer places till 11 am on Saturday, Kota Collector Ujjawal Rathore said He said the situation in Sangod is under control now. Birla, who is an MP from Rajasthan’s Bundi, took the aerial survey in a helicopter of the flood-affected areas in the morning, the officials said. The administration roped in the Army when the flood situation worsened on Friday night in Sangod town, they said. At least 140 people, including around 30 girls and staff of a girls residential school in Hingi village were rescued by Saturday late morning, the officials said. District Collector Rathore and Superintendent of Police, Kota (Rural), Sharad Choudhary rushed to the spot at midnight and monitored the rescue operation till Saturday morning. Besides the Army, the SDRF, the NDRF and the district administration were helping in rescue efforts. The situation is now normal in Sangod as the water level has come down. However, an assessment of the damage of property, crops and houses is yet to be carried out, Congress MLA from Sangod Bharat Singh said. Singh questioned the presence of girls and staff in the residential school when the classes were off. He alleged that the principal of the school fled on noticing the rising water level on Friday evening. “I am of the opinion that action should be initiated against the headmaster of the school,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/om-birla-takes-aerial-survey-of-kotas-flood-hit-areas-army-leads-rescue-operations-1017210.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||DU sees 'climate warriors' in new students, to make tree plantation part of curriculum||Planting a tree will be a part of the Delhi University curriculum from the coming academic session, and the students will be the varsity's climate warriors, Acting Vice-Chancellor P C Joshi announced on Saturday. This will be applicable at the Under Graduate, Post Graduate and M.Phil./Ph.D levels, DU officials said. The programme will be scientifically monitored and evaluated by the respective colleges, centres and departments, they said. "Planting millions of suitable trees and creating a natural ecosystem is one of the best ways and this can be achieved faster through massive students participation. Every year, the Delhi University admits lakhs of students from different parts of the country and they will be our climate warriors," Joshi said. Planting and subsequent maintenance of trees will not only create a big supply chain in creating jobs at a different level but also yield several valuable products which will provide suitable income at a different level, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-sees-climate-warriors-in-new-students-to-make-tree-plantation-part-of-curriculum-1017214.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Youth Akali Dal leader shot dead in Punjab's Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Punjab's Mohali on Saturday, police said. Two armed miscreants opened fire at Middukhera in a market area and fled the spot, Mohali Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh told PTI over phone. A case has been registered, and further investigations are underway, he said, adding that police are trying to identify the accused, four in total, and are hopeful of nabbing them soon. Footage from CCTV cameras in the area showed the miscreants open fire at Middukhera as he was getting into his parked car. The police said he had gone to meet a real estate dealer in the area. The miscreants, all wearing caps and face masks, can be seen chasing Middukhera and firing shots as he attempted to run for cover. The police said eight to nine rounds were fired, after which the miscreants escaped in a car. After the attack, Middukhera, who was a former president of the SAD's student wing, Student Organisation of India, was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, the police added. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior leader and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the incident has once again exposed the state's “deteriorating law and order situation”. “No one feels safe because the law and order situation in Punjab has broken down,” he said. Cheema said the incident also raises questions as there is heightened security across the state ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. “This shows there is no fear of law as the incident took place in broad daylight,” he said, and demanded a high-level probe. Cheema described Middukhera as a bright and talented youth leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-akali-dal-leader-shot-dead-in-punjabs-mohali-1017234.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath calls social media 'unbridled horse', asks party workers to rein it||Amid the spat between the microblogging site Twitter and the BJP government at the centre, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath termed the social media as an ''unbridled horse' and asked the saffron party workers and leaders to prepare themselves to 'rein' it. ''Social media has a huge impact on today's youth...any issue that crops on the social media become an issue in the mainstream media in two-three days...we can not ignore it,'' Adityanath said while speaking at a workshop organised by the IT Cell of the UP BJP here on Friday. ''There is no control over social media...if we are not prepared well then we may be affected by it,'' he remarked. ''Proper training is required to rein this unbridled horse....at times unnecessary issues are raised on social media.....we need to train our workers to take on our opponents on it,'' he added. He said that there was an urgent need to counter those who were trying to paint a negative image of the Centre and the state government. ''We must immediately get active on social media,'' he said. ''We will have to proceed professionally to bring our opponents on the back foot...if someone raises the issue of the farmers then we must also inform the users about payments made to the cane farmers and also about our achievements,'' Adityanath said. Adityanath's remarks triggered a sharp reaction from the opposition Samajwadi Party and others. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav said that BJP, which had succeeded in the elections by spreading 'rumours' on social media, was now afraid of the same. ''BJP has always tried to mislead the people by spreading rumours on social media.....but now it is afraid of it,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-calls-social-media-unbridled-horse-asks-party-workers-to-rein-it-1017242.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||How will people with narrow mindset lead UP: BJP chief Nadda attacks Opposition||BJP president JP Nadda, who arrived here Saturday on a two-day visit, attacked the Opposition in Uttar Pradesh saying people with "narrow mindset" should not be elected to power. Nadda's visit comes at a time Uttar Pradesh prepares itself for the next year's assembly polls in which the ruling BJP will be pitted against the Samajwadi Party, the BSP and the Congress among other regional fronts. Addressing a meeting of the newly-elected chairpersons of zila panchayats and block panchayats on the first day of his visit, Nadda praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the vaccination drive. "On April 20, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modiji constituted a task force and he gave the country two vaccines (against coronavirus) in nine months," he said. "It is a separate matter (that the Opposition said) we will not get vaccinated. This is a vaccine of the BJP. Now, you have been vaccinated with the BJP vaccine. This tells the mindset of the leaders. Those who have narrow mindset, how will they lead UP? This is something to think upon," he said, without naming any leader or party. Just as the vaccine was being rolled out in the country in January, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had called it the "vaccine of the BJP" and said he would not take the shot. "How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine," he had said. Nadda also said the world sought India's vaccines and jabs were provided to various countries under Vaccine Maitri. "Today, there is no shortage of vaccines, and by December, the industrialists of India will prepare 135 (doses of) vaccines," Nadda said. BJP's national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were present during the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-will-people-with-narrow-mindset-lead-up-bjp-chief-nadda-attacks-opposition-1017245.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Search operation continues in region where Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were killed||A massive search operation continued for the second day on Saturday in a dense forest area in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir where two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in an encounter by security forces, officials said. The joint operation by the police and the army in remote Pangai village, located in a forested area of Thanamandi, was launched early Friday following information about the presence of three to four terrorists, including two foreign nationals, there. “The operation is going on but no fresh contact was established with the suspected terrorists believed to be holed up in the dense forest,” an Army official said. Two LeT terrorists were killed in a fierce gunfight in the forest area on Friday and a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from them, they said. The bodies of both the terrorists were removed to a local hospital where their post-mortem was conducted on Saturday, the officials said, adding the identity of the deceased is still awaited but they are most likely from Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-operation-continues-in-region-where-lashkar-e-taiba-terrorists-were-killed-1017260.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||Senior BJP leader and former Madhya Pradesh minister Babulal Jain dies at 88||Senior BJP leader and former Madhya Pradesh Minister Babulal Jain died of prolonged illness at a private hospital in Ujjain, family sources said on Saturday. Jain, 88, died late on Friday night, and is survived by two sons and a daughter, they said. The four-time MLA was first elected to the state Assembly in 1977 from Ujjain North constituency, and was later elected thrice from the Mahidpur Assembly segment. The BJP leader was made the chairman of Samanya Nirdhan Kalyan Ayog with a minister's rank in 2007, and later appointed as the deputy chairman of the MP State Planning Commission. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reached Jain's residence in Ujjain and paid tribute to the departed leader. “Babulal Jainji dedicated his life to the nation and public service by joining the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and later the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. He always stood firm against injustice. He raised his voice during the Emergency and faced torture in jail, but it did not frighten him,” Chouhan said. Jain's last rites were performed with state honour on Saturday evening. State BJP president V D Sharma and other leaders condoled Jain's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-bjp-leader-and-former-madhya-pradesh-minister-babulal-jain-dies-at-88-1017284.html
07-08-2021||North and Central||All weekly markets in Delhi to reopen from August 9||All weekly markets in the national capital will reopen from August 9, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday urging people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour there. Later, in mid June one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and official guidelines. The chief minister said his government is concerned about the livelihoods of poor associated with these markets and urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. "Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These are poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone's health and lives are also important. I urge everyone to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour after these markets are opened," he tweeted. Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These r poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone’s health and lives are also imp. I urge everyone to follow Covid appropriate behaviour after these mkts are opened. According to rough estimates, there are around 2,700 weekly markets that open on designated days in a week in 12 of the municipal zones, Delhi Cantonment and the New Delhi Municipal Council. Around four lakh people are associated with them for livelihood, vendors claim. A detailed order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on reopening of weekly markets and guidelines to be followed by the stakeholders concerned is awaited. The existing prohibited and restricted activities and services in Delhi as per the DDMA are scheduled to continue till 5 am on Monday. Currently, only 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in a weekly market per zone are permitted to transact business there. Strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all instructions, guidelines issued by the government of India and the Delhi government are ensured by officials. No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides. Officials have been instructed to permit any weekly market in neighbourhood or school grounds. Random Covid tests and enforcement activities are also conducted there. The decision to reopen all weekly markets in the city comes amid an improved Covid situation with positivity rate remaining below 0.12 per cent for the past many days. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-weekly-markets-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-august-9-1017356.html
07-08-2021||Opinion||Warren Buffett’s cash trap can snare Big Tech too||By Tara Lachapelle Jeff Bezos, since stepping away from Amazon.com Inc., has become the latest billionaire to head to space. Meanwhile, Facebook Inc.’s Mark Zuckerberg is eyeing life in the metaverse. But don’t expect to see Warren Buffett riding on the next rocket ship for his 91st birthday this month or talking up virtual dimensions in Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s earnings report Saturday. Unlike some of his ultra-wealthy peers, Buffett still prefers the nuts-and-bolts businesses of Planet Earth, such as keeping people’s lights on and delivering goods by freight train. That old-fashioned mind-set is why Berkshire’s market value hasn’t taken the same rocket ride as Amazon or Facebook, even though its operating earnings are much the same. With Buffett hoarding more than $100 billion of cash at Berkshire the last few years, the perception is that the investing icon has lost his touch in a technology-driven economy that would seem to be full of investment opportunities. But even as Buffett is criticised for that cash stockpile, it actually puts him in quite good company. Amazon — now led by CEO Andy Jassy — and Zuckerberg’s Facebook are each sitting on a heap of cash, too, as are Tim Cook at Apple Inc., Sundar Pichai at Google’s parent Alphabet Inc. and Satya Nadella at Microsoft Corp. Other than Berkshire, these are the most cash-rich companies in America and the most valuable. The Vault Berkshire’s balance sheet was once a playground for Buffett and his followers, who would study the bread crumbs in his annual letter for hints about the next big acquisition. Lately, though, his followers have given up on guessing because Buffett seems to think anything worth buying is too expensive or risky now. (It doesn’t help that his most recent big acquisition, the $37 billion deal for Precision Castparts five years ago, resulted in a writedown.) Without the splashy dealmaking investors had come to expect from Buffett, there’s little for them to get excited about, regardless of how much money Berkshire earns.  As it gets set to report another unsung quarter of results Saturday, it could serve as a word of caution to the tech visionaries: There’s a downside to CEOs encouraging cults around their own investing genius that can take the focus off of the business’s profitability and durability. Buffett has basked in the personal limelight throughout his five decades building Berkshire, as Bezos did while at Amazon’s helm and Tesla Inc.’s Elon Musk is doing now. But younger investors aren’t as enthralled with Buffett or his value-investing wisdom, and that’s held back Berkshire’s stock price. What they’re missing is that Buffett built this awe-inspiring collection of engines that take turns picking up the slack when another stalls out. It’s perhaps the only conglomerate that works exactly as intended. And especially now, its results can provide a scenic tour of the US economy as each industry and state tries to navigate its way out of the pandemic. Still, every quarter investors obsess over the cash figure, which was $145 billion at the end of March. The only way Buffett seems to be spending it these days is through share buybacks because Berkshire has been a net seller of stocks and an M&A spectator for much of the past year. Later this month, we’ll learn what if any equity stakes he took during the period. (Notably, tech investments are a part of the portfolio now, including a large stake in Apple.) Buffett’s primary reason for not spending Berkshire’s cash is much different from what may be holding back the Cook and Zuckerberg cohort, a less price-sensitive crew. Any big acquisitions for them are at least temporarily off-limits because antitrust regulators under the Biden administration and an expanding group of lawmakers have essentially said: “Don’t you dare.” That regulatory heat isn’t entirely directed at tech companies — it recently torched one of Berkshire’s deals, too. But it’s clear who government officials are primarily targeting. It leaves everyone else to wonder what on Earth — or beyond — Big Tech will do with all that cash. And no one is more afraid of the answer than the businesses that sit in adjacent industries such as internet providers, streaming-video services and even companies in health care. That said, with a more limited ability to acquire formidable upstarts and neutralise competitive threats, Big Tech is left to see how it fares among an investor base that it drove to be preoccupied with revenue growth. Shares of Amazon have already begun to retreat from their vaunted status, as Jassy grapples with a slowdown in e-commerce sales and a more competitive cloud-services landscape. Apple’s results last week were overshadowed by worsening supply constraints that are affecting the iPhone and iPad. These tech companies can at least plow money into research and development of new products that may have a shot at becoming their next big thing. That’s something Berkshire can’t do. But Buffett does have the benefit of a long memory that it behooves hotshot CEOs like Zuckerberg to study. At Berkshire’s May shareholder meeting — which because of Covid-19 was reduced from a celebratory festival into an online webinar — Buffett kicked things off by showing a list of the 20 most valuable companies in the world in 1989. None of them still held that status in 2021. “1989 was not the dark ages,” Buffett told his viewers. “We were just as sure of ourselves as investors in 1989 as we are today. But the world can change in very, very dramatic ways.”  It may remain one of Buffett’s most memorable lessons. Even as tech company after tech company has joined the $1 trillion and then $2 trillion market-cap club during the pandemic, they all have something in common with Buffett: more cash than they know what to do with. It’s a good problem to have until it isn’t.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/warren-buffett-s-cash-trap-can-snare-big-tech-too-1017179.html
07-08-2021||South||Kerala govt's helpline for women crosses 2 lakh call mark||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the number of calls received at the helpline facility for women called 'Mitra 181', has crossed two lakh mark and urged more people to utilise the service when they are in distress. Of the total calls received at the emergency helpline, 90,000 callers were provided the service, he said in a Facebook post. 'Mitra 181' is a project launched in 2017 to ensure the safety and welfare of women. The Kerala State Women's Development Corporation (KSWDC), a public sector undertaking under the Women and Child Development, runs the 24 x 7 emergency helpline service. Detailing the features of the helpline, the Chief Minister said all the staff in the control room are women with professional qualifications in law and social work. Besides counselling for those who need the service of police, ambulance, hospital and legal aid are being provided in coordination with various departments. The designated persons, who attend the calls would listen to the problems of every caller and follow up the matter until a proper solution is found and ensure that justice is done, he said. Of the total 60,000 calls, which were effectively dealt with and solutions were found, 20,000 were related to domestic harassment, he said. Concerned officials are trying to provide maximum support to women and children, who are seeking help in 'Mitra', the CM said adding that the service of major hospitals, police stations and ambulance are also available immediately by dialing the toll free number 181.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govts-helpline-for-women-crosses-2-lakh-call-mark-1017211.html
07-08-2021||South||KIIFB approves 10 more projects worth over Rs 932 crore||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) on Saturday approved 10 more projects worth Rs 932.69 crore taking the totalcost of projects funded by the financial institution to Rs 64,344.64 crore. The KIIFB board, which met today, sanctioned ten projects including ten-bed isolation wards for hospitals in all 140 assembly constituencies in the state in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. An executive committee meeting of KIIFB, which was held on Friday, had approved seven projects worth Rs 144.23 crore. "With this, total 17 projects worth Rs 1,076.92 crore has been approved in the KIIFB board meeting and the executive committee meeting," a release issued by the KIIFB said. The KIIFB has sanctioned the the modernisation of 26 fish markets as part of four projects under the Fisheries department. The Board has also sanctioned Rs 1,395.01 core for land acquisition for three National Highway stretches in Kerala. Earlier, the Board had sanctioned Rs 5,374 crore for land acquisition and with the new allocation, the total fund approved for NH development has gone up to 6,769.01 crore. The Board has also sanctioned Rs four crore for five new schools in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kiifb-approves-10-more-projects-worth-over-rs-932-crore-1017246.html
07-08-2021||South||TTD hikes special darshan quota to 8,000 tickets; wants devotees to strictly follow Covid-19 rules||The threat of Covid-19 third wave is compelling the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam officials to restrict the number of pilgrims allowed for the darshan of Lord Venkateshwara. TTD Executive Officer Dr Jawahar Reddy said that they would continue to issue a limited number of special darshan (Rs 300) tickets till the World Health Organization eases the pandemic restrictions. “Based on the requests from devotees, we have hiked the daily online special darshan quota tickets from 5,000 to 8,000 tickets for August. Depending on the intensity of Covid-19 cases, we will revise these numbers. We appeal to the devotees coming for Srivari darshan to follow all the Covid-19 precautions in view of the government alerts about a third wave,” Reddy said during his monthly “Dial-Your-EO” program, on Saturday. Reddy said that advance accommodation allotment counters are set up at the Alipiri tollgate and Srivari Mettu footpath routes. Devotees are not being allowed on the Alipiri footpath route at present because of the renovation works, slated for completion in September. Book on Anjaneya birthplace The TTD which has earlier declared that Anjanadri of the Tirumala hills is the birthplace of Lord Anjaneya would be bringing out a comprehensive book with all the puranic, historical and archaeological evidences as affirmed by researchers, puranic pundits, pontiffs etc. The EO also said that the TTD has sent a proposal to the Andhra Pradesh endowments department to handover the Anjaneya temple at Japali near Tirumala to them. The gold lacing of Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple's vimana, located in Tirupati, would be initiated on 14 September and will be completed by May 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-hikes-special-darshan-quota-to-8000-tickets-wants-devotees-to-strictly-follow-covid-19-rules-1017328.html
07-08-2021||South||Pulichintala project's fallen gate fixed with stop lock; Opposition TDP blames YSRCP government's poor maintenance||A stop lock gate was fixed in the place of Pulichintala project's radial gate no 16 that broke off on Wednesday night while the gates were being lifted to discharge the surplus water. Officials had to drain out five lakh cusecs water from the 46 TMC capacity project on the Krishna river in Guntur district to reduce the storage to about five TMC, for the work to be carried out. With the gate replaced, project and irrigation officials are now refilling the reservoir with the outflow from the upstream Nagarjuna Sagar project. The huge surplus flow of water from Pulichintala for the last two days had caused inundation in some downstream areas especially the low lying settlements abutting the river in Vijayawada. The officials have now withdrawn the warnings at the Prakasam Barrage at Vijayawada. “As the stop gate arrangement is completed, the water discharge from Pulichintala is stopped completely. So, there would be no flood discharge from the Prakasam Barrage from Saturday night,” said M Babu Rao, superintendent engineer, irrigation circle, Guntur. Meanwhile, the opposition TDP blamed the sub-standard construction works of the project and the poor maintenance now under CM Jaganmohan Reddy. “The ruling party leaders boast of the Pulichintala project as a dream fulfilled during YS Rajasekhara Reddy's rule. The substandard construction work has now resulted in the crest gate getting washed away in the floods” said TDP president and former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu. TDP Legislature Party deputy leader Nimmala Ramanaidu held the poor maintenance by the YSRCP government responsible for the washing away of the Pulichintala crest gate. “YSR regime was responsible for the present situation. Pulichintala project construction was full of flaws in both civil and mechanical works. The spillway was reduced to 546 meters when it should have been 754.59 metres. Only 24 crest gates were fixed when 33 gates were needed for effective flood management. The gap between gates in each pier was increased to 400 mm. This has resulted in far higher pressure the gate could not withstand during the flood,” Nimmala said. Nimmala further alleged that the maintenance of the irrigation projects as per the prescribed norms was ignored under Jagan. “The YSRCP government and the irrigation minister did not bother to ensure flood cushion maintenance works which eventually led to the collapse of the gate and the river water wastefully flowing into the sea.” Andhra Pradesh water resources minister Anil Kumar Yadav said that an enquiry will be initiated to know the gate collapse cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pulichintala-projects-fallen-gate-fixed-with-stop-lock-opposition-tdp-blames-ysrcp-governments-poor-maintenance-1017345.html
07-08-2021||State||I am a 'pakka' BJP Chief Minister: Basavaraj Bommai||Reacting to Kumaraswamy calling him 'Janata Parivar CM', Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stressed that he is a 'loyal' BJP worker and termed the Opposition leader's remark as mischievous. He also said he would hold talks with Ecology & Environment and Tourism minister Anand Singh to convince him to continue in the portfolio allotted to him. Speaking to media persons at Hubballi Airport here on Saturday, he said it is obvious for a leader to demand a bigger portfolio as they grow in the party. “However, everyone can not be given the portfolio they seek for in a party which has grown so big. There will be a few disgruntled ministers and MLAs and we will convince them,” he said. He was reacting to a statement of Anand Singh, who expressed his displeasure over taking charge as Environment minister. ‘BJP CM’ Bommai termed former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s statement that Bommai was ‘Janata Parivar CM’ as mischievous. “Kumaraswamy knows under what circumstance I left JD(S) 15 years ago. Since then I have been working as a loyal BJP worker and I am a ‘Pakka’ BJP Chief Minister,” he said. The chief minister also said he would hold talks with Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda over his meeting with JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda. “There is no ‘politics of adjustment’ with JD(S), I will explain to BJP leaders and workers of Hassan what was the need for him (CM) to meet Deve Gowda,” he said and added that there was no political discussion with Deve Gowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-am-a-pakka-bjp-chief-minister-basavaraj-bommai-1017274.html
07-08-2021||State||Araga Jnanendra becomes Karnataka Home Minister, Thirthahalli goes into festive mode||Festive atmosphere gripped Thirthahalli taluk, on Saturday, after four-time MLA Araga Jnanendra was allocated home portfolio. The followers of Jnanendra burnt fireworks and exchanged sweets in the town as part of celebrations.  It may be mentioned here that former chief minister the late S Bangarappa, MLA from Sorab, too was made home minister in Devaraj Urs-led cabinet when he became the minister for the first time. In this way, for the second time, MLA from Shivamogga has become home minister.  Expressing his happiness over the portfolio, he said the party and chief minister accorded him home portfolio believing in his ability. He promised that he would discharge his duties effectively. He had learnt discipline in RSS and it would prove beneficial for him. He would provide justice to the post under the guidance of RSS leaders and the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/araga-jnanendra-becomes-karnataka-home-minister-thirthahalli-goes-into-festive-mode-1017323.html
07-08-2021||State||Risk management plan in place to cope with floods, but there’s scope to do better||Soon after taking charge, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai took stock of the flood situation. At least 13 districts have been hit by floods over the past few weeks, making it the top priority for the new government. This is the fourth consecutive year that Karnataka has faced floods. Last year, Karnataka declared 23 districts and 130 taluks as flood-hit. The distribution of rainfall has become erratic in the past few years, a prominent reason for floods. Floods in Krishna and Cauvery Basin of Karnataka is primarily due to riverine floods (outflows greater than the carrying capacity of the river). Although not much has changed with overall rainfall, showers meant for over a month are now occurring in a few days, causing floods, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) officials say. KSDMA commissioner Manoj Rajan says the state was able to mitigate the crisis to a large extent this time as it was ready with the Karnataka State Action Plan for Flood Risk Management, 2021. This plan provided information on river basin-wise vulnerable villages. A flood forecast cell was also constituted at Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) to regularly update information on inflow and outflow of reservoirs. WhatsApp groups of all officials concerned were created for Almatti, Narayanapura, Bhima, Cauvery and Tungabhadra reservoirs ensuring good coordination, he says.  At present, 100 relief camps are operational in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Uttara Kannada, sheltering 48,995 people. The government has announced Rs 660 crore for flood relief works. Not only have the floods affected crops and livelihood apart from causing several casualties over the last four years, it has also led to a huge financial drain on the state amid the pandemic. Last year, Karnataka had pegged losses owing to floods at Rs 25,000 crore, while the estimated losses in 2019 were Rs 35,000 crore. Although Karnataka has put in place several measures, they are inadequate to avert the annual crisis, experts say.  “The government has taken several measures over the last few years, but we can do way better,” environmentalist Vishwanath Srikantaiah says, emphasising on better interstate dialogue, coordination among officials managing various reservoirs and better data gathering. “The KSNMDC has done a good job with the weather station in Bengaluru. This should be replicated across the state,” he says. According to Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator, South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, the flood forecasting system needs an overhaul. At present, the Central Water Commission does flood forecasting. There has to be accountability for this data. It should also be decentralised at the state level for regional accuracy. The rainfall forecast system, too, should be river basin-wise, instead of generic forecast for a region based on “heavy or moderate” rainfall, he adds, insisting on making all the data available to the public promptly. According to Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan, who comes from a place that is prone to floods, the government is yet to desilt water bodies that got clogged after the 2018-19 floods. “As a result, the river’s course has changed and runs into agricultural lands now,” he explains, highlighting poor follow-up of measures at the ground level. Admittedly, government officials too believe much more can be done. An official involved in disaster management told DH that the government’s ‘early warning system’ needed improvement. It also needs to increase the number of gauging stations and assess rainfall and water flow from upper to lower catchment areas. A “flood plain zonation” has to be created, mapping a region to understand the impact in relation to the water released, the official says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/risk-management-plan-in-place-to-cope-with-floods-but-there-s-scope-to-do-better-1017330.html
07-08-2021||State||Sulking Anand Singh threatens to quit Bommai Cabinet over portfolio allotment||Hours after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai allocated portfolios to ministers, Tourism and Ecology Minister Anand Singh on Saturday expressed his displeasure over the department/s allotted to him. The Vijayanagara MLA has indirectly threatened to quit the Cabinet if his portfolios were not revised. "I had requested CM Bommai and former CM B S Yediyurappa for the portfolio of my choice. They had assured me of considering my request. But I was allotted Tourism and Ecology portfolios which I didn't ask for. I am disappointed..." Anand Singh told reporters. "I will meet CM and Yediyurappa again and seek them to reconsider my request. If they don't change my portfolios, I may remain as MLA," he said indirectly threatening to quit the Bommai Cabinet. "They (party leadership) should have given me the department/s of my choice considering the sacrifice I'd made to bring the BJP to power. At least, they should clarify the reasons for not allotting me the portfolio I'd sought, he said. Anand Singh is said to have confided to his close aides that he was eyeing Energy or PWD portfolios. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sulking-anand-singh-threatens-to-quit-bommai-cabinet-over-portfolio-allotment-1017333.html
07-08-2021||State||Govt issues order for scholarships to farmers' children||The state government has officially issued an order for providing scholarships for farmers' children in Karnataka, a move that was earlier announced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.  According to the government order, children of agriculturists studying in PUC and degree courses will be eligible for the annual scholarship, which the government is giving at an estimated cost of Rs 1,000 crore. Accordingly, students whose parents own agricultural land and involved in farming will be eligible for the scholarship. The students will, however, be eligible for only one scholarship, although any other cash award will not be consider as "scholarship," the government order said.  As per the new scholarship guidelines, the state government will annually credit the amount to the students' accounts. The amount is fixed at Rs 2,500 for boys and Rs 3,000 for girls studying in PUC/ ITI courses; Rs 5,000 for boys and Rs 5,500 for girls studying in degree courses other than professional courses; Rs 7,500 for boys and Rs 8,000 for girls studying in LLB/ para-medical and B Pharm courses and Rs 10,000 for boys and Rs 11,000 for girls studying in MBBS and Engineering courses. The newly inducted CM had announced the scholarship after his maiden Cabinet meeting last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-issues-order-for-scholarships-to-farmers-children-1017334.html
07-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai keeps Finance, Bengaluru, Sudhakar retains health portfolio||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to his team of 29 ministers, retaining K Sudhakar as the person in charge of the health and medical education sectors.  The list of portfolios also has some surprises: Debutant minister V Sunil Kumar has been given the plum energy portfolio, along with Kannada & Culture.  Another first-time Cabinet member Araga Jnanendra is the home minister.  First-time minister B C Nagesh replaces S Suresh Kumar as the primary and secondary education minister. Higher education and IT/BT is with CN Ashwath Narayan like last time.  With the BBMP elections coming up, it was widely expected that Bengaluru would get a dedicated minister. But, Bommai has kept the plum Bengaluru City Development Portfolio with himself.  While most ministers have retained the portfolios they held in the previous government, the major changes include Govind Karjol getting water resources, C C Patil with public works, B Sriramulu with transport & ST welfare, Murugesh Nirani getting industries and so on.  Shashikala Jolle, the lone woman in the Cabinet, is now minister for Muzrai, Wakf & Haj. Earlier, she was the women & child development minister and faces corruption allegations. Now, Halappa Achar is the women & child development minister.  “I must be the luckiest CM because no minister mounted pressure for a particular portfolio,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-keeps-finance-bengaluru-sudhakar-retains-health-portfolio-1017166.html
07-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP does 'balancing' act in Karnataka cabinet portfolio allocation||The BJP after successfully ensuring the smooth exit of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, has managed to expand the cabinet and allocate cabinet portfolios without giving any room for controversy and dissent. The party has also managed to keep Yediyurappa happy without giving in fully to his pulls and pressures. Cabinet berth was denied to his son BJP Vice-President B Y Vijayendra, who was allegedly a shadow of his father. At the same time, his loyalists were kept out of the cabinet, who went out of the way to support him at the time of Yediyurappa's exit. Anand Singh, BJP MLA from Vijayanagar was the only person to raise his voice on portfolio allocation. He has been given Ecology, Environment and Tourism ministry. "It is painful. I had expected a better portfolio. Will meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and express my concerns," he said. B Sriramulu, a powerful backward class leader, is also believed to be upset with the allocated portfolio. However, Bommai explained that he has spoken to Anand Singh in this regard as he is a good friend. "The cabinet is being expanded to ensure changes in the administration. All are allocated with good portfolios," he maintained. The party and Bommai have also ensured the political management by allocating cabinet berths to most of the migrant MLAs (those who resigned from Congress and JD(S) to join BJP). At the same time the party gave plum posts to newly inducted cabinet ministers without disturbing senior party leaders. Expressing happiness over cabinet portfolio allocation, K S Eshwarappa, one among the top leaders in the state, said, "The portfolios are given as per the strengths and wishes of the candidates. The team is ready to perform and get results." Govind Karajol, minister for Water Resources, explained that his portfolio was earlier held by Chief Minister Bommai and he would take all guidance from him to deliver. C C Patil, the minister for PWD however said that he did not expect to get a prestigious portfolio. The party is gearing up to face long pending zilla panchayat and taluka panchayat elections which will be held shortly in the state. The BJP, with the cabinet expansion and portfolio distribution, is also preparing the ground for the next state assembly and Lok Sabha elections, party sources explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-does-balancing-act-in-karnataka-cabinet-portfolio-allocation-1017224.html
07-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 1,610 new cases, 32 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday logged 1,610 new cases of Covid-19 and 32 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,16,927 and death toll to 36,773, the health department said. The day also saw 1,640 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 28,55,862. Bengaluru Urban recorded 357 new cases, as the city saw 400 discharges and 5 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 24,266. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.08 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.98 per cent. Hassan reported six deaths, Bengaluru Urban and Kolara (5 each), Dakshina Kannada (4), Dharwad, Mandya and Udupi (2 each), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 342 new cases, Mysuru 141, Udupi 131 and Hassan 129. Bengaluru Urban district has a total of 12,30,138 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,73,830 and Tumakuru 1,18,247. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,05,712, followed by Mysuru 1,70,031 and Tumakuru 1,16,223. Cumulatively a total of 3,96,99,877 samples have been tested, of which 1,47,869 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-1610-new-cases-32-deaths-in-karnataka-1017283.html
07-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka first state to issue order implementing NEP-2020: Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka has become the first state in the country to order the implementation of the ambitious National Education Policy (NEP). Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday issued an order to implement the policy from the current academic year. In a statement, Ashwath Narayan said, “We (Karnataka) are the first state to order implementation of NEP-2020 and it will be done as per the guidelines of NEP.” Students joining BA or BSc degree courses shall opt for two subjects (as discipline core) available at their respective colleges. Later, at the start of the third year of the course, they can opt for one subject as a major and another subject as a minor or they opt for both subjects as majors. In addition to opting for two subjects, students need to choose Kannada and one more language. Besides, students will have to choose open electives and discipline electives as per the curriculum structure. Colleges have been directed to prepare a separate Kannada curriculum for those who have not studied Kannada either in PUC or equivalent level or for those whose mother tongue is not Kannada. However, if the students are pursuing courses such as BCom, BCA, BBA, BVA and BPA, the choice of optional subjects is not necessary. Further, if the student discontinues for any reason, after completing the second year of graduation by obtaining the necessary credits, the student shall be given a diploma certificate. If the student discontinues, for any reason, after completing the third year of graduation by obtaining the necessary credits, they will be awarded the Bachelors Degree as per guidelines. Similarly, if the 4th year of the course is available at the college in which the student has studied the previous three years, the study along with the chosen optional subjects can be continued for the award of the honours degree. If a research project is part of the course, such students will be eligible to directly join PhD studies. Also, eligible colleges can have integrated courses of 5 years, in addition to the degrees courses of 3 years and honours degree courses of 4 years. If any student discontinues after 3 years degree, he/she will be awarded a degree and after 4 years, honours degree will be awarded. If a student of honours degree joins PG courses, it will be one year course and for others, it will be a two-year PG course. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-first-state-to-issue-order-implementing-nep-2020-ashwath-narayan-1017317.html
07-08-2021||West||Bomb scare at 3 Mumbai railway stations, Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow hoax, 2 detained||Security agencies got into a tizzy after an anonymous caller informed the police that bombs have been placed at three railway stations in Mumbai and actor Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow, although the call later turned out to be a hoax and two persons were detained from neighbouring Thane in this connection, an official said on Saturday. The caller, who is one of the detainees, is a truck driver, he said. Police said they had received the call on Friday night, following which searches were carried out at these four locations, but nothing suspicious was found during the operation. “Mumbai police's main control room had received the call around 9.45 pm on Friday, in which the caller said that bombs have been placed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Byculla, Dadar railway stations and at megastar Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow in Juhu,” the police official said. "After getting the call, the Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway Protection Force (RPF) along with the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS), dog squads and local police personnel rushed to these locations and carried out searches," he said. At the CSMT station, all the platforms, the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) office, parking lots and other nearby areas were searched with the help of the BDDS and dog squads. A team of Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS), Quick Response Teams (QRT), teams of a few local police stations, including Marine Drive and Azad Maidan, were also involved in the operation, he added. But despite several hours of search, nothing suspicious was spotted at the CSMT and other three locations, the official said. The police tracked the mobile number of the caller and traced him at Shil Phata area near Mumbra in Thane district, he said. “The caller is a truck driver from Marathwada region of Maharashtra. We have learnt that he has a habit of drinking. He has been detained along with one more person and the process to register an offence is currently on,” the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bomb-scare-at-3-mumbai-railway-stations-amitabh-bachchans-bungalow-hoax-2-detained-1017151.html
07-08-2021||West||Porn case: HC rejects pleas filed by Raj Kundra, aide, challenging their arrest, remand||The Bombay High Court on Saturday rejected the pleas filed by businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest and subsequent remand orders against them in a case of alleged production and streaming of pornographic content on apps. A single bench presided over by Justice A S Gadkari rejected their applications, saying that the duo's remand by a magistrate to police custody and the subsequent judicial custody was within the conformity of law and did not require interference. In their petitions, Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, and Thorpe had termed their arrest as illegal as the mandatory provision of issuing notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. The duo, in their plea, sought the high court to order for their immediate release and quash two orders passed by a magistrate after their arrest remanding them in police custody. While Kundra was arrested on July 19, Thorpe, who was employed as the IT head in Kundra's firm, was arrested on July 20. They are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/porn-case-hc-rejects-pleas-filed-by-raj-kundra-aide-challenging-their-arrest-remand-1017174.html
07-08-2021||West||58 patients, evacuated after LPG leakage at civic body-run hospital in Mumbai; all safe||A serious incident of Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) leak from a tanker at the Kasturba Hospital here sent the BMC in a tizzy, officials said here on Saturday. The smell of the leak from a tanker with around 10K tonnes gas, was noticed around 12.30 pm and all emergency systems were activated, said Mayor Kishori Pednekar.To begin with 58 patients, including 20 suffering from Covid-19, were immediately shifted to another location in the hospital and have been said to be safe, she said. Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray who rushed to the spot, said a potentially major tragedy was averred due to prompt response. "The situation is under control... The work of controlling the gas leak is underway," he told mediapersons at the site. Officials said that as per preliminary information, the leakage reportedly occurred owing to a malfunction of a valve during the transfer of the gas from the tanker to a storage facility at the hospital. Senior police, fire brigade, disaster management officials and experts from the HPCL are at the site monitoring the situation closely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/58-patients-evacuated-after-lpg-leakage-at-civic-body-run-hospital-in-mumbai-all-safe-1017198.html
07-08-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to train 2,000 OBC students for MPSC, 1,000 for UPSC exams, says Minister||The Maharashtra government has decided to train 2,000 OBC students for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams and 1,000 for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams, state Disaster Management Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters in Aurangabad, the minister said talks are also underway with aviation companies to impart pilot training to 25 students each year. The state government has sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 150 crore for Mahajyoti (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Research and Training Institute), of which Rs 40 crore have been disbursed, he said. "Under Mahajyoti, we are going to train 2,000 OBC students for the MPSC exam and 1,000 for UPSC exams," Wadettiwar said. Similarly, a project will also be undertaken to train 25 persons as commercial pilots, of which 33 per cent will be from the VJNT class and 67 per cent from the OBC category, he said. Talking about the appointment of MPSC board members, Wadettiwar said that other communities should also be given preference while appointing members, and the issue will be taken up with the chief minister. The state government is planning to set up a separate commission for gathering data needed in court for political reservation of OBCs, he said. The minister further criticised the Union Cabinet for clearing a constitution amendment bill that seeks to give states the power to make their own OBC lists. "The bill presented in the Parliament is incomplete. The Central government has pushed its responsibility on states regarding reservation. Without Constitutional amendment, reservation beyond 50 per cent is not possible," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-train-2000-obc-students-for-mpsc-1000-for-upsc-exams-says-minister-1017213.html
07-08-2021||West||Covid-19: More relaxations on way including decision on local train travel, says Maharashtra CM||The Maharashtra government is planning to relax more Covid-19 curbs in the coming days but with utmost caution and will also take a call regarding the local train travel, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Speaking at a function organised by the BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) undertaking to induct more electric buses into its fleet, the chief minister also said he met with the representatives of hotels and restaurants, who demanded further relaxations in timings beyond 4 pm, and explained to them that the curbs will be eased step by step. "The Maharashtra government is going to grant more relaxations, but we are taking every step cautiously. A decision will be taken for local train passengers as well. We need to ensure that these relaxations do not trigger another wave of Covid-19," Thackeray said. The state government recently introduced several relaxations in 25 districts, which have reported a low Covid-19 positivity rate, by allowing all shops to remain open till 8 pm. The government also allowed the resumption of schools for certain classes in urban and rural areas from August 17 onwards. Currently, common people are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains which are being operated only for the people employed in essential sectors. Many quarters are demanding that common people, who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, be allowed to board the local trains, called the lifeline of Mumbai. Maharashtra on Friday reported 5,539 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 187 deaths, which took its tally of infections to 63,41,759 and the toll to 1,33,717. The state is now left with 74,483 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-more-relaxations-on-way-including-decision-on-local-train-travel-says-maharashtra-cm-1017239.html
07-08-2021||West||SIT to probe extortion case against IPS officer Param Bir Singh||Thane city police has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe a case of alleged extortion against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and 27 others, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered against Singh and others on a complaint filed by builder Ketan Tanna at the Thane Nagar police station last week. No arrest has been made in this connection yet. The other accused named in the First Information Report include deputy commissioner of police Deepak Deoraj, assistant commissioner of police N T Kadam, former police officer Pradeep Sharma, inspector Rajkumar Kothmire, jailed gangster Ravi Pujari and a city-based journalist. Tanna alleged that when Singh was Thane police commissioner between January 2018 to February 2019, the accused extorted Rs 1.25 crore from him by summoning him to the office of the Anti-Extortion Cell and threatening to frame him up in serious criminal cases. The Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is already probing another complaint of alleged extortion filed by bookie Sonu Jalan against Singh. Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police chief in March this year in the aftermath of the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The IPS officer subsequently accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sit-to-probe-extortion-case-against-ips-officer-param-bir-singh-1017294.html
07-08-2021||West||Maharashtra: Jilted lover hangs self, live streams act on Facebook||Spurned by his girlfriend, a 27-year-old man allegedly committed suicide in Kalyan of Maharashtra's Thane district and live streamed his final moments on Facebook, police said on Saturday. Ankush Pawar, a resident of Kalyan (west), allegedly hanged himself after his girlfriend of three years refused to marry him, an official said. While live streaming his suicide on Facebook, Pawar, who worked as a ward boy at a hospital, said that he had been in a relationship with a woman for three years and had given her money from his savings, he said. The couple quarrelled frequently over several issues and during a heated argument on Thursday, the woman reportedly told him to die, following which he committed suicide in a fit of rage, the official said. The MFC police have registered a case of accidental death and further probe is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-jilted-lover-hangs-self-live-streams-act-on-facebook-1017297.html
07-08-2021||West||Doctors observe ‘black day’ after Gujarat govt calls strike illegal||Resident doctors of six government medical colleges in Gujarat observed "black day" on Saturday, by wearing black clothes, after the state government termed their strike as "illegal", while two of the colleges ordered their resident doctors to vacate hostel premises. The authorities of government medical colleges in Vadodara and Jamnagar ordered their resident doctors to vacate hostels with immediate effect for continuing with their strike. At least 2,000 resident doctors of six government medical colleges have been on strike since Wednesday, mainly over the issue of bond service period and the 7th Pay Commission. “We are the same corona warriors who continued to go on duty without worrying about food. We ensured that Covid-19 patients were treated well. The same government, which showered petals on us for being corona warriors, is now treating us like this,” one of the striking resident doctors said. In Gujarat, medical students of government colleges are required to sign a bond, which mandates that they serve for a year in rural areas after completing their studies. Doctors can break the bond by paying Rs 40 lakh. In April this year, when Covid-19 cases were on the rise, the state government had announced that one day of Covid-19 duty will be considered equivalent to two days of bond duty. Thus, six months in Covid-19 wards will be considered as one year of bond period. However, in July, when the cases dropped significantly, a new notification was issued stating that the ratio has been restored to 1:1. “The government's action against us is a black day for us bonded and resident doctors. The government has gone back on the promises it made six months ago during the height of coronavirus to waive our bonds,” another resident doctor said. Dean of Baroda Medical College Dr Tanuja Javadekar said the residents have been served notices to vacate their hostel premises, but the authorities are still trying to persuade them to withdraw their strike. “We have received an order from the government that interns and residents who are on strike should be ordered to vacate the hostel. They have received the notice. We are also counselling them to resume duty,” Dr Javadekar said. Similarly, authorities of Jamnagar-based Shri MP Shah Medical College also served notices on striking residents to vacate the hostel. The state government had on Friday termed the strike called by the resident doctors as "illegal", and threatened to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act if they did not return to duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-observe-black-day-after-gujarat-govt-calls-strike-illegal-1017306.html
