08-08-2021||Comment||Losing one’s identity in a cloned world||Isn’t it time we asked ourselves whether IT companies should occupy every nook and cranny of our lives and dictate our purposiveness in the world? In our mad rush to digitise our daily lives and benefit from the latest innovations that the IT industry has to offer, we, as nation-states and as individuals, have lost our sense of identity in the translation process. We have been barcoded and QR-coded into submission. We carry a smartphone wherever we go – a form of electronic bracelet usually reserved for people under house arrest or prisoners out on parole. When one engages in nothing more than the simple act of filling out a form on the Web – be it to apply for a job or visa or passport, buy some consumer product or just look up a piece of information – one is automatically viewed either as a customer or as a suspect in the Web’s dichotomous world. A nation-state’s sense of identity is usually bound up in a set of unique artefacts – its name, its flag, its passport, its currency. The name provides clues on the nation’s political and religious identity while the flag serves as a language-independent visual symbol. The passport serves to identify the nation’s citizenry to the rest of the globe while its currency serves as a medium of exchange, easily identifiable by its citizens, each of whom has a distinct identity, for conducting business transactions involving goods and services. How independent can nation-states truly be if they outsource the printing of their passports, visas, licences and currency to other countries, indeed ones that once colonised them and which, in return, have outsourced to them plastic debris and electronic waste? Bilateral technology transfer works wonders, don’t you think! In case you don’t know, four, yes, just four, companies – Thales Group, IN Groupe, and Idemia -- all based in France -- and Semlex, based in Belgium –print the passports for more than 65% of the countries in the world. These same companies also print the currencies, visas, postage stamps and driving licences of numerous countries, most of which are in Africa, South and Central America, and South/Southeast Asia. How did this come about? The answer lies in the fact that most countries in the global south do not have the highly IT-centric production facilities to generate their own secure, tamper-proof government documents. If any of these companies were hacked into, you can bet that such information will never be publicised. How secure can a nation-state be if it relies on cryptographic devices imported from elsewhere to protect its diplomatic and other government communications? Or, for that matter, relying on foreign plane and arms manufacturers to supply state-of-the-art electronics-loaded weaponry when such weapons can be easily rendered inoperative from remote locations? Incidentally, Thales Group is also a major defence contractor with significant interests in facial recognition systems and cryptography; it has several offices in New Delhi and Bengaluru. The Swiss are known the world over for their chocolates and precision clocks. Not so well-publicised is the fact that they have also been selling, with US and German backing, ‘secure’ cryptographic devices (with backdoors -- no extra charge!) to insecure countries for more than 50 years. These days, AI-enhanced ones such as Pegasus from Israel are also available. No, not the flying horse from Greek mythology but its 21st-century software avatar, capable of wrecking numerous lives, of anti-establishment journalists, in particular. How independent can you, as an individual, be if the software you are using forces you to contort your name or your address or date to fit the procrustean format that the software designer has chosen for you? Not everyone in the world has a three-part name – first, middle and last. But almost all forms you fill out on the Web have this structure. In this diverse world of ours, some people have just one name, yet others six or seven. An individual’s sense of identity is closely related to their name. Names are a huge source of information since they can be used to specify gender, marital status, birthplace, nationality, ethnicity, religion, position within a family, even caste, class and occupation. Would you like to know what IN Groupe’s corporate slogan is? “The right to be you. Identity is a fundamental right, and IN Groupe helps defend it.” Main Street, Europe or Main Street, America is Main Street, Everywhere – be it Benin, Bolivia or Bangladesh. Bharat included.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/losing-one-s-identity-in-a-cloned-world-1017375.html
08-08-2021||Comment||Planting seeds for the future||The baking hot summer has given way to cool breezes, and welcome showers of rain. The monsoon has been kind to us this year, filling up lakes, tanks and large dams across Karnataka. Koels now serenade the city, alongside the frogs and toads, calling for sweethearts at high volume. The snails, slugs and millipedes have returned in full force as well, and this is the time of the year when one needs to be careful while walking, looking down to make sure you don’t crush an unwary, slow-crawling creature under your feet (or tyres). In between showers, butterflies and dragonflies flitter around, basking in the sun, while sunbirds and other birds gorge on the nectar, fruits and insects that are in abundance all around. These flying species are pollinators, crucial to maintaining the web of life that sustains us all. Karnataka’s major cereal crops – rice, maize, wheat and ragi – do not need external pollinators to reproduce. But most of the fruits and vegetables we eat are pollinated by bees, butterflies, wasps, birds, beetles and other species. Some species of plants will die completely if pollinators collapse – for instance, the cacao bean, pollinated in South India by a tiny midge that resembles a mosquito. Without pollinators, the world’s cacao bean production would collapse, leaving us to inhabit a world without chocolate. Though scientists have warned us of this danger for years, the biodiversity of our pollinators has been rapidly shrinking – not just in India, but across the world. This is because of a complex set of factors. The pesticides we use kill all the insects, pollinators included. Cities like Bengaluru have concrete urban heat islands, patches of cement and asphalt, which trap the sun’s rays and increase local temperature by several degrees. These also impact pollinators. But one of the major causes of pollinator collapse is the indiscriminate destruction of the trees and plants that once fed and sheltered these insects and birds. The monsoon is the best season to make amends. As we mourn the 60,000-plus trees that are soon to be cut for infrastructure projects in and around Bengaluru, and the millions of trees the city has additionally lost in recent decades, we can also honour the memory of these trees, and of the birds, butterflies and other species that they protected, by going on a planting drive. In cities like Bengaluru, every square-foot costs money, and there is very little space available for planting. But there are different ways in which each of us can recreate our living spaces and surroundings to coexist with pollinators, sharing our lives with nature in the city. Many parts of the city have large patches of open space in parks, where people visit regularly, and where trees are needed for shade. This is the best season to conduct plantation drives in nearby parks and at lake fringes (though not in the lake!), along the roadside, and in large compounds in schools, colleges, apartments, and corporate campuses. But everyone may not be able to do this. Bengaluru’s slums have astonishing levels of native plant diversity, and pollinators, in cramped places where water and basic necessities are minimal – they grow plants in old vessels, paint buckets, and plastic bottles, placing plants on their roof, or the sides of their homes. There is so much potential for bees and butterflies to thrive in Bengaluru if we can do the same in every apartment balcony across the city. Pollinators thrive in surroundings where they are left alone, so it is best to resist the urge to pluck every ‘imperfect’ leaf. We can all find space for a pot or two in a sunny corner of our homes where weeds and insect-friendly plants can grow undisturbed, inviting beautiful butterflies to drop by for a moment of magic. We need to make room for insects, without the expectation that each leaf, flower and fruit will be perfect. Hidden in the decay of the leaf is the story of the caterpillar and the butterfly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/planting-seeds-for-the-future-1017376.html
08-08-2021||Comment||The mysterious Mr Ramappa||I visited the Ramappa temple in 2007. The trip was a couple of years in the planning. I was working on a story revolving around a fictitious account of the Kakatiya Treasure. One of the important locations in the story was the Ramappa Temple in Palampet. Palampet is part of the Mulugu district in Warangal. In recent times, Mulugu has been more known for harbouring Naxalites in its forests and hills, rather than for the Ramappa Temple and other Kakatiya-era national treasures of the region. The Ramappa Temple itself goes back 800 years, to the reign of Ganapati Deva at the peak of the Kakatiya kingdom. The temple is said to be named after the architect-sculptor Ramappa, and not the deity, or the king, nor the local warlord. Mr Ramappa appears in unexpected places across the regions ruled by the Kakatiyas. Most recently, on a visit to Hampi, I was told by the local guide that the royal enclosure, Zenana Mahal, was built by Ramappa. Of course, there is a time difference of about 300 years between the construction of the Ramappa Temple and that of Zenana Mahal of Hampi. However, the four-petalled flower, which is the signature of the Ramappa Temple, is also present in Zenana Mahal. There is also a style of the foundational layers of the Ramappa Temple that is used in Zenana Mahal. The rest of Zenana Mahal is in the Islamic style, with decorative arches and domes. Ramappa is said to have been from Karnataka, and the architect of several man-made lakes and civic constructions in southern India. The Ramappa Temple, which took 40 years to build, was surely the effort of many sculptors and engineers. The sculptures are very different from any seen elsewhere in India. Not carrying the traditional measures of a perfect body, the ladies of the Ramappa Temple are stylised, elongated, and boneless snake-like in their postures. The carvings are very intricate and have decorative elements with the dimensions of a straw. The pillars of the main temple are iconic. The Nandi is magnificent, in shiny basalt rock, the head cocked stylishly to the side, sitting in its own enclosure besides the temple. Ramappa’s signature flower is everywhere, and in a fractal sense, the plan view of the temple is also the four-petalled flower. The Mulugu forests provide a lush green backdrop. Medaram, a village in Mulugu, hosts the Sammakka Saralamma Jatara tribal gathering once every two years. The gathering celebrates two tribal women who died in battle defending tribal rights against the Kakatiya armies. The recent UNESCO recognition for the Ramappa Temple as a world heritage site is welcome. The temples and forts of Warangal city included, the Ramappa Temple and the Mulugu forests could be a major attraction, if curated well. The increase in tourism should be managed scientifically. It is important to put in efforts to preserve the beautiful structures, including neighbouring temples, which are equally fascinating. Some of the potential additional funding could be utilised in researching the region and its tales – including the truth behind Mr Ramappa. Was the temple really named after the sculptor-architect? Or was the temple named with an endearing reference to its deity Ramalingeswara? Who was the sculptor behind the ladies of the Ramappa Temple? Who was the mysterious Mr Ramappa who seemed to have been a sculptor, the architect of many temples, an engineer of many civic structures, and lived for well over 300 years?!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-mysterious-mr-ramappa-1017377.html
08-08-2021||Comment||Unwell medicine||If you are a person who has visited a gynaecologist in India -- congratulations, you have access to healthcare! -- you may have been lectured for wanting to end your pregnancy; or heard the doctor lecture the nurse on not asking the patient if she is “sexually active” but instead whether she is “married”; or had the doctor bark at you for asking any questions at all. If you are a young woman with unsettling symptoms, you may have been advised that “all this will stop when you get married”, and if you’re older, that “it’s normal, stop fussing.” Patronising, ‘genteel’ sexism, impatience, negligence, and dismissals are features of a systemically entrenched patriarchal attitude towards women’s health. We’ve all experienced it. But if you want to get even madder about it than you are, read Elinor Cleghorn’s book, Unwell Women: Misdiagnosis and Myth in a Man-Made World -- a historical, social, sexual, medical, scientific, and political summary of the gender bias in medicine, from the dawn of medicine right up to the present. Cleghorn focuses on the Western world, and on binary women, but her work has universal resonance. Unwell Women shows the thick, consistent line of medical gender bias through history, offering a breathtaking sense of its monstrous weight -- today’s attitudes toward women and their health are shockingly similar to those of ancient Greece or medieval Europe. There is a straight line between the ancient healer, who theorised that floating wombs send up vapours that addle women’s heads, and the present-day doctor who thinks that marriage will fix your palpitations. Medicine has come a long way, but it is still an androcentric system of power. Female illnesses and ‘deviant’ behaviours have largely been seen in the context of a prescribed biological role as reproductive beings; and ‘fixing’ unwell women focused, for most of history, on trying to keep them, or stuff them back into, that box. Medicine has put theory into horrendous practice. Women with perplexing symptoms or behaviours have been burned as witches (for being solitary, unmarried, and childless among other things), had their clitorises snipped off (to prevent them from masturbating themselves into madness), been lobotomised (“Easier than curing a toothache”, said newspapers of the time), undergone hysterectomies and eugenic engineering through sterilisation and birth control (“By 1970, around a third of women in Puerto Rico had been sterilised, many without their express knowledge or consent”), and been experimented on like rats by pharmacological developers (the influential doctor pushing oestrogen therapy research and drugs was funded by the drug manufacturers; “a drug [DES, a version of the Pill] considered too dangerous for chickens and men was somehow perfectly acceptable for women”). All this for being ‘unwell’ in ways that patriarchal society and medicine cannot tolerate and/or explain. Nobody paid much attention to the world of pain and discomfort they endure, instead putting women’s symptoms down to -- most famously -- hysteria, gaslighting them, and refusing them the indelicacy of a physical examination. Today, “our contemporary biomedical knowledge is stained with the residue of old stories, fallacies, assumptions and myths”. Even today, “nowhere near enough research and time has been spent on figuring out the cause of [endometriosis]”, which affects one in 10 women across the world. Forget that -- it was only in 2005 that the full size and shape of the clitoris was discovered. Cleghorn, who herself suffered pain and medical mismanagement for years before being diagnosed with lupus, marshals telling details in her historical sweep, and keeps a careful critical eye on the class and race fault lines of the movement for better women’s health. (Medical feminism, for example, has had to move past its own eugenically-motivated problems.) Today, for all the advances in science, culture, and gender attitudes, we have a long, long way to go. Don’t take it from me though -- I’m solitary, single, and childless, and therefore obviously a witch. Take it from this fascinating, infuriating book that everyone should read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/unwell-medicine-1017379.html
08-08-2021||Comment||India is at the UNSC high table at a critical time for the region||India assuming the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) this month (for the 11th time since Independence, and India will do so again in December 2022, in the last month of its current two-year tenure in the Security Council) is part of a routine process. India is currently one of the 10 non-permanent members of the UNSC. But there’s nothing routine about the time at which India has come to occupy the high chair. It comes at a time of great volatility and uncertainty. The global economic outlook appears to be not very encouraging, given that even the best performing economies are struggling to emerge out of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Even more importantly, in the first seven months of the term of this UNSC, some 28 resolutions have been passed but not a single one on Afghanistan or on the pandemic. These seven months have witnessed at least three major happenings: the military coup in Myanmar in February 2021, Israeli air strikes on Hamas strongholds in Gaza, and the increasing terror attacks and counter-attacks by the Taliban and the Afghan fighting forces alongside the US withdrawal from Afghanistan. There are more than half a dozen flashpoints globally that have the potential to turn into conflict zones and seriously impact global economic revival and peace. There is very little change in those conflict zones where the US was determined to bring peace, at times all by itself, and has failed miserably. The general perception is that the US has managed to lose all the wars it has fought in the last few decades, and China seems to be winning all its conflicts without even fighting. China had tried its best to prevent India from holding any position in the UNSC that would upset its applecart in the region or threaten the CPEC, China’s strategic pathway to the much-coveted Indian Ocean. With the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, China is working to strengthen its grip on Afghanistan. The only impediment to doing so is India holding the leadership of three crucial committees -- the Taliban Sanctions Committee, the Counter-Terrorism Committee for 2022, and the Libya Sanctions Committee. In heading the Taliban Sanctions Committee, India gets a crucial multilateral foothold in the Afghan ‘peace’ process. The Taliban need approval from this committee to travel, and given the increased level of violence in Afghanistan, future approvals for Taliban’s globe-trotting to amass arms and ammunition and support could be impacted. The situation on the ground has changed drastically since the last UNSC meeting on Afghanistan in June. After Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar called External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and sought an emergency meeting of the UNSC on the worsening security situation, the UNSC has, under India’s presidency, discussed the issue in a closed meeting to find a way to stop further advance of the Taliban and enforce a ceasefire to facilitate resumption of peace talks. It is no secret that the Taliban continues to get assistance from Pakistan on supplies and logistics. In fact, Atmar, while briefing foreign envoys in Kabul, indicated the nexus between the Taliban and the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba, Tehreek-e-Taliban and Al-Qaeda, Ansarullah, Jundallah, East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. Even as India presided over the UNSC meet on Afghanistan, Russia convened a meeting of the “extended troika,” which includes China, the US and Pakistan. Ironically, even the US has announced a Quad-2 on Afghanistan -- consisting of itself and Pakistan, Afghanistan and Uzbekistan. It is no secret that Islamabad and China are collaborating to undo whatever little the US could achieve in the last 20 years. The reality of the situation is that ceasefires and peace talks with Taliban will not work. There has to be a concerted effort and a global plan of action, supported by the UNSC, to reign in Pakistan’s shenanigans. If need be, India should consider a strong resolution against Pakistan, call for sanctions against those countries that promote, aid and abet terrorism in any form and manner. Chairing a special high-level open debate of the UNSC on maritime security on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to flag issues concerning piracy, armed robbery and terrorist activities at sea. Yet another major challenge is the total disregard that some countries show for the international legal framework of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLAWS), misusing the global commons to achieve hegemonic objectives. The UNSC needs to highlight this issue not only from an international law and security viewpoints but also to draw attention to its potential to intensify the dangers of climate change and other global issues. Elections will take place later this year to choose the 10th Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose tenure will begin on January 1 next year. India has reportedly conveyed to the incumbent António Guterres that New Delhi will back him for re-election for a second term. As one of the six principal organs of the United Nations, the UNSC is singularly responsible for ensuring international peace and security, recommending the admission of new UN members to the General Assembly, and approving any changes to the UN Charter. It has been 75 years since the UN was founded and its decision-making processes and administrative structures have become dated, archaic and unresponsive to the changed and changing geopolitical realities. A number of proposals for reforms in the membership and functional areas of the UN have been made but nothing has changed in decades. India’s experience in peace and consensus-building and its global outlook should be put to good use while it sits at the UNSC high table.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/india-is-at-the-unsc-high-table-at-a-critical-time-for-the-region-1017381.html
08-08-2021||First Edit||Olympics: Success despite Covid||Olympics in the time of a pandemic has a larger import than a mere sporting event. Delayed by a year and constantly under threat of being disrupted due to a raging Covid-19 pandemic, the Games were held successfully, celebrating the triumph of not just sporting but human spirit as well. As the Tokyo 2020 drew to a close on Sunday, it also offered an Indian high with javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra leading the golden charge. While an increasing number of virus cases ensured that the stadiums were devoid of fans, it did little to dampen the athletes' resolve to excel as records tumbled galore, especially in swimming and the showpiece event of the Games - athletics. Like any Olympics, Tokyo Games were also replete with stories of shocking upsets and near misses, unalloyed joy and gut-wrenching sorrow. But it wasn't just restricted to that as mental health too came under scrutiny. Gymnast legend Simone Biles of the USA didn't compete in most of the events due to the twisties, primarily triggered by depression, and it revealed that supremely fit athletes aren’t immune to a fragile mind. While her pull out did shock the world, there was also empathy for the 24-year-old all-around, perhaps reflecting upon the times we live in.     Closer home, it was all about a resurgent India. Ever since its debut at the 1900 Olympics, it was all about fading hopes and the odd medal, initially gained through hockey before other sporting categories feebly turned the tide. India registered their new high in London in the 2012 edition with six medals. Cut to the present, India did one better, finishing at seven and that too with a golden hue as Chopra hurled his javelin to 87.58 m. This was the nation’s first gold in Olympic athletics and the second individual gold after shooter Abhinav Bindra gunned down at the Beijing Games in 2008. Chopra's fabulous effort proved to be a fitting climax to India’s remarkable performance while at the same time driving home the point that the bar is so low for a country of over 1.3 billion. If Chopra provided an exhilarating finish to India's campaign, over a fortnight, a few of their other athletes kept the interest chugging. Mirabai Chanu won a silver in the women’s 49 kg weightlifting to open the account while wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya lent an encore in the 57 kg section. Other bronze medal winners were P V Sindhu in badminton, Lovlina Borgohain in boxing and Bajrang Punia in wrestling.  India's story of this Olympics, however, remained the remarkable resurgence of hockey. Manpreet Singh’s men finishing with bronze, an Olympic medal after 41 years, and Rani Rampal’s feisty women picking up a fourth spot sent the nation on an emotional ride.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/olympics-success-despite-covid-1017678.html
08-08-2021||In Perspective||A fair deal for minority shareholders ||In 2009, the Satyam scandal shook the market when the company’s chairman confessed that its accounts had been falsified. More recently, it was IL&FS that defaulted on its debt obligations, triggering a liquidity crisis in the financial services markets. While these are prominent corporates that drew public attention, the website of Serious Fraud Investigation Office shows hundreds of companies that have brazenly flouted corporate governance norms without protecting their minority stakeholders. First and foremost, it is the quality of audit that needs to be questioned for violation of disclosure and corporate governance norms and for hurting the interest of minority shareholders. Next is the turn of the company’s independent directors, along with top management personnel, to face the music. Independent directors are meant to be watchdogs to deter fraud and to ensure balanced decisions during board meetings. One would expect independent directors to be experienced domain experts. Instead, preference is given to political affinity of the individual concerned. Data obtained by a newspaper under the RTI Act show that our PSUs have a majority of independent directors linked to the ruling party. Of the private sector, the less said the better. Barring a few companies, every chairman wants to pack his board with compliant independent directors that include friends, former colleagues, extended relatives and even neighbours. The “independence” of such promoter-appointed independent directors is questionable as they are unlikely to stand up for minority interests against the promoter. It is left to the minority shareholders to look after their rights. And to do this, they need to have a say in the appointment of independent directors on listed company boards. Independent directors are the main guardians of minority and public shareholder rights, whose job is to see that the company improves its corporate credibility and governance standards, which they cannot do if they are beholden to the ruling party or corporate promoters for their appointment. A novelty in India, Israel has provisions for the appointment of independent directors by minority shareholders. The UK has a dual voting structure whereby an independent director’s appointment must be approved both by the shareholders as a whole and by independent shareholders. Minority shareholders should also have a say in the removal of independent directors. The complex process that exists for their removal gives promoters a significant influence in the removal process. Their compensation needs to improve significantly, besides including them in the company’s long-term stock option plans to increase their vested interest as a stakeholder in the firm and making them more trustworthy to minority shareholders. As it is, minority shareholders’ shares are too small to confer any real power on them or to enable them to exert control or influence corporate action, although they deserve to be treated with candour, honesty, good faith, loyalty and fairness. The opportunity for company managements to do this is provided during Annual General Meetings (AGMs) and extraordinary general meetings which they may attend. Here lies the nub of the problem. The AGMs provide one opportunity for minority shareholders to express their concerns and ask questions. Remember, it was not rocket science but the absence of elementary audit checks that could not prevent the Satyams, the IL&FSs and the Enrons. When corporate audit is sub-quality, when independent directors cease to be “independent”, minority shareholders — who show a questioning mind, an element of professional scepticism, critically evaluate evidence and are alert to errors and frauds — could potentially ensure good corporate governance. When the management believes that minority shareholders are only looking for dividends, bonuses and discount coupons, will they allow them to play a guardian role? Will they ensure shareholder questions are taken seriously in the first place? Indian companies — irrespective of whether they are family-run, large and respected, FMCGs or PSUs — manage minority shareholder questions by choosing and limiting the number of questions, by ensuring that the selected ones end up praising the board chairman, wishing him a perpetual tenure, complimenting promoter parents or applauding succeeding generations. Uncomfortable questions are discouraged, tackled and managed. Fortuitously, SEBI is already trying to reform the system of independent directors, their appointment and role on the board. The SEBI has its task cut out. ‘Minority Interest’ protection mechanisms are required to ensure truly independent directors; minority shareholders must be encouraged to be alert to errors and frauds, ensuring that company boards perform in the company’s interest. Only then can we stop more Satyams and IL&FSs from tumbling out of the closet at periodic intervals. (The writer is former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-fair-deal-for-minority-shareholders-1017671.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||'New faces in Cabinet to accelerate pace of works'||Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar said new faces were appointed as ministers to accelerate the pace of works and implement the PM Narendra Modi style of administration in Karnataka. “I have been entrusted with a ‘power’ful portfolio and will discharge my duties effectively. I will try to work for the betterment of the party and the government,” he told media persons in Karkala on Saturday. “The Energy department in the past was held by D K Shivakumar and Shobha Karandlaje. I have many challenges before me. Along with Energy, I have also been entrusted with the department of Kannada and Culture,” he said. “I had not mounted any pressure on the CM. After the oath-taking ceremony, I had informed the CM that I will manage any portfolio entrusted to me,” he said. Sunil said he will make honest efforts to fulfill the long-pending demand of including Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-faces-in-cabinet-to-accelerate-pace-of-works-1017459.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will try to solve problems bothering hostels: Poojary||Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said that he will make an honest effort to give justice to the portfolio he is holding. “All efforts will be made to bring the last strata of society to the mainstream through various schemes implemented by the Social Welfare department. I will make a study on the problems and the required facilities in the department. By mobilising resources, efforts will be made for the development of various communities,” he told mediapersons. “I will make a study on the required changes to be made in the department and a take decision soon. Efforts will be made to solve issues bothering hostels run by the Backward Classes department and the Social Welfare department. This is a very important portfolio. Here, I can work with the poor. I will review the current situation and study problems faced by the community. I will work accordingly to address their issues,” said Kota Srinivas Poojary. He said, “Portfolios can be changed during the reshuffle. I had served as Muzrai minister twice. It is not wrong to have a desire to be the Rural Development minister. The portfolio has been given to our senior leader K S Eshwarappa and we will work with him.”  “Shashikala Jolle will serve as Muzrai Minister. I will give her a few suggestions,” he added. On the weekend curfew, he said guidelines must be followed as the positivity rate is increasing. There will be no restrictions for the upcoming festivals, but it should be conducted by adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. "Few restrictions on the border is essential to stem the spread of Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-try-to-solve-problems-bothering-hostels-poojary-1017478.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police rescue four-month-old baby abducted from Andhra Pradesh||City police rescued a four-month-old infant who was abducted from Andra Pradesh and also arrested a woman. Deveraja Police arrested one Asha, 31, for allegedly abducting the baby from Alipiri in Andra Pradesh. The police took the woman into custody when she was seen was roaming along with the baby and a 14-year-old boy on S R Road in the city. During interrogation, the woman revealed that she brought the infant from Alipiri. The Police handed over the baby and the woman to Alipiri police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-rescue-four-month-old-baby-abducted-from-andhra-pradesh-1017511.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada reports 438 Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 graph continued to increase in Dakshina Kannada with the district reporting 438 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. On Saturday, the district had reported 342 positive cases with four deaths. Dakshina Kannada’s cases are highest among all other districts in the state, including Bengaluru Urban, which usually records the maximum number of cases. According to the bulletin from the Family and Welfare Department, Bengaluru Urban had recorded 348 cases followed by Udupi with 129 cases. The discharges for the day in Dakshina Kannada are 311 while the total discharges so far are 98,303. The total positive cases reported in the district so far is 1,03284. The district has 3415 active cases undergoing treatment. While, six more Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the district, thus taking the total deaths to 1466. As many as 9,570 samples have been tested in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. The positivity rate has increased to 4.57 %. The officials have booked a total of 83,353 cases for violation of not wearing masks in public places and collected a fine of Rs 1,01,18,517 so far since March 2020.  Black fungus According to Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, as many as 19 active mucormycosis (black fungus) cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals in Dakshina Kannada. No fresh cases of black fungus have been reported in the district on Sunday. Of 19 active cases, seven were from Dakshina Kannada and 12 were from outside the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-reports-438-covid-19-cases-1017636.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Bommai reaches out to ministers unhappy with their portfolios||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday attempted to contain disgruntlement among ministers in his Cabinet by meeting both Anand Singh and M T B Nagaraj. Both ministers, who were unhappy with the portfolios allocated to them, appeared to have mellowed down after their meeting with the CM. Bommai told reporters that he has assured them to look into their demands in the coming days. MLA Satish Reddy also met Bommai on Sunday after his supporters staged a protest demanding a Cabinet berth for him. Meanwhile, supporters of Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan will take out a 'Bengaluru Chalo' rally from Kodagu district on Tuesday. Following his meeting with Bommai, Nagaraj — who is the Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries minister — said the CM has promised to address his concerns. Pointing out that he was the housing minister in the Congress-JD(S) government, Nagaraj said he was demoted from an 'A' grade portfolio to a 'D' grade one. "I want to be minister (of a department) that helps people, benefits the poor and gives a good name to government," he said, adding that he would continue to serve in the portfolio allocated to him. "I am not unhappy now," said Nagaraj, who is among the 'migrants' in the state Cabinet. On whether he had any particular portfolio in mind, he cited Public Works, Energy and Tranport departments and said the CM knew which portfolio was better. Another minister Anand Singh, who has expressed reservations over being allocated the Environment and Ecology, and Tourism portfolio, also met the CM during the day. Bommai said that he had discussed all the concerns raised by Singh. "I told him that I understand his feelings and have assured measures," he said. The CM also spoke to Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy, after members of Reddy community staged a protest on Saturday. "The CM has asked me to be patient," Reddy said, adding he was assured of a berth during Cabinet expansion in the future. "He understands the problems of native BJP workers who feel uncertain," Reddy said amid murmurs of 'native' BJP leaders being sidelined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bommai-reaches-out-to-ministers-unhappy-with-their-portfolios-1017621.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sudhakar says nothing wrong in renaming Indira Canteen||Defending BJP national general secretary C T Ravi's demand to rename Indira Canteen after Annapoorneshwari, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday there was nothing wrong in renaming it after Annapurna, an incarnation of Parvathi, who is the mother goddess to all including Indira Gandhi. The minister however said that the state government had not taken any decision on renaming the canteen. "We should be happy that India's highest sports award Rajeev Khel Ratna was renamed after the hockey legend and a patriot Major Dhyan Chand," the minister said. Replying to a query on the possible third Covid wave, Sudhakar said, "The government has taken necessary measures to contain the spread of virus. We have enhanced vigil in districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala. Also, night curfew has been imposed in the state. This apart, Covid testing has been increased and RT-PCR negative report has been made mandatory for inter-state rail passengers, the minister explained. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sudhakar-says-nothing-wrong-in-renaming-indira-canteen-1017648.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah decries 'hasty' order on NEP||Despite demands from various stakeholders to implement the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 after detailed discussions, the state government has issued a ‘dictatorial’ order of implementing it from the next academic year, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. “The order should be withdrawn immediately and a decision on its implementation should be taken only after extensive consultations,” he said in a statement. The ‘disastrous’ policy, he said, was part of a process to deprive the poor and middle class of quality higher education. Siddaramaiah listed out five reasons for the opposition to NEP, which included teaching Kannada only for two semesters. When the issue was raised previously, Higher Education minister C N Ashwath Narayan had assured to address it. “But, the new order has no clarity,” he said. Offering 40% credits for students online will reduce universities to mere distance education centres. “Education and selection of syllabus was the right of the states. The BJP government at the Centre is implementing this policy by repressing the rights of the states,” he said. Commenting on reducing the number of major subjects in graduation from three to one under NEP, he said that it ran the risk of rendering several lecturers jobless. The system also threatened the higher education system, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-decries-hasty-order-on-nep-1017651.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai attends lunch meet with industry leaders||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a lunch meeting with industry leaders on Sunday and discussed various issues. The lunch meeting was organised by Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, executive chairperson of Biocon Limited. Wipro founder Azim Premji, chairman of Manipal Global Education T A Mohandas Pai, chairman of Axilor Ventures Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-founder of Zerodha Nikhil Kamath and others were among those present. Bommai, in a tweet, thanked Shaw following the meeting. "...it was a constructive lunch meeting with all of you. Had a good discussion on industry and Bengaluru development," he tweeted. Shaw said that the meeting discussed various economic and infrastructure issues. "We are confident that he will drive visible change and assured him of our support," she tweeted. Entrepreneur Udayant Malhoutra, in a tweet, said that partnership between government, academia, private Sector and civic society was on the anvil "to promote a better life for all citizens. Bangalore to become a Global Aerospace Manufacturing Engineering hub," he tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-attends-lunch-meet-with-industry-leaders-1017652.html
08-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP not against minorities, says minister||Maintaining that the BJP was not against minorities, Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said the BJP government was working for the welfare of all sections without distinguishing between Hindus and Muslims. He was speaking at the state executive meeting of Minority Morcha. Opposition parties are pitting communities against each other for political gain, whereas the BJP has initiated several programmes for their welfare, he said. National president of Minority Morcha, Jamal Siddiqui said that while the Congress and the JD(S) were involved in family politics, BJP was leaving no stone unturned for the welfare of minorities. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-not-against-minorities-says-minister-1017654.html
08-08-2021||Main Article||Decoding the colonial sedition law||The sedition law was introduced in 1870 to combat the “increase in Wahhabi activity” in India as it challenged the British colonial government. The sedition law has always been one of the most controversial issues of legal jurisprudence in India. Various views ranging from calling for the complete abolition of it from our statutes to those advocating that the law be upheld are expressed. Many others have called for maintaining the provision but keeping its implementation within defined legal limits to strike a balance between national security and fundamental rights. The Supreme Court recently gave its opinion that these laws may be re-examined. The original Constitution adopted in 1950 did not recognise sedition law and tried to give the right to free speech with full protection in the chapter on fundamental rights. The first amendment in 1951 introduced an exception and some restrictions that gave legality and validity to the sedition law. The sedition law, defined under Section 124A of the IPC, 1860, is much feared and aristocratic in nature. Understanding the law Exciting disaffection towards the government always attracts the sedition law in India. Criticism is the culture of any democratic state. And whenever the government uses any law as a tool or weapon for the sake of self-benefit or for continuing in power and uses such tools against the Opposition or an individual, it ultimately undermines the democratic structure envisaged by the Constitution of any democratic country. Justice Chandrachud, while hearing the sedition matter, said that “expression of dissatisfaction against any government ought to be allowed as it functions in the same way as safety valves work in a pressure cooker to ease out the pressure”. “Merely criticising government rule or any law cannot be called sedition unless it has the potential to encourage people to be violent and show anger. Right to speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) is as valuable as the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution”. The use of any words or actions to encourage people to be or act against a government is sedition in any law. Depending on this, courts have leaned towards saying that in the absence of violence, sedition law cannot be invoked. The history In British India, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Mahatma Gandhi were charged under sedition law for writing against the colonial government. In 1897, Tilak was the first Indian political personality to be prosecuted under the draconian sedition law three times in a row. He was imprisoned for up to six years for “seditious” speeches and writings in the newspaper Kesari, which gave birth to hatred against colonial rule. Based on the Kedar Nath judgement in 1962, it was said that the citizen enjoys the right of criticism against any government without any intention to incite violence. Dhiren Sadokpam and Paojel Chaoba were arrested under the sedition law and the UAPA for publishing an article “Revolutionary journey in a mess” in a newspaper in Manipur. The author, M Joy Luwang, was also arrested later. Shashi Tharoor was booked for his tweet when a farmer had died in police firing. In May 2020, Dhaval Patel, owner of a Gujarati news portal, was booked for sedition for publishing a report suggesting that the leadership of a state would change and was also booked under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA). After four months, the Gujarat High Court quashed the matter. Various other cases of sedition were registered against politician Praveen Togadia, doctor Binayak Sen, writer Arundhati Roy, cartoonist Aseem Trivedi, Hardik Patel, student leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya. Space for dissent The polarity of the nation and citizens brings out how in democratic India, where the state has limited avenues to exercise complete power, individual liberties of the citizen are considered a threat and autocratic. Laws designed to deal with extraordinary circumstances, just like the sedition law and therefore the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, are used instead to create a narrative around state power. Expressions of dissent are not any longer being understood as an exercise of democratic rights, and are instead considered threats to the state. Terming their citizens ‘urban Naxals’ or ‘anti-national’, and that they belong to an invisible Naxal-intelligentsia-media- academia-NGO-activist nexus seeking to threaten the state, may be a means of coercing other citizens into silence, because the idea of the anti-national citizen gains prominence in India. Greater research must be conducted on how nationalism is being used to stifle various sorts of dissent, not just through laws but the facility of popular opinion. In a world where freedom from fear is sanctioned as a world right, one must question the necessity for a law like sedition that seeks to send shivers down the spines of citizens. Data and Court’s view Before the amendment to Article 19(2) of the Constitution, the Punjab High Court held that sedition was incompatible with free speech in a democratic republic, and struck it down as unconstitutional. Ram Nandan questioned the validity of the sedition law and his conviction by the judicature at the Allahabad High court. The court declared it to be unconstitutional and overturned his conviction for a speech. Law Commission Chairman B S Chauhan (Retd) had recommended repealing or a rethink on the sedition law prevailing in India. He further said that “expressing of dissatisfaction with the current condition of affairs cannot be considered sedition”. According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), in 2014, a total of 47 cases, 30 cases in 2015, 35 in 2016, 51 in 2017, and 70 cases in 2018, were registered under the sedition law. So far, 816 cases of sedition were registered since 2010 and 3,762 individuals were charged with sedition. The highest number of cases registered under sedition law was in Bihar (168), Tamil Nadu (139), Uttar Pradesh (115), Jharkhand (62) and Karnataka (50). The law cannot be misused as a tool to curb free speech. It must be understood that criticising or being disloyal to the government is not disloyalty against the nation. But nowadays, the government is using it to suppress the truthful voice of the activist, journalist, politician, student or even the citizen. The fundamental right of ‘Freedom of Speech and Expression’ is misunderstood because it does not restrain a citizen from criticising a political statement provided it does not incite or hurt the emotions of people against the state. (The writer is a law student, Central University of Allahabad) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/decoding-the-colonial-sedition-law-1017669.html
08-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Shifting the goalpost makes winning easy, a classic strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the opposition parties for stalling the proceedings of the Parliament and accused them of "hurting" the "sentiments" of the nation. Modi, speaking after inaugurating the 'Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna' in Uttar Pradesh, referred to the victory of the Indian men's hockey team over Germany to win the bronze medal, said that the opposition, however, was indulging in "self-goal" to fulfill its "political vested interests".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-shifting-the-goalpost-makes-winning-easy-a-classic-strategy-1017408.html
08-08-2021||National||Less than 40,000 single-day Covid-19 cases for second straight day||With 39,070 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,19,34,455, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,862 with 491 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,06,822 and comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 5,331 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10, 99,771, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 17,22,221  tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,00,39,185. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.27 per cent .  It has been less than three per cent for the last 13 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.38 per cent. Cumulatively 50.68 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 491 new fatalities include 139 from Kerala and 128  from Maharashtra. A total of  4,27,862 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,845 from Maharashtra, 36,773 from Karnataka, 34,289 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,217 from  West Bengal and 17,654 from Kerala. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-40000-single-day-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-1017438.html
08-08-2021||National||Maharashtra: Landslide in Thane; no casualty, 6 houses damaged||At least six houses were damaged after a landslide in Kalwa area here in Maharashtra on Sunday, but no one was injured, a civic official said. The landslide took place in the Indira Nagar locality following which huge stones rolled down a hillock in the area, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. Local firemen and a team of the RDMC rushed to the spot. As a precautionary measure, residents of 20 to 25 houses in the area were shifted to a civic school in Gholai Nagar, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-landslide-in-thane-no-casualty-6-houses-damaged-1017443.html
08-08-2021||National||Covishield, Covaxin combination brings better immunogenicity than 2 doses of same vaccine: Study||Combining Covishield and Covaxin as first two doses of Covid-19 vaccines have shown "better immunogenicity" than the two doses of same vaccines, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is yet to be peer reviewed, has said. The ICMR study involved 98 people of which 18 had inadvertently received Covishield as first dose and Covaxin as the second dose in Uttar Pradesh. Out of the 18, seven were women. The study 'Serendipitous Covid-19 Vaccine-Mix in Uttar Pradesh, India: Safety and Immunogenicity Assessment of a Heterologous Regime' said the findings have an important implication for the Covid-19 vaccination programme wherein heterologous immunisation will pave the way for induction of "improved and better protection" against the variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. "This study demonstrates that immunization with a heterologous combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine (Covishield) followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine (Covaxin) is safe and elicits better immunogenicity than two doses of homologous vaccination, using the same vaccines," the study, which was uploaded on medRxiv, a preprint server. The researchers said such mixed regimens will also help to overcome the challenges of shortages of particular vaccines and remove hesitancy around vaccines in people's mind that could have genesis in programmatic ‘errors’ especially in settings where multiple Covid-19 vaccines are being used. However, it added, to conclusively prove these findings a multicentre RCT needs to be carried out. The researchers said this appeared to be the first such study on administering an adenovirus vectored vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine. The country has been following homologous prime-boost approach in Covid-19 vaccination but 18 people in Siddharth Nagar of Uttar Pradesh inadvertently received Covishield as the first jab and Covaxin as the second. This incident happened in the fourth month of the national Covid-19 vaccination programme and it raised "considerable anxiety" among the public with a potential to contribute to vaccine hesitancy, the study, whose duration was from May to  June this year, said.  "We compared the safety and immunogenicity profile of them (18 individuals) against that of those receiving either Covishield or Covaxin. Lower and similar adverse events following immunisation in all three groups underlined the safety of the combination vaccine-regime. "Immunogenicity profile against Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in the heterologous group was superior and IgG antibody and neutralising antibody response of the participants was also significantly higher compared to that in the homologous groups," the study said. "The findings suggest that immunisation with a combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine was not only safe but also elicited better immunogenicity," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-covaxin-combination-brings-better-immunogenicity-than-2-doses-of-same-vaccine-study-1017449.html
08-08-2021||National||How India's five vaccines fare against the Covid-19 Delta variant||The Delta variant of Covid-19 is sweeping different parts of the world, including the US which is now registering the same level of daily cases as its previous peak due to the more transmissible strain of SARS-CoV-2. The Delta variant, which has now been detected in 135 countries in the world, led to fresh curbs in China and a rise in cases across the UK. India granted emergency approval to Johnson & Johnson's single-shot vaccine, and now has five vaccines to fight the virus. Scientists have pondered the vaccines' efficacy against the Delta variant, which caused the deadly second wave in India in April and May. Here's a look at how India's vaccines fare against the variant. Covishield Developed by Serum Institute of India, Pune, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, or Covishield as it is known in India, seems to perform well against the variant. In a study conducted in July 2021, two doses of Covishield showed 63 per cent effiicacy against the Delta variant. According to a study by Public Health England, two doses of Covishield were effective in preventing hospitalisation in patients of Delta variant.  Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Bharat Biotech conducted a trial that revealed that Covaxin is 65.2 per cent effective against the Delta variant. "In the Phase 3 trial conducted by Bharat Biotech, subjects vaccinated with Covaxin achieved greater protection against emerging B.1.617.2 (delta) and B.1.351 (beta) variants than those who had previous natural infections. Results showed an efficacy rate of 65.2 per cent," the company said in a statement. Sputnik V Russia's Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 is around 90 per cent effective against the highly contagious Delta variant of coronavirus. The shot, which Russia has actively marketed abroad, was previously found by researchers to be almost 92 per cent effective against the original strain of coronavirus. Denis Logunov, deputy director of Moscow's Gamaleya Institute which developed Sputnik V, said the Delta variant efficacy figure was calculated based on digital medical and vaccine records, the RIA news agency reported. Moderna Moderna Inc. said its vaccine produced protective antibodies against the delta variant spreading in the US and many other parts of the world. Moderna researchers tested blood samples from eight people for antibodies against versions of the spike protein from different coronavirus variants, including delta, which emerged in India. The vaccine “produced neutralizing titers against all variants tested,” the company said in a statement. The results were released on the pre-print server bioRxiv. The protective proteins are called neutralizing antibodies because they’re capable of preventing the virus from entering cells. Compared to the quantity of antibodies produced against the main version of the virus, neutralizing antibody levels against the delta variant were reduced by 2.1-fold. Johnson & Johnson The Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine is effective against the highly contagious Delta variant, even eight months after inoculation, the company reported. The vaccine showed a small drop in potency against the variant, compared with its effectiveness against the original virus, the company said. But the vaccine was more effective against the Delta variant than the Beta variant, first identified in South Africa — the pattern also seen with mRNA vaccines. Antibodies stimulated by the vaccine grow in strength over time, researchers also reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-indias-five-vaccines-fare-against-the-covid-19-delta-variant-1017454.html
08-08-2021||National||Security alerted at Delhi's IGI airport after bomb threat||Security at Indira Gandhi International airport in the national capital was alerted after Delhi Police received an email threat that terror outfit Al Queda was planning an attack at the airport. According to ANI, an investigation revealed that the threat was "non specific" and Bomb Threat Assessment Committee left from the airport.  IGI police station reportedly informed Airline Operations Control Center about an email about a planned bomb blast by Al Qaeda Sargana saying that Karanbir Suri alias Mohamad Jalal and Karanbir Suri's wife Shaily Sharda alias Haseena were coming from Singapore to plant the bomb at IGI in 1-3 days, the news agency reported. Delhi:IGI PS informed Airport Operations Control Centre y'day about a bomb threat e-mail received on planned bomb blast by Al Qaeda Sargana at IGI airport. It stated Karanbir Suri alias Mohamad Jalal&his wife Shaily Shara alias Haseena are coming to India on Sunday from Singapore More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-alerted-at-delhis-igi-airport-after-bomb-threat-1017457.html
08-08-2021||National||Byju's announces Rs 2 cr for Chopra, Rs 1 cr each for other Tokyo medallsts||Edtech major Byju's on Sunday announced a Rs 2 crore cash reward for Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra. The company, which is backed by marquee investors like Tiger Global and General Atlantic, will also offer Rs 1 crore each to Mirabai Chanu, Ravi Kumar Dahiya, Lovlina Borgohain, P V Sindhu and Bajrang Punia. "The accomplishments and the stellar achievement of India's sports heroes at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics have been nothing but inspirational, despite the challenges posed by Covid-19 lockdown in 2020-21," according to a statement. Not only have each of these atheletes made the country proud but have also ignited hope and aspiration that India can create many more Olympic champions in the future, it added. India's star athlete Neeraj Chopra created history on Saturday bringing home the country's first-ever gold medal in javelin throw in Tokyo Olympics 2020. Chopra produced a second round throw of 87.58 metres in the finals at the Tokyo Games to claim the country's first track-and-field medal and become only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics. With this, India registered its best-ever medal haul at an Olympics with seven medals, including two silver and four bronze. In this Tokyo 2020, Bajrang Punia (Bronze), Mirabai Chanu (silver), P V Sindhu (bronze), Lovlina Borgohain (bronze), men's hockey team (bronze), and Ravi Kumar Dahiya (silver) have also won medals. "Sports has a critical role to play in nation building and it's time that we celebrate our olympic heroes, not just once in four years, but every single day," Byju's founder and CEO Byju Raveendran said. They deserve all the adoration they get, and after this historic achievement at the Tokyo 2020, Byju's is rewarding the players for their efforts, sacrifices and achievement, he added. "We hope that this small gesture will help them in their journey going forward to win more laurels for the country and also encourage many more youngsters to dream big," Raveendran said. India has a huge potential to produce many more sporting champions and it is important to celebrate successes like this and make them heroes so that the country can transform from a sports-loving nation to a sports-playing nation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/byjus-announces-rs-2-cr-for-chopra-rs-1-cr-each-for-other-tokyo-medallsts-1017462.html
08-08-2021||National||PLI scheme for specialty steel a game changer, to boost domestic output: Centre ||The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty steel will prove to be a "game changer" for the industry as the move is expected to increase the output of value-added steel and see introduction of new age technologies in the sector, Union minister Faggan Singh Kulaste has said.         On July 22, the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the Rs 6,322-crore PLI scheme to boost production of specialty steel in India, attract fresh investments and create new job opportunities in the sector.         The scheme aims to attract an additional investment of about Rs 40,000 crore and lead to a capacity addition of 25 million tonnes (MT), besides generating 5.25 lakh job opportunities.         On the issues being faced by the domestic steel sector, Minister of State for Steel Kulaste told PTI, "The challenge is to develop Indian steel sector as more efficient, competitive and (to be) capable of producing quality steel including value-added steel... (as also) enhance per capita steel consumption." Further, other focus areas are availability of raw material at competitive price and to be a world leader in energy efficiency and sustainability, he added.         Replying to another question related to the steps taken to tackle these challenges, he said the government has already taken various initiatives.         Kulaste said that a vibrant domestic steel industry is important for a developing economy as it is a critical input across major sectors such as construction, infrastructure, automotive, capital goods, defence, rail etc. "Launching of game changer PLI scheme (will) increase domestic production of value-added steel and herald the introduction of new technologies, he said. In 2017, the government approved the National Steel Policy (NSP) 2017 to create a globally competitive steel industry in India. Under the NSP 2017, India aims to scale up its annual steel making capacity to 300 million tonnes (MT) and per capita steel consumption to 160 kgs, he said.         The Domestically Manufactured Iron & Steel Products (DMI&SP) policy, approved earlier, mandates to provide preference to domestically manufactured iron and steel products in government procurement.         The minister further informed that the steel scrap recycling policy has been notified. It aims to secure raw material availability to IF/EAF (Induction Furnace/Electric Arc Furnace). This will also reduce imports of scrap which is currently 7 million tonne, out of a total demand of 22-25 million tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pli-scheme-for-specialty-steel-a-game-changer-to-boost-domestic-output-centre-1017466.html
08-08-2021||National||Kozhikode crash: AI Express offers final compensation to all injured flyers, next of kin of deceased||Air India Express said it has made final compensation offers to all 165 passengers, who were injured and the next of kin of 19 flyers who died in the plane crash, in Kerala’s Kozhikode district last year. According to the airline, 80 out of the 165 injured flyers have taken up the offers as on August 6. The airline is awaiting acceptance of the offers from the remaining 85 injured flyers and the next of kin of the 19 deceased passengers. "We have not received any rejection on the offers made from the injured passengers or the next of kin of the deceased. Also, no legal case has been filed on the offers made," an Air India Express spokesperson told PTI. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport amid heavy rains on August 7, 2020. It fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 19 passengers and the two pilots. A total of 165 passengers and four cabin crew members were injured in the crash. The spokesperson said the carrier paid the interim compensation to the injured persons and the next of kin of the deceased persons by September 2020. The interim compensation was Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of deceased passenger of more than 12 years of age, Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased passenger of less than 12 years of age, Rs 2 lakh for critically injured passenger and Rs 50,000 to injured passenger. Once the interim compensations were given to the victims, the airline gave them the claim forms so that full and final compensation offers for each of them could be calculated, he said. The spokesperson added that the airline made the full and final compensation offers to each of the injured passengers and the next of kin of the deceased flyers between November 2020 and April 2021. "The airline started organising one-to-one meetings in Kozhikode to address the concerns or doubts of the injured passengers and the next of kin regarding the offers made. A total of 138 one-on-one meetings have taken place till August 6," he mentioned. He said the full and final compensation offers have also been made to the four injured cabin crew members and the next of kin of the two deceased pilots, and they have been accepted. Five days after the plane crash, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) had formed a five-member panel to inquire into the circumstances of the accident. The panel is yet to submit its report. Captain S S Chahar, former DGCA-designated examiner for pilots of the B737NG aircraft, is the investigator-in-charge in the panel. He is assisted by operations expert Ved Prakash, senior aircraft maintenance engineer-B737 Mukul Bhardwaj, aviation medicine expert Y S Dahiya and AAIB deputy director Jasbir Singh Larhga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-crash-ai-express-offers-final-compensation-to-all-injured-flyers-next-of-kin-of-deceased-1017467.html
08-08-2021||National||Take cue from Naveen Patnaik: Parliamentary panel to states on sports development||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik received special praise from a Parliamentary Standing Committee for his support for the Indian men's and women's hockey teams, with the multi-party panel recommending states to set up high-performance centres as he did in his state. The mention came in a report tabled by Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports headed by BJP MP Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe last Friday, which also said that every state should focus on one sport specific to that region and develop High-Performance Centres on the lines of Odisha. The report on the action taken by the government on the panel's recommendations on 'Preparation for Olympic Games 2021' mentioned Patnaik contribution while discussing the issue of national sports federations losing sponsorships due to the economic stress induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. In its latest recommendations, the panel said sponsorship in sports has the potential of providing much-needed support for infrastructure development and better performance by sportspersons. It had earlier recommended that the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model could be adopted for creating sports infrastructure and rope in corporates the way Odisha did to fund ten high-performance centres. "The Committee in its collective wisdom has appreciated the initiative and efforts taken by Naveen Patnaik...in setting up the High Performance Sports centres and sponsoring both men’s and women’s Hockey team...since 2018, which has translated into better performances by both these teams at Tokyo Olympics 2020," the panel said. The men's team finished with a bronze, ending a 41-year-old medal drought in hockey in Olympics, while the women's team ended fourth after a spirited fight. "States should also identify and promote the raw talent from a tender age and provide them with the much-needed support of international standards in terms of equipment, sports kit, coaching (team and individual), exposure and mental conditioning in order to nurture them for participation and podium finish at the international level," it said. The panel also recommended that there should be an assured 3 per cent sports quota reservation in government jobs for all medal-winning athletes and also for the period of unemployment, the Department of Sports should grant financial aid to the athletes. It said sportspersons who bring laurels to the country "need to be honoured as they are a collective pride of the nation". Recommending that the government should take concerted efforts for ensuring sustainable employment opportunities for all meritorious sportspersons, the report said sportspersons are able to remain in high form and take part in major competitions for a limited period. So, it added, some career option needs to be devised for meritorious sportspersons, who have won medals not only in Olympics but other major international and national sporting events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-cue-from-naveen-patnaik-parliamentary-panel-to-states-on-sports-development-1017476.html
08-08-2021||National||Grit, tears, glory: Stars of India's best Olympic performance||India capped off its best-ever performance in the Olympics with a haul of seven medals, including a gold. As the Tokyo Olympics come to a close, PTI takes a look at the medallists and those who came within touching distance of glory but couldn't quite make it to the podium. Neeraj Chopra: Gold They say save the best for last and for India it came true at the Tokyo Games. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics. After romanticising stories about "nearly there" for years, India finally had its first track-and-field medal winner, thanks to Chopra's throw of 87.58m. Interestingly, Chopra, the son of a farmer from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, took to athletics to lose weight. One day, his uncle took him to Shivaji Stadium in Panipat for some running. But Chopra wasn't interested in it and almost instantly fell in love with javelin throw when he saw a few seniors practising at the stadium. The 23-year-old, a Subedar with 4 Rajputana Rifles in the Indian Army, has been a consistent performer since bursting into the scene with a historic gold in the junior world championships in 2016 with an Under-20 world record of 86.48m which still stands. His other achievements include gold medals in the 2018 Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games, besides the top finish in the 2017 Asian Championships. Mirabai Chanu: Silver The pint-sized weightlifter from Manipuri lifted the spirits of the entire nation as she ended a 21-year wait for a medal in weightlifting, clinching a silver medal in the 49kg category to open India's account on the very first day of competitions on July 24. Wearing gold earrings shaped like the Olympic rings, which were a gift from her mother who sold her own jewellery for them five years ago, the 26-year-old lifted a total of 202kg (87kg+115kg), finally exorcising the ghosts of her disastrous outing in the 2016 Rio Games where she had failed to log a single legitimate lift. Born to a poor family in Nongpok Kakching village about 20 kilometres from Imphal, Chanu's childhood was spent cutting and collecting wood from the nearby hills, hauling them up by herself, and fetching water from nearby ponds in milk powder cans. The 2017 world champion had initially wanted to be an archer but fate had different plans, and reading about fellow Manipuri the legendary N.Kunjarani Devi's exploits in the weightlifting arena all over the world, inspired Chanu to take up the sport. Ravi Dahiya: Silver The 23-year-grappler born in the Nahri village of the Sonepat district in Haryana stormed to the final of the men's 57kg freestyle event without any fuss. Although, he fetched a silver, his immense strength and stamina along with technical prowess impressed one and all. Born to a farming family, Dahiya is a product of the national capital's Chhatrasal Stadium, which has already given India two Olympic medallists -- Sushil Kumar and Yogeshwar Dutt. He rose to prominence only when he qualified for the Tokyo Games with a bronze medal-winning effort at the 2019 world championship. He has steadily gown in stature ever since, winning the Asian Championship in 2020 and then defending the title this year. His father, Rakesh Kumar, would himself carry milk and butter to Chhatrasal Stadium, about 60km away from his home, every single day without fail to ensure that his son got the best diet. PV Sindhu: Bronze One of the strongest medal contenders heading to the Tokyo Olympics, PV Sindhu delivered once again. This time snatching a bronze. The 26-year-old etched her name among the all-time greats after winning women's singles bronze medal to add to the silver she won at Rio de Janeiro five years back. She became the first Indian woman and second overall from the country to achieve the feat. Such was her dominance at the Tokyo Games that she dropped only two games, both in the semifinal loss to Tai Tzu Ying, in six matches. The Hyderabad shuttler rose to fame at the international level in 2014 when she won bronze medals in the world championship, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and Asian Championships. One of the most consistent performers, Sindhu has returned with medals from each one of the big-ticket events she has participated in. Men's hockey team: Bronze Four decades of pain and disappointment was washed away as the Indian men's hockey team clinched the bronze, the country's 12th Olympic medal in the sport that came after a gap of 41 years. It wasn't gold but it was enough to spearhead the revival of the sport in a country that attaches so much sentimental value to it. After the initial hiccup which saw the team being steam-rolled 1-7 by Australia in their second game, Manpreet Singh and his men made a strong comeback only losing to eventual champions Belgium. While Manpreet inspired the team with his leadership, goalkeeper PR Sreejesh had a phenomenal tournament, standing like a wall when the opposition mounted an attack. It seemed the team was destined to win. How else could one explain the addition of Simranjeet Singh, who scored a brace in the crucial bronze playoff, when he wasn't even a part of the original squad and had been added following the International Olympic Committee's decision to allow "alternate athletes" in team events because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lovlina Borgohain: Bronze Competing in her maiden Olympics, Borgohain carved a niche for herself in the history of Indian women's boxing by clinching a bronze -- India's lone boxing medal at the Tokyo Games. The 23-year-old, who was brought up in Baro Mukhia village of Assam's Golaghat district, used to be a kickboxer, like her two elder sisters, before she turned to boxing. A day before she was to leave with the Olympic-bound boxers group for a training camp to Europe, Borgohain had contracted COVID-19. But the missed opportunity couldn't stop her from having a remarkable campaign in which she upstaged former world champion Nien-Chin Chen of Chinese Taipei in the 69kg category. With the feat, she became only the third Indian boxer ever, after Vijender Singh and MC Mary Kom, to finish on the podium at the quadrennial showpiece. Bajrang Punia: Bronze A favourite heading into the Games, Bajrang didn't quite live up to the sky-high expectations of becoming the first Indian wrestler to win the gold, but the 27-year-old did return from Tokyo with a bronze medal, an impressive feat in a nation starved for success at the grandest sporting spectacle. Bajrang has been passionate about wrestling since childhood, and why not, the sport runs in his blood. His father and elder brother, too, were ardent practitioners of the sport. As a kid all he wanted was to wrestle. Once at a Dangal, when he was about 34kg, Bajrang insisted that he be allowed to wrestle but the competition was meant for those who weighed about 60kg and to the amazement of everyone, he pinned his opponent, giving a glimpse of his determination. Those who were so close yet so far: Women's hockey team From a bottom-place finish at Rio 2016, the Indian women's team capped a remarkable journey at Tokyo Olympics, finishing a creditable fourth. Although the team's dream of securing its maiden Olympic medal remained unfulfilled as it lost 3-4 to Great Britain in the closely contested bronze medal play-off, the side recorded its best ever finish at the Games. After three losses on the trot, everyone had written them off. But a moment of brilliance by skipper Rani Rampal that led to a late strike by Navneet Kaur in the game against Ireland kept the team's quarterfinal hopes alive. A win against South Africa, that saw Vandana Kataria strike a hat-trick, and a favourable result helped ensure India's passage to the quarterfinal, where drag flick specialist Gurjit Kaur rose to the occasion when it mattered the most, converting a PC against the mighty Australians. With the odds stacked firmly against them a brave and determined women's team etched its name in the history books by entering its maiden Olympic semifinals. Deepak Punia After an impressive campaign that saw him race to the semifinals, Deepak Punia was only 10 seconds away from a medal, but the 22-year-old debutant ended up conceding a take-down in the 86kg freestyle bronze medal play-off. Wrestling was just a route that Deepak hoped would find him a good job to help sustain his family. He was offered the post of a sepoy in the Indian Army back in 2016 but was told to dream big and not settle for little things. He took the advice of two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar seriously and has gradually made his mark. He became a World Cadet champion in 2016 and in 2019 won the junior World title, only the fourth Indian ever to do so. Aditi Ashok Aditi Ashok captured the imagination of the entire country as sports lovers turned on their tv sets in the wee hours to watch golf, trying their hardest to understand the concepts of the game. Ranked 200 in the world, the 23-year-old from Bengaluru competed toe-to-toe against the best golfers in the world. But, alas it wasn't meant to be as after coming agonisingly close, Aditi finished fourth. Aditi started playing golf at the age of five. At the Rio Olympics, where she finished 41st, Aditi was the youngest player. She had her father as caddie in Rio while it was her mother joining her in Tokyo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grit-tears-glory-stars-of-indias-best-olympic-performance-1017488.html
08-08-2021||National||CBI arrests 5 people for posting defamatory content against judges of Andhra Pradesh HC, Supreme Court||Five persons have been arrested by the CBI on charges of posting defamatory content against judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Supreme Court on social media, a case in which the role of YSR Congress leaders Nandigam Suresh, a Lok Sabha MP, and Amanchi Krishna Mohan are under the scanner. While three persons were arrested last month, the CBI said on Sunday, two others -- Pattapu Aadarsh and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy -- were arrested from Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. One of the arrested was allegedly using a passport with a name different from his real identity. Earlier on July 9, the CBI had apprehended Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy when he flew down to India from Kuwait where he was residing. Dhami Reddy Konda Reddy and Pamula Sudheer were arrested on July 28. "To investigate the larger conspiracy, the CBI has also examined certain persons, including an MP and an ex-MLA, and also continued investigation into the role of other persons who were not mentioned in the FIR," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. Suresh and Mohan could not be reached for comments. A CBI official said they were monitoring the movements of Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy and he was nabbed the moment he landed in the country. The arrests were made by the CBI in the case in which it had booked 16 individuals for allegedly posting defamatory content against the judges. The FIR registered on November 11 last year came following a direction from the Andhra Pradesh High Court to look into the defamatory posts and submit its report in a sealed cover. The case was registered under sections 153(A), 504, 505 (2) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of IT Act, 2000. The High Court had also directed the CBI to look into the role of prominent persons who were intentionally targeting the higher judiciary. The posts were "made to bring hatred, contempt, incite disaffection and ill-will against the High Court and honourable judges", it had said. The accused, "by intentionally targeting the judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges and judiciary, following some court verdicts delivered by the judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh," the CBI said. Of the 16 people named in the FIR, the investigators have so far traced 13 of them out of which 11 have been questioned. Three of them were found to be abroad. While five of the 11 who were questioned have been arrested, the CBI said the evidence against the remaining six people is being evaluated for necessary legal action. "CBI is pursuing to secure the presence of two other accused said to be abroad for their examination," it added. The latest round of arrests came even as Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had passed stern comments on the working of the CBI and other agencies with regards to complaints raised by judges. "They think it is not a priority item for them. The IB, CBI are not helping the judiciary at all. I am making this statement with a sense of responsibility and I know the incident that is the reason I am saying this. I do not want to divulge more than this," the CJI had said while hearing a suo motu case in the wake of a recent incident of the alleged mowing down of a judge in Jharkhand's Dhanbad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-5-people-for-posting-defamatory-content-against-judges-of-andhra-pradesh-hc-supreme-court-1017494.html
08-08-2021||National||Go First, Star Air announces free travel for all Indian Olympic medal winners||Go First and Star Air on Sunday offered free travel to all six Indian athletes and the men's hockey team who won medals at the Tokyo Olympics. Go First, previously known as GoAir, stated it would give free tickets to them for the next five years. Regional carrier Star Air, which connects 13 cities in India, said it will offer the medal winners a lifetime of free air travel. India finished its campaign at this year's Olympics with one gold, two silvers and four bronze medals. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra on Saturday became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics, outperforming the field by some distance to immortalise himself as the first track-and-field Games medal-winner for the country. After Chopra won the gold medal on Saturday, IndiGo had announced that it will offer him unlimited free travel for one year. In a statement on Sunday, Go First said it is offering free travel to "all medal-winners for the next five years, until 2025" to celebrate India's best-ever haul of seven medals at an Olympics. "The seven Olympics medallists Mirabai Chanu (weight-lifting), P.V.sindhu (badminton), Lovlina Borgohain (boxing), the men's hockey team, Ravi Kumar Dahiya (wrestling), Bajrang Punia (wrestling) and gold medallist Neeraj Chopra (javelin throw) will be provided free air travel for any Go First sectors for the next five years," Go First noted. In a statement on Sunday, Star Air said it will be its "privilege to offer our Tokyo Olympic champions a lifetime of free air travel".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/go-first-star-air-announces-free-travel-for-all-indian-olympic-medal-winners-1017506.html
08-08-2021||National||ITBP inducts its first women officers in combat||The India-China LAC guarding the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force on Sunday commissioned its first two women officers in combat after they completed their training here. A total of 53 officers passed out from the ITBP officers' training academy located in Mussoorie after a passing out parade was held, with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami officiating as the chief guest. A first-ever 'History of ITBP' book with 680-pages containing many unknown facts and photographs of the border guarding force was also released by Dhami along with ITBP director general S S Deswal. Dhami and Deswal put the ranks of Assistant Commandant, the entry-level officer rank in the paramilitary, on the shoulders of the two women officers--Prakriti and Diksha--after the passing out parade and attestation ceremony where they took oath to serve the country. The ITBP started recruiting women combat officers in its cadre from 2016 through an all-India examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Before this, it only had combat women in the constabulary ranks. Out of the total 53 officers, 42 officers are in the general duty combat cadre, while 11 are in the engineering cadre of the about 90,000 personnel strong mountain warfare trained force. These officers will now be posted across ITBP formations in the country, including the LAC with China and the anti-Naxal operations theatre in Chhattisgarh. The force was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and its primary role is to guard the 3,488 km long India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC) apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain. Addressing the young officers who trained for 50 weeks (general duty cadre) and 11 weeks (engineering cadre) in various subjects of combat and strategy, Dhami said the commanders should "give their best" while performing their duties. He said the country was safe due to the valour of its armed forces and the sacrifices made by the personnel in uniform. "I am the son of a soldier and I have seen the Army closely. I have seen the struggles of their families," he said while congratulating the young officers who he said were taking their "first step for serving the nation". The CM also lauded the force for bringing out its first-ever history book, that has some 1,000 unseen operational photographs starting from the period when the Union government was planning to raise it. "The book has been published in view of making a reference volume for factual history and knowledge of the force to the officers and jawans. It will also be useful for the administrative and training purposes and for gaining in-depth details and is the official history of the force," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. Pandey has himself been instrumental in bringing out the book after years of research and talking to serving and retired officers and others who were closely involved with the creation of the force that specialises in mountain warfare. "There was no such book on the ITBP available till this publication. It contains historical achievements of the force since its inception," Pandey, a second-in-command rank officer, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-inducts-its-first-women-officers-in-combat-1017519.html
08-08-2021||National||Sebi probes 94 new cases for flouting securities law in FY21||As many as 94 fresh cases pertaining to flouting of securities norms were taken up for investigation by Sebi in 2020-21, marking a decline of 42 per cent from the preceding financial year, as per the regulator's latest annual report.  The cases were related to alleged violation of securities law including market manipulation and price rigging. "During 2020-21, 94 new cases were taken up for investigation and 140 cases completed in comparison to 161 new cases taken up and 170 cases completed in 2019-20," the report noted. Sebi said 43.6 per cent of the total cases taken up for investigation during 2020-21 were related to market manipulation and price rigging. Besides, insider trading and takeover violations accounted for 31 per cent and over 3 per cent of the total cases, respectively. Over 21 per cent were related to other violations of securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) initiates investigation based on reference received from sources such as its integrated surveillance department, other operational departments and external government agencies. "The purpose of the investigation is to gather evidence and to identify persons/ entities behind irregularities and violations so that appropriate and suitable regulatory action can be taken, wherever required," the regulator noted in its annual report for 2020-21. The steps involved during investigation process include an analysis of market data like order and trade log, transaction statements and exchange report. Among others, Sebi also analysed bank records like account statements and KYC details, information about a firm, call data records and information obtained from market intermediaries during the investigation process. After completion of an investigation, the watchdog said, penal action was initiated wherever violations of securities laws and obligations relating to securities market were observed. During 2020-21, the regulator initiated enforcement action in 225 cases, while it disposed of 125 cases. At the end of March 2021, 476 cases were pending for action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sebi-probes-94-new-cases-for-flouting-securities-law-in-fy21-1017524.html
08-08-2021||National||'Addressing container shortage, high shipping freights to help exports hit $400 bn this fiscal'||Addressing acute shortage of containers, controlling high shipping freights and ensuring timely refund of pending dues are crucial to take the country's overall exports to $400 billion by the end of this fiscal, according to exporters. The other factors that could help in increasing shipments include ensuring that negotiations for various free-trade agreements (FTAs) lead to greater market access for Indian goods; attracting export-oriented foreign direct investment, credit to exporters at international rates; and investing in dedicated R&D and design centres for focused products in each state. Leading leather exporter and Farida Group Chairman Rafeeq Ahmed said exporters are facing huge problems with regard to container shortage, and this issue needs to be resolved immediately. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Director General Ajay Sahai said, "Container shortage issue is the most serious one and it will affect manufacturing, as goods will pile up in factories". Sharing a similar view, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association President S C Ralhan said that along with shortage, high shipping freights are impacting domestic exporters and both these matters need attention of the government as "we are targeting $400 billion exports" in the current financial year. Exports during April-July 2021 jumped 73.86 per cent to $130.56 billion, against $75.10 billion in the year-ago period. FIEO former president S K Saraf suggested exporters to do aggressive marketing by looking at new market options; investing in technology to improve quality and productivity, and doubling of existing capacities. From the government side, Saraf suggested amending land laws so that exporters can buy land and get all clearances in a month's time; allowing bank finance at international price; and paying off pending dues within a month by all government departments. Current FIEO President A Sakthivel also recommended the Centre for augmenting cash flow to exporters; and providing freight subsidy to adjust abnormal hike of shipping rates. He also urged the government to release pending claims of exporters under different schemes like MEIS (Merchandise Exports from India Scheme). Mohit Singla, founder chairman of Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI), said that to achieve the $400-billion target, there is a need for marketing support for focused products; national authority for meeting compliance and standards, and streamlining of payment mechanisms with banks for exporters. Further, International Chamber of Commerce (ICC Paris-India) President Vikramjit S Sahney suggested setting up of an institutional mechanism for global market intelligence; enhanced role of Indian missions; and massive campaigns in key markets for brand building of traditional Indian exports. "We also have to ensure that negotiations under various FTAs lead to greater market access for the Indian industry in partner countries. India should also focus more on attracting export-oriented FDI," he said. FIEO Vice-President (Western Region) Khalid Khan stated that exporters should now explore key markets in Latin America and Africa, as both these regions hold huge export potential. "Besides, they have to start exporting high value-added goods. Huge potential is there in developing countries for such goods and this is the time when we have to push for that," Khan said. Plastics Export Promotion Council of India (Plexconcil) Chairman Arvind Goenka said sea freight rates have increased making the export goods uncompetitive with local manufacturers in respective countries. "If the government regulates port charges and inland haulage charges in such a way that burden of increased sea freight is reduced, it can allow Indian exporters to pass on the benefit in their export price," he added. He also asked exporters to invest regularly in research and development to ensure that they can produce desirable quality at the lowest cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/addressing-container-shortage-high-shipping-freights-to-help-exports-hit-400-bn-this-fiscal-1017526.html
08-08-2021||National||Mamata-led alliance of regional parties in making to unseat BJP from power at Centre in 2024: Akhil Gogoi||Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said that an alliance of regional parties under the leadership of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the making to oust the BJP from power at the Centre in 2024. The Independent MLA from Assam also claimed that Banerjee has extended an invitation to him to merge Raijor Dal with the Trinamool Congress (TMC). "We aim to form a confederation of regional forces and project Mamata Banerjee as its leader to remove the Narendra Modi government from power in 2024," he told reporters. Gogoi claimed that Banerjee has assured him of the TMC Assam unit president's post if Raijor Dal is merged with the ruling party in West Bengal. A decision in this regard is likely to be taken in our party's executive body meeting during the day, he said. Gogoi said that three rounds of talks between the TMC and Raijor Dal over the issue have already taken place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-led-alliance-of-regional-parties-in-making-to-unseat-bjp-from-power-at-centre-in-2024-akhil-gogoi-1017527.html
08-08-2021||National||Threat to human rights highest in police stations, even privileged not spared, says CJI N V Ramana||Chief justice N V Ramana on Sunday expressed concern at custodial torture, saying the threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations and even the privileged are not spared third-degree treatment. Maintaining that human rights and dignity are sacrosanct, the CJI said, "Custodial torture and other police atrocities are problems which still prevail in our society. In spite of constitutional declarations and guarantees, lack of effective legal representation at the police stations is a huge detriment to arrested/detained persons. The decisions taken in these early hours will later determine the ability of the accused to defend himself." Justice Ramana was delivering the keynote address at an event organised by the National Legal Services Authority of India (NALSA), to launch the "vision and mission statement" and the mobile app for NALSA. “To keep police excesses in check dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary. The installation of display boards and outdoor hoardings in every police station/prison is a step in this direction," he said. For a society to remain governed by the rule of law, the CJI said it is imperative to bridge the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable. He pointed out that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, we have successfully been able to continue our legal aid services. “Majority of those, who do not have access to justice are from rural and remote areas which suffer from lack of connectivity. I have already written to the government emphasizing the need to bridge the digital divide on a priority basis," he added. Referring to the move by the NALSA to rope in Department of Post, Justice Ramana said: “The services of the existing postal network can be utilised to spread awareness regarding the availability of free legal aid services and to increase the outreach of legal services to the eligible category of persons, especially to the persons residing in rural and far-flung areas of the country".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/threat-to-human-rights-highest-in-police-stations-even-privileged-not-spared-says-cji-n-v-ramana-1017528.html
08-08-2021||National||Isha Foundation welcomes separate budget for agriculture in Tamil Nadu||Isha Foundation, a spiritual organisation, on Sunday welcomed the announcement of a separate budget for agriculture in Tamil Nadu. "Congratulations to the Tamil Nadu government on the historic agricultural budget. The State is one of the oldest practitioners of organic farming and is sure to bring immense economic, ecological and health benefits," the founder of the organisation Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said in a press release here. The budget for the agriculture sector, to be tabled on August 14, was announced by the Chief Minister of the State M K Stalin. Isha Foundation has been promoting organic farming in the State for more than a decade and the Isha Agro Movement has imparted natural agriculture-training to 10,000 farmers till date, the release said. The Velliangiri Uzhavan Farmers Producers Organisation, promoted by the foundation, has been acclaimed as one of the best in the country and received accolades from the Central and State governments, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isha-foundation-welcomes-separate-budget-for-agriculture-in-tamil-nadu-1017533.html
08-08-2021||National||MHA tells states to stop usage of tricolour made of plastic||Ahead of the Independence Day celebration, the Centre has asked states to ensure people don't use plastic national flags as ensuring appropriate disposal of the tricolour made of non-biodegradable item is a practical problem. In a communication to all states and union territories, the Union Home Ministry said the national flag represents hopes and aspirations of the people of the country and hence should occupy a position of honour. "There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to, the national flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst people as well as organisations/agencies of the government, in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to display of the national flag," it said. It told the states and UTs that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, the national flags made of plastic are also being used in place of national flags made of paper. Since, plastic flags are not biodegradable like paper flags, these do not get decomposed for a long time and ensuring appropriate disposal of national flags made of plastic commensurate with the dignity of the flag is a practical problem, it said. "You are, therefore, requested to ensure that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, flags made of paper only are used by the public in terms of the provisions of the 'Flag Code of India, 2002' and such paper flags are not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event," the Home Ministry said. Such flags are to be disposed of, in private, consistent with the dignity of the flag, it said. A copy each of 'The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971' and the 'Flag Code of India, 2002', which govern the display of national flag, was also enclosed along with the home ministry letter. Such communications were issued previously also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-tells-states-to-stop-usage-of-tricolour-made-of-plastic-1017546.html
08-08-2021||National||Terror outfits using religion as cover to avoid detection||Prajna Debnath, a resident of Dhaniakhali in the Hooghly district of West Bengal, went missing from her home in 2009. Ten years later, in 2019, she was arrested in Bangladesh. The police were surprised to find that she was no longer Prajna Debnath but had taken a new name — Ayesha Jannat Mohona. This meritorious student turned out to be an active member of the women's cell of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB). Back in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Aal Halif alias Abu Ibrahim — one of the most dreaded Islamic State (IS) handlers in the subcontinent — from Bengaluru in 2020. This IS handler was a meritorious student of economics before his entry into the world of terror. Halif disguised as Sujit Chandra Debnath was working as an assistant of a mason in Bengaluru. His arrest came as a surprise to the NIA investigators. These are not isolated examples but there are several other instances when terror handlers have used religion as a cover to fox investigators. "Religion is no more a taboo for the terror groups rather they are using it as a tool to hide their identity. Changing religion is no more an important thing for these handlers, rather they are using it effectively to dodge surveillance," a senior Kolkata Special Task Force (STF) officer said. The STF officer was referring to the recent arrests made by the elite Kolkata police force from Haridebpur on the southern fringes of the city. A few days ago, the STF had arrested three JMB handlers — Naziur Rahman Pavel, Mikail Khan and Rabiul Islam — who had sneaked into India and were staying in a posh residential area of the city. To avoid detection, Pavel used the Hindu name Jayram Bepari. He and Mekail Khan alias Sheikh Sabbir befriended two Hindu women in the Haridevpur area and had plans to get married next month. This would have helped them recruit more people without arousing suspicion. (IANS has not revealed the identity of the women to protect their families.) "Marriage is a very important and effective instrument for these terrorists. It not only helps them to get Indian identity easily but at the same time helps in securing a permanent identity which eventually works as an effective protective shield. They don't even raise suspicion of the local people and naturally police remain unaware of their existence," a senior officer of the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the state said. Another factor that is keeping the police and the investigation agencies on tenterhooks is the lockdown and subsequent unemployment which is making the work of these terror groups easier. Taking advantage of the porous border with Bangladesh and unemployment, international terror groups like JMB, Ansarullah Faction and even the IS are trying to spread their tentacles in the state. Sometimes through direct interaction and at times online, they are targeting intelligent young boys and girls in the state who are unemployed. The NIA and the STF of the Kolkata Police have secured this information from the three JMB terrorists who were arrested by the STF from a colony on the southern outskirts of Kolkata recently. The investigation officials are worried that systematic brainwashing of these unemployed youths is securing new recruits for the terror groups. "The brainwashing of the meritorious unemployed can only be handled by police personnel at the grassroots level. The state police authorities should give special training to the constable level personnel on these lines. Unfortunately, this has not happened in West Bengal. The state police is short of personnel and it is mainly involved in tackling law and order problems. Very few of them are trained or equipped to tackle the danger of sleeper cells," a senior official of the state Home Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terror-outfits-using-religion-as-cover-to-avoid-detection-1017551.html
08-08-2021||National||Now, get Covid-19 vaccine certificate on WhatsApp -- Here's how||The Covid-19 vaccination certificate can now be accessed through WhatsApp. Anyone inoculated with a Covid-19 jab can get the vaccination certificate instantly by sending a message on WhatsApp to +91-9013151515. The office of the Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya posted on Twitter that a vaccinated person would have to send a message mentioning ‘covid certificate’ to the number and she or he would receive a One-Time Password. Revolutionising common man's life using technology! 📱 Save contact number: +91 9013151515🔤 Type & send 'covid certificate' on WhatsApp🔢 Enter OTP Get your certificate in seconds. Once the OTP is sent, the vaccine certificate will come on WhatsApp within seconds and can be downloaded. “Revolutionising common man's life using technology!” tweeted the office of the Health Minister. The new facility launched by the Union government received applause from the senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor. “I've always acknowledged & praised the Government when it merits it. As a critic of #Cowin, let me say they've done something terrific. Send a @WhatsApp message "download certificate" to 90131 51515, receive OTP & get your vaccination certificate back by @WhatsApp. Simple&fast!,” tweeted Tharoor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-get-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-on-whatsapp-heres-how-1017554.html
08-08-2021||National||PM Modi to chair UN Security Council debate on maritime security||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to articulate India’s views on the Indo-Pacific region while chairing a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) session, which will be attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin too. The PM who will chair the session virtually is likely to call for a comprehensive approach to maritime security in order to protect and support legitimate maritime activities while countering traditional and non-traditional threats. Modi is going to be the first PM of India to chair a session of the UNSC. P V Narasimha had attended a meeting of the UNSC in 1992 during his tenure as the PM, as India had been a non-permanent member of the council then. But he had not presided over a meeting of the council. India took over the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council (UNSC) for August on August 1, promising to remain “a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law”. A source said that the Russian President would attend the session. The UNSC has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime. However, this will be the first time that maritime security will be discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high-level open debate. Given that no country can address the diverse aspects of maritime security alone, it is important to consider his subject in a holistic manner in the UNSC, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement issued in New Delhi. Modi put forward the vision of SAGAR—‘Security and Growth for all in the Region’—in 2015, focusing on cooperative measures for sustainable use of the oceans and providing a framework for a safe, secure, and stable maritime domain in the region. In 2019, at the East Asia Summit, this initiative was elaborated through the Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI) with a focus on seven pillars of maritime security including Maritime Ecology, Maritime Resources, Capacity Building and Resource Sharing, Disaster Risk Reduction and Management, Science, Technology and Academic Cooperation, and Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport, the MEA noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-un-security-council-debate-on-maritime-security-1017557.html
08-08-2021||National||India showers cash on Olympic hero Neeraj Chopra||Indian companies and governments promised cash and gifts worth more than two million dollars to javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra after he won India's first ever Olympic athletics gold medal. The 23-year-old farmer's son, who two years ago underwent surgery on a career-threatening elbow injury, threw 87.58 metres in the Tokyo Olympic stadium on Saturday to send his country into raptures. Chopra led India's most successful Olympics ever with a gold, two silver medals and four bronze. He will lead a cash bonanza for the winning athletes -- the government in his home state of Haryana said it would give Chopra a Rs 6 crore ($800,000) bonus. Other state governments offered another $400,000 between them and a leading education company promised $270,000. Chopra said he hoped the Olympic gold would be a turning point for his country's athletes. "In athletics, I feel we have missed medals by fine margins over the years. So this medal was important," he said. "Now that I have won, I feel we can do anything." Chopra was up against the previously in-form Johannes Vetter of Germany who had thrown a season's best of 96.29 metres before the Olympics, but had an off day and failed to qualify for the throw-off as one of the top eight. "If the first throw is good, then you grow in confidence. My second throw was also stable," Chopra told reporters of the throw in the second round that won the title. "I wasn't sure of the gold (after that effort), but knew I had thrown my best. "We can't bring thoughts of gold into our minds (during the competition). Such thoughts are dangerous, then there is a risk that we may not put the required effort. Byju Raveendran, owner of the Byju's education tech company that is chipping in for a bonus, said India had to make its athletes "heroes so that we transform ourselves from a sport loving nation to a sport-playing nation". Other firms offered free air travel, luxury cars and cash gifts that took Chopra's bonus over two million and more was expected before he returns to India. All of the Indian medal winners can expect big cash rewards for their return, with the IOA offering $53,750 for a silver, and $33,500 for a bronze. India's cricket board said they would give $168,000 to the men's hockey team for its bronze medal -- the first in four decades. And state governments also promised hundreds of thousands to the team. India's other medallists were male wrestler Ravi Dahiya, who won silver, while badminton ace P V Sindhu, wrestler Bajrang Punia, boxer Lovlina Borgohain and the men's hockey team won bronzes. The medal count and stacks of cash is a dramatic turnaround for India after its athletes won just two silvers at the 2016 Rio Olympics. Its sportspeople have long complained about a lack of resources and many former sports heroes fell into poverty after finishing their careers and have needed help from foundations such as one run by cricket icon Sunil Gavaskar. Keshav Chandra Datt, a double Olympic hockey gold winner who recently died aged 95, was one of 19 former sports internationals given monthly cash allowances by Gavaskar's The Champs Foundation. The former India captain told AFP the 22-year-old foundation provides assistance to "Indian internationals who after retirement are struggling to get on in life" and keeps their identity hidden to avoid any embarrasment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-showers-cash-on-olympic-hero-neeraj-chopra-1017574.html
08-08-2021||National||India, UAE conduct naval drill off Abu Dhabi coast||India and the United Arab Emirates carried out a naval exercise off the coast of Abu Dhabi on Saturday, in reflection of a rapid upswing in bilateral military cooperation. The Indian Navy deployed its warship INS Kochi and two integral Sea King MK 42B helicopters for the 'Zayed Talwar' exercise, officials said. The UAE participated in the exercise with Al-Dhafra, a Baynunah class-guided missile corvette, and one AS–565B Panther helicopter, they said. The exercise took place amid rising tension in the Gulf region after a  drone attack on a merchant tanker off Oman killed a British national and a Romanian citizen over a week back. The UK and US pointed fingers at Iran for the attack on MV Mercer Street, operated by an Israeli-owned firm. Tehran has already rejected the charges. "As part of the exercise, the ships undertook tactical manoeuvres, over the horizon targeting, search and rescue and electronic warfare drill to enhance interoperability and synergy between the two navies," Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. He said helicopters were extensively used all through the exercise ranging from search and rescue operations to the passing of targeting data to ships for simulated missile engagement drills. The naval exercise came a week after Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the United Arab Emirates. In December last year, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane visited the UAE and Saudi Arabia in a first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to the two important Gulf countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uae-conduct-naval-drill-off-abu-dhabi-coast-1017585.html
08-08-2021||National||Parliament panel favours simplification of land acquisition process for road projects||Observing that land acquisition issue is the main reason for delays in road projects, a Parliamentary Standing Committee has suggested the Centre to simplify the process and iron out constraints in the system. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport Tourism and Culture headed by BJP MP T G Venkatesh recommended the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to review its guidelines issued for land acquisition from time to time and incorporate suitable modification to simplify the acquisition process. The committee also suggested that the Ministry may take immediate steps to ensure that adequate manpower is present with the land acquisition units at the field level across the country. The alignment given for any given project should be finalised only after taking in inputs from all stakeholders and the local population with due consideration to the future traffic projects, environmental concerns and related issues. Changing the alignment at a later stage of the project can be a costly affair and should be avoided at all costs through application of foresight. The panel said the present Land Value Capture Mechanism may help the Ministry in managing the huge increase in road project costs due to significant jump in land acquisition costs in the past several years. “The Ministry may consider making the upfront contribution of State governments flexible, fixing it on the basis of the financial ability of the State Government,” the committee recommended. The panel said that, “ a mechanism may be worked out where an upfront payment is made to the land-owner and they are guaranteed a payment in the form of annuity for the land term, financing the same through the land value captured by the state government. The committee believes that such a system would lower the frequency of land acquisition matters ending up in litigation which cause huge delays to the projects besides causing cost overruns.” The committee recommended that the ministry may evaluate the feasibility of construction of elevated highways in areas with high population density where acquisition of land would possibly be a long and tough task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-favours-simplification-of-land-acquisition-process-for-road-projects-1017591.html
08-08-2021||National||Arvind Kejriwal launches Akshaya Patra’s night shelter feeding initiative in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday launched The Akshaya Patra Foundation’s night shelter feeding initiative in the city. In the event held at the Delhi Urban Slum Improvement Board (DUSIB) Shelter Complex in Sarai Kale Khan, the CM said “When I visited Bengaluru last time, I had the good fortune of visiting The Akshaya Patra Foundation’s kitchen where I witnessed the preparation of food in a clean and hygienic environment. The Government of Delhi and Akshaya Patra have collaborated to start this initiative to permanently feed the people living in night shelters in the city." Minister for Urban Development Satyendar Jain said, “Today marks the beginning of Akshaya Patra’s initiative to feed around 6,000 people living in the 209 shelters in the city run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) for free of cost. Akshaya Patra is also providing meals to over 3,000 labourers at various construction sites.” As a part of the Night Shelter Feeding Initiative, the Foundation will work with the Government of Delhi to serve lunch and dinner in 209 night shelters run by the DUSIB. Over 5000 homeless people, which include families, old aged persons, widows/single women, individuals battling addiction, individuals needing medical care, etc., will benefit from the initiative every day, said a statement. Madhu Pandit Dasa, Chairman, The Akshaya Patra Foundation, said with the support of the Central government and state governments, we have been able to provide food assistance to millions of people from vulnerable communities in these times of adversity.” Chanchalapathi Dasa, Vice Chairman of the Foundation, said, “We have served over 1 crore meals to people in need in Delhi NCR since last March, courtesy, the collaborative efforts of everyone involved.” Since March 2020, Akshaya Patra has been working with the government and donors to extend food assistance to vulnerable populations, such as daily wagers, migrant labourers, etc., affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year in March, when the Delhi government had started Hunger Relief Centres in the city to help the vulnerable populations, Akshaya Patra partnered with the government to extend food assistance. Night Shelter Feeding Initiative is a new programme launched by the Foundation to feed people who take shelter at the facilities provided by the administration, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-launches-akshaya-patra-s-night-shelter-feeding-initiative-in-delhi-1017603.html
08-08-2021||National||Anand Mahindra recalls a time when a room at Mumbai's Taj Hotel cost Rs 6||Anand Mahindra, the Group Chairman of Mahindra and Mahindra recently took Twitter to share a way to beat inflation.  On the microblogging site, he shared a photo of the Taj Mahal Hotel with a caption that said, "So here’s a way to beat inflation. Get into a time machine and go back…way back. ₹6 per night for the Taj, Mumbai? Now those were the days…" He shared the photo of an advertisement of the opening of the Taj Mahal Hotel in Mumbai, back in 1903, which stated a "moderate charge of Rs.6 and upwards." The hotel was inaugurated on December 1, 1903, and was a "luxury furnished hotel" with "all latest comforts." It was the first Taj hotel opened by the Tata Group. Last month, Anand Mahindra also shared a photo of an old advertisement of a Fiat 1100 that was set at a price of ₹9,750 (exclusive all taxes) back in the 1950s, to show how much the Indian rupee had inflated.  He shared the photo of the Fiat 1100 with the caption, "Good old days."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindra-recalls-a-time-when-a-room-at-mumbais-taj-hotel-cost-rs-6-1017605.html
08-08-2021||National||Government-Opposition gulf widens as Monsoon Session enters last lap||Parliament is entering the fourth and final week of the Monsoon Session on Monday with the gulf between the government and the Opposition widening even as the government listed the introduction of a crucial bill to amend the Constitution to restore the powers of the states to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs). The Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, which will be introduced in Lok Sabha on Monday, could see the Opposition tweaking its strategy by discontinuing its protest demanding an immediate discussion on the Pegasus episode, as any obstruction of its passage would be used by the ruling BJP against them, especially against the backdrop of Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab among others early next year. Sources said a decision on how to deal with this Bill as well as other floor strategies will be decided during a meeting of the Opposition floor leaders in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge at 10 am on Monday. "Let them first bring the Bill. Then we will spell out what we will do. Leaders will be meeting on Monday to decide on floor strategy," a senior Opposition leader said. The government, which has listed the introduction of The Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill 2021 in Lok Sabha on Monday, has remained adamant on not allowing a discussion on Pegasus in Parliament, ignoring the protests by the Opposition MPs since the beginning of the Monsoon Session on July 19. The session is scheduled to end on August 13 before which the government intends to pass more bills, including the General Insurance Business Nationalisation (Amendment) Bill that proposes to enhance the private sector role in public sector insurance companies. Among others, the Opposition wants the bill on insurance companies to be sent to a Select Committee. Indicating that there is no going back on the demand for a discussion on Pegasus, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah will have to answer on national security issues. Asked who has won the battle so far, O'Brien said, "the government has been successful in turning Parliamentary democracy into autocracy. They were successful in illegally passing Bills. Modi and Shah were successful in ducking questions in Parliament by not attending business in the House except for a day. It is successful in dismantling Parliament." In the past 14 sittings in three weeks, Lok Sabha has passed 14 Bills in 1:15 hours while Rajya Sabha has passed 12 Bills in 4:52 hours. The Opposition has accused the government of rushing through Bills without proper discussion. According to the Lok Sabha bulletin, The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Bill 2021 was passed in 14 minutes, the highest time taken for a legislation in the Lower House while Appropriation Bill No 3 was passed in two minutes. The Factoring Regulation Amendment Bill was passed in 13 minutes while Essential Defence Service Bill 2021 was cleared in just 12 minutes. In Rajya Sabha, Essential Defence Service Bill 2021 and The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021 took the highest time of 34 minutes each. Seven Bills were passed by both the Houses during this session. Here's how long it took to pass the Bills in the respective Houses. Rajya Sabha:   Lok Sabha:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-opposition-gulf-widens-as-monsoon-session-enters-last-lap-1017611.html
08-08-2021||National||Enact national law to check religious conversions and 'Love Jihad': VHP to Centre||Ratcheting up hardline Hindutva messaging ahead of UP polls, Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Sunday urged the central government to make a national law to "prevent love jihad and illegal conversions" on the line of Uttar Pradesh's Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act. "Vishwa Hindu Parishad congratulates the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath ji for enacting an anti-conversion law. This web of conversion and love jihad has spread all over India, it is dangerous for the civilised society and the nation. It has come to notice that a conspiracy of conversion was caught by the Loni police of Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh and on going to the bottom of that topic, it was learned that this conspiracy is not with a few families but is spread in more than 25 states across the country," the VHP alleged in a press statement. Addressing a press conference in Meerut, VHP's Joint General Secretary Surendra Jain said the VHP has decided that "now there will be no harassment of any Hindu family in the province" and that through Jan Jagran (public awareness), the "potential sense (samarthya bhav) of Hindu society will be awakened so that no Hindu family should migrate in future." In UP, it said that 70 sensitive places have been identified where the people of Hindu society will be "fully enabled for self-defence". Jain hit out at "the secular forces of India", accusing them of "participating in this anti-national act of conversion". "That is why the Congress did not allow the anti-conversion bill to be passed in Chhattisgarh," he said. UP, where Assembly polls are scheduled by March 2021, had passed the anti-conversion law in November last year and so far, nearly 80 persons have been arrested in about two dozen cases filed under the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enact-national-law-to-check-religious-conversions-and-love-jihad-vhp-to-centre-1017617.html
08-08-2021||National||Neeraj Chopra likely to get promotion in Army for winning Olympic gold||India's star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra is likely to get a promotion in the Indian Army for creating history by ending the country's agonising wait for the first athletics gold medal in the Olympics. Chopra, a Subedar with the 4 Rajputana Rifles in the Indian Army, had been conferred the prestigious Vishist Seva Medal (VSM) for his sporting excellence. The 23-year-old son of a farmer from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana produced a second-round throw of 87.58m in the javelin throw finals on Saturday to end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. Subedar Chopra will get a promotion as per the laid down norms and procedures for his stellar performance at the Tokyo Olympics, people familiar with the matter said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the armed forces on Saturday hailed the Army man, saying he made the country proud by performing like a "true soldier". Chopra was enrolled into the 4 Rajputana Rifles as a Naib Subedar on 15 May 15, 2016. After joining the Army, he was selected for training at the 'Mission Olympics Wing' as well as at the Army Sports Institute, Pune. The Mission Olympics Wing is an initiative by the Indian Army to identify and train promising sportspersons in 11 disciplines for various national and international competitions, said an official. Subedar Chopra's medal highlights the hard work and efforts of Mission Olympics Wing, he said. "Mission Olympics Wing has given two Olympic Silver medals in shooting to the nation and is committed for many more. Subedar Chopra's medal highlights the hard work and efforts of Mission Olympics Wing," a brief note by the Army said. It said Subedar Chopra was conferred with the Arjuna Award in 2018 and Vishist Seva Medal (VSM) in 2020 for his excellence in sports. Chopra was born on December 24, 1997 in a family of farmers from a village in Panipat. His father Satish Kumar is a farmer and his mother Saroj Devi is a housewife, said the Army official. Neeraj started throwing javelin when he needed to reduce weight and quickly took a liking for the sport, he said. "The rest is now history. He came into prominence with his performance at World Under-20 Championship, Poland where he set a new junior world record with a throw of 86.48 metres," the official said. Chopra won the gold medal in Commonwealth Games 2018 with a throw of 86.47 metres and threw his personal best of 87.43m in the Doha leg of Diamond League 2018. He won the Asian Games with a throw of 88.06 metres that year, according to Army records.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neeraj-chopra-likely-to-get-promotion-in-army-for-winning-olympic-gold-1017619.html
08-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Guide lynchers to take up javelin, boxing'||India capped off its best-ever performance in the Olympics with a haul of seven medals, including a gold. Here's a look at the medallists and those who came within touching distance of glory but couldn't quite make it to the podium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-guide-lynchers-to-take-up-javelin-boxing-1017673.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||If SP ties up with small parties, BJP won't get one seat in eastern UP, says Om Prakash Rajbhar||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Sunday claimed that if the Samajwadi Party ties up with small parties, then the BJP will not get even one seat in eastern Uttar Pradesh in next year's assembly elections. Speaking to PTI, Rajbhar said, "The public is angry with the BJP. If the Samajwadi Party comes forward, and ties up with smaller parties and regional parties, then the election results can change." "If the SP ties up with the SBSP, then the BJP will not get even a single seat in Mau, Ballia, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Jaunpur, Ambedkar Nagar and other districts. There will be fight (with the BJP) on only two seats in Varanasi," the former UP minister added. The SBSP chief claimed that of the total 403 seats in the assembly, there are 150 seats in eastern UP. When asked as to which party in the state can defeat the BJP, he said, "People of the state feel that it is only the SP that can challenge the BJP in UP. The BSP too has started making moves, but the craze of the BSP is not as intense as that of the SP". On being asked whether the SBSP has been unable to take forward the agreements with other parties since its formation in 2002, Rajbhar said, "When there is a clash of vested interests, people tend to go away. The smaller parties face financial hardships, and it is because of this reason that the bigger parties lure them. Coalitions have been breaking because of this." Rajbhar had on Wednesday said he will not enter into an alliance with the BJP if the saffron party decides to contest the assembly polls under CM Yogi Adityanath's leadership. Earlier on Tuesday, the SBSP chief had met BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh fuelling speculations that he may again join hands with the saffron party. The SBSP leader, who leads the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha as a political front of small parties, had earlier said his outfit could again ally with the BJP if it picks a backward caste leader as its chief minister candidate for next year's elections. The party had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the BJP but parted ways before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Rajbhar-led party won four seats in the previous assembly polls. Rajbhar, who was cabinet minister, resigned before the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-sp-ties-up-with-small-parties-bjp-wont-get-one-seat-in-eastern-up-says-om-prakash-rajbhar-1017516.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Hopeful IT panel will take up Pegasus; officials may have been instructed to skip last meet: Tharoor||Chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said BJP members "disrupted" the committee's meeting on July 28 as they did not want the Pegasus allegations to be discussed and the officials who were to testify "appear to have been instructed not to attend", but expressed hope the snooping issue would be taken up by the panel going forward. Tharoor, who has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take action over ministry officials not attending the panel meet, also asserted that the actions of the three officials making "last-minute excuses" to skip the meeting were a "grievous assault" on such panels' prerogatives to summon witnesses. In an interview with PTI, the Congress leader hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his remarks that the Opposition was insulting Parliament, saying the government’s refusal to be answerable in any way, shape, or form on an issue of national and international importance, has made a "mockery of democracy and of the ordinary Indians the government claims to represent". Avoiding discussion and accountability is the real insult to Parliament, the former Union minister and Thiruvananthapuram MP asserted. Asked if going forward the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology will be able to take up the Pegasus snooping issue, Tharoor said for two years now the IT committee has been conducting discussions on "Citizens' data privacy and security and "cyber security, topics that also featured in its agenda under the previous chairman, BJP's Anurag Thakur. The Pegasus issue therefore clearly falls under the purview of the IT committee and so it is only expected that its members will ask questions about it when these topics arise, he said. "It is no secret that the Committee's meeting on its established agenda was disrupted by BJP members who did not want Pegasus to be discussed. It was unprecedented for 10 members to attend and to refuse to sign the register in order to deny the Committee a quorum," Tharoor said. The panel was to hold a meeting on July 28 during which several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations were expected to be discussed. It had also summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject ''Citizens data security and privacy''. However, the meeting could not take place as the BJP members of the panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room, leading to a lack of quorum. E-mail communications were received by the committee branch of the secretariat on July 28 afternoon from the three ministries/department that their representatives would not be able to appear before the committee due to Parliament-related work. "For good measure the three officials who were to testify that day appear to have been instructed not to attend, making last-minute excuses, which is a grievous assault on the prerogatives of parliamentary committees to summon witnesses," Tharoor said. Asserting that accountability to Parliament is a cornerstone of democracy, Tharoor alleged that it is increasingly being tossed aside in the current regime’s "headlong rush to autocracy". "Despite this disappointing approach, I am hopeful that we will be able to take up the question going forward,” he said. Asked if a joint parliamentary committee would be more suited to take up the Pegasus matter, Tharoor said, "I am not sure what a JPC can do that the IT Committee cannot. Nonetheless, I proposed from the start that what we really need is a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry headed by a serving or recently-retired judge to conduct a fair, impartial, and thorough investigation of the Pegasus issue." The judiciary has powers, and a degree of immunity from politics, that would make it better suited than a committee of MPs to explore all aspects of the Pegasus question, Tharoor argued. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. On comparisons of the Pegasus snooping row with the Watergate scandal that rocked Richard Nixon's US presidency in the 1970s, Tharoor said though the parallels between the two episodes are many, the significant difference is precisely in the consequences it has had for the respective regimes that were in power when these events unfolded. "Whereas the US Congress’ investigation of Watergate led to the resignation of President Nixon himself, our Parliament has been denied even a discussion of the issue, barring the tepid statement by the new IT Minister who was himself on the list of those who were potentially targeted using Pegasus on the floor of the House," Tharoor said. He said Pegasus is an issue that, given its grave implications for the country’s internal security and individual liberties, should have been addressed by either the Home Minister or the PM himself. Tharoor said the Opposition's hopes rest with the Supreme Court, which is to hear the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hopeful-it-panel-will-take-up-pegasus-officials-may-have-been-instructed-to-skip-last-meet-tharoor-1017522.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||North Indian ex-CM likely to be Congress working president||As the Congress is contemplating a change in its setup, a serious churning within it is happening about an impending reshuffle at the General Secretary and state in-charges level. The party is also mulling the appointment of a working President to lessen the burden on Sonia Gandhi. Sources say that a Hindi speaking north Indian former Chief Minister is being considered for the post. There are currently three former Chief Ministers in the party -- Digvijaya Singh, the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister; Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the former Haryana Chief Minister -- both had a two-term chief ministership in their respective states. The other name is Kamal Nath, who was the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh recently and has also been the Union Minister many times in the Centre. The fourth person is Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha and former Chief Minister of Jammu Kashmir. Sources say that Kamal Nath is likely to be appointed as a working president as he has vast experience and has good working relations with most of the political parties, including Left, Trinamool and NCP. He has been seen as a person with a good networking within the political set up, including those parties which are at fence. Kamal Nath has been meeting Sonia Gandhi more frequently since the demise of veteran Ahmed Patel and had been instrumental in organising a meeting between the G-23 and Sonia Gandhi last December. Bhupinder Singh Hooda was one of the signatories in the letter written to Sonia Gandhi last year in which Ghulam Nabi Azad was also a signatory. Digvijaya Singh is most vocal on issues which are close to Rahul Gandhi like attacking the RSS, and this week he was taken into custody for participating in the Youth Congress agitation in which Rahul Gandhi was part. But there are critics who question his decision on various issues while being the General Secretary in the party and his tiff with Jyotiraditya Scindia which led to the collapse of the previous Congress-led government in Madhya Pradesh. Kamal Nath is being seen as a potential candidate as he has been meeting Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra often and has been a trusted leader from the family point of view. Though sources close to him say that he is not keen to leave Bhopal and has forwarded many suggestions before the Gandhis. Sources also said that he wants no interference from the Secretariat of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra but only the Gandhis themselves. Observers say that Kamal Nath has been part of the troika of Late Ahmed Patel and Murli Deora. The three were seen as smooth political players and those who knew which string to be pulled when to set right the political equations. The other Chief Ministers like Hooda, late YSR Reddy and Ashok Gehlot, late Vilas Rao Deshmukh were part of the second rung during 2000 to 2014 when Sonia Gandhi was at the helm. But, the Congress insiders feel it is too early to say anything as Sonia Gandhi wants to settle the in house problems of states before making any such decision. She wants states like Rajasthan to be settled and preparation in elections going in states be firmed up. She is trying to pacify many other leaders, including Hooda. In Delhi, she has appointed MLAs, who are supporting Hooda as observers for the MCD polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/north-indian-ex-cm-likely-to-be-congress-working-president-1017523.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition makes video of its members sneaking in Pegasus, farmers during discussions on bills in RS||The opposition's strategy of speaking on the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws during discussions of bills in the Rajya Sabha has now been compiled in a three-minute video in an attempt to make the government listen to their demands, leaders said on Sunday. The video, released by the TMC on Sunday morning from RS MP Derek O'Brien's handle, urges, "Mr Modi come listen to us". Opposition party sources indicated that over the last few weeks, leaders have realised that the disruptions by them in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are not enough. It was important to say the words, "farmers", "Pegasus" and spyware on the floor of the Houses.  Asked about the opposition MPs' strategy of raising such issues while seeking to speak on bills in Parliament, O'Brien said that their "strategy was deliberate". "When the official channels are being denied, this is a new way to reach the masses," said O'Brien who is also the leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha. The video compiles these statements made by the opposition MPs in the Upper House, with the words "farmer" and "Pegasus" in the opening lines. "You are not allowing the discussion we have been asking for the past 14 days and the discussions we can do later. You are passing that bill now. If you have courage, begin the discussions on Pegasus now," Congress's Mallikarjun Kharge is heard saying in the video on the floor of the House. The compilation includes opposition speakers like Vandana Chavan of the NCP who raised the Pegasus issue, accusing the government of "not listening to the people".  RJD's Manoj Jha too is seen speaking on the spyware issue. "Pegasus has reached everyone's house. We have to discuss this," says Jha. Congress's Deepinder Hooda raised the issue of farmers stating that he would talk about the matter if his "microphone is not switched off". The CPI(M) accused the government of "stealing" parliamentary democracy, while TMC's Sukhendu Shekar Roy raised the issue of "freedom of speech in Parliament".  The other parties which have representation in the video include Samajwadi Party, TRS, DMK and AAP. One of the leaders in the video, Shiv Sena MP in Rajya Sabha Priyanka Chaturvedi said in a democracy if the government of the day has a responsibility, so does the opposition. "Whether it is about farmers, about the economy, safety and security of women, just the word mentioned by the opposition makes them silence our voices, makes them adjourn Parliament, makes them mute our microphones. "Our inability to be heard by a government which is so brazen has made us realise that the only way we can speak and make our point heard is when such bills are being discussed and passed in such a hurry," Chaturvedi said.  CPI(M) leader and RS MP Elamaram Kareem said that speaking during the discussion on bills was the only way to make the government listen. "This tactic is going to be continued the coming week as well. There is no other option as the government is not admitting our motions. Everyone is seeing how the chairperson is behaving, switching off microphones even as the Pegasus word is being uttered. The entire opposition is one on this and we will stick by it till the government relents," said Kareem, who is the leader of his party in the Upper House. Chaturvedi also hit out at the government over the alleged switching off of microphones when opposition leaders raise certain issues, saying it shows the intolerance of the government.  "By muting our mics, by trying to suppress our voices, they think they can silence us then they should be rest assured that we will raise our voice further and our voices will get louder," the Shiv Sena MP said. Senior Congress leader and party spokesperson Manish Tewari said that what is happening in the House is a "complete murder of democracy".  "The institution of Parliament is being trifled with by the NDA-BJP government," said Tewari, slamming the government for getting bills passed when the House is not in order. "There is a time honoured convention that a legislation is never passed in din and it is not even discussed when the House is not in order," he said. Since the start of the Monsoon Session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. The opposition has also been strongly protesting against the price rise issue and demanding the repeal of the farm laws. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-makes-video-of-its-members-sneaking-in-pegasus-farmers-during-discussions-on-bills-in-rs-1017536.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||PM must intervene to end Parliament logjam; Monsoon Session be extended: RJD MP||Accusing the government of "closing the door" on negotiations to break the logjam over the Pegasus issue in Parliament, RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to end the impasse, and called for extending the Monsoon Session to make up for the lost time. The Rajya Sabha member, who is an influential voice of the Opposition, also slammed the government for repeatedly stressing that it was "reaching out" to the Opposition parties, saying the phrase does not mean that "with hands in your pockets and a stiff face, you say 'this is what I have to offer, nothing else'". "Under the garb of reaching out they have been closing the door on negotiations. Many times I have noted that the so-called people entrusted with the idea of reaching out, probably lack the mandate in offering anything tangible to the Opposition," Jha told PTI in an interview. Since the start of the Monsoon Session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Asked about the Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue and the logjam in Parliament over it, Jha said the government says in the media that it is reaching out but such efforts should mean "listening and not just hearing". Jha alleged that the government was using the "language of enmity" which had taken away the possibility of "breaking the ice". "But if Mr. Prime Minister himself intervenes and tells his people to break the ice and say 'we are ready to discuss everything', it is still possible to discuss. If possible, extend the session to make up for the time we have lost. We can sit after August 15," the senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader said. Asked if extension of the Monsoon Session, which is scheduled to end on August 13, was the way forward, Jha answered in the affirmative and pointed to his speech in Rajya Sabha on Covid, which has been widely appreciated and has gone viral on social media, to stress the importance of discussing critical issues in Parliament. On Parliament being unable to discuss the devastating second wave of Covid at length, he accused the government of being in "brazen denial" of facts. "The day I made that speech, a response from the government said that nobody died on account of unavailability of oxygen. When you fight a pandemic, you should be able to acknowledge failures as well as take credit for the success," he asserted. "I don't only blame the central government, many state governments were also in a brazen denial mode," Jha said. Asked if the Opposition could have focused more on issues such as price rise, farmers' protest and unemployment in the Monsoon Session than Pegasus, he said all those issues were crucial and the Opposition was continuously raising them but the Pegasus matter had acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping being reported by the media. "I won't say Pegasus was No.1 for us but it acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping which is being reported in the media with several countries in the world ordering probes, but in our case, there is not even acceptance (for debate)," Jha said. Slamming the government for saying that the snooping allegations were a non-issue, he said if after a detailed discussion it is proved so, the opposition will accept it, but denying discussion goes against the very idea of parliamentary democracy. "Have we forgotten that there was a discussion after Bofors (came to light). Same was with the Mundhra case during the Jawaharlal Nehru government but discussion was allowed even though the opposition was practically non-existent at the time," he said. Jha also hit out at the government for passing the bills amid din, saying the legislations were being passed in roughly eight minutes and warned that if it becomes the new normal even future governments may take this route, making debate and discussion a thing of the past. On Opposition unity being witnessed during the current Parliament session and if seeds of a grand alliance had been sown for the 2024 general elections, Jha said when floor leaders are coordinating in Parliament, 2024 is not on their minds and the major concern is issues such as repeal of farm laws, inflation and unemployment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-must-intervene-to-end-parliament-logjam-monsoon-session-be-extended-rjd-mp-1017540.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Electricity (Amendment) Bill provisions not in country's interest: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday claimed the Centre's Electricity (Amendment) Bill was not in the interest of the country, and states were not consulted on its provisions. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeks to enable power consumers to choose from multiple service providers as in the case with telecom services. According to the Lok Sabha bulletin issued on July 12, 2021, the government has listed it as one of the 17 new bills it plans to introduce in the ongoing Parliament session. Talking to reporters here, Raut claimed that state electricity companies will be adversely impacted if the Bill is passed. The Rajya Sabha member criticised the Centre for not discussing its provisions with stakeholders, including states. "The provisions ring a danger bell for state electricity companies. Our party is holding consultations in this regard," he said. The proposed amendments also include de-licensing of the power distribution business. Notably, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to refrain from "initiating" the legislation. She requested the PM "to ensure that a broad-based and transparent dialogue on the subject is opened up at the earliest". Banerjee underscored that the Bill would reduce the role of the state public utility bodies and foster “crony capitalism”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/electricity-amendment-bill-provisions-not-in-countrys-interest-raut-1017542.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh polls still seven months away but below the belt attacks already start||The next assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh may still be a good seven months away, but below the belt attacks by the politicians have started indicating a no holds barred electoral battle ahead. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who is known for speaking his mind, came in for sharp criticism from his main electoral rival and Samajwadi Party (SP) Akhilesh Yadav after the former, in a sarcastic remark, called the SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav as Akhilesh's 'abbajan' (father in Urdu). Adityanath's jibe came when his attention was drawn to Akhilesh's remarks that he (Akhilesh) was a ''more devout'' Hindu than the BJP leaders. ''If it is so then why did his (Akhilesh) abbajan declare that even a bird would not be able to enter Ayodhya?,'' Adityanath said while referring to the assertion of Mulayam, who was then the chief minister of UP when the karsevaks threatened to demolish the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya in 1990. ''The CM should be careful in choosing his words. I will also start saying things about his (Adityanath) if he does not stop,'' a furious Akhilesh warned. ''This CM does not speak like a yogi....he speaks and understands a different language,'' he went on to add. Mulayam's brother Shivpal Singh Yadav also criticised Adityanath for his remarks. UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh said on Sunday that there was nothing wrong in using the word 'abbajan'. ''Why is Akhilesh averse to the Urdu language?'' he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-polls-still-seven-months-away-but-below-the-belt-attacks-already-start-1017584.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||BJP ally Apna Dal demands caste-based census, separate ministry for OBC welfare||With an eye on the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year, the BJP's ally Apna Dal(S) on Sunday demanded a separate Union ministry for the welfare of the OBC and a caste-based census across the country to ascertain the exact population of the community. Apna Dal(S), an Uttar Pradesh-based party, is the second ally of the ruling BJP after the JD(U) which has raised the demand for a caste-based census. The demand assumes significance just months before the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where the single largest chunk of voters belongs to the OBC category. "Caste-based census is the need of the hour to ascertain the exact population of each segment, especially the other backward class (OBC)," the working president of Apna Dal(S) Ashish Patel told PTI. He said the population of SC and ST have been calculated in all censuses post-Independence but not of the OBCs. "As a result, there is no proper estimate of the OBC population. Therefore, I request the government that the next census should be caste-based to ascertain the exact population of each segment, especially the OBCs. "This would ensure that the share of a particular caste segment is based on their population," said Ashish Patel, the husband of Union Minister Anupriya Patel. He said the party also demands that there should be a separate ministry for the welfare of the OBCs. "On the lines of the Union Ministry for Minority Affairs, there should be a separate and dedicated ministry for the welfare of the OBCs," Ashish Patel said. Apna Dal(S) has been a constituent of the NDA since 2014. Anupriya Patel, the daughter of the party's founder late Sonelal Patel, was made Union minister in recent cabinet expansion of the Narendra Modi government. She hails from the Kurmi caste which falls in the OBC segment. Her party has influence in around 50 assembly seats, mostly in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Besides different political parties, the National Commission for Backward Classes in April this year had urged the government to collect data on the population of OBCs as part of the Census of India 2021 exercise. The Union Home Ministry had in 2018 had envisaged collecting data on OBCs for the first time in the 2021 census. However, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanad Rai, in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on March 10 this year, said that after Independence, India decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than that of the SCs and STs In the census, the castes and tribes that are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, are enumerated. The 2021 census was scheduled to start from April last year but couldn't take off due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-ally-apna-dal-demands-caste-based-census-separate-ministry-for-obc-welfare-1017616.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Modi 2.0 to introduce Ujjwala 2.0 ahead of UP Assembly polls||In a redux of past, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the second version of his pet scheme, Ujjwala, from Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh months before the state Assembly polls. Modi's party BJP had won a massive 312 of total 403 Assembly seats in UP in 2017 and the Ujjwala scheme to provide free gas connections was considered a key propeller behind this result. Women from the rural hinterlands of the state had backed Modi like never before. The Ujjwala scheme's first version was launched in May 2016 – 14 months before the 2017 UP polls. This time the gap between the second launch and the polls is eight months. Indicating an attempt to reach out to migrants, who have suffered heavily during the corona crisis, the government has ensured that in Ujjwala 2.0, migrants will not be required to submit ration cards or address proof. A self-declaration for both ‘family declaration’ and as a ‘proof of address’ will suffice. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Ujjwala 2.0 (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana - PMUY) by handing over LPG connections, at Mahoba Uttar Pradesh on 10th August, 2021 at 12:30 PM via video conferencing. During the event, the Prime Minister will interact with beneficiaries of the Ujjwala and will also address the nation," a government statement said tracing the journey from Ujjwala 1.0 to Ujjwala 2.0 During Ujjwala 1.0 — launched in 2016 — a target was set to provide LPG connections to 5 crore women members of BPL households. Subsequently, the scheme was expanded in April 2018 to include women beneficiaries from seven more categories (SC/ST, PMAY, AAY, Most backward classes, tea garden, forest dwellers, Islands). The target was also revised later to 8 Crore LPG connections and achieved in August 2019, seven months ahead of the target date, the government said. In the Union budget for FY 21-22, a provision for an additional one crore LPG connections under the PMUY scheme was announced. These one crore additional PMUY connections (under Ujjwala 2.0) aim to provide deposit-free LPG connections to those low-income families who could not be covered under the earlier phase of PMUY, the official statement said. "Along with a deposit free LPG connection, Ujjwala 2.0 will provide first refill and hotplate free of cost to the beneficiaries. Also, the enrollment procedure will require minimum paperwork," it added. Modi will also release the next instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Monday. The scheme entails an annual financial benefit of Rs 6,000 to eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of Rs 2000 each. The release of the next instalment of financial benefit under the scheme via video conferencing, will enable the transfer of an amount of more than Rs 19,500 crore to more than 9.75 crore beneficiary farmer families. The prime minister will interact with farmer beneficiaries during the event and will also address the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-20-to-introduce-ujjwala-20-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-1017620.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Akhil Gogoi turns down Mamata Banerjee's offer to join TMC, says willing to be a partner||"I visited Kolkata for the third time on Friday on Banerjee's invitation and held discussions on Friday and Saturday. Top political activist, Prashant Kishore was also in the meeting. I have told them that i don't want to join TMC but our party, Raijor Dal can be a partner of Trinamool and all other regional forces in the country to remove Modi government in 2024," Akhil told reporters in Guwahati on Sunday. He, however, said Mamata's proposal and how his party would move ahead would be discussed in a meeting of Raijor Dal. "I have told her that Raijor Dal is a regional force on which people of Assam have faith that it can be an alternative of BJP and RSS. So we want to be a part of Mamata's efforts to unite all regional parties across the country ahead of 2024 polls. We are in favour of a regional front with Mamata Banerjee at the front. Banerjee can be the Prime Ministerial candidate but there can be discussion later with Congress too," Akhil said. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, came out of jail on July 1 this year after a special NIA court's order. Assam police booked him for sedition charge and the NIA charged him of having links with the Maoists but the court cleared him from all the charges. Akhil contested the Assembly elections from within judicial custody and became an MLA from the prestigious Sivasagar constituency in Assam. Assembly elections in Assam was held in March-April. Akhil has been opposed to the BJP and RSS saying both are trying to divide people on religious lines to win elections. He has been vocal against BJP-led government in Assam and its policies including the CAA. "There is an undeclared emergency in India at present under Modi government. So the opposition parties are trying to unite themselves like they had done after the emergency in 1975," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhil-gogoi-turns-down-mamata-banerjees-offer-to-join-tmc-says-willing-to-be-a-partner-1017623.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||SP, Mahaan Dal will win 400 seats in upcoming assembly polls, form govt in UP : Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed that in the upcoming assembly elections his party and its ally, Mahaan Dal, will form the government in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a meeting of Mahaan Dal workers here, Yadav said till now he has been asserting that the SP will get 350 seats but after the programme of Mahaan Dal, they will win 400 seats. "When I talk about (winning) 400 seats, people start raising questions. But, when the BJP talks about the bullet train, no one questions it. You (BJP) had said that Varanasi will be transformed into Kyoto. But, what the city has turned into can be seen by anyone," he said. The former chief minister claimed that if voted to power, the SP will take journalists to Kyoto. "The cleanliness in Kyoto cannot be imagined," he said. Attacking Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Yadav described him as "fake" and said, "The real Keshav is Mahaan Dal's Keshav Dev Maurya." Speaking on the occasion, Maurya said, "The BJP is saying that everybody is fighting the BJP. But, the reality is that everybody is fighting Akhilesh Yadav." He said that he can merge his party with the SP to fight the BJP, if the need arises, and added that he will remain an ally of the SP, until he is thrown out of the alliance.  Meanwhile, SP spokesperson Ashutosh Verma informed that the backward class cell of the party will hold 'pichhdha varg sammelan' in different districts of the state from August 9 (August Kranti Diwas). Under this, programmes will be held in Kanpur on August 9. On August 10, a programme will be held at the village of Phoolan Devi in Jalaun on her birth anniversary. 'Pichhdha varg sammelan' will be held in Jhansi on August 11 in Mahoba on August 12, in Hamirpur on August 13 and in Kanpur Dehat on August 14. The programmes will culminate with an event in Fatehpur on August 15, the party spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-mahaan-dal-will-win-400-seats-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-form-govt-in-up-akhilesh-yadav-1017628.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||'Daro mat', Congress tells Twitter; questions PM's 'silence' on Dalit girl case||'Daro Mat' (don't be scared) was the message Congress sought to give to the microblogging site Twitter a day after it accused the social media platform of having removed Rahul Gandhi's tweet and suspending his account over putting out pictures of the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl of Delhi, who was allegedly raped and murdered. At a press conference at AICC headquarters, AICC spokespersons Supriya Shrinate, Ragini Nayak, Alka Lamba and Amrita Dhawan also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi telling him his "silence" over the alleged rape and murder of the nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi is "condemnable". The Congress also drew parallel of Delhi incident with the much publicised incidents of similar nature in Hathras and Unnao in the BJP-ruled UP and cited 2019 figures from National Crime Records Bureau to buttress its point that crime against women particularly those belonging to Dalit community has risen. Twitter has, however, maintained that  it can confirm that the account has not been suspended and continues to be in service. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had on Wednesday asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Gandhi's tweet, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Opposition Video Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge also tweeted a video, released by TMC MP Derek O' Brien, regarding the opposition's strategy raising the Pegasus issue and the contentious farm laws during discussions of bills in the Rajya Sabha. The three-minute video captioned ""Mr Modi come listen to us",  compiled using clips from RSTV and consisting of statements made by the opposition MPs in the Upper House, is in an attempt to make the government listen to their demands, Opposition leaders said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/daro-mat-congress-tells-twitter-questions-pms-silence-on-dalit-girl-case-1017635.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||BJP chief J P Nadda slams Opposition for 'baseless allegations' on vaccination drive||BJP chief J P Nadda Sunday said the government managed the Covid-19 crisis effectively, while the Opposition behaved irresponsibly and made "baseless allegations" around vaccines and the ongoing inoculation drive. Nadda praised the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's in the state in tackling the pandemic. "So far, we have given 50 crore doses to people and by December, we will vaccinate 135 crore people of India. It is the largest and the fastest vaccination program in the world," Nadda said. On the second day of his visit to Uttar Pradesh, he took part in an organisational meeting here with party workers which was also attended by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. They were welcomed by party workers who showered flower petals on them from Kheria airport till the venue of the organisational meet at a hotel in the city. Speaking at the meet, Nadda said the BJP government managed the Covid-19 crisis effectively, while the opposition parties behaved irresponsibly. He also added that some of the opposition leaders made baseless allegations about vaccines and called it a "BJP vaccine". "How such narrow-minded people (Opposition) will lead such a big state?" he said. Just as the vaccine was being rolled out in the country in January, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had called it the "vaccine of the BJP" and said he would not take the shot. "How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP''s vaccine," Akhilesh Yadav had said. Nadda also lauded frontline and key workers. "I can feel doctors' mental situation while working during the coronavirus pandemic and I appreciate your valuable effort. I thank you for your efforts. We have lost many doctors during the Covid-19 crisis." Talking about tackling the future Covid-19 crisis, he said, "We are going to train 4 lakh volunteers for 2 lakh villages who would help health workers to tackle the future crisis of Covid." There were 385 medical colleges in the country in 2014 and now there are 532, he said, adding, there are 88,000 medical seats now as against 52,000 in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-slams-opposition-for-baseless-allegations-on-vaccination-drive-1017639.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||BJP vice president Abdullakutty says Sachin Pilot may join party in future||BJP national vice president A P Abdullakutty on Sunday said Congress' Sachin Pilot is a good leader and he thinks that the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan will join the BJP in the future. Speculation about Pilot joining the BJP first began doing rounds after he and MLAs loyal to him revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year. However, Pilot has said that he will not join the BJP, a party he worked hard to defeat to bring the Congress back to power in Rajasthan. "Sachin Pilot is a good leader and I think he will join the BJP in the future," Abdullakutty told reporters. Recently, Congress leaders and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken held discussions regarding the much-awaited Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan. Demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum in Rajasthan after reports of resentment in the Pilot-led camp. Last month, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. Abdullakutty also claimed false propaganda is being run by some people that the BJP is against Muslims. "It is a lie that the BJP is against Muslims. Our honourable RSS chief has clearly said that Muslims and Hindus are one and their DNA is also one," he said. The BJP is a party that takes everyone along and this is its principle, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-vice-president-abdullakutty-says-sachin-pilot-may-join-party-in-future-1017641.html
08-08-2021||National Politics||Haryana police constable recruitment paper leak: Surjewala demands HC-monitored CBI probe||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday demanded a high-court monitored CBI probe into alleged leak of question papers for male police constable recruitment in Haryana as the opposition stepped up attack on the BJP-led government in the state over the issue. He also demanded the government issue a white paper on jobs given to youth the last nearly seven years. Amid reports of a paper leak, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) Saturday cancelled the written examination for the recruitment of male police constables, according to an official order. Saturday was the first day of the examination and candidates appeared in the paper across 35 centres in the state in two shifts. Papers were scheduled for Sunday also. The Congress, which is the main opposition party in the state, has sharpened its attack on the BJP dispensation after the exam was cancelled. On Sunday, Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda alleged that exam papers were being sold like "goods at a grocery shop". Taking a jibe at the state government on how one paper leak scam was coming out after another, Hooda said, "The BJP-JJP government would have surely won gold if there was a medal for paper leaks". He said the Congress will raise the issue in the coming assembly session. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, in a statement, alleged that the "paper leak mafia" has flourished under the present government. Hooda, Surjewala and Selja questioned the government's alleged "silence" despite a number of paper-leak cases coming to the fore and claimed that "white-collar" culprits could be involved in the whole thing.  After the exam was cancelled on Saturday, Surjewala tweeted attacking the state's BJP government over the issue. "It is the 28th paper (of various recruitments) which has got leaked," he said. "Once again police constable paper sold for lakhs of rupees," he alleged, adding that such a leak was not possible unless the "paper leak mafia had the patronage of those in power". Surjewala on Sunday said that in the past, questions of the Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test, excise inspector recruitment exam and that of ITI Inspectors and others have got leaked. "But the shameless government is behaving as if nothing has happened," he said in a statement and adding that the claims of transparent recruitment in the state have been exposed. Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, said, "In the last few years, there is hardly any recruitment whose paper has not got leaked. Papers of two big recruitments -- village secretary and constable -- got leaked in the same year." Despite this, the government has not got the matter investigated properly. "It is clear from this that the roots of corruption are spread from the top to bottom in the present government,” he alleged. Hooda claimed that unemployment was at the maximum in Haryana. If that was not bad enough, the youth also have to face recruitment scams, the Congress leader said. "The youth who should have been part of the state's progress are themselves getting crushed by the corruption mill. The government has no right to play with the future of youth," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-police-constable-recruitment-paper-leak-surjewala-demands-hc-monitored-cbi-probe-1017642.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||NIA crackdown on banned Jamaat-e-Islami in J&K||In a major crackdown, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted raids on banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) at dozens of locations across Jammu and Kashmir in connection with a terror funding probe. Reports said the premier probe agency sleuths accompanied by police and CRPF personnel, raided houses of senior members of the banned organisation besides offices of Falah-e-Aam Trust (FAT), which runs a chain of schools across the union territory (UT) under the auspices of the JeI. A spokesperson of the NIA said raids were conducted at 56 locations in districts of Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Baramulla, Kupwara, Bandipora, Anantnag, Shopian, Pulwama, Kulgam (in Kashmir) and Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar and Rajouri in Jammu in case number RC-03/2021/NIA/DLI. “The case was registered by NIA on 05.02.2021 in pursuance to order from Ministry of Home Affairs relating to separatist and secessionist activities of the JeI, an unlawful association under the UA (P) Act, even after its proscription on 28.02.2019,” he said. “The members of the organisation have been collecting funds domestically and abroad through donations particularly in the form of Zakat, Mowda and Bait-ul-Mal purportedly to further charity and other welfare activities  but these funds are instead being used for violent and secessionist activities,” the statement added. The NIA investigation has also revealed that the funds raised by the JeI are being channelised to proscribed militant organisations such as Hizbul Mujahideen, Lashkar-e-Taiba and others through well organised networks of its cadres. “JeI has also been motivating impressionable youth of Kashmir and recruiting new members ( Rukuns) in J&K to participate in disruptive secessionist activities,” it added. A senior deputy inspector general (DIG) rank officer and a team from New Delhi had flown to Srinagar before the raids. In 2019, the Centre had banned the JeI for five years after the Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 paramilitary CRPF personnel were killed and which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. Over 100 JeI members, including its chief Abdul Hameed Fayaz were arrested by the police at that time. Fayaz continues to be behind bars. According to media reports the FAT runs hundreds of schools across the UT and these institutions are better than the government schools in infrastructure and the quality of teaching. These JeI run schools combine modern scientific education and Islamic teachings. A senior police officer said that right from 1990 the JeI functioned as a socio-political wing of Hizbul Mujahideen militant outfit. “Its (JeI) cadres function as over ground workers of the Hizbul in providing infrastructure/logistic support and organising protective shells in which militants operate,” he said. The officer added that the JeI has substantial penetration even in the UT’s lower and middle-level civil administration, civil secretariat, colleges and universities, legal fraternity, powerful financial institutions, political groups, and the police department. “To break this nexus, the Center has taken various steps and the latest NIA crackdown is one step in that direction,” he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-crackdown-on-banned-jamaat-e-islami-in-jk-1017479.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Non-bailable warrant against husband of Uttarakhand minister in murder case||A court here has issued a non-bailable warrant against the husband of Uttarakhand Women and Child Development Minister Rekha Arya in a 31-year-old double murder case. Additional Sessions Judge Abdul Qayyum passed the order on Thursday against Girdhari Lal Sahu alias Pappu Girdhari. According to Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan, police teams have been set up to arrest him. Sahu's counsel Anil Bhatnagar had filed an application in the court saying his client has fever and was also suffering from weak immunity. He also cited a Allahabad High Court order that stated that neither a person suffering from fever should be allowed to enter the court nor the court premises, but the court rejected the application and issued a non-bailable warrant against him. An application was also moved in the court to cancel the non-bailable warrants of other accused in the case, Bajruddin, Naresh and Jagdish, but the court rejected their application and sent them to jail. The case will now be heard on August 20. The matter relates to the murder of Naresh Jain and his wife Pushpa Jain on June 11, 1990 over a property dispute. Their daughter Pragati had lodged an FIR alleging that four-five people entered their house with knives and sticks and killed her parents. Pragati along with her sister Prerna was also injured in the attack.investigation many names came to light in this case. Later charges were framed against 11 people including Sahu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/non-bailable-warrant-against-husband-of-uttarakhand-minister-in-murder-case-1017480.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Flash Flood: Experts recommend evacuation of Raini village in Uttarakhand||Haunted by horrifying memories of the February flash flood, residents of Raini village--the cradle of the Chipko movement--that bore the brunt of the calamity still cannot sleep peacefully fearing what will happen to them if yet another disaster comes knocking at their doors.   A hydel project on the Rishi Ganga River at Raini village had been totally demolished in the February deluge which had also killed five of its residents. The fear of villagers about another imminent calamity is not unfounded as a team of experts which conducted a study on the impact of the February flashflood on Raini recently recommended its evacuation at the earliest warning due to its increased vulnerability to natural disasters.  Relocation and rehabilitation of disaster-hit villages in Uttarakhand is a long-drawn out affair as there around 330 people affected by successive calamities are still waiting to be relocated. "Raini is vulnerable at present and requires adequate slope stabilisation works to arrest slope failure activities. If appropriate measures are not taken, it may lead to mass movement activities in saturated, dynamic conditions and toe erosion by rivers," geological experts said in a report based on their field study of the affected village in Chamoli district.  "Therefore, the slopes in Raini village located on the confluence point of Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga rivers should be treated or the entire village evacuated as early as possible," the report conducted under the Uttarakhand Disaster Recovery Initiative (UDRP) said.  "During the field visit, it was observed that the slope forming material is highly saturated due to incessant rainfall. The soil/debris material loses its strength when the slope forming material gets saturated. As a result, there are many slip areas in the village from toe to uphill of the slope," the UDRP report submitted already to the district administration said. The fear of villagers of an imminent disaster was deepened after a 40-metre stretch of Joshimath-Malari road just 10 metres below the village caved in a couple of months back, Raini village Pradhan Bhawan Rana said.  Though the stretch has been repaired by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), cracks have appeared on it once again following heavy rains, he said.   Residents of Raini are eagerly awaiting being moved to a safe location.  Dhak and Subhai villages have been recommended by the team of experts in their report  as the appropriate sites for their relocation.     When asked whether the administration had initiated steps for the relocation of the village, Rana said the report has been sent to higher authorities in Dehradun for action.  "But nothing has been done yet despite district authorities being repeatedly told about the situation in Raini. The villagers are forced to live in constant fear, especially at night when running  to safety, in case of a disaster, could be even more difficult if not impossible," Rana said.  Even the school building where residents of Raini were shifted following the flash flood in February can be reached only after crossing a bridge which may be at the risk of being washed away in case of a crisis, he said. There are around 30 families consisting of 122 people still residing in the village, Rana said. "Those whose grown up children work in towns have shifted with them, but those who have no other option are forced to live in the village," the village pradhan said.   Meanwhile, most disaster management officials in Dehradun expressed ignorance about the study report of which a copy is available with PTI.  While the Executive Director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre Piyoosh Rautela said he was not aware of the report, Disaster Management Secretary S A Murugesan said the report had not reached his office yet.  "Anything about Raini can be done only after we receive the report and study it," Murugesan told PTI.     "Raini is one among 400 disaster-hit villages across Uttarakhand which need to be rehabilitated and relocated. We are done with 70 of them. Work on the rest will be taken up in the order of priority. It is an endless process," he said.  Though officials in Dehradun appear to be in no particular  hurry to address the problem  of Raini, the UDRP report should prompt them into immediate action as it warns of toe erosion of the slope base by rivers in the village, mass movement, loose, unstable and overhanging boulders on the slope surface posing danger to houses.   "Raini village is facing serious slope stability problems where whole inhabited area is affected by active subsidence whereas downslope is affected by toe erosion. During investigation wide cracks were observed in the walls and floors of many houses indicating active slope movement in the area.  "It is therefore advisable to rehabilitate Raini village to an alternate safe location. The local administration has identified the sites for the rehabilitation of Raini Village which have been inspected by the geological and geotechnical team," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flash-flood-experts-recommend-evacuation-of-raini-village-in-uttarakhand-1017492.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||One more held in Uttarakhand for passing casteist slur on hockey player Vandana Katariya's family||22-year-old Sumit Chauhan was arrested from his home on Saturday, Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S said. With his arrest, three people have been arrested in connection with the case, the other two being Vijay Pal and his brother Ankur Pal who were arrested earlier, he said. They have all been booked under Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the official said. They are charged with dancing and bursting fire crackers outside Vandana's house in a gesture of mockery soon after the Indian women's hockey team lost to Argentina in Olympics semifinals. They also allegedly passed a casteist slur against the family saying that the team had lost because it had too many Dalit players in it. Meanwhile, police personnel have been deployed outside the Olympian's house in Roshnabad area for the family's security, he said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has announced a reward of Rs 25 lakh for Katariya in recognition of her great performance at the Olympics. He also spoke to the Olympian on Saturday to congratulate her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-held-in-uttarakhand-for-passing-casteist-slur-on-hockey-player-vandana-katariyas-family-1017497.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||5.15 lakh migrant workers returned home during second Covid-19 wave; Ministry says migration in first and second waves different||Around 5.15 lakh migrant workers returned to their villages from workplaces during the second wave of Covid-19 in April-May this year compared to at least 1.14 crore witnessed during the first lockdown a year ago, the Ministry of Labour and Employment told a Parliamentary panel as it faced the wrath for its response to dealing with the crisis. The Ministry was of the view that the migrant workers' movement during the first wave and second wave should not be compared as the circumstances of the lockdowns on the two occasions were "completely different". When asked by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour headed by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, the Ministry told the panel that only 5,15,363 migrant workers returned to their home states during the second wave. No state-specific figures like the one provided for migrant workers returning home in the first wave were provided in the report tabled by the panel in Parliament earlier this month. It sought to differentiate the migrant workers' return in the first and second waves saying that many of those who returned home during the second wave has returned for seasonal activities like crop cutting, marriage and festivals. "The nature of localised lockdowns, curfews imposed by the various states, to cover specific areas of state/district/community, as the case may be, during the second wave of Covid-19 in 2021 is completely different from the national lockdown of last year," the report 'Impact of Covid-19 on Rising Unemployment and Loss of Jobs/Livelihoods in Organised and Unorganised Sectors' said. The report said the Ministry also did not collect the details of migrant workers returning home on its own during the first lockdown in March-May 2020 and had to be goaded by the Supreme Court to do so. The Narendra Modi government had faced criticism over the handling of the migrant workers' crisis. When the entire nation was "witnessing a heart-rending sight of lakhs of migrant workers walking back to their native places helplessly without anything to fall back on", the panel said it was "surprising that the Ministry waited for as long as two months" until June 2020 to write to states and "that too after goaded" by the apex court to collect details. "Needless to say, it speaks volumes of the inaction/delayed action on the part of the Ministry at that specific point of never experienced crisis, notwithstanding a number of appreciable and pro-active measures undertaken by the Central Government as well as the State Governments subsequently to provide food, shelter, transport and health facilities to the migrant labours," it said. The panel said the Ministry should take suo-moto cognizance of such "unprecedented crisis without waiting for the judiciary to intervene" and leverage its monitoring and coordination mechanism with the states to provide the much-needed help to the migrant workers and empower them to deal with the pandemic. The report said that 1,14,30,968 migrant workers had returned home during the lockdown in the first wave with the maximum number of migrant workers who returned to their home states belong to Uttar Pradesh (32.49 lakh ) followed by Bihar (15 lakh), West Bengal (13.84 lakh); Rajasthan (13.08 lakh) and Odisha (8.53 lakh). Other states which saw large numbers of migrant workers returning home during the first wave lockdown were Madhya Pradesh (7.53 lakh), Jharkhand (5.30 lakh); Chhattisgarh (5.26 lakh) and Punjab (5.15 lakh). Among the southern states, Karnataka saw 1.34 lakh migrant workers returning home while Kerala had 3.11 lakh, Tamil Nadu 72,145, Telangana 37,050 and Andhra Pradesh 32,571. The Union Territory of Lakshadweep saw 456 migrant workers returning home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/515-lakh-migrant-workers-returned-home-during-second-covid-19-wave-ministry-says-migration-in-first-and-second-waves-different-1017499.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||MP: Flood situation improving; 14,000 living in relief camps, says minister||The flood situation in Madhya Pradesh was improving following which no rescue operation was undertaken on Sunday, while nearly 14,000 people were living in over 230 relief camps in the affected districts, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. Union Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia undertook an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of Gwalior-Chambal region in the morning and said the area had "not witnessed such devastation in the last 40 years". Talking to reporters in Bhopal, Mishra said, “No rescue operation is underway today in the flood hit areas now due to an improvement in the situation. All those trapped in the floods have been rescued and shifted to relief camps. Around 14,000 people are living in 237 camps in the flood districts of the state." He said there was a forecast of rain in Morena, Shivpuri, Ashok Nagar and Sheopur districts on Sunday. Meanwhile, Scindia undertook an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of the Gwalior-Chambal region. Talking to reporters in Gwalior before the survey, Scindia said the region had not witnessed such devastation in the past four decades. “But, around 15,000 people have been rescued as the state and the Centre worked together. The relief work is being intensified,” said the BJP Rajya Sabha member, who is the scion of the former royal family of Gwalior. He said relief material was being sent to the flood-hit districts. “The government is keeping an eye on the situation. The infrastructure (repair and restoration) work will be carried out on a fast pace in the flood-hit areas,” he said. Earlier, Scindia flagged off relief material trucks to the flood-hit areas of Sheopur districts. He also held a meeting with the elected representatives and administrative officials in Gwalior. He is scheduled to go to Guna, Shivpuri and Ashok Nagar by a helicopter and then visit nearby flood-hit areas by road. At least 24 people died and thousands were evacuated to safety as rains lashed the Chambal-Gwalior region of north Madhya Pradesh earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-flood-situation-improving-14000-living-in-relief-camps-says-minister-1017512.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Waterlogging, traffic snarls in many areas of Delhi following rains||Heavy rains lashed the national capital on Sunday, leading to waterlogging and traffic congestion in many areas. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police gave updates on traffic snarls likely across the city. Both roads from the Rajdhani Park metro station towards Mundka and from Tikri towards Peeragarhi are affected due heavy waterlogging, it said. The minimum temperature in the city settled at 26.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The relative humidity was 83 per cent at 8.30 am, it said. The city received 7 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the IMD added. The weather department had predicted generally cloudy skies with moderate rain or thundershowers on Sunday. It said the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. According to the MeT, Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 per cent of the long-period average -- in August. The national capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. On Saturday, the national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal, while the minimum temperature stood at 27.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/waterlogging-traffic-snarls-in-many-areas-of-delhi-following-rains-1017535.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Cabinet Secretary warns of action against officers fail to attend Independence Day event at Red Fort||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has warned officers invited for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort that a "serious view" will be taken if they fail to attend the event. In a communication to the secretaries of all Union ministries and departments, Gauba said the Independence Day flag hoisting ceremony at the Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also address the nation, has its own significance and the officers invited for the function are expected to attend. "It has been observed that some of the invited officers fail to attend the ceremony. This is inappropriate considering that the occasion is of great national importance. There is clearly a need to remind the officers that it is their duty to attend the Independence Day ceremony," he said. In his letter, Gauba also said that in view of social distancing requirements due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officers of only joint secretary level and above have been invited for the ceremony this year. "You may suitably advice all officers of your ministry/department, who are invited to the independence day ceremony, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view can be taken of their absence on this occasion," Gauba told the secretaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cabinet-secretary-warns-of-action-against-officers-fail-to-attend-independence-day-event-at-red-fort-1017543.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Class 10 to 12 students can visit schools from Monday for admission, board practicals||The Delhi government Sunday allowed students of class 10 to 12 to visit schools from Monday for work related to admission, practical activities for board exam, and also said that health checkup camps situated on school campuses can resume. Through an order issued Sunday evening, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also permitted the opening of weekly markets across the city from Monday with a rider that the vendors and visitors shall follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The DDMA, however, specified that schools, coaching centres and colleges will remain closed for teaching purposes. "Students of class 10 to 12 in the city are permitted to visit their schools from August 9 (Monday) for admission-related work including counselling, guidance and practical activities for board exam. "Health checkups and referral services situated in schools or conducted from there can resume. Children of all age may visit these centres accompanied by their parents or guardians," the DDMA order stated. It said the Directorate of Education shall issue appropriate guidelines with respect to these permitted activities to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed and children safety is ensured. The order also said, "All weekly markets are allowed subject to strict compliance of guidelines issued by the government. No unauthorised weekly market is allowed to function." The order added that roadside weekly markets will not be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-class-10-to-12-students-can-visit-schools-from-monday-for-admission-board-practicals-1017581.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||MP Assembly publishes booklet for MLAs on avoiding unparliamentary language; 'Pappu' among list of words||Henceforth, when an MLA stands up in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly to talk on anything, he or she can easily refer to a booklet, which mentions words, phrases or sentences that are best avoided during the proceedings of the House as such utterances can get expunged. On the eve of the four-day long Monsoon Session, the state Assembly on Sunday released this 38-page booklet, which lists out a number of unparliamentary words, phrases and sentences - mostly in Hindi. The collection carries a total of 1,161 words and sentences that were expunged from the records of the Vidhan Sabha since 1954. As per the list, the members are not supposed to use terms like “Pappu” and “Mr Bantadhar”. BJP supporters are known to use the term "Pappu" to ridicule Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, while “Mr Bantadhar” (spoilsport) is a term used by them for veteran Congressman and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh. Besides that, it lists out several words like dhongi (hypocrite), nikamma (worthless), chor (thief), bhrasht (corrupt), Tanashah (dictator), gunde (goons) and phrases like jhooth bolna (to lie), vyabhichar karna (to induge in adultery). It also mentions the word ‘sasur’ (father-in-law), which was used in the House on September 9, 1954 and was expunged from the records. The booklet specifies words and sentences that were expunged in the Assembly from 1954 to 2021, barring the period between 1990 and 2014. It was released at the Vidhan Sabha Bhavan on Sunday by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state Congress chief Kamal Nath, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Narottam Mishra and Assembly Speaker Girish Gautam. "The booklet will be given to the Assembly members on Monday, before the session begins so that they know which terms should be avoided in the House,” an Assembly official said. Speaking on the occasion, Chouhan recalled the high standard of debates in Parliament and the state Assemblies, and said, “Many a time it happened that the person speaking in these Houses in a flow forgets about not using specific unparliamentary words." He praised the Assembly for bringing out this book, saying that it would help the members in understanding the issue in a better way. The chief minister also said that once a group of students, who came to visit the Vidhan Sabha, had told him after watching the proceedings of the House that they the noisy scenes made them feel as if they were standing in a fish market. Kamal Nath said that both Lok Sabha and the Vidhan Sabha are considered as temples of democracy. “Why such a need has arisen at all that a book on unparliamentary words and sentences was released?” he asked. Speaker Girish Gautam said that all those words or sentences that were expunged since the beginning were included in the publication for the knowledge of the members. “The facility of retakes in life is available to actors, and not to leaders,” he said, and advised them to speak carefully on public forums. Gautam said that the decision to bring out this book will be justified the day the speaker does not have to expunge any word or sentences during the proceedings of the House. A P Singh, state Assembly's principal secretary, said that the records between 1990 to 2014 were not available for some reasons and therefore, it was not included in this publication. “It will be incorporated in the second edition of the publication whenever it will be released,” he added. Between 1993 and 2003, the Congress was in power in Madhya Pradesh, while from 2003 to 2018, the BJP ruled the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-assembly-publishes-booklet-for-mlas-on-avoiding-unparliamentary-language-pappu-among-list-of-words-1017589.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Can't deny possibility of terror modules, sleeper cells in Kanpur: UP DGP||Uttar Pradesh police chief Mukul Goel Sunday said the possibility of terror modules and sleeper cells working in Kanpur cannot be denied even though the force does not have specific intelligence currently. He said the state's Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and intelligence agencies have decided to keep extra vigil to neutralise such forces before they execute their nefarious designs. His statement came in the wake of the ATS recently arresting some people in Lucknow over suspected terrorist activities. He said the arrests in Lucknow prompted the police to step up vigil in Kanpur as well. “We have no specific intelligence inputs about terror modules, but we can't deny the possibility of terror modules and sleeper cells in the city (Kanpur),” Goel told PTI when asked if agencies have tip-off about such designs working in the city. He said intelligence agencies suspect the movement of terrorists and sleeper cells in Kanpur. The DGP was in the city to inaugurate a Covid care hospital at the Kanpur Police Commissionerate. He said it has been decided to set up similar facilities for police personnel in every district. The DGP also remembered the police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty during the pandemic. Two terrorists of the Al-Qaeda-supported Ansar Ghazwatul Hind were arrested by the Uttar Pradesh ATS from the outskirts of Lucknow last month, senior officials had said, adding that they were planning explosions, including using "human bombs", at several places in Uttar Pradesh. A huge amount of explosive was also seized from their houses, the official had said. They were planning to "unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities of UP", including Lucknow, the official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-deny-possibility-of-terror-modules-sleeper-cells-in-kanpur-up-dgp-1017627.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Manohar Khattar visits Ravi Dahiya's home in Sonipat; Anil Vij meets Neeraj Chopra's parents in Panipat||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met the family of wrestler Ravi Dahiya, who won silver medal at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, while Home Minister Anil Vij went to Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra's home in Panipat to congratulate his parents.         Dahiya's family and representatives of Nahri village in Sonipat expressed gratitude to Khattar for boosting the morale of sportspersons and creating a harmonious environment for them to grow and perform at the international platform, according to an official statement here on Sunday. The chief minister, while congratulating the parents of the wrestler at his native Nahri village, also resolved several issues of the area on the spot, it said. Among the family members present along with other representatives were Ravi Dahiya's father Rakesh and uncle Mukesh Dahiya, members of the Nahri Gram Panchayat and former sarpanch of the village. At star javelin thrower Chopra's home on Sunday, Vij congratulated the family, saying he has made the country proud. After honouring Chopra's parents with a turban and a shawl, Vij bowed down and touched their feet. "I have come to touch the feet of the parents of the son-of-the-soil who has brought laurels to the entire nation," he told reporters later. Vij said, "The country used to wait from one Olympics to the other in the hope of winning a gold in athletics. That wait is over now and Neeraj has fulfilled that dream. His performance will encourage more sportspersons to achieve heights of glory." Replying to a question, he said if Chopra wants to set up an academy to train youngsters, the government will consider. Chopra's father Satish said that the Olympic champion will be arriving in India on Monday evening. He said once he is back in the country will the family know on which day he will reach his hometown. Meanwhile, during Khattar's visit to Dahiya's home, village representatives presented a demand letter to the chief minister in which grievances of the people of the area were listed. Khattar immediately took up the grievances and asked the officers concerned to resolve them on priority basis.         Among the key issues, which the representatives shared with the chief minister, was the problem of water drainage in the area. Taking up the matter, Khattar spoke to the deputy commissioner, Sonipat and asked him to resolve the matter immediately.         He also accepted the demand to open a model school in the area and directed the officers concerned to resolve other issues of the area on priority basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manohar-khattar-visits-ravi-dahiyas-home-in-sonipat-anil-vij-meets-neeraj-chopras-parents-in-panipat-1017661.html
08-08-2021||North and Central||Self-rule: Mehbooba's formula to resolve Kashmir issue||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday pitched for her party's self-rule formula for the resolution of the Kashmir issue, saying it addresses both internal and external dimensions of the problem. Chairing a meeting of youth PDP leadership from all districts of the Valley, Mehbooba also underlined the need to initiate a threadbare conversation on how the PDP's vision and roadmap have become all the more important given the current situation in Jammu and Kashmir and the fast-changing geopolitical situation in the subcontinent. "Self-rule is an internally consistent framework indicative of direction for the resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir issue. It addresses the internal and external dimensions of the problem in a manner that is realistic, practical, just and acceptable. It is a creative framework for the resolution of the issue without compromising the sovereignty of the two nation states involved," the PDP president said. Mehbooba said the youth are the beacon of hope for bringing about a lasting change in the polity of Jammu and Kashmir. "These are the times of the youth, for the youth. The mantle of responsibility has befallen the youth of J&K to shape a brighter future for the coming generations. Youth should not shy away from mainstream politics but rather take up the role and responsibility," she said. At the meeting, the party's chief spokesperson gave a detailed presentation on the contours and elements of the self-rule roadmap and asked the participants to take it to the masses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/self-rule-mehboobas-formula-to-resolve-kashmir-issue-1017664.html
08-08-2021||Oasis||Oneness||While writing or speaking about spiritual experience or guidance, it’s only in retrospect, by looking at indications of success that one can deduce that which was intended to be indicated through writing and speaking had been understood ‘as it is’ by the recipients. In the higher realms of consciousness, word’s ultimate purpose and utility is that of indication. Indication keeps freedom to choose intact.  Love, responsibility (dharma), truth, non-violence and eternity are five consecutively subtler fields of spiritual realisation. In that stage of realisation where non-violence reigns supreme, there exists no difference between wish, desire, prayer and intention. As, in this realm, consciousness of oneness is as pure as purity itself, vision is clearest as if clarity itself may have transformed into vision and, correctness is so balanced that supreme consciousness alone can be capable of seeing/judging it. Therefore, when one’s prayer is conveyed to the ‘other’ its nonfulfillment and fulfilment both may become impediment in one’s journey to become one with the supreme consciousness. As, impression of possessing power may become real. At this stage, difference between the deity and the followers is only in appearance and hence it is minimal most. Yet, it is clearer than ever before in earlier stages of realisation. One is driven through the relationship of trust and etiquette. At this stage seeing divine in the ‘other’ translates into obeying divine through ones behaviour by manifesting it through one’s character (self). This appears to be the reason that highly attained do not ask anything from the divine other than that self, i.e. the oneness with 'That-Self'. Mystery behind not asking anything during prayer is nothing but deposition of complete trust in one’s chosen manifestation of supreme consciousness. When one is transformed to such an extent that one’s welfare no more stays any different from universal welfare then one becomes evidence before oneself that ‘That’ not only exists as all pervasive reality but it knows also what is best for one’s welfare every moment and eternally. That is self-test of one’s own saadhnaa being in tune with eternal spiritual Principle. This happening or incident in a mysterious way results into one’s becoming the conduit of supreme consciousness. But, reaching to this stage of experience at which one becomes such in one’s experience is rare feat. Perhaps, this is the closet that one can indicate through written or spoken word what surrender/oneness is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/oneness-1017668.html
08-08-2021||Opinion||Why Hungary inspires so much fear and fascination||Ross Douthat For the last few years, Hungary, a country of fewer than 10 million people, has occupied an outsize place in the imagination of American liberals and conservatives. If you think the American right is sliding toward authoritarianism, you cite Viktor Orban’s nationalist government as a dark model for the GOP. If you think an intolerant progressivism shadows American life, you invoke Orban as a figure who’s fighting back. In this running debate, sharpened by the recent Tucker Carlson visit to Budapest, I was struck by an observation from The Atlantic’s David Frum, a fierce critic of the right’s Orban infatuation. As part of a Twitter thread documenting corruption in Orban’s inner circle, Frum wrote, “I visited Hungary in 2016. Again & again, I witnessed a gesture I thought had vanished from Europe forever: people turning their heads to check who was listening before they lent forward to whisper what they had to say. They feared for their jobs, not their lives — but still … ” This is a useful tweet for thinking about the fears motivating Hungary-watching Americans, left and right. On the one hand, there’s the fear that Trumpian populism will someday gain enough power to make its critics fear for their livelihoods. On the other, there’s the fear that progressivism already exerts this power in the United States and that what Frum describes in dire terms, the cautious sotto voce conversation, is an important part of American life right now. You can document this fear of sharing strong opinions, especially ones that conflict with progressive orthodoxy, by looking at opinion polls. For example, a 2020 survey conducted by the Cato Institute found that 62% of Americans felt uncomfortable sharing their views because of the political climate, and “strong liberals” were the only ideological group where the majority felt free to speak their minds. To the question, “Are you worried about losing your job or missing out on job opportunities if your political opinions became known?” highly educated Americans were the most anxious, with 44% of respondents with a postgraduate degree and 60% of Republicans with a post-grad degree saying yes. Alternatively, you can document this fear by just keeping up with the ever-lengthening list of people who have had careers derailed for offences against progressive norms. (Often they are heterodox liberals rather than conservatives because conservatives are rare in elite institutions and less interesting to ideological enforcers.) Or by observing the climate of denunciation and abasement in various cultural spaces, from academic journals to law schools to the publishing industry. Or just by having everyday conversations in professional-class America; I’ve experienced more versions of the speak-quietly move — or its “don’t share this email” equivalent — in the last few years than I have in my entire prior adult life. This fear is different from the fear that Frum discerned in Hungary, in the sense that nobody in the United States is afraid of criticizing the government. The censorious trend in America is more organic, encouraged by complex developments in the upper reaches of meritocratic life and imposed by private corporations and the ideological minders they increasingly employ. If this is left-McCarthyism, it lacks a Joe McCarthy. If you pushed your way into the inner sanctum of the inner party of progressivism, you would find not a cackling Kamala Harris but an empty room. For anyone on the wrong side of the new rules of thought and speech, though, the absence of a McCarthy figure is cold comfort. Whatever his corruptions, Orban might lose the next election, if the fractious opposition stays united. But where can you go to vote for a different ruling ideology in the interlocking American establishment, all its schools and professional guilds, its consolidated media and tech powers? One answer, common to old-fashioned libertarians, is that you can’t vote against cultural forces; you just have to fight the battle of ideas, at whatever disadvantage, with a Substack if your media colleagues force you out, or from suburban Texas if you feel uncomfortable in the groves of academe. For others, though, this seems like a naive form of cultural surrender — like telling a purged screenwriter during the Hollywood Blacklist, “Hey, just go start your own movie studio.” Which is part of how a figure like Orban becomes appealing to American conservatives. It’s not just his anti-immigration stance or his moral traditionalism. It’s that his interventions in Hungarian cultural life, the attacks on liberal academic centers and the spending on conservative ideological projects, are seen as examples of how political power might curb progressivism’s influence. Some version of this impulse is actually correct. It would be a good thing if American conservatives had more of a sense of how to weaken the influence of Silicon Valley or the Ivy League, and more cultural projects in which they wanted to invest both private energy and public money. But the way this impulse has swiftly led conservatives to tolerate corruption, whether in their long-distance Hungarian romance or their marriage to Donald Trump, suggests a fundamental danger for cultural outsiders. When you have demand for an alternative to an oppressive-seeming ideological establishment but relatively little capacity to build one, the easiest path often leads not toward renaissance but grift. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-hungary-inspires-so-much-fear-and-fascination-1017409.html
08-08-2021||Panorama||Good riddance? Questions remain as govt scraps retrospective tax||Better late than never. This line would summarise the reaction of many to the recent decision of the government to do away with its proclivity to retrospectively amend the Income Tax Act when it felt that the ambiguities of the law prevented tax being paid in India. In particular, this was a clear reaction to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal in the case of Cairn India asking the government to return $1.2 billion with interest. The award also empowered Cairn to seize sovereign assets located abroad if the amount was not returned. The decision of the government to remove the menace of retrospective taxation is to be appreciated. However, it is anybody’s guess whether the government would have done so had Cairn India not got the award from the Arbitral Tribunal. The Taxation Laws (Amendment ) Bill, 2021 summarises the history of retrospective taxation succinctly by stating that the issue of taxability of gains arising from the transfer of assets located in India through the transfer of the shares of a foreign company was a subject matter of protracted litigation. Finally, the Supreme Court in 2012 had given a verdict that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets are not taxable under the extant provisions of the Act. As the government was of the opinion that the verdict of the Supreme Court was inconsistent with the legislative intent, the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 were amended by the Finance Act, 2012 with retrospective effect, to clarify that gains arising from sale of share of a foreign company is taxable in India if such share, directly or indirectly, derives its value substantially from the assets located in India. The Finance Act, 2012 also provided for validation of demand, etc., under the Income-tax Act, 1961 for cases relating to indirect transfer of Indian assets. The clarificatory amendments made by the Finance Act, 2012 invited criticism from stakeholders mainly with respect to retrospective effect given to the amendments. It was argued that such retrospective amendments militate against the principle of tax certainty and damage India’s reputation as an attractive destination. However, this retrospective clarificatory amendment and consequent demand created in a few cases continues to be a sore point with potential investors.    The Bill proposes to amend the Income-tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012 received the assent of the President). It is further proposed to provide that the demand raised for indirect transfer of Indian assets made before May 28, 2012 shall be nullified on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc., shall be filed. It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon. The conditions As is normal with anything under the income tax, the decision comes with conditions. The said person should withdraw or submit an undertaking to withdraw any appeal before an appellate forum, any writ petition before any court, any proceeding for arbitration, conciliation or mediation against any order in respect of said income. This would also apply if he has given any notice under any law for the time being in force or under any agreement entered into by India with any other country or territory outside India, whether for protection of investment or otherwise. He should also furnish an undertaking, waiving his right, whether direct or indirect, to seek or pursue any remedy or any claim in relation to the said income which may otherwise be available to him under any law for the time being in force, in equity, under any statute or under any agreement entered into by India with any country or territory outside India, whether for protection of investment or otherwise. The conditions end with a generic statement “such other conditions as may be prescribed”. The line appears to have been inserted more out of habit than with any specific intent. A lot of arguments for and against retrospective taxation have been made since 2012. Inserting new conditions later would only increase the litigation on this matter — the government should get this line removed from the Bill immediately. The government deserves kudos for taking this step which would send the right signal to large multinationals who have invested in India. While Vodafone initially and Cairn subsequently have hogged all the limelight, there are at least 15 other companies who would benefit from this move of the government. Yet, a million-dollar question remains: Will the government be tempted to do an encore by reintroducing retrospective taxation once the present set of cases is done and dusted? One can only hope that the answer to this question is in the negative because amendments have also been proposed to the charging section in the Income-tax Act, 1961. The government should see the recent move of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to introduce a global minimum tax for top multinational companies operating in multiple jurisdictions as an opportunity. It is impossible for the OECD to introduce a formula that suits every tax jurisdiction — concessions have to be granted in individual jurisdictions. Once the basic framework of the global minimum tax is ready, the government should take a relook at their Double Tax Avoidance Agreements with large countries. If necessary, these agreements need to be tweaked to ensure that some part of the income that is not a part of the global minimum tax is taxed in India. Other technicalities under international taxation such as General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) and Advance Pricing Agreements (APA) should ensure that retrospective taxation in India is history. (The writer is a Bengaluru-basedtax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/good-riddance-questions-remain-as-govt-scraps-retrospective-tax-1017672.html
08-08-2021||Panorama||Off The Record: August 9, 2021||Before Pegasus, in Kashmir The recent spate of revelatory news stories on potential hacking of phones using Pegasus spyware led to an uproar across the country. The news may have come as a shock for people in the country but in Kashmir, it was not something unexpected for a common man. For decades, everyone in Kashmir has had a right or wrong perception that his or her phone is being tapped by security agencies. People feel that even if they talk about asking someone to fetch milk and bread from the market that too comes to the notice of the agencies. And long before Pegasus, people in Kashmir would hesitate to discuss any important issue over the phone even with their spouse. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Pork for boxer till next Olympics Pork has made it to the list of free sops being offered to Olympics medalists. Symbiotics Foods Private Limited, a firm based in Assam, has offered free Gahoree or pork till the next Olympics for woman boxer Lovlina Borgohain, who bagged Bronze medal for India in the Tokyo Olympics. "As a small token of love and appreciation, we would like to offer her free 'A Slice of Gahoree' for the next five years. We believe our "A Slice of Gahoree" will help her become stronger with a continuous supply of quality protein and no one will be able to beat her in the next Olympics," CEO of the company Manoj Kumar Basumatary posted on Facebook. Lovlina hails from Assam's Golaghat district. The offer comes when free air tickets and pizza have been offered to athlete Neeraj Chopra and weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, who won gold and silver respectively at the Games. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Are all worried about 'timing'? When Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin wanted to pay last respects to senior AIADMK leader E Madhusudhanan on August 6, his office checked whether the AIADMK top brass— O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami— were at the departed leader’s residence. Once he knew they were there, he proceeded to the place where Madhusudhanan’s body was kept and expressed his condolences. It is said that Stalin wanted to send a message that he would follow political decency. And hours later, EPS and OPS, too sent out a clear message to their former boss V K Sasikala. They left the place half an hour before Sasikala was to pay last respects to Madhusudhanan. Everyone seems to be worried about the timing. E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai Support to the hockey star Uttarakhand government has declared Vandana Katariya, a member of the Indian women's hockey team that reached the semi-finals at the Tokyo Olympics, as the brand ambassador for the state's Department of Women and Child Development. Katariya's family had to go through a harrowing time as a group of people hurled casteist slurs at them after the women team lost the bronze medal play-offs. The miscreants were arrested and the government decision to celebrate and honour Katariya is also seen as a strong signal of support to the hockey star. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Trinamool's 'no' to Rahul It seems the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has a problem with Rahul Gandhi. While the Mamata Banerjee-led party is coordinating with the Opposition, it is keeping away from any initiative by Rahul. Top leaders like Sudip Bandhyopadhyay and Derek O'Brien gave a miss to joint Opposition meetings chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha in which Rahul was in attendance. Most of the senior MPs of the party also give a miss to Rahul's breakfast meet for Opposition MPs. This comes despite the Congress acknowledging and supporting TMC's Abhishek Banerjee after he emerged as a potential snooping target through Pegasus. Shemin Joy, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-august-9-2021-1017677.html
08-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Pandemic musings||I’m not supposed to be out at this time, after sunset, but staying cooped up at home is not easy. As the day wears on, one gets irritable and only a brisk walk, even if it is a short one is required to drive away the blues. I’ve hit upon an ingenious plan. Keep a strip of some tablets, never mind if it’s past the expiry date in your pocket. If questioned by the police, say that you are returning home after purchasing the tablets. The only precaution to be taken is to walk somewhere in the vicinity of the medical shop, to bolster your explanation. I have been stopped only once, but my plan has stood me in good stead. So, here I am, this balmy evening in May, walking on the calm, deserted stretch of the road, the bright neon signboard of the pharmacist casting a iridescent yellow circle on the tarred surface. My eyes espy a strategically placed board near the entrance of the shop. “Oxygen concentrator available” it proclaims. As I walk on, I recall a video recording of an interview with Jane Goodall, the renowned primatologist, that I had seen the previous night. In it, the acclaimed naturalist talks about man’s disrespect for nature and disregard for animals and how the degradation of the environment is leading to so many natural disasters, like the current pandemic. Whether for material gains, political upmanship or whatever, it appears that man’s senseless  pursuit of pelf, power and prestige has led to this apocalypse. I remember elders speaking about the exorbitant prices of essential commodities, and taxes under every imaginable head in the annual budgets. The wiser among them used to say that the days of taxes on the air we breathe are not far away. That seems to have come true now.  Nature, in all her benevolence, has provided us with all that we need to live. Now, a time has  come, when, as Jane Goodall says, we have so ill-treated nature that she has unleashed her wrath upon us, wherein we are unable to even take in the abundant oxygen she gives. We need a machine to separate the nitrogen from the oxygen and then gulp, gasp in that ambrosia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/pandemic-musings-1017667.html
08-08-2021||Second Edit||Water dispute: State shows the way ||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai deserves to be complimented for setting aside political differences and meeting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, who was visiting Bengaluru, with a suggestion to amicably resolve the water dispute with Maharashtra through talks. This was followed by detailed discussions with Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, who also belongs to the NCP which is a coalition partner in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, with both sides agreeing to hold another round of talks in Delhi soon. It usually takes decades to resolve water disputes through the legal process, often leading to acrimony between the riparian states. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, which was established in 1990, took 17 years to submit its report on river water sharing between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The tribunal was wound up 28 years after it was set up as both states had continued approaching it with further disputes even after the final award, until the Supreme Court adjudicated the matter in 2018. The issue which led to violence in both states over the years continues to linger on and has now grown new wings with Karnataka proposing to construct a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu. Karnataka’s row with Maharashtra has not been as bitter as with Tamil Nadu, though differences over sharing of waters keep raising its head even after the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal set up in 1969 submitted its first report in 1973 and the final one in 2010. Bommai is actually taking forward the initiative of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa who had earlier signed an agreement with Maharashtra with a view to resolving certain contentious issues. One of them is the Dudhganga project that will provide both states with surplus water for irrigation. The states had also agreed to mitigate the flood situation by managing the release from reservoirs and sharing real-time data for better water management in Krishna and Bhima basins. While Maharashtra and Karnataka have decided to take the conciliatory approach, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have now raised a new dispute demanding additional allocation of water, arguing that the latter was not in existence at the time of the award. Considering that Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh, the demand may not be legally tenable as the tribunal had made it clear that its order would apply to ‘successor states’ as well. Water issues, being highly emotive, are often used by leaders for political gains among their voters. Karnataka and Maharashtra’s decision to show statesmanship by trying to resolve the dispute through dialogue should be a template for other states too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/water-dispute-state-shows-the-way-1017670.html
08-08-2021||South||Case against actor Mammootty, others for Covid protocol violation||Kerala police has registered a case against cine actors Mammootty, Ramesh Pisharody and 300 others for allegedly violating Covid-19 health protocol during the inauguration of a medical facility at a hospital near here. Police said the actors were at the private hospital for the inauguration of a robot-assisted service for joint replacement surgery there and around 300 persons gathered there during the ceremony. "Almost 300 people participated in the programme inaugurated by actor Mammootty. We have also registered a case against the hospital MD, COO and others under various provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act," police told P T I. The event was held on August 3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-actor-mammootty-others-for-covid-protocol-violation-1017477.html
08-08-2021||South||Former Tamil Nadu Congress chief Tindivanam K Ramamurthy no more||Former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president Tindivanam K Ramamurthy died here on Sunday and leaders including Chief Minister M K Stalin condoled his death. He was 86 and died due to illness. Ramamurthy had held various positions in the party including that of state secretary, general secretary and had headed the Tamil Nadu Congress unit as its president, a party release here said. A former MLA, and a nominated Rajya Sabha MP between 1984 and 1990, he was also previously the leader of opposition in the now defunct legislative council, and worked hard for the growth of the Congress party, TNCC president K S Alagiri said. Condoling Ramamurthy's death and expressing grief, Alagiri said he raised his voice for people's issues in the Assembly and worked to protect the interests of backward classes. "Tindivanam Ramamurthy's death is an irreparable loss and I convey my condolences and to his family and friends," Alagiri said. Chief Minister Stalin, who placed a wreath over the body at the former TNCC chief's residence here, said Ramamurthy passed away due to illness and he was anguished to learn about it. Hailing Ramamurthy as a Congress veteran in the national mainstream who worked closely with leaders like K Kamaraj, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, Stalin said he fought for Tamil Nadu's welfare and rights and brought fame to the state. AIADMK top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami in a statement recalled that Ramamurthy worked with a spirit of friendship when their party aligned with the Congress years ago and hailed the former TNCC chief's work for the welfare of people. Congress legislature party leader K Selvaperunthagai, Pattali Makkal Katchi founder leader S Ramadoss, Indian Union Muslim League chief K M Khader Mohideen, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader TTV Dhinakaran were others who condoled Ramamurthy's death. All the leaders conveyed their sympathies and condolences to the bereaved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-tamil-nadu-congress-chief-tindivanam-k-ramamurthy-no-more-1017531.html
08-08-2021||South||Kerala Tourism department to hold virtual Onam celebrations this year: Minister||Kerala Tourism Minister P A Mohammed Riyas on Sunday said the Tourism department would be celebrating Onam virtually this year in order to promote domestic tourism and bring together Malayalees all over the world on a digital platform in view of Covid-19 travel restrictions. The minister, at a press meet, said that the state government was working to revive domestic tourism by identifying unexplored tourist destinations in various districts and collating them on an app so that they can be brought to everyone's attention worldwide. He said the step was being taken as due to the pandemic, from March 2020 till December 2020 the tourism sector suffered a loss of Rs 33,000 crore and foreign exchange earnings went down by Rs 7,000 crore. Even the number of tourists, both domestic and foreign, has come down tremendously since 2016, he added. Speaking on the topic of virtual Onam celebrations, the minister said as part of this new initiative, Kerala's arts, culture, food varieties and prominent tourist destinations would be showcased virtually with the help of visual media and other means. He said the event would be inaugurated on August 14 by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. There will also be a 'world flower arrangement competition' as part of this initiative and online registrations for the same will commence from August 10, he added. As part of the competition, Malayalees all over the world can upload their 'onampookkalam' or flower arrangement on the Tourism department's digital platform. The minister also said this step was taken as Onam celebrations had to be put on hold last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the situation was still continuing. On identification and development of unexplored tourist destinations, the minister said meetings have been held at panchayat level in all the districts of the state and maps have been made of such places in each panchayat. These maps would be collated and uploaded on the app so that people world over can see the new destinations for travel and exploration, he said. He said another idea behind the virtual Onam celebrations was to convert every Malayalee in the world into a brand ambassador of Kerala tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tourism-department-to-hold-virtual-onam-celebrations-this-year-minister-1017537.html
08-08-2021||South||Doctors in Kerala ask CM to provide them tight security at hospitals||Days after a doctor and a security guard were attacked at the Fort Taluk Hospital here, the Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA) on Sunday asked the Chief Minister of the State Pinarayi Vijayan to increase security at hospitals and prevent a repeat of such incidents. The KGMOA submitted to the Chief Minister a list of suggestions in that regard. The association said the facilities at hospitals are inadequate to prevent attacks resulting in affecting the smooth delivery of essential medical care to the people. "Repeated incidents of hospital coming under attack in the recent past have demoralised doctors who have been tirelessly working to control the Covid-19 pandemic. We are sure that you understand the gravity of the situation and will see to it that such untoward incidents are not repeated," the association said in a letter to the Chief Minister. As part of the suggestions, KGMOA asked the State government to recognise all healthcare institutions under the Kerala State Health Services as special security zones under section 83 of the Kerala Police Act 2011. "Police aid posts should be established in all hospitals having casualty service.Infrastructure of healthcare institutions should be improved to enhance security. Security cameras should be installed and adequate security personnel in the institutions. The post of security staff must be created in major hospitals," the letter said. The doctors demanded that all cases of attack be dealt with under the Hospital Protection Act, 2012, and sought prompt action against the culprits. Also, the KGMOA sought steps to reduce heavy rush and long queues in healthcare institutions. "The patient load in most healthcare institutions is unmanageable due to improper staff patterns. Doctors and paramedical staff are inadequate for the increased patient load. Necessary steps should be taken to assess the patient load of individual institutions and increase the number of posts accordingly," the KGMOA said. On Friday, police said they arrested two persons for allegedly attacking the duty doctor and the security guard at the Fort Taluk Hospital. The accused were at the hospital on Thursday to get treated for the wounds caused in a drunken brawl. They refused to wait for their turn and started abusing the doctor and attacking her, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctors-in-kerala-ask-cm-to-provide-them-tight-security-at-hospitals-1017550.html
08-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Congress to get a new chief?||Speculation is rife that the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) might get a new President soon. It is believed that the Congress High Command wants a young leader to replace 68-year-old incumbent K S Alagiri, who led the party to success in the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly polls in an alliance with the DMK.  Though there is no clarity on when the change of guard will take place, sources in Congress confirmed that the party has begun giving shape to the proposal for the change in leadership. Alagiri, a staunch loyalist of Congress veteran G K Moopanar, was appointed as TNCC chief in February 2019 just two months before the state went to Lok Sabha polls in April. The leadership change is being considered, according to sources, because the BJP is making itself heard much more than other political parties in the state in the past year. Moreover, the saffron party has named former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai, 37, as its state unit chief with the BJP making its ambition clear.  Sources said the leadership change is considered only with the aim to prepare the party for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “There will be a change in the leadership. Incumbent Alagiri has completed 2.5 years in office and there is a distinct possibility of him being replaced. The new chief will be a young leader who will infuse confidence among youngsters,” a senior AICC leader told DH on the condition of anonymity. The names of Karur MP S Jothimani and Krishnagiri MP A Chellakumar are doing the rounds for the top post. Sivaganga MP Karti P Chidambaram has been quite vocal about his interest in the top post of the state unit. While Chellakumar is a former legislator having been with Congress since the 1980s, Jothimani is considered close to Congress MP Rahul Gandhi.  She was General Secretary and Vice President of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) and has the ears of Gandhi. In fact, Gandhi had mentioned the names of Jothimani and another MP Manickam Tagore in response to questions about dynastic politics in Congress during media interviews.  A senior TNCC leader said the leadership should not effect a change till about December when the state is expected to face local body elections. “There is no need for a change now. The PCC is doing fine, and there is no urgent need for replacing him. He should not be disturbed at least till the local body polls are over,” the leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-congress-to-get-a-new-chief-1017601.html
08-08-2021||South||P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan to release white paper on Tamil Nadu finances on Monday||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan will on Monday release a white paper on the state’s finances which the new DMK government says the previous AIADMK dispensation had “mismanaged” in a big way. Sources said the white paper will throw much light into the “financial mismanagement” of the previous AIADMK Government which ruled Tamil Nadu from 2011 to 2021. The DMK, which was the principal Opposition then, had promised to release a white paper on the state’s finances. The white paper is expected to dwell on how Tamil Nadu plunged into a state that has huge debts. The state government's debts that stood at Rs 1.30 lakh crore in 2011 when the DMK handed over the baton to AIADMK has now gone up to Rs 4.85 lakh crore. This amount would go further up if interest payments and liabilities of state-level public sector undertakings (SPSUs) are taken into account. The debt is likely to be revised in the Budget. Thiaga Rajan himself had said an effectively revenue neutral or revenue surplus state from 2004 to 2014 suddenly started having record revenue deficits each year and consequently exploding debt. “After taking over the department, I realised that much of the financial mismanagement was the result of sleepwalking, not because they consciously made bad decisions. As things began to slide, nobody bothered to check what was happening and nobody even cared to correct the mistakes,” he had told DH in an interview in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/p-t-r-palanivel-thiaga-rajan-to-release-white-paper-on-tamil-nadu-finances-on-monday-1017608.html
08-08-2021||South||Vaccine hesitancy high among 60 years of age: Tamil Nadu organises special camps||Tamil Nadu will hold special vaccinations camps every Sunday to administer a second dose of Covid-19 vaccine shots for those above the age of 60, with just 13 per cent of the above-mentioned age group getting fully vaccinated. The government has designated nearly 75 vaccination centres across the state for exclusively administering the second dose of the vaccine for those above 60 years of age. The special camps functioned on Sunday and will continue to function every Sunday, officials said, adding that such steps were necessary to ensure that the elderly are safe even if the third wave of infections hit the state. The development also comes close on the heels of a survey conducted by the Director of Public Health (DPH) revealing that vaccine hesitancy was high among those above 60 years of age with 27.6 per cent of those surveyed expressed hesitancy in getting vaccinated. The vaccine acceptance is high among those between 18-44 years of age with 80.3 per cent of men and 81.6 per cent of women among the unvaccinated lot agreeing to be inoculated.  The DPH has decided to focus on addressing misconceptions among the age group. “Strategies and facilities would be created to counter the barriers and empower everyone to get vaccinated with confidence,” Dr T S Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said. Tamil Nadu, which was one of the worst-affected states during the second wave of Covid-19 infections, is witnessing a marginal increase in the number of daily cases. Though the number of fresh Covid-19 patients hovers around 2,000 a day, but the numbers have been fluctuating in the past week. Officials said though the vaccination rate in the elderly is “somewhat satisfactory” in urban areas, the same cannot be said about rural areas. Chennai tops the list of fully vaccinated above the age of 60 with 35 per cent followed by the picturesque Nilgiris (30 per cent), and Coimbatore (21 per cent). Ariyalur stands at the bottom of the list with just 4 per cent of the elderly getting fully vaccinated. Other districts that have recorded less than ten per cent are Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, and Tiruvarur among others. Tamil Nadu has so far administered 2.48 crore vaccine doses of which 17.01 lakh are from the private sector. The government has also found a novel way to utilize the vaccines that are allotted to the private sector by allowing corporates to buy them using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds and administer them free of cost to the people. The state government is also preparing itself for any third wave of infections by not dismantling any temporary infrastructure created for the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccine-hesitancy-high-among-60-years-of-age-tamil-nadu-organises-special-camps-1017612.html
08-08-2021||State||No state-wide lockdown in Karnataka for now: K Sudhakar||After the Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced weekend curfew and additional curbs, Health Minister K Sudhakar has clarified that “there is no question of imposing a lockdown” in the state. From August 6, onwards the Karnataka government has imposed weekend curfew in the border districts of the state and additional curbs across the state to stop the spread of Covid-19 virus. He also said, “We have already imposed a night curfew across the state and the restrictions like the curbs on large gatherings and other potential risks are already in place,” adding, “We will monitor the situation on a day-to-day basis and take appropriate decisions based on the opinions of experts and recommendations of the TAC.” Noting that there is a rise in the number of cases in Mangaluru, Udupi, Kodagu, Hassan and Chikmagalur districts, he said, “We are closely monitoring the situation.” He also mentioned that there are 162 micro-containment zones in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and 65 per cent of Bangaluru’s micro-containment zones are in Mahadevapura, East and Bommanahalli zones. Denying the claims of vaccine shortage in Karnataka, he said that the state has administered more than 3.23 crore doses and has received 12.24 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far in August. “So, there is no shortage of vaccines and, as I said earlier, we are confident of fully vaccinating the entire adult population in the state by the year-end,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-state-wide-lockdown-in-karnataka-for-now-k-sudhakar-1017547.html
08-08-2021||State||Teacher arrested for sexually assaulting a student||The Subrahmanya police arrested a PU college teacher for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor female student. The arrested is Gururaj. According to DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane, in the name of project work, he would allegedly ask the said student to visit his house and was sexually assaulting her since 2018.  He had even clicked a few photographs of the victim and had issued threats to her not to reveal the incident. He had even asked her to get money from her house and was issuing threats to her using the photographs. The victim’s mother has filed a complaint to the Subrahmanya Police. The police have booked cases against him under various sections of the IPC, Pocso act and IT Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/teacher-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-a-student-1017596.html
08-08-2021||State||SDM college faculty receives DRDO funds to track enemies||Two faculty members of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Engineering and Technology, Dharwad have received grants from The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for developing a technology that can improve enemy surveillance using aerial imagery. Institute’s Computer Science Department professor Archana Nandibevur and professor Aijazahmed Qazi have been tasked to write an advanced algorithm to ‘Design and performance analysis of a robust algorithm for surveillance and object reconnaissance using enhanced aerial imagery’. For this, the two have received grants of Rs 30.51 lakh. Their work is expected to help not only identify the camouflaged enemy but also the weapons they are carrying using the aerial imagery that is captured by drones. The project will be monitored by senior Principal Scientist Dr P V Sathyanarayan Murthy. Speaking to DH, Dr Archana said DRDO regularly lists projects on their official website. “In 2019, I stumbled upon one such project:‘Design and performance analysis of a robust algorithm for surveillance and object reconnaissance using enhanced aerial imagery’. I had sent a report in this regard and the experts at DRDO accept my report and have given this research work to us,” she said. “Our task would be to process low-resolution images taken from drones to the minutest details possible using advanced algorithm. The images should be enhanced to such a level that it could bust the camouflage of enemy uniform and weapons that they are carrying,” she said and added that it is a three-year project and they would be constantly receiving inputs from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- National Aerospace Laboratories (CSIR-NAL) and DRDO scientists. Of the Rs 30.5 lakh, the DRDO has made provisions for Archana to purchase equipment work Rs 13 lakh. “As per the advice of DRDO scientists, we are buying a drone and Spectral cameras, which can provide us high-resolution images,” she said and added that the entire research would be used for military purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sdm-college-faculty-receives-drdo-funds-to-track-enemies-1017644.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Was govt's SC fight for Mysuru land botched?||Was the state government’s legal fight in the Supreme Court for 1,561 acres of prime land in Mysuru botched? This is a question some IAS officers have raised after the top court junked the government’s plea challenging the erstwhile royal family’s ownership of this land, estimated to be worth Rs 10,000 crore. Bureaucrats told DH that the government’s legal effort was fraught with internal contradictions, including varying perspectives on the dispute itself. Documents show that Advocate-General Prabhuling Navadgi was unhappy with the government’s decision to appoint senior advocate Harish Salve to fight this case. On March 1, Salve was appointed as senior counsel with advocate Chinmay Deshpande to assist and coordinate. On March 5, Navadgi sought an explanation from the government saying he was not consulted. Meanwhile, on Navadgi’s direction, senior advocate Ranjit Kumar was roped in as Salve’s replacement. Kumar’s appointment was ratified by the government on July 23, days before the case was scheduled for a hearing in the top court. Kumar was appointed since Salve “was not in a position to appear”, according to a government order. However, officials contend this claim as false; they say Salve was not even informed of the hearing date in July. “How will he appear without intimation about the date? The question is not about the competence of one advocate versus the other. Why did the government change advocates without any reason,” one official familiar with the case asked. Navadgi declined to comment. Ever since state government initiated an inquiry into the status of the land in 2012, it has failed to convey its stand effectively to both the court and the litigants, another senior officer explained. “In 2010-11, an inquiry was initiated after a PIL was filed on behalf of the Maharaja of Mysuru for transfer of rights (RTC). Although this land was given to the erstwhile Maharaja by the Government of India, it is B-Kharab land, which cannot be used for any commercial purpose,” the officer pointed out. “A private entity can own B-Kharab land, but cannot make use of it. It is public land meant to serve as the city’s lung space. Over a period, the argument became about ownership of land between government and private entities, taking away the crux of the argument, which was about saving the lung space,” the official lamented. In 2010-11, then Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Harsh Gupta issued an order declaring this land as B-Kharab. In 2012, P S Vastrad dropped this order. In 2020, the Karnataka High Court passed an order in favour of the private litigants. Challenging this, the government approached the Supreme Court, only for the plea to be dismissed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/was-govts-sc-fight-for-mysuru-land-botched-1017399.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Withdraw Cabinet rank status: B S Yediyurappa tells Bommai||A day after the Bommai government extended Cabinet rank status to former Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, he has written to the government requesting it to withdraw the same. In a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Yediyurappa declined the Cabinet rank status offered to him. "...I request you to provide only those facilities extended to immediate past chief minister of the state and request you to withdraw the order granting me the Cabinet rank status," he wrote. According to the order issued Saturday by the government, Yediyurappa was to be extended the Cabinet status until CM Bommai is in office. The decision had raised eyebrows, and was interpreted in some quarters as the former CM's effort to retain Cauvery as his official residence.  Though Cauvery is the designated residence of the CM, former CMs including Congress' Siddaramaiah had stayed at the residence during the tenure of their successor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/withdraw-cabinet-rank-status-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-bommai-1017489.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NIA raids places linked to Bangladeshi human traffickers in Bengaluru||Officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches in Bengaluru in connection with a human trafficking case involving a group of Bangladeshi nationals and recovered incriminating documents, the agency said on Sunday. The investigation agency on Saturday raided two places linked to a person, who is suspected to be involved in making fake ID proof for Bangladeshi traffickers here, the NIA said in a statement. "During the searches, various incriminating documents, six digital devices including hard disks and mobile phones used for making the forged documents were seized," it said. The case pertains to a Bangladeshi woman, who was allegedly trafficked to India by a gang under the pretext of offering her a job and was forced into prostitution. She was then raped and brutalised for not following the instructions of her traffickers in May, and the whole act was recorded by one of the accused. Based on the video clip, which had gone viral, and a tip-off from their counterpart in Bangladesh, the accused were traced and arrested by the Bengaluru police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nia-raids-places-linked-to-bangladeshi-human-traffickers-in-bengaluru-1017515.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,598 fresh Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths||Karnataka recorded 1,598 fresh Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths on Sunday, according to the Health Department. The number of the infected and the dead reported during the day took the total to 29,18,525 and 36,793 till date, the department said. There were 23,930 active cases while the recovery of 1,914 patients took the number cured so far to 28,57,776. Dakshina Kannada district, bordering Kerala, saw 438 cases and six fatalities while the Bengaluru urban district witnessed 348 fresh infections and one death. The capital city of Karnataka has so far reported 12,30,486 infections and 15,914 deaths. There were 8,493 active cases. Other districts also reported Covid-19 cases: Udupi reported 129 cases, Mysuru 98, Kodagu 83, Hassan 80, Uttara Kannada 53 and Chikkamagaluru 52. According to a bulletin, there were fatalities in nine districts, including Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Kolar, Hassan, Dharwad, Uttara Kannada and Mysuru. There were zero fatalities in 21 districts of the State where 1,46,446 tests were conducted today. The tests included 1,14,176 RT-PCR tests, the bulletin said. So far, 3.98 crore tests have been done, it said. As many as 1,23,932 people were inoculated today and the total number vaccinated till date was 3.29 crore. The test positivity rate for the day was 1.09 per cent and the case fatality rate 1.25 per cent, the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1598-fresh-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-1017622.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Doubling vaccination rate can reduce active case load ten-fold: Experts||Attendees at a meeting held with members of TAC on August 3 included researchers from Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), Bengaluru. In their detailed presentations to 20-odd experts from various medical specialities and fields, including the state’s health secretary, they’ve said even the emergence of new variants after September this year will not induce the third Covid wave, provided there is good social distancing like in a lockdown-like scenario. Dr Sashikumar Ganesan, Department of Computational and Data Sciences, IISc, one of the three researchers who briefed TAC told DH, “If vaccination is doubled, active cases will reduced 10-fold. If the new variant comes in August, then a third Covid wave will happen for sure. But if it gets delayed to October or November, then the wave may not be severe as vaccination coverage would be high by then.” “We’ve developed an ensemble forecast with 972 scenarios based on seven control variables. The new immune-escape variant was responsible for the second Covid wave. Emergence of new variants and poor social distancing are most likely to be the main reasons for the third Covid wave,” he said. Ganesan explained that increase in vaccination rate will reduce the peak active caseload in the third Covid wave, and consequently, hospitalisations, ICU admissions and oxygen requirements will decrease.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doubling-vaccination-rate-can-reduce-active-case-load-ten-fold-experts-1017649.html
08-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ranked 2nd in hospital claims for cashless Covid care||The state has received 2.68 lakh claims for Covid treatment since March 2020. As many as 1.02 lakh claims worth Rs 504 crore have been settled as on August 4. The government says the scheme’s appeal is due to the fact that during the pandemic, even interstate migrants and returnees were covered for Covid treatment under the scheme, increasing its reach. While 62.09 lakh below poverty line families are supported by the government of India, under AB-ArK, another 53 lakh below poverty line families of Karnataka are taken care of by the state government under the same. SAST executive director N T Abroo, who oversees AB-ArK, said, “AP leads with the number of claims, but it has a hybrid model of providing insurance and not a trust model like Karnataka. Also, the number of empanelled hospitals are highest in Karnataka.” Another plus point of the state is human resources. “No other state has 900 arogya mitras deployed in each empanelled hospital hand-holding the public and a team of 100 doctors verifying each claim raised by hospitals, leading to a quick turnaround time,” she said. Pre-pandemic, there were only 500 arogya mitras, for facilitating patients’ treatment. An additional 200 arogya mitras were deployed after the pandemic started. Deputy commissioners of various districts also deployed around 200 arogya mitras in hospitals across the state to help patients’ families. On the non-Covid front, the state has given 15.78 lakh pre-authorisations worth Rs 2,655 crore. Claims submitted so far are 14.46 lakh worth Rs 2,281 crore, out of which paid claims include 10.85 lakh, worth Rs 1,872 crore. On complaints by private hospitals of non-payment of Covid dues by the government, Abroo said, “Covid plus non-Covid claims of around 11.87 lakh, worth Rs 2,052 crore have been settled. Claims received amount to Rs 2,281 crore. So, the leftover claims to be settled are worth only Rs 129 crore. This means 89.96% of the claims have been settled. How can private hospitals claim non-payment of dues?” She said 95% of the claims from the first Covid wave had already been paid for. Only 4% payment for hospital claims were denied as hospitals had not given proper documents. “Claims under the second wave are being submitted only now,” she said, adding that 14.5 lakh citizens have been treated under AB-ArK so far.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ranked-2nd-in-hospital-claims-for-cashless-covid-care-1017653.html
08-08-2021||West||Maharashtra to start programme to eradicate child begging: Minister||A skill development programme to eradicate child begging will soon be implemented in Maharashtra, state Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur has said and also assured all help to children orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Thakur made the announcement in Jalgaon district on Saturday when a small girl approached her and told her that she earned her living by begging. The minister, who was on a visit to Jalgaon and Dhule districts, expressed anger and disappointment towards police and raised concern over the growing problem of child beggars in the state. "A skill development programme has been undertaken for child and adult beggars and its strategy will be implemented soon. There are gangs of beggars in many places, so we need to be sensitive about such issues. Begging is a crime under law," Thakur told reporters. During her visit to Dhule, Thakur met children who were orphaned and rendered homeless due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She held discussions with officials on how government schemes could benefit them. On the occasion, the minister also provided immediate financial help to such children. "We need to think beyond the government aid and policy for orphans," Thakur said. She expressed the need for education, nutrition and safety of children orphaned due to Covid-19. The government will always be ready to help such children. Immediate action should be taken to provide these children with various government benefits, including ration cards, the minister said. These children should also be counselled from time to time, she said. Problems related to their properties should also be looked into immediately, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-start-programme-to-eradicate-child-begging-minister-1017495.html
08-08-2021||West||Ex-AAP Goa convenor joins Congress ahead of 2022 Assembly polls||The Congress in Goa got a shot in the arm on Sunday, after former Aam Aadmi Party convener for Goa Elvis Gomes joined the Congress at a formal ceremony in Panaji. Gomes, a former Indian Administrative Service officer and AAP's chief ministerial candidate for the 2017 polls, said that he believed in the secular credentials and the ideology of the Congress party, which compelled him to take the step after resigning from AAP in December 2019. "I have taken a step. The Congress is one of the oldest political parties in the world. It has a rich history and ideology, the main thing is the ideology. (It believes in) the Constitution of India and secularism. People have come and gone, but the ideology is intact," Gomes told reporters after formally joining the Congress party. The former AAP leader who had been vocal about the trend of defection of MLAs in the Congress party also said that he had been assured by Goa Congress leaders, that henceforth, defectors would not be allowed into the party fold. "I asked (Chodankar) a hundred times as to whether defectors will be taken back. Till today, the stand is that they will not be taken back. This will be a good cleansing process and those who want a good future for Goa and their children will come to the Congress fold," Gomes said. "I stand by every word I have said that time. Was there no defection? There have been defections earlier too. The last defection of 10 persons, a sword was put through the backs of Goans. I had expressed the emotions of Goans," Gomes added. In all 13 Congress MLAs have switched to the BJP since the 2017 poll results were announced.  State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Gomes' experience in the AAP, especially his 'knowledge' about the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's machinations to destroy the Congress on behalf of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh would be exploited by the Congress in Goa ahead of the 2022 polls. "He (Elvis) knows how the AAP think tank (works) and its strategies to finish the Congress. We have always been saying that the AAP is a wing of the RSS which has an agenda to finish the Congress by splitting the Congress vote to create a Congress-mukt Bharat. Elvis has experienced it," Chodankar said, while welcoming Gomes into the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-aap-goa-convenor-joins-congress-ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-1017580.html
08-08-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to open Mumbai local trains for fully-vaccinated citizens from August 15||Fully vaccinated citizens of Mumbai can travel in local trains from August 15, but a gap of 14 days from the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine is necessary to avail the facility, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday. Speaking in a live webcast, he also said that his government was considering granting relaxations to shops, malls, restaurants and places of religious worship, and a decision would be taken following a meeting of the coronavirus task force on Monday. The suburban train services in the metropolis were suspended for general public in April this year when the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic was at its peak in the state. At present, only government employees and essential services staffers are allowed to travel in local trains. "Fully vaccinated people will be allowed to travel on local trains from August 15. Those who have completed 14 days after their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine can apply on a specially-created app to get a special railway pass and they can collect it from the local ward offices," he said, adding that those who do not have smartphones, can obtain the pass offline. As of now, 19 lakh people in Mumbai are fully vaccinated, Thackeray added. Over the last few days, several organisations and political parties had been demanding that common people, who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, be allowed to board the local trains, called the lifeline of Mumbai. Thackeray said that stopping the third wave of coronavirus was in the hands of people by following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "The virus is still lurking around us and we should not be complacent. I understand that your patience is wearing off. But please don't lose patience," he said. We need to ascertain how many fully vaccinated citizens are there and how much relaxation can be given to them, he said, adding that it will take another week to take a decision on that. He said that 'work from home' should continue wherever possible and those who cannot follow it, should have staggered work hours so that there is no crowding in offices. Thackeray said places where Covid-19 numbers continue to show a spike will have to remain under restrictions. He said that the situation in Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Beed districts was a cause of concern. He said the responsibility of the local administration in these districts was huge. Thackeray thanked the administrations of the flood-hit districts for keeping a vigil on the health of the affected people to prevent flood related diseases as well as Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-open-mumbai-local-trains-for-fully-vaccinated-citizens-from-august-15-1017618.html
08-08-2021||West||Centre should take initiative to lift 50% quota ceiling, says Uddhav Thackeray||The Centre should lift the 50 per cent cap on reservations to ensure that the Maratha quota is restored, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday. Without such relaxation, permitting states to prepare their list of OBCs (Other Backward Classes) and providing reservations will not help, he said while addressing people of the state in a live webcast. "When I met prime minister Narendra Modi in Delhi (in June), I told him that since the Supreme Court has quashed the Maratha quota and ruled that states had no right to provide reservations, the Central government should take the initiative (to relax the 50% reservation ceiling). Now that the Centre has given the right (to prepare OBC lists) to states, it should relax the 50 per cent cap (on reservations). I hope the prime minister would do so," he said. Thackeray said the empirical OBC data and amending the NDRF norms were the two other demands he raised with the PM. "My government is committed to finding permanent solutions to flooding, cyclones and landslides which have become a permanent feature triggering floods and causing loss to life and property," he added. The Union Cabinet is learnt to have cleared a Constitution amendment bill that seeks to give power to states and UTs to make their own OBC lists. The bill will now be introduced in Parliament for passage, sources said in Delhi on Wednesday. The Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 majority verdict which held that the 102nd constitution amendment took away the states' powers to declare socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. The Maharashtra government had granted reservation to the Marathas in jobs and education under the SEBC category. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court had unanimously set aside the quota for Marathas and refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50 per cent on reservations to a larger bench.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-should-take-initiative-to-lift-50-quota-ceiling-says-uddhav-thackeray-1017638.html
