09-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jeep with Minister gets stuck on the road; video goes viral||A jeep with Minister for Fisheries S Angara got stuck in a road he had promised to repair during elections, a video of which has gone viral on social media. The incident had occurred while he was on his way to visit the border area in Sullia. Minister Angara, who is also Dakshina Kannada district in-charge of the Covid-19 situation and flood relief, got stuck owing to the poor condition of the road. The Minister alighted from the jeep and walked. The minister’s followers who accompanied him pushed the jeep later. The Aletti-Kootelu connecting road has not seen any repair for the last several years. Locals had even boycotted the elections demanding its repair. The residents appealed afresh to the minister for the repair works after the incident. Soil dumped on either side of the bridge and road at Kootelu from Gadipane has been washed away in the rain. The villagers urged to construct a retaining wall at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jeep-with-minister-gets-stuck-on-the-road-video-goes-viral-1017761.html
09-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM Bommai visits Chamundeshwari temple in Mysuru||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who paid a visit yo Mysuru for the first time after becoming CM, went to the Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill, on Monday. The entry for the devotees was restricted till 12 noon, owing to the CM's visit. The CM will visit Suttur Mutt in Nanjangud taluk's Suttur and also hold a meeting with the officials concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-bommai-visits-chamundeshwari-temple-in-mysuru-1017838.html
09-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||9 Dakshina Kannada students get perfect score in SSLC||As many as nine students in Dakshina Kannada district have scored full marks (625), in SSLC examinations, the results which were announced on Monday. The top scorers of the district are Ananya M D from Kumaraswamy English Medium High School in Subrahmanya; Ganesh Hanamanthappa Veerapur from Alva’s Kannada Medium School in Moodbidri; Keerthana Shenoy from Canara High School, Urwa; M Sanyuktha D Prabhu from St Mary’s English Medium School in Belthangady; N Prateek Mallya from SVS Temple English Medium School in Bantwal; Rithika from St Gerosa Girls High School in Mangaluru; Shreesha Sharma K from St Gerosa Girls High School from Mangaluru; Tanisha Rai from Bethany English Medium School in Puttur and Venessa Sharina D’Souza from Kumaraswamy English Medium High School in Subrahmanya. Ananya was ecstatic when she got her scores. “Anything can be achieved if you have confidence in yourself. I studied hard and expected full marks and want to become an IAS officer to serve the people.” “I hail from Olalambe in Guthigar village and had to walk for one-kilometer to reach the main road to board a bus. Many a time buses too remained elusive and had to depend on autorickshaw to reach the school. Though my father used to drop me to the main road in morning, I had to walk in the evening from bus stop to the house.” “I was consistent in my studies from the beginning. Without the physical classes, our teachers used to send us videos of the chapters which helped me to understand the concept,” she said. “Hard work which helped me to achieve success,” said Keerthana Shenoy. “I did not have any pressure to study from my parents and teachers. Teachers helped me to clear doubts and sent us study materials and helped to focus on studies amid the lockdown. I was learning music which helped me to relax as well.” “As I was interested in Sanskrit, I did a course in Sanskrit during the lockdown as well, which also helped me to refresh my mind. I will pursue science stream in PU and want to become an engineer,” she added. The toppers said they had a challenge with the change in question paper pattern by shifting to MCQ format, which made them to work harder. As many as 30,606 students had enrolled for the exam in the district. The officials from Department of Public Instruction said the pattern of examination were new for the students. To help the students to prepare, model question papers and question banks were sent to each student in the district through schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/9-dakshina-kannada-students-get-perfect-score-in-sslc-1017942.html
09-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Indira Canteens remain starved of funds in Hubbali-Dharwad||The management of Indira Canteen is hopeful that the debate over the change of name of Indira Canteen will change its financial fortunes. The government is planning to change its name from 'Indira Canteen' to 'Annapurneshweri Canteen'. The Mayur Aaditya Resorts that runs the nine Indira Canteens in Hubbali-Dharwad has not received their dues from the State government for the last 18 months. They are supposed to receive Rs 4.5 crore from the government. The management has also not received the Rs 29 lakh, which was promised by the government for providing free meals during the lockdown period. However, the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) officials said, dues are being cleared and the management has been making ‘baseless' allegations. The previous Congress government led by Siddramaiah had sanctioned 12 Indira Canteens to Hubballi-Dharwad, out of which only nine are functioning now. The canteens serve break-fast, lunch, and dinner at a subsidised rate. This ‘bhagya’ was introduced by the previous government with a stated intention of ensuring that no one starves in the State. The scheme ran into rough weather due to its naming after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, soon after the change of guard in the State. Funds delayed The previous coalition government of JD(S) and Congress delayed the clearing of bills to the canteen over the issue of who has to foot the bills (Labour Department or Local bodies). While the management of other districts started getting funds in a phased manner, the management of the canteens in the twin cities, however, has not been so ‘lucky.' Mayur Aaditya Resorts CEO Mayur Morey claimed that they haven’t received money for the last 18 months. “This is a government contract, and we can’t even back off,” he said. Chief Operating Officer Hemal Desai said, of the nine canteens, five are running to their full capacity. “On an average, we are serving 500 plates of breakfasts, 350-400 plates of lunch, and 300 plates of dinner. If the schools and colleges restart, then we are hopeful that the canteen can run to its full capacity,” he said. 'Cleared bills' Nevertheless, HDMP Commissioner Suresh Itnal outrightly dismissed the allegations of pending dues. “Last month itself we have cleared Rs 50 lakh in dues. As is being done across the State, we are paying the canteen management in a phased manner. It was only after clearing Rs 50 lakh bill that the management decided to provide free food during the lockdown,” he said. He also said the palike has written to the government asking it to lessen the burden on local bodies of paying for the canteen. Currently, local bodies pay 70 per cent of the bill, while the Labour Department foots 30 per cent of the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/indira-canteens-remain-starved-of-funds-in-hubbali-dharwad-1017988.html
09-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan guesses H D Kumaraswamy’s role behind ED raids||Cong MLA Khan guesses HDK’s role behind ED raids Bengaluru: Former Karnataka minister BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan on Monday said no one from his Congress party was behind the ED raids he faced last week, but he did not rule out JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy’s role. Last Thursday, Khan was raided by the ED, which he said was in connection with his bungalow-like residence he has built in the city. “No one from the Congress is behind the raids. However, I won’t say there’s no politics behind it. Could it be the BJP or the JD(S)? Give me 15 days and I’ll reveal details of who gave ED a complaint that resulted in the raid,” Khan told reporters. The Chamrajpet MLA also noted Kumaraswamy’s media statement that he had nothing to do with the raids. “Why did he have to clarify? Did I say Kumaraswamy was the complainant? This makes me doubt him,” Khan said. Khan was the JD(S) until 2018. Khan blamed “some people averse to my political growth" for the raids. According to Khan, the ED wanted details from him on the construction of his lavish house. “If it had to do with my assets, the IT department should have come,” he said, adding that the ED had neither issued a notice nor filed an FIR. “I gave them all the details. There are only two documents that I am yet to submit - the sale deed, which is pledged with the Janatha Seva Cooperative Bank, and the contractor’s bills. I have sought time to submit them,” he said. Miffed that he was being targeted for having constructed a big house, Khan said there was no law that barred him from doing so. “One news channel even compared my house with Ambani’s. His house is worth Rs 5,000 crore. He has two floors just to park cars. I’ve built my house on a paltry 30,000 sqft,” he said. Khan reiterated that the raids had nothing to do with the multi-crore IMA scam. “It’s true that I sold land [to IMA] in 2017. That has been inquired into and cleared.” Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said: "Are ED and IT in my hands? Ask [Khan] why he is naming me. He has too much love for me. I'm busy with my party workers and agriculture."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-mla-zameer-ahmed-khan-guesses-h-d-kumaraswamy-s-role-behind-ed-raids-1017874.html
09-08-2021||Mysuru||Tigers in territorial fight filmed; video goes viral||Wildlife enthusiasts on a safari at Nagarahole Wildlife Sanctuary had an opportunity to witness a rare event of two tigers engaged in a territorial fight on Monday morning.  A video clip of the tigers near Kunthuru lake at Nagarahole range has been widely circulated on social media on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/tigers-in-territorial-fight-filmed-video-goes-viral-1017844.html
09-08-2021||National||With 35,499 infections, India sees further dip in fresh Covid-19 cases||With 35,499 more people testing positive for Covid-19, India's infection tally now stands at 3,19,69,954, while the death toll climbed to 4,28,309 with 447 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The number of active cases has declined to 4,02,188 which comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections, and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. A decrease of 4,634 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,39,457, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 13,71,871 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 48,17,67,232. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 14 days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.35 per cent.  Cumulatively, 50.86 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 447 new fatalities include 151 from Maharashtra and 93 from Kerala. A total of 4,28,309 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,996 from Maharashtra, 36,793 from Karnataka, 34,317 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,229 from West Bengal and 17,747 from Kerala. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-35499-infections-india-sees-further-dip-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-1017754.html
09-08-2021||National||Supreme Court denies to halt CCI probe against Amazon, Flipkart||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to halt an investigation against e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart, saying big organisations like them must voluntarily come forward for inquiry by the Competition Commission of India. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana declined to interfere with the orders of the Karnataka High Court, which had refused to interfere with the preliminary enquiry ordered by the CCI into their alleged anti-competitive practices. The court stressed that the CCI inquiry must go on.  However, the court allowed a plea by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi for extending the time for the companies to reply to CCI by four weeks.  The e-commerce companies questioned the validity of the Karnataka High Court, allowing the CCI probe.        The bench said, "We saw no reason to interfere with the High Court order." On July 23, the Karnataka High Court dismissed a plea by Amazon and Flipkart against a probe initiated by CCI for the alleged violation of competition law.   Amazon had approached the Karnataka High Court against the CCI order which had called for a director-general (DG) investigation into allegations of anti-competitive conduct in the online sale of smartphones on its platform.  Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh (DVM), the informant before the CCI, had alleged predatory pricing, deep discounting, preferential seller listing, and exclusive partnerships, among others, against Amazon and Flipkart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-denies-to-halt-cci-probe-against-amazon-flipkart-1017786.html
09-08-2021||National||PM Modi condemns attack on St. Vincent and the Grenadines PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condemned the "ghastly attack" on Ralph Gonsalves, the prime minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and wished him a quick recovery. Gonsalves was hospitalised after a demonstrator threw a rock at his head during an anti-vaccine protest in the eastern Caribbean island, media reports had quoted officials of that country as saying last week. "I condemn the ghastly attack on Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves of St. Vincent and the Grenadines," Modi said.  "Excellency, I wish you quick recovery and good health. We will miss your presence at the UNSC Open Debate on Maritime Security today," he said. Prime Minister Modi is set to chair a high-level open debate on "Enhancing Maritime Security -- A Case for International Cooperation" on Monday via video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condemns-attack-on-st-vincent-and-the-grenadines-pm-1017787.html
09-08-2021||National||Dhanbad judge death case: Supreme Court asks CBI to file status report every week||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the CBI to file a status report every week before the Jharkhand High Court on its probe into the alleged murder of Dhanbad ADJ Uttam Anand on July 28. Taking up a Suo Motu matter, a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana noted that there was nothing in a report submitted by the CBI before it. "There is nothing in the sealed cover. We wanted something concrete. Arrest and seizing of vehicle was done by the state police, you have not indicated anything about intention, motive, anything," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The officer, however, submitted that the persons, who were driving the auto that hit the judge in his morning jog on July 28, have been arrested. The bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, then asked the High Court to continue monitoring the matter. "Let the chief justice continue to monitor the case. We will keep the case pending. Keeping in view of gravity of the matter, we direct the CBI to file a status report in Jharkhand HC every week," the bench said in its order. The top court decided to consider the Suo Motu matter related to the security of judicial officers along with a pending matter next week on August 17. On July 30, the top court decided to examine a larger issue of safety and security of judges in district courts across the country, following the incident of alleged mowing down of an Additional District Judge in Jharkhand's Dhanbad on July 28. The judge was said to be handling cases related to gangsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhanbad-judge-death-case-supreme-court-asks-cbi-to-file-status-report-every-week-1017789.html
09-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid opposition protest on Pegasus issue||Rajya Sabha proceedings were on Monday adjourned twice in the pre-lunch session following uproar by Opposition members over the Pegasus snooping row and various other issues. When the House meet at noon after an adjournment, Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair, proceeded with the scheduled Question Hour. But the opposition members continued to create an uproar and jumped in the well sloganeering over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and other issues. Immediately after that Singh adjourned the House till 2 pm. Earlier, proceedings of the upper house were adjourned till 12 noon after Opposition parties insisted on a discussion on the issue of Pegasus spyware allegedly being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he has admitted the discussion on the farmers' agitation against farm laws, price rise and the flood situation in some parts of the country. The Opposition parties insisted that the Pegasus issue should also be discussed. As Opposition members stood up and some from the TMC started moving towards the Well of the House, Naidu adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. Before adjourning, he said as many as eight MPs have given notices under Rule 267. "Some are on Pegasus, some are on farmers' issue, some are on floods in different parts of the country because of heavy rains," Naidu said. "I have already admitted, I have already said it in the Business Advisory (BAC) meeting and also conveyed to the government about the need to discuss the farmers' issue once again," he said as Opposition members sought to know the status of the notices on Pegasus. Naidu said he has already admitted "farmers issue, price rise, flood issue and other issues" before adjourning the proceedings till 12 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-protest-on-pegasus-issue-1017802.html
09-08-2021||National||SC to examine 'coercive' Covid-19 vaccination policy, asks Centre to disclose vaccine trials data||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine a "seminal" issue of right to personal autonomy vis-a-vis public health, in view of "coercive measures" being undertaken by various authorities for Covid-19 vaccination in the country. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose, however, declined to stay any order on vaccine mandates issued by the authorities for the people to avail certain facilities. "We won't pass any order as of now as vaccine hesitancy is already a problem," the bench told advocate Prashant Bhushan, who contended people were being forced to take vaccines even though their clinical trial data had not been made public. The top court, however, issued a notice to the Centre, and Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — makers of Covaxin and Covishield respectively — on a plea for disclosure of data on clinical trials of vaccines and stay on the vaccine mandates. It sought a response from the Centre and two companies within four weeks on the petition filed by Dr Jacob Puliyel, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation.  The plea also sought information on reporting of adverse effects after administering the jab. Bhushan, for his part, said this was the first time in history that a universal vaccination programme had been unrolled without completing trials or placing clinical data in a public domain. Citing a report, he said two-thirds of the population had already been exposed to Covid-19 and vaccinating them may lead to adverse consequences. The bench, however, said, “More than 50 per cent of population has been vaccinated till now. Will this not raise apprehension in their mind regarding credibility of the vaccine? Do you really think it is in public interest?" The court also pointed out that the country still had four lakh active Covid-19 cases and the world had not faced a pandemic like this in the last 100 years. It said, in fact, people in various parts of the country were demanding more vaccines. To this, Bhushan said this was the most important PIL that he has ever filed. He said he was not against vaccination but the citizens should have informed consent. The counsel also said no one should be forced to get vaccinated against his or her choice. There cannot be orders that only vaccinated people would be allowed to travel or open shops as these would be violative of right to livelihood. The bench said it would consider the issue as similar matters were agitating other jurisdictions the world over.  "You have raised a seminal issue, we will consider it," the bench told Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-coercive-covid-19-vaccination-policy-asks-centre-to-disclose-vaccine-trials-data-1017804.html
09-08-2021||National||PM Modi transfers about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore farmers under PM-KISAN||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually transferred about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore beneficiaries farmers under the government's PM-KISAN scheme. With this, the government has so far transferred nine instalments amounting around Rs 1.57 lakh crore to farmer families under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. After the release of the amount, the Prime Minister interacted with beneficiaries of this scheme from across the country. An annual financial benefit of Rs 6,000 is provided to eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each, under the PM-KISAN scheme. The scheme was announced in February 2019 in the Budget. The first instalment was for December 2018-March 2019 period. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Addressing the virtual event in the presence of the Prime Minister, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that before the ninth instalment, the central government had disbursed about Rs 1.37 lakh crore to around 11 crore beneficiaries under the scheme. The government has linked 2.28 crore PM-KISAN beneficiaries with Kisan Credit Card scheme, under which they have been able to avail loan up to 2.32 lakh crore so far. He also said the farmers have worked hard despite challenges of Covid-19 and ensured bumper production last year. Better output is expected in the coming days due to continued farmers' efforts. Expressing concern over shortage of edible oils and pulses, Tomar said the government is focusing on boosting the domestic production through several schemes so that the country's dependence on imports Union Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, as well as Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were among state ministers and officials present in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-transfers-about-rs-19500-crore-to-over-975-crore-farmers-under-pm-kisan-1017810.html
09-08-2021||National||Classical language status to Marathi under consideration: Centre in Lok Sabha||The proposal for granting classical language status to Marathi is under active consideration, Minister of State for Culture Arjun Ram Meghwal said on Monday. Replying to a supplementary question by BJP MP Gopal Shetty in the Lok Sabha, the Minister said an 8-member committee was set up which is deliberating on the subject. "So far, Tamil, Telugu, Sanskrit, Kannada, Malayalam and Odia have been given the status of classical languages. Giving the status to Marathi language is under consideration and the Government will move forward with a positive attitude," Meghwal said during the Question Hour, which witnessed repeated adjournments amid opposition protest over Pegasus spyware and other issues. The criteria adopted by the government to determine the eligibility of a language for classical status includes its recorded history over a period of 1500-2000 years, body of ancient literature, whether its literary tradition is original and not borrowed from another speech community and other yardsticks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/classical-language-status-to-marathi-under-consideration-centre-in-lok-sabha-1017811.html
09-08-2021||National||Over 2.33 crore Covid-19 vaccines available with states, pvt hospitals: Centre||More than 2.33 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. More than 52.40 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources, and a further 8,39,780 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 50,51,29,252 doses (as per data available at 8 am on Monday), the ministry said. More than 2.33 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it added. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said.  The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, 2021. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country to the states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-233-crore-covid-19-vaccines-available-with-states-pvt-hospitals-centre-1017817.html
09-08-2021||National||Failure to pay Rs 110 fees under Special Marriage Act delays interfaith couple's wedding||Failure to pay on time a requisite fees of Rs 110 along with an intended notice of wedding under the Special Marriage Act delayed the registration of an inter-faith couple's nuptials and led to postponing of the bride-to-be's return to Saudi Arabia where she works as a nurse. The couple also failed to get any relief from the Kerala High Court which said that registration or solemnization of a marriage under the Special Marriage Act will not happen if notice of the intended wedding is not accompanied by the requisite fees. The couple had initially given the notice of the intended wedding to the Marriage Officer on June 11, but had not remitted the requisite fees along with that. It was only a few weeks later that the couple realised that the notice had not been published as the fees were not paid as required under the Kerala Special Marriage Rules of 1958, advocate R Rajesh, who appeared for them in the high court, told P T I. As they paid the amount only on July 9, the date for registration -- which can happen only after 30 days from publishing the notice -- could not be done before August 5, the date when the bride was to return to Saudi Arabia. Since the Marriage Officer was refusing to register their nuptials before August 5, the couple had moved the high court which too did not grant any relief. The court had said that it was clear from the Kerala Special Marriage Rules of 1958 that "if notice is given without remitting the fees, the same cannot be considered as one given in conformity with the requirement of the Special Marriage Act". "If that be so, the Marriage Officer is not obliged to act upon such notice," the court had said in its August 4 order. Rajesh, told P T I, that since the couple got no relief from the high court, the woman has postponed her return by a few more days and a date for registration of their marriage would be given by the Marriage Officer after August 9. He said that a marriage certificate was necessary for the woman to get a visa for her husband so that he can join her in Saudi Arabia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/failure-to-pay-rs-110-fees-under-special-marriage-act-delays-interfaith-couples-wedding-1017818.html
09-08-2021||National||NSUI to hold protest against suspension of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account||The National Students Union of India (NSUI) will organise a protest march on Monday against the alleged suspension of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account. The protest march will be held by about 150 members of the Congress' student wing from NSUI headquarters at Raisina Road to Shastri Bhawan, an NSUI member said. The Congress on Saturday claimed that Twitter "temporarily suspended" Gandhi's account, but later said it had been "temporarily locked" after the microblogging platform denied having suspended the account and stated that it continues to be in service. The action by Twitter came over a controversial post by Gandhi and a picture with the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, who died here following an alleged sexual assault. Twitter has deemed that the account violated rules against posting private information. According to party sources, some features of Gandhi's account have been temporarily limited, and while he could browse the social media site and send direct messages to his followers, no tweets, retweets, follows, fleets or likes were allowed. Twitter has communicated that all the features of the account could be restored in 12 hours once he deletes the tweet, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsui-to-hold-protest-against-suspension-of-rahul-gandhis-twitter-account-1017820.html
09-08-2021||National||Tiffin box bomb found in Amritsar village, apparently dropped by drone from Pakistan||Ahead of Independence Day, police have recovered a tiffin box bomb packed with over 2 kg of RDX from a village in Amritsar which they suspect was dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said some other explosives were also found from the bag containing the tiffin bomb. “We have made some recoveries yesterday (Sunday) in Amritsar rural district. We have recovered some hand grenades and cartridges… Most important is a tiffin box bomb with an Improvised Explosive Device,” Gupta told a news conference here. “The IED was created in a double-chambered tiffin box. Last evening, the recovery was made from Amritsar near Dhalike village under Lopoke Police Station,” he added. He further said, “Our assessment is that this bomb has been delivered through a drone across the border.” The DGP said a former village sarpanch had informed police about some drone movements in the area. The police found an abandoned bag that had seven pouches, a plastic tiffin, five hand grenades and 100 rounds of 9 mm pistol rounds. An explosive substance weighing over 2 kg, a remote control device and a switch were also found, the DGP said. The bomb was packed in foam packing, he added. The Punjab Police is taking the help of the National Security Guard (NSG). “The NSG team has arrived and they have given a preliminary report… they said it is a sophisticated bomb and has about 2-3 kg of RDX explosive. It has a switch mechanism and can provide a timed explosion. It also has a magnetic mechanism with two U-shaped magnets, and a printed circuit board which can help in remote signal,” the DGP said. A power energiser of 9 volts and three detonators were also found from the bag, he added. According to Gupta, the explosive could have been used against any target. Meanwhile, few months ago, 11 hand grenades dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan were seized near the International Border in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. The consignment was found in a field in Salach village, located about one km from the border. The first incident of dropping of arms and weapons through drones from Pakistan came to light in Punjab in September 2019 when police recovered AK-47 rifles, magazines and rounds of ammunition, hand grenades, fake currency and other items in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiffin-box-bomb-found-in-amritsar-village-apparently-dropped-by-drone-from-pakistan-1017834.html
09-08-2021||National||PM bats for oil palm farming in north-east, Andaman & Nicobar||With edible oil prices ruling high, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced a Rs 11,000 crore mission to make India self-sufficient in the sector, with a focus on increasing oil palm plantation in north-eastern states and Andaman & Nicobar islands. “India is now recognised among the top 10 agri-exporters in the world. It is not at all appropriate that India has to rely on imports to meet its demand for edible oil,” Modi said addressing farmers after transfering an instalment of Rs 2,000 income support to over 9.75 crore farmers. Modi said palm oil alone constitutes 55 per cent of the total edible oil imports and there was a need to change this situation. The Prime Minister announced a national edible oil mission-oil palm (NEOM-OP) with an expenditure of Rs 11,000 crore to provide good quality seeds and technology to extract oil. “Oil palm cultivation can be promoted in north-eastern states and Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” he said, adding that even small farmers can earn good returns by cultivation of oil palm, which gives highest yield per acre compared with any other oilseed crop. However, experts have warned against extensive oil palm farming at the cost of rainforests as it seeks to replace diverse forest ecosystems with monoculture crops. Earlier, the prime minister transferred Rs 19,500 crore into bank accounts of over 9.75 crore farmers under the flagship scheme PM-KISAN. “Nearly Rs 1.6 lakh crore have been transferred so far under PM-KISAN scheme, of which around Rs 1 lakh crore has been released during the pandemic, mostly to small farmers,” Modi said. This amount will be useful for small farmers at a time when the sowing of kharif crops is at its peak in the current monsoon season, he said. The Prime Minister also interacted with six farmers: Pratibha Ram Velipi (Goa), Devender Dananeshwar Japdekar (Maharashtra), Shamacharan Upadhay (Uttar Pradesh), Abdul Majeed Waani (J&K), Sushant Uniyal (Uttarakhand), and Thingche Gangte (Manipur) who shared how they benefitted from different central schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-bats-for-oil-palm-farming-in-north-east-andaman-nicobar-1017842.html
09-08-2021||National||India shall aim for top 10 slot in Olympics: Venkaiah Naidu||After the best-ever performance at the just-concluded Tokyo Olympics, India shall look at breaking into the top 10 at the earliest possible, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Monday as the House lauded medal winners and the gritty losers in close finishes. In an unusually long speech, Naidu termed the Indian contingent's performance at the Tokyo Olympics "the first moment of national awakening in sports". "The Tokyo Games turned out to be the best Olympic moment for our nation in the last 121 years of its Olympic journey," he said. "It took such a long time to script a 'We too can do it' moment, erasing the memories of desperation, despondency, dejection and disbelief, compounded by poor medal performance every four years," Naidu added. India finished at 47 in the Tokyo medal tally, far improved from 67 in the last Games in Rio. "Four gold medals would have placed us at around 20 and another four among the top 10 in the medals tally," he said. "It is to be much higher on the medals table given the feasibility as revealed from our Tokyo performances. Our mission shall be in the top 10 at the earliest possible." Members thumped their desks when the reference was read out. Naidu said the Tokyo Olympics not just gave the highest-ever number of seven medals but also in terms of grit demonstrated in quite a few close finishes and a large number of athletes entering medal-winning rounds of the competition. "Tokyo Olympics heralded resurgence, renaissance and national awakening in sports in our country by restoring the depleting confidence and self-esteem," he said. Of the 120 members in the Indian contingent for Tokyo, 55 contested in the quarter-finals and above, marking the highest-ever penetration into medal rounds of the competition. For the first time, five of our athletes fought for gold and over 40 made it to the semi-finals. "This is quite significant as it indicates the scope for substantially improving medal harvest in the near future as our sportspersons set their eyes on the Paris Olympics in 2024 with newfound confidence," he said. Naidu said Neeraj Chopra did the nation proud with his golden javelin throw, bringing down the curtains on "decades of despair and heralded a new era of confidence and hope." "His feat helps in healing the festering wound of recurrent despair and waning hope with every lost opportunity," he said as he went on to praise all the other medal winners - Ravi Kumar Dahiya, Mirabai Chanu, Lovelin Borgohain, P V Sindhu and Bajrang Punia. The men's hockey team entered the semi-finals after 49 long years and fought valiantly to win a medal after 41 years. The women bravehearts, having made their Olympics debut in 1980, made it to the semi-final after 41 years and only in their third appearance. "These stellar performances are harbingers of rejuvenation of interest in sports in general and in hockey in particular, in our country," he said. "This august House is further happy to take note of the spectacular emergence of our women athletes in the international sports arena and their coming to the fore as medal winners." In the 2016 Rio games, both the medal winners were women. In Tokyo, three of the seven medal winners were women. The golden record of our men’s hockey team till 1980 and rare good performances by some individual athletes notwithstanding, India had "come to lose self-esteem, confidence, morale and hope in the domain of sports further to poor performances in the Olympics arena over the years", Naidu said. "No nation can hold it's head high in any domain with such lack of confidence and low self-esteem," he said. "More so, when Olympic medals add to the global perception of emerging economies with the level of sports being an important element of soft power." In the 24 Olympic appearances till Rio Olympics in 2016, India could not win even a single medal in six, fetched a single medal each in 13, two medals in three Olympics, three in the Beijing Games in 2008 and a high of six medals in the London Games in 2012. The first individual gold medal was secured only in the Beijing Games in 2008 while the first female medal winner in the Olympics came only in the Sydney Games in 2000. "Not even a single medal in track and field events for 120 years," Naidu said. "In addition, excepting some rare noteworthy performances, our nation has come to be used to early exits from competitions in various events in the Olympics and meek surrenders that made our people drop their heads in frustration and agony," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-shall-aim-for-top-10-slot-in-olympics-venkaiah-naidu-1017848.html
09-08-2021||National||Unexplored tourist destinations being identified to revive tourism industry in Kerala: state Tourism Minister||With domestic tourism in Kerala having suffered losses of Rs 33,000 crore from March 2020 to December 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has said unexplored tourist destinations are being identified to bring in more travellers for reviving the key sector. According to Tourism Minister P A Mohammed Riyas, the tourism sector has also suffered a loss of Rs 7,000 crore in foreign exchange earnings as the number of domestic and international travellers has dropped drastically since 2016 and especially during the pandemic period. He said that meetings have been held at panchayat level in all the districts of the state to identify the unexplored tourist destinations and map them out. Thereafter, these places, in each panchayat, would be collated on an app so that they can be brought to everyone's attention worldwide, Riyas said on Sunday. The minister, at a press meet, said that the state government was working to revive domestic tourism by identifying unexplored tourist destinations in various districts and collating them on an app so that they can be brought to everyone's attention worldwide. The initiative was mentioned at the press meet which was held to announce the holding of onam celebrations virtually wherein Kerala's arts, culture, food varieties and prominent tourist destinations would be showcased with the help of visual media and other means.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unexplored-tourist-destinations-being-identified-to-revive-tourism-industry-in-kerala-state-tourism-minister-1017850.html
09-08-2021||National||Centre mobilised Rs 31,290 crore from Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme: Nirmala Sitharaman||The government has collected Rs 31,290 crore from Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB) Scheme since its launch in 2015, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed Parliament on Monday. With the main objective to develop an alternate financial asset and as an alternative to purchasing/holding of physical gold, the SGB Scheme was notified by the Government of India on November 5, 2015, Sitharaman said in a reply in Lok Sabha. "The response of public on the SGB scheme has resulted in the collection of Rs 31,290 crore since 2015-16," she said. Talking about features of the scheme, the Finance Minister said these bonds are issued on payment of Indian rupees and is denominated in grams of gold. Bonds are issued on behalf of the Government of India by RBI, and have a sovereign guarantee. "The bonds are restricted for sale to resident Indian entities. The investment limits are presently 4 kgs per fiscal year, for individuals and Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) and 20 kgs per fiscal year for trusts and similar entities. The ceiling will be counted on financial year basis and will include the SGBs purchased during the trading in the secondary market," she said. The ceiling on investment will not include the holdings as collateral by banks and financial institutions, she added. She further said "interest payable on these bonds are half-yearly and are at the rate of 2.5 per cent per annum. Interest on the bonds is taxable as per the provisions of the Income Tax Act. The capital gains tax arising on redemption of SGB to an individual has been exempted." Meanwhile, the Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2021-22 — Series V or the fifth tranche — opened for subscription from Monday till August 13 with a settlement date of August 17, 2021. The issue price of the bond during the subscription period has been fixed at Rs 4,790 per gram. Replying to another question, Sitharaman said the total debt burden of the government during 2020-21 stood at Rs 1,19,53,758 crore (provisional) or 60.5 per cent of GDP (Rs 1,97,45,670 crore). "Towards overcoming the debt burden, government's focus is to reduce fiscal deficit from 6.8 per cent of GDP in BE 2021-22 to below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2025-26. Debt consolidation through increasing buoyancy of tax revenues through improved compliance, increased receipts from monetisation of assets including public sector enterprises and land are the additional steps involved," she said. The strategy of reducing debt involving reduction of fiscal deficit, increasing buoyancy of taxes through improved compliance and increased receipts from monetisation of assets, including public sector enterprises and land ensures repayment capacity of the Government of India, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mobilised-rs-31290-crore-from-sovereign-gold-bond-scheme-nirmala-sitharaman-1017857.html
09-08-2021||National||Over 51 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative number Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed the 51 crore-mark, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. India took 85 days to touch the figure of 10 crore. It then took 45 days to cross the 20 crore-mark, 29 days more to reach 30 crore. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crores from 30 crore and then 20 more days to cross 50 crore vaccinations on August 6. In less than three days, one crore vaccine doses were administered in the country. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 eligible to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-51-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1017860.html
09-08-2021||National||'Democracy murdered!': Opposition members protest introduction, passage of bills amid din in Lok Sabha||With the government introducing and getting a number of bills passed in Parliament amid a din, Congress leaders alleged in the Lok Sabha on Monday that democracy is being "murdered" in the House. Congress leaders like Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Manish Tewari attacked the government as it introduced three bills in the House and got as many passed as Opposition members continued with their protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy, except when a Constitution amendment bill was tabled. RSP's NK Premachandran noted that three bills were passed in 10 minutes and likened it to "cooking dosas". Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi asserted that the government wants long and constructive debates in Parliament and urged the Opposition members to go back to their seats so that discussions on the bills could begin. "We are ready for day-long discussions. The (Narendra) Modi government is bringing bills for the welfare of the Other Backward Classes and tribals. We will accept your suggestions," he said. A combined Opposition has been demanding that the House debate the Pegasus issue first. Both Chowdhury and Tewari alleged that democracy is being "murdered" with the government pushing ahead with its legislative agenda in such a manner as the House has not been in order. Joshi's deputy Arjun Ram Meghwal accused the Congress leaders of making wrong statements. However, the Opposition members stopped shouting slogans and protesting from the Well of the House and most of them went back to their seats when Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar introduced the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill that seeks to restore the states' power to classify the backward classes. The Lok Sabha is likely to debate the bill on Tuesday. A Constitution amendment bill requires the House to be in order during its passage as a division of votes is mandatory. Most parties are likely to support the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/democracy-murdered-opposition-members-protest-introduction-passage-of-bills-amid-din-in-lok-sabha-1017863.html
09-08-2021||National||Higher demand for packaging boards from e-commerce, specialty papers to drive growth for JK Paper||Accelerated demand for packaging boards for online purchases and tissue papers on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, along with specialty papers, will drive growth going forward, said JK Paper Chairman Bharat Hari Singhania. Besides, Singhania, who is also president of JK Organisation, said that though a gradual unlocking has commenced, disruptions are expected to sustain for some time. JK Organisation has diversified interests, including tyres, cement, paper, industrial and automotive transmission products, and agri seeds. Recovery from the second wave of Covid-19 will depend on factors such as the government’s policy support and faster vaccination, he said in the latest annual report of JK Paper Ltd, a JK Organisation company. “India was projected to grow in double-digit percentage growth rates this year but the second pandemic wave has raised downside risks. Whether the recovery materialises soon will depend upon the government’s policy support, faster vaccination and return to normalcy,” said Singhnia in his statement. According to Sighania, “Uncertainty” prevails following the second pandemic wave that proved more devastating than the first. “Even though a gradual unlocking has commenced, disruptions are expected to sustain for some time. One is unsure about the willingness of consumers to spend as they could be prone to precautionary savings. “Besides, Covid-19 brought untimely misery to many, especially those who lost their family members; and in some cases, their sole earning member,” he said. To move the economy forward, end-consumers need more safety nets to revive demand, as successfully seen in developed countries. “Estimates show that without swift fiscal support, last year’s severe collapse could have been three times worse,” Singhania added. While talking about the paper industry in FY21, Singhania said the economy improved “appreciably” in the second half of the year, reflected in a pick-up in demand for packaging board as the pandemic accelerated online purchases due to social distancing restrictions. “The emphasis on hygiene increased the demand for tissue papers. “Going forward, we expect that growth will be driven by this and the speciality paper segment, induced by plastic substitution, as the world replaces single-use plastic with eco-friendly paper-based alternatives,” he added. The market for packaging board is likely to grow 9-10 per cent annually in India, compared with around four per cent globally. “This growth is catalysed by personal consumption and the growing substitution of plastic products,” the annual report said. While talking about the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on the company’s business, the annual report said it appears less intense than the first. “The outlook appears hazy, and disruptions in the coming months are not ruled out. However, a superior export performance and certain end-use segments in the packaging board business augur well for the company and its prospects for the expansion,” it said. If education institutions restart, there could be a significant positive impact on the writing and printing segment, JK Paper added. “The company will seek to enhance people productivity, morale and output from the packaging board expansion through prudent people re-deployment,” it added. From a long-term outlook, the company is “optimistic” on India’s per-capita paper consumption potential, said JK Paper. “From a long-term outlook, the company is optimistic of India’s per-capita paper consumption potential, presently much lower than the global average consumption average. “Even a moderate improvement in consumption could translate into a substantial increase in national appetite,” it said. The intrinsic use of paper in education in India is expected to help the writing and printing papers segment grow around 4 per cent a year, higher than the global average. For the last financial year 2020-21, JK Paper’s revenue stood at Rs 2,969.15 crore. It was Rs 3,254.20 crore during 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-demand-for-packaging-boards-from-e-commerce-specialty-papers-to-drive-growth-for-jk-paper-1017866.html
09-08-2021||National||Quit India Movement's spirit energised youth of nation: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to the greats who took part in the Quit India Movement, and said the movement's spirit reverberated across India and energised the youth of our nation. The Quit India Movement was launched under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi and played a key role in India attaining freedom from British rule five years later on August 15, 1947. "Tributes to the greats who took part in the Quit India Movement, which played a crucial role in strengthening the fight against colonialism," Modi tweeted on the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement. Tributes to the greats who took part in the Quit India Movement, which played a crucial role in strengthening the fight against colonialism. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, the spirit of the Quit India movement reverberated across India and energised the youth of our nation. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, the spirit of the Quit India movement reverberated across India and energised the youth of our nation, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quit-india-movements-spirit-energised-youth-of-nation-pm-modi-1017870.html
09-08-2021||National||UK HC allows Nirav Modi to appeal against extradition on depression, suicide risk grounds||A High Court judge in London on Monday granted fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi permission to appeal against a magistrates’ court order in favour of extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering before the Indian courts on mental health and human rights grounds. Justice Martin Chamberlain delivered his verdict remotely under Covid-19 rules to conclude that the arguments presented by the 50-year-old diamond merchant’s legal team concerning his “severe depression” and “high risk of suicide” were arguable at a substantial hearing. He also noted that the adequacy of the measures capable of preventing “successful suicide attempts” at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Nirav Modi is to be detained upon extradition, also fall within the arguable ambit. “At this stage, the question for me is simply whether the appellant’s case on these grounds is reasonably arguable. In my judgment, it is. I will grant permission to appeal on Grounds 3 and 4,” Justice Chamberlain’s ruling notes. Grounds 3 and 4 relate to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR), or the right to life, liberty and security, and Section 91 of the UK’s Criminal Justice Act 2003 related to fitness to plead. The judge noted that the arguments made under both grounds overlap in this case as they both rely principally on the appellant, Nirav Modi's mental ill health. “I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant’s [Nirav Modi’s] depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison,” the ruling notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-hc-allows-nirav-modi-to-appeal-against-extradition-on-depression-suicide-risk-grounds-1017875.html
09-08-2021||National||'Go out only when necessary, inform security': Delhi court to Unnao rape survivor||A Delhi court on Monday directed the Unnao rape survivor, who has been provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), to step out only when necessary until the case is over and inform her personal security officers before going out.   District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma issued the directions on an application filed by the rape survivor in which she alleged harassment by the personal security officers. She also told the court that they were curtailing her movements and not allowing her to enjoy her liberties.  Taking note of her submissions, the judge said "inform them [security officers] before going out. They are deputed for your security. You must plan in a way that you don't have to venture out every day. Go out only when necessary. You must take precautions until the case is over." The court also noted that the survivor and her personal security officers have agreed to amicably resolve the issue.   The judge added, “For now, the prosecutrix is impressed upon to ensure that whenever she or family members wish to go outside Delhi in connection with any pending case, they would communicate it to CRPF Assistant Commandant so that proper security arrangements and escorts could be made.” The court further said likewise, in case she or family members wish to meet their counsel for the pending cases, they would make sincere efforts to inform the schedule a day before. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life in the rape case.  In 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/go-out-only-when-necessary-inform-security-delhi-court-to-unnao-rape-survivor-1017877.html
09-08-2021||National||HC extends stay on trial court proceedings in INX Media case||The Delhi High Court Monday extended the stay on trial court proceedings in CBI's INX Media corruption case in which Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son Karti are accused. Justice Mukta Gupta, who was hearing CBI's challenge to a trial court order allowing inspection of documents kept in 'Malkhana' (room keeping case properties) by the accused and their counsel, granted time to counsel for the investigating agency to go through to a Supreme Court decision on the issue. “Issue has been settled by the Supreme Court. Directions have been given to States to frame laws on deficiencies in criminal trial”, said the judge who posted the matter for hearing on August 27. “Interim order to continue”, the high court ordered. The high court had on May 18 stayed trial proceedings in the case involving Chidambaram and his son Karti. It had also issued notice and sought responses of Chidambaram and others on the CBI's plea. The CBI has sought to set aside the special judge's March 5, 2021 order to the extent that it directed CBI to allow inspection of documents kept in Malkhana by the respondents/accused/ their counsel. Besides, the CBI has also sought setting aside the observations in the order which says that the agency is required to file or produce before the court all the documents collected by it during investigation. The trial court had also said that the accused are entitled to copies of such documents or inspections thereof, irrespective of the fact whether they are being relied upon by the CBI or not. In its plea before the high court, the CBI had said that this case involved high level of corruption with wide ramifications on society and while the accused have a right to a fair trial, the collective interest of the society could not be impinged. “A fair trial is not what the accused wants in the name of a fair trial but must soothe the ultimate justice. Although right of fair trial of the respondents/accused was not infringed, since all documents relied upon by petitioner-CBI were provided to the respondents/accused…,” it said. The agency contended that the very essence of trial is to unearth the truth for which the court cannot assist the accused in search of a plausible defence. It has alleged that the trial court's order reflected intrusion into the investigative process of the CBI which is impermissible in law and the special judge lost sight of the fact that further investigation in the present matter is underway and if the accused persons are allowed to inspect documents available at the malkhana, the same would subvert the probe and there is every likelihood that they may tamper with evidence available. Seeking to set aside the trial court's order, the agency has said the legitimate aim would suffer irreparably if protection is not given to the documents and record which was permitted to be inspected by the accused. It has said out of 14 accused, only Karti had made the prayer to inspect Malkhana documents, however, the trial court erroneously allowed all the accused to inspect it and exceeded the judicial powers by giving relief which was not prayed for. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007 during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Thereafter, the ED had lodged the money laundering case. The Chidambarams are already on bail in the case. Chidambaram was taken into custody on August 21, 2019, when he was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in INX Media corruption case. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in the separate money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, 2019, the apex court had granted him bail in the case lodged by the CBI. On December 4, 2019, after 105 days of custody, Chidambaram was granted bail by the Supreme Court in the money laundering case lodged by the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-extends-stay-on-trial-court-proceedings-in-inx-media-case-1017880.html
09-08-2021||National||'States directly placing orders for jute bags bypassing central procurement'||Some states are directly placing jute bag orders for packaging foodgrains, bypassing the procurement method of the Centre, which aggregates the overall requirement based on supply commitment by mills and allocates quantities, industry sources said. Punjab has already floated a tender to procure 1 lakh bales of jute bags and the last date for submitting bids is August 13, while Chhattisgarh is in the process of issuing a similar offer for direct purchase, they said. “The Centre’s allocation of jute bags is less for large food-producing states compared to their demand and secondly, non-implementation of new rates of bags despite recommendations from the tariff commission has led to some slowdown in supply under the government procurement route, as mills were incurring losses,” one of the sources said. “The government apprehends short supply, with the mills remaining skeptical as production of bags were leading to losses, after costs soared due to rise in raw jute price,” he said. Food Department officials from Punjab have already visited West Bengal regarding direct supply of jute bags, the sources said. Indian Jute Mills Association sources said there is a strong possibility that the Union government might decide on 45 per cent dilution in wheat packaging orders from 100 per cent at present, which might deal a blow to the West Bengal economy at a time when a bumper crop is expected. The West Bengal government is aware of the situation and will oppose any such move, they said. The state’s food minister could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-directly-placing-orders-for-jute-bags-bypassing-central-procurement-1017881.html
09-08-2021||National||Congress accuses Twitter of violating freedom of expression||After Rahul Gandhi's account was temporarily suspended and a tweet deleted, the Congress on Monday accused Twitter of adopting "double standards" and violating the freedom of expression "under the diktat of the Modi Government". The action by Twitter was condemned at a meeting of party general secretaries on Sunday evening, where the leaders decided to take up this matter at all levels. Congress general secretary, Organisation, K C Venugopal said the issue of temporary suspension of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account was discussed at the meeting of general secretaries, in-charges and PCC presidents. The party also claimed that the Twitter handle of INC-TV was also suspended this morning. "The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and anti-women mindset and inherent prejudice of the Modi Government as also a violation of freedom of expression by the Twitter India under the diktat of Modi Government. All present universally condemned this prejudicial mindset of BJP and decided to take up this matter at all levels," he said in a statement later. The opposition party had on Sunday alleged that Twitter acted in haste due to "pressure" from the Indian government and was "selective" in removing Rahul Gandhi's tweet and "suspending" his account for putting up pictures of the nine-year-old Dalit rape victim's family after he met them in Delhi as no action was taken against some other handles which carried the similar pictures. "The double standard of Twitter is too obvious as statutory commissions, BJP leaders and those holding statutory offices had put up similar pictures on Twitter on 2nd and 3rd August, two days before Rahulji's visit," Venugopal said on Monday. The Congress leader said it was resolved that we will continue the fight undeterred until securing justice for the family. "Instead of curtailing atrocities against Dalits across the country, the prime minister and the government are up to suppress the voice of leaders like Rahul Gandhi who are in the forefront to fight for justice," he said. The Indian Youth Congress also staged a protest in the national capital against Twitter India for blocking Rahul Gandhi's account. "The double standards of Twitter India continue. Even as accounts raising a voice for justice continue getting blocked, Twitter handles related to the govt like @NCSC_GoI & @anjubalabjp face no action for posting the same images," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Remember, truth and justice always prevail," the party said while showing a picture of the blocked account of INC-TV. "To Twitter India, we say, 'Daro Mat'," the Congress tweeted on Sunday with an image alleging that the Modi government is "intimidating" Twitter to lock Rahul Gandhi's account "for demanding justice for Delhi rape victim".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-accuses-twitter-of-violating-freedom-of-expression-1017884.html
09-08-2021||National||R K Singh questions Mamata Banerjee’s intention in opposing Electricity Bill||Power Minister R K Singh on Monday raised doubt over intention of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, asking why she wants to protect monopoly in electricity distribution. Last week, Banerjee had reportedly wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, protesting against the government's plan to introduce the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in Parliament in the ongoing monsoon session despite reservations raised by the states. She had called the new amendments “anti-people”. When asked about the letter, Singh told reporters, “Why does she (Banerjee) want to protect monopoly in the power distribution sector especially when Kolkata has one of the highest electricity tariffs in country?" Singh also said the Bill is intended to end private as well as government monopoly in the power distribution sector by de-licensing the segment. The Union minister would soon write a letter to address the concerns raised by Banerjee. He has planned to write such letter to West Bengal as well as Kerala governments to explain about the salient features of the Bill and its benefits for ordinary consumers. Once the Bill becomes a law, the power distribution would be de-licensed and consumers will have an option to choose power supply service providers just like they have in the telecom sector. The telecom consumers can port their mobile numbers with different services providers. But, such facility is not available in the power supply service, and consumers are subject to expensive and inefficient monopolies. The minister will also explain other provisions like cross-subsidies and renewable purchase obligation in his letter to the two states. Singh has also said, “Licence Raj has to go, so that investors can come in this sector. If no investment comes then we are in darkness." He also assured that the fixed cost for power distribution companies would be protected, and said there would be a ceiling tariff to protect the interest of consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-singh-questions-mamata-banerjee-s-intention-in-opposing-electricity-bill-1017887.html
09-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-Up: Decline in cases calm before another wave?||With 34,499 new infections, Covid-19 cases saw a dip on Monday. However, in view of the concerns raised by the experts regarding a possible third wave, the administration is not letting the guard down. The state capital had reported a disproportionately high number of infections during the devastating second wave of Covid-19. BBMP's special commissioner for health, D Randeep believes that Bengaluru is at crossroads. "The curve can go up very soon. The R-value (reproduction number) is almost touching 1, indicating that every Covid patient is infecting at least one other person," he said.  At the same time, The Lancet study indicated that the level of cognitive underperformance is associated with the level of illness severity. This has seen echoes in several patients in India as well and could be a major cause for alarm once individuals resume their 'usual' work under the new normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-decline-in-cases-calm-before-another-wave-1017894.html
09-08-2021||National||Parliament passes Tribunals Reforms Bill||Parliament has approved the bill to abolish nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), with the Rajya Sabha passing it Monday. The Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 was passed by Lok Sabha on August 3. The bill moved by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha, while a statutory motion moved by the Opposition members to send it to a select committee was negated by a division vote. Soon after the passage of the bill, Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House in protest against the Pegasus snooping row and three farm laws leading to a brief adjournment of the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-tribunals-reforms-bill-1017896.html
09-08-2021||National||No transactions with Pegasus supplier NSO Group: Ministry of Defence||The Ministry of Defence did not have any transaction with the NSO Group Technologies, the government informed the Rajya Sabha, amid row over the possible use of a spyware developed by the company for snooping on the phones of journalists, activists and politicians. Ajay Bhatt, the Minister of State for Defence, informed the Rajya Sabha in response to a question that the ministry had not had any transaction with the Israeli company NSO Group Technologies, which developed and marketed the spyware called ‘Pegasus’. His statement has ruled out the possibility of the Ministry of Defence directly purchasing the Pegasus from the NSO Group. But no such categorical statement has so far come from the Prime Minister’s Office or the Ministry of Home Affairs, which control most of the intelligence agencies that play the key role in lawful surveillance of communication networks in the interest of national security. Bhatt’s written reply to a query from V Sivadasan, a CPI (M) MP from Kerala, came even as the Congress and the other opposition parties continued protests in both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha alleging that the government led by the BJP was not allowing discussion on the media reports about the possibility of use of the spyware developed by the NSP Group to snoop on the phones of the politicians, journalists and activists of several nations around the world, including India. The government recently sought to block another question by the CPI member of the Rajya Sabha from Kerala, Binoy Viswam, on the issue. Viswam wanted the Ministry of External Affairs to inform if the government had a deal with the NSO Group. The government cited Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of the Rajya Sabha and stated that since the issue was sub-judice, a question on it could not be admitted. The question was expected to be taken up during the Rajya Sabha session on Thursday, but a final decision was still awaited. The Union Minister of Information Technology and Communication, Ashwini Vaishnaw, earlier said that “any sort of illegal surveillance” by unauthorised persons was not possible in India. The government, however, did not make it clear if any of its agency had purchased the Pegasus from the NSO Group, although Rahul Gandhi of the Congress and other opposition leaders insisted that it must come clean on this issue. The company said that it had sold the spyware only to the “vetted governments” around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-transactions-with-pegasus-supplier-nso-group-ministry-of-defence-1017904.html
09-08-2021||National||Parliament passes DICGC amendment Bill||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill that seeks to ensure that account holders will get up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days of the RBI imposing moratorium on their banks from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by a voice vote amid an uproar by Opposition parties over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws. The Rajya Sabha passed the bill last week. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her brief statement, said the legislation will benefit small depositors, including those of the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. The benefits will also accrue to the depositors of 23 cooperative banks, which are in financial stress and on which the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has imposed certain restrictions, she said. Sitharaman said the interest of the small depositors will have to be kept in mind, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has increased the insurance amount for them from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh and within 90 days of moratorium being declared on a bank and also for those who are already under stress, the money will be available. Once the bill becomes law, it will provide immediate relief to lakhs of depositors, whose money is parked in stressed lenders such as the PMC Bank and other small cooperative banks. According to the current provisions, the deposit insurance of up to Rs 5 lakh comes into play when the licence of a bank is cancelled and the liquidation process starts. DICGC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the RBI, provides an insurance cover on bank deposits. At present, it takes 8-10 years for the depositors of a stressed bank to get their insured money and other claims. Though the RBI and the Centre keep monitoring the health of all banks, there have been numerous recent cases of banks, especially cooperative banks, being unable to fulfil their obligations towards the depositors due to the imposition of a moratorium by the RBI. Last year, the government increased the insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh. The enhanced deposit insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh came into effect from February 4, 2020. In September 2019, the RBI superseded the board of the PMC Bank and imposed various regulatory restrictions after financial irregularities came to light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-dicgc-amendment-bill-1017905.html
09-08-2021||National||New IT Rules 'draconian', will have chilling effect on free speech: Petitioners tell HC||Two petitions filed in the Bombay High Court challenging provisions of the Information Technology (IT) Rules, 2021, on Monday contended that the rules were "vague" and "draconian". The petitioners, digital news portal The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle, told the HC that the IT Rules will have a "chilling effect" on the freedom of press and a citizen's right to free speech guaranteed by the Constitution. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, who appeared for The Leaflet, urged a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni to immediately stay the implementation of the new rules. The petitioners said the new rules propose to impose several regulations on content published by citizens, journalists, digital news portals online, and demand accountability and grievance redressal from social media platforms, among other things. The premise of regulating content and demanding accountability is based on parameters that are vague and surpass the provisions of the existing IT Act and the constitutional right to freedom of speech under Article 19, the petitioners told the HC. "There is a brazen regulation of content for the first time. These regulations go beyond the parameters of the IT Act. The rules also go far beyond the provisions of free speech under Article 19," Khambata said. "The regulations are vague, and draconian. And they will have a chilling effect on authors, publishers, regular citizens who put anything on the internet. The rules are manifestly unreasonable," he said. For instance, the rules prohibit media organisations from carrying out sting operations without proof, they demand that no defamatory content is published against any public personality. However, the regulations do not define what constitutes as adequate proof, or what can be considered as defamatory content, Khambata said. "These rules are seeking to effectively monitor and censor speech on the internet by giving powers to a ministerial committee. This is the most draconian law on free speech in recent times," he said. Advocate Abhay Nevagi, who appeared for Wagle, told the HC that the rules were arbitrary, illegal, and violative of a citizen's right to privacy, freedom of speech, trade and liberty. Nevagi said the rules were against the “principle of net-neutrality" and amounted to a form of “censorship". He said these rules enabled government agencies to trace the origin of any purported cyber security incident, and to take down content in certain cases of explicit content. However, to enable such tracking and taking down, the rules provided for decryption of a citizen's data and social media exchanges, he said. "Traceability is intended to push platforms to identify the originator of a message. This will breach privacy of every citizen. It will amount to mass surveying and allow for misuse of a person's personal data," Nevagi said. Appearing for the Union government, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh urged the HC not to grant any interim relief to the petitioners. Singh said the Union government had filed transfer petitions in the Supreme Court, seeking that pleas challenging the IT Rules be transferred to the apex court. The transfer petitions are likely to be heard by the SC on Tuesday, he said. The HC then adjourned further hearing on the pleas to Tuesday. The high court said it will hear the Union government's response to the plea on Tuesday, provided the Supreme Court does not pass any "contra order" preventing hearing of the matter in the HC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-rules-draconian-will-have-chilling-effect-on-free-speech-petitioners-tell-hc-1017907.html
09-08-2021||National||Enough of video of phone calls, sportspersons should get rewards as promised: Rahul||Enough of video of phone calls, now sportspersons should get rewards as promised, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday in an apparent swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In an Instagram post, he posted screenshots of media reports claiming that Olympians in the past had not been paid the rewards announced in Haryana. Gandhi also attached screenshots of tweets made in 2019 by Tokyo Games medal winner Neeraj Chopra - who won India's first ever gold in a track-and-field event - and Bajrang Punia, who won the bronze in wrestling, in which they urged ministers and authorities to fulfil the promise of rewards for athletes after winning medals. "Players should get their dues along with congratulations, not cuts in the sports budget," Gandhi wrote on Instagram. "Enough of video of phone calls, now hand out the amount of rewards," the former Congress chief said in an apparent swipe at the prime minister who spoke with several medal winners and videos of which were widely shared on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enough-of-video-of-phone-calls-sportspersons-should-get-rewards-as-promised-rahul-1017915.html
09-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha returns Bill to end all retrospective taxation||A Bill that aims to end all retrospective taxes imposed on indirect transfer of Indian assets was returned by Rajya Sabha on Monday amidst a walkout by the Congress, TMC and DMK. Now After the 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' is returned by Rajya Sabha too, all tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012, will be withdrawn. Lok Sabha had passed the Bill last week. Earlier, the Congress, TMC and DMK walked out of the House before the Bill was taken up for a discussion. Replying on the debate, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, “This (Bill ) is appealing enough and putting an end to this ghost which we have been carrying all these while from 2012.” "I seek support of the House to make India look very clear, transparent and fair taxation land. Therefore, this whole thing about retrospective amendment Bill, which was brought in, since then we were bearing the negativity of this all over the world.” The minister also told the House the Bill provides for no payment of interest on refunds made under this and the parties seeking relief would not pursue further appeals or litigation in these cases. Besides creating uncertainly in the minds of investors, the retrospective taxes have in recent months been overturned by international arbitration tribunals in two high profile cases -- UK telecom giant Vodafone Group and oil producer Cairn Energy. Rules will be framed under the law giving a reasonable timeframe for the companies to come and give an undertaking to the government that they will not pursue the cases. They will also have to give an undertaking that they agree to forego the interest on amounts collected. The Bill proposes to amend the Income-tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012 received the assent of the President). It further proposed that the tax on indirect transfer of Indian assets made before May 28, 2012, shall be nullified on furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-returns-bill-to-end-all-retrospective-taxation-1017921.html
09-08-2021||National||Submit action-taken report on NTF recommendation on allocation of oxygen, SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday sought to know from the Centre its preparedness if the country faced a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic. It asked the Centre to submit within two weeks the action-taken report based on recommendations of court-appointed National Task Force (NTF), on allocation of oxygen to States and Union Territories during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah noted that NTF held numerous meetings and submitted its report to the Centre. Observing that it has given enough time to the government to implement its orders, the bench said, “Now we want to look towards where we stand should there be a third wave”.  The top court said the Centre should complete the exercise of preparing the action-taken report and placing it on record within two weeks.  The issue before the top court arose out of the Centre's plea challenging a contempt notice issued by Delhi High Court over non-supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi.  The bench said it would like to know the steps taken by Centre to ensure that the recommendations were duly observed at the policy level to enhance preparedness and for the foreseeable future.  The bench said it would be appropriate if these proceedings were listed together with the matter where it has taken Suo Motu cognisance of the Covid-related issues. The court also said reports of the NTF and the action taken by the Centre should be made available to all the counsel including the amicus curiae in the matter. The bench asked senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora, amici curiae in the matter, to prepare a short point-wise submission.  The top court, on May 5, had stayed the contempt proceedings before the high court.  The NTF, on June 22, had recommended the country should have strategic reserves of the lifesaving gas for two-three weeks of consumption, similar to the arrangements made for petroleum products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/submit-action-taken-report-on-ntf-recommendation-on-allocation-of-oxygen-sc-to-centre-1017923.html
09-08-2021||National||Amid Opposition protests, 3 bills passed in Lok Sabha, 3 others introduced; Congress says democracy 'murdered'||The bills that were passed amid the din were --The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021, The Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021. RSP's NK Premachandran said the three bills were passed in 10 minutes and likened it to "cooking dosas”. Lok Sabha proceedings were repeatedly disrupted following uproar by the Opposition, but amid the protests, the government also introduced two other bills -- The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Congress leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Manish Tewari alleged that democracy is being "murdered" with the government pushing ahead with its legislative agenda in such a manner when the House was not in order. When the third bill, The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 to restore the states' right to list OBCs, was to be introduced, opposition members vacated the Well of the House and went back to their seats. When the House met for the day in the morning, Opposition members sought to raise various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and started shouting slogans following which the proceedings were adjourned till 11.30 AM When the Question Hour resumed at 11.30 AM, Opposition members trooped into Well. Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, asked members to go back to their seats. "Question Hour is a medium to discuss issues, please participate in this," Agrawal said. Soon, he adjourned the House till noon as the opposition ignored his plea and continued their protests. When the House met again at noon, Agarwal, who was in the chair, allowed papers related to different ministries to be tabled in the House. He then asked Union Minister for Aayush Sarbananda Sonowal to introduce The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The first bill proposes to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. The other bill seeks to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 and help make available the Indian system of medicine professionals across the country. TMC member Saugata Roy said he opposed the introduction of the Homeopathy bill as it would be detrimental to the Homeopathy profession. However, Sonowal defended the bills saying these were very important for the country. Tewari said the introduction of bills amidst opposition protests is a violation of the Constitution. After the admission of the two bills moved by Sonowal, Agarwal allowed Social Justice and Empowerment minister Virendra Kumar to introduce The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021. The bill seeks to give power to states and UTs to make their own OBC lists. Chowdhury strongly opposed the move and said that the entire opposition has been demanding discussion on the alleged snooping by Pegasus spyware but the government was ignoring the demand. Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Meghwal strongly objected to it, saying the government was ready for discussion on all issues. As protests continued, Agarwal adjourned the House till 12.30 PM. When the House met again, the House passed The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021, which seeks to encourage the start-up ecosystem and further boost ease of doing business, and The Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 that seeks to help small cooperative banks and small depositors. Both the bills were earlier passed by Rajya Sabha. The House also passed The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021, which seeks to amend the list of Scheduled Tribes in Arunachal Pradesh, after a brief discussion amidst opposition protests. Chowdhury said today is World Tribal Day and his party wanted to participate in the debate on the bill but alleged that the government has been "trying to suppress the voices of opposition through its brute majority" in the lower house. He claimed that the people of the country have been protesting against the policies of the government and it was scared of the people. "This government is arrogant and vindictive," Chowdhury alleged. Meghwal said Chowdhury's allegations were baseless as the Modi government is committed to the welfare of the tribals. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi also countered the opposition allegations and said the Modi government wants constructive, long and fruitful debate but the opposition was not allowing the House to function properly. Soon, the chair adjourned the House till 2 PM. As the House reconvened at 2 PM members again trooped in the Well and continued with their protest. Rama Devi, who was in the Chair, asked the members to go back to their seats so that discussion on COVID-19 could take place, However, the members were unwilling to relent. She later adjourned the proceedings for the day. Earlier, Speaker Om Birla, on behalf of the House, paid tributes to those who had participated in the Quit India Movement. The members also stood in silence briefly as a mark of respect to those who took part in that movement. The country is celebrating the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement that was launched in 1942 under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi. Birla also mentioned India's performance at the just-concluded Olympic games int Tokyo and congratulated the medal winners. Members thumped their desks when the name of Neeraj Chopra, who won the gold medal in the javelin throw at the Olympics, was mentioned. While noting that winning seven medals was the best Olympics performance by India, Birla exuded confidence that it would encourage youngsters to take up sports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-opposition-protests-3-bills-passed-in-lok-sabha-3-others-introduced-congress-says-democracy-murdered-1017934.html
09-08-2021||National||India asserts its ‘net security provider’ role in Indian Ocean||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asserted India’s role as a “Net Security Provider” for the Indian Ocean region as he chaired a virtual Security Council session, which upheld the primacy of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) despite resistance from China. “It is obviously necessary to build infrastructures to promote maritime trade, but such projects should be embarked upon, keeping in mind the fiscal sustainability and the absorption capacity of the nations,” the Prime Minister said, subtly taking a dig at Chinese President Xi Jinping’s cross-continental connectivity project, Belt and Road Initiative, which was criticized for predatory lending practices that put several smaller nations in the region in debt-traps. Modi chaired the session on maritime security just nine days after India, currently a non-permanent member of the UNSC, took over its presidency for the month of August. He was the first Prime Minister of India to chair a UN Security Council session. The Prime Minister suggested that a roadmap for maritime security cooperation should be based on five principles – resolving maritime disputes according to international law, removing barriers to promote legitimate maritime trade, cooperation between nations to deal with maritime threats posed by non-state actors and natural disasters, protecting maritime environment and resources and responsible maritime connectivity. The session saw the UNSC adopting the outcome document, a Statement by the President of the Council, which reaffirmed that international law, as reflected in the UNCLOS adopted on December 10, 1982, set out the legal framework applicable to activities in the oceans, including countering illicit activities at sea. The negotiations on the outcome document ahead of the session was not smooth. China, one of the permanent members of the UNSC, wanted the presidential statement to drop any reference to the 1982 UNCLOS in the context of resolving maritime disputes. Three other UNSC permanent members – United States, France and the United Kingdom – insisted on retaining the reference to it. India mediated between China and the US-led camp and was finally able to find language acceptable to all, without dropping the reference to the UNCLOS. Though an Arbitral Tribunal constituted under the 1982 UNCLOS delivered a unanimous decision five years ago rejecting China’s expansive claims on the South China Sea, Beijing has been steadfastly refusing to adhere to it. The Prime Minister highlighted India’s role as the “Net Security Provider” for the Indian Ocean region, referring to the Indian Navy’s anti-piracy patrolling, India’s support to other nations, be it to boost maritime security capability and dealing with natural disasters or to conduct a hydrographic survey or to enhance maritime domain awareness. Russian President Vladimir Putin was among the three other foreign leaders, who participated in the meeting of the council. President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State Antony Blinken represented the United States in the session, which saw the first-ever standalone discussion on maritime security at the UNSC. India’s growing strategic convergence with the United States to counter China’s hegemonic aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region has of late emerged as an irritant in its relations with Russia. But high-level participation by Russia and the United States in a Security Council session chaired by the Prime Minister of India is being projected by New Delhi as a diplomatic success of its balancing act. The Prime Minister referred to India’s vision of SAGAR, or ‘Security and Growth for all in the Region’, which he articulated in 2015 and which focusses on cooperative measures for sustainable use of the oceans and providing a framework for a safe, secure, and stable maritime domain in the region. He also spoke about India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI), which was put forward in 2019 and which focusses on seven pillars of maritime security including Maritime Ecology; Maritime Resources; Capacity Building and Resource Sharing; Disaster Risk Reduction and Management; Science, Technology and Academic Cooperation; and Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asserts-its-net-security-provider-role-in-indian-ocean-1017935.html
09-08-2021||National||Five Covid-19 vaccines given nod, but will it solve the supply crunch?||With five vaccines given the emergency use approval in India, the government is now aiming at ramping up supplies to meet its target of vaccinating maximum citizens by December-end. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to States and UTs for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As of August 9, more than 52.40 crore vaccine doses were provided to states/UTs, while  50,86,64,759 persons have so far been inoculated with at least one dose, according to MoHFW data at 8 am. Despite the approval of Moderna's vaccine in June, not a single dose has yet arrived in the country due to wrangling inemnity sought by the company. It is also unclear if J&J reached an agreement with the government over legal concerns pertaining to indemnity. Pfizer has yet to seek permission for use of its vaccine in India. The monthly vaccine production capacity of Covishield and Covaxin is also being ramped up. The monthly production of Covishield will be increased from 11 crore doses to more than 12 crore doses per month, while the monthly vaccine production capacity of Covaxin is planned to be increased from 2.5 crore doses to around 5.8 crore, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in the Parliament. Meanwhile, Panacea Biotec on Thursday said it entered into a pact to produce up to 25 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine using the drug substance manufactured by pharma firm Generium in Russia.  As per the terms of this agreement, Panacea Biotec shall produce the Sputnik V vaccine using the ready-to-fill drug substance manufactured by Generium in Russia, and then supply the entire quantity to Dr Reddy's for distribution in India, it added. "The agreement is for manufacture (fill and finish) of up to 25 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine," Panacea Biotec added. The government has previously said it has placed orders for a supply of 100.6 crore doses up to December 2021. “Between August to December 2021, 135 crore doses are expected to be available,” the government said. However, with the actual numbers of some of these approved vaccines unknown, it is yet to be determined how many doses will precisely be made available for use and when.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-covid-19-vaccines-given-nod-but-will-it-solve-the-supply-crunch-1017939.html
09-08-2021||National||War hero who bombarded Karachi port in 1971 no more||Commodore Kasargod Patnashetti Gopal Rao, a 1971 war hero and recipient of the Mahavir Chakra, breathed his last here on Monday, said sources in the defence. He was 94. The naval veteran died of age-related illness and is survived by two daughters and a son. Rao was a recipient of the Veer Seva Medal also. He played a key role in the war with Pakistan to liberate East Pakistan that is now Bangladesh. Rao led a small task group of the Western Fleet and launched an offensive off the coast of Karachi as part of Operation Cactus Lily. Notwithstanding the threat of air, surface and submarine attack, he led the group into enemy waters on the night of December 4, 1971. Despite the gunfire from the enemy posing a grave risk to Indian ships and personnel, Commander Rao pressed on and sunk two destroyers and a minesweeper. After the surface engagement, he bombarded the port of Karachi and torched the oil and other installations there. He displayed gallantry and outstanding leadership in the operation, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/war-hero-who-bombarded-karachi-port-in-1971-no-more-1017940.html
09-08-2021||National||3,564 accidents in India due to potholes in 2020||The country witnessed 3,564 road accidents due to potholes in the year 2020, which is the lowest in the last five years, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari informed Parliament on Monday. The ministry has formulated a multi-pronged strategy to address the issue of road safety based on Education, Engineering (both of roads and vehicles), Enforcement and Emergency Care, he said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. The total number of road accidents due to potholes in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 stood at 6,424; 9,423; 4,869 and 4,775, respectively, Gadkari said. He also pointed out that the number of accidents in 2019 declined by 4 per cent to 4,49,002. The Minister also said that the government is taking steps to identification and rectification of black spots (accident-prone spots) on national highways. Road safety has been made an integral part of road design at the planning stage, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3564-accidents-in-india-due-to-potholes-in-2020-1017945.html
09-08-2021||National||Now, give a missed call for a new LPG connection - Here's how||Need a new cooking gas (LPG) connection from Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) - the nation's largest fuel retailer? Just give a missed call to 8454955555. Also, existing customers can book LPG refill by giving a missed call from a registered phone number. IOC Chairman S M Vaidya on Monday launched missed call facility for availing new LPG connection anywhere in the country, the company said in a statement. He also inaugurated the facility to avail double bottle connection (DBC) at the customer's doorstep. Under this initiative, delivery personnel will offer existing single bottle connections (SBC) customers the option to convert to a DBC. Interested customers can choose a 5 kg cylinder as backup instead of the regular 14.2 kg cylinder. "IOC has extended its missed call facility to avail new LPG connection to all domestic customers. Prospective customers across the country can give a missed call to 8454955555 to avail a new connection," it said. Presently, IOC is the only oil marketing company to offer this facility. Launching the initiative for customers across the country, Vaidya said, "For a company with one of the most extensive customer interfaces, our constant endeavour is to make today's experience better than yesterday's. We have consistently been offering novel facilities for Indane customers by leveraging cutting-edge technology." The missed call facility for refill booking across the country and new connections in select markets was previously launched in January 2021. The hassle-free missed call facility will save a lot of time for customers, making it convenient and cost-free to register for a new connection. "This will benefit consumers, especially the elderly and those from rural areas," he said. IOC uses technology to provide ease of booking and payment for LPG refills. "Customers can book and pay for their LPG refill through the Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS), IndianOil One App, or through portal – https://cx.indianoil.in "The customers can also book and pay for the refill through WhatsApp (7588888824), SMS/IVRS (7718955555), or even through Alexa on Amazon and PayTM channels," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-give-a-missed-call-for-a-new-lpg-connection-heres-how-1017947.html
09-08-2021||National||India to launch Rs 11,000 crore plan to raise oilseed output, cut imports||India will launch a Rs 11,000 crore plan to boost domestic oilseed production to make the country self-sufficient in edible oil, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, a move that will cut costly vegetable oil imports. India is the world's biggest vegetable oil importer and spends an average of Rs 65,000 crore-Rs 75,000 crore annually on edible oil imports. The country produces less than half of the roughly 2.4 crore tonnes of edible oil that it consumes annually. It imports the rest, buying palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia, soyoil from Brazil and Argentina, and sunflower oil, mainly from Russia and Ukraine. India does export agricultural commodities such as sugar and rice on the world market, but domestic oilseed production is nearly six times lower than rice and wheat on average. "The government will invest more than Rs 11,000 crore via the National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm to provide farmers everything possible, including better seeds and technology," Modi said on Twitter.. "When India is emerging as a major exporter of farm goods, we should not depend on imports for our edible oil requirements," Modi said. India's vegetable oil imports have surged to 1.5 crore tonnes from 40 lakh only two decades ago, according to traders and industry officials. They said imports could reach 20 crore tonnes by 2030, boosted by a growing population with higher incomes and a taste for calorie-laden curry and fried food. Atul Chaturvedi, president of the Solvent Extractors Association of India, an industry body, said it was a giant step to help India to become self-sufficient in edible oil. Earlier this year, Reuters reported that India was expected to announce a five-year plan to cut vegetable oil imports by providing farmers with financial incentives to switch to oilseeds from grains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-launch-rs-11000-crore-plan-to-raise-oilseed-output-cut-imports-1017948.html
09-08-2021||National||Foreign nationals now eligible for Covid-19 vaccination in India||Foreign nationals residing in India are now eligible for vaccination in the country Their passports will be considered as identity document for registration on Co-WIN portal. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-nationals-now-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-india-1017958.html
09-08-2021||National||Neither BJP, nor RSS had anything to do with India's freedom struggle, says Akhilesh Yadav||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government for organising a programme to mark the anniversary of the 1925 Kakori train robbery, saying neither the BJP nor the RSS had anything to do with India's freedom struggle. Yadav termed the government's programme "pretence". On this day in 1925, some Indian revolutionaries looted the British government's treasure from a train while it was passing through Uttar Pradesh's Kakori town. "The BJP and its parent organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) had nothing to do with the freedom movement," a statement issued here by the Samajwadi Party quoted Yadav as saying. He alleged that on the eve of August Kranti Diwas on Sunday, a slain soldier's wife and sons, who had gone to meet Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Agra to seek the fulfilment of announcements made for soldiers killed in the line of duty, were humiliated and driven away. "It is a condemnable incident. How can people in the BJP know about respecting martyrs? The BJP is working against social harmony and like the British, its intention has also been to disintegrate the society. There is a need to be cautious about this," he said. Yadav said, "The dream of the martyrs of August Kranti was to establish the rule of farmers, labourers and youth in the country so that everyone could live a life of dignity and respect and it is the responsibility of the Samajwadi Party to realise this dream." The SP is committed to saving the constitutional values committed to ensuring a prosperous and secure life for every citizen, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-bjp-nor-rss-had-anything-to-do-with-indias-freedom-struggle-says-akhilesh-yadav-1017996.html
09-08-2021||National||India lays out red carpet for Olympic heroes; felicitated in grand ceremony by government||India's Olympic medal-winners were accorded a grand welcome by the government in a dazzling felicitation ceremony here on Monday with sports minister Anurag Thakur saying that their journey is an "incredible story of resilience and sporting excellence". Gold medal winning javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra was the cynosure of all eyes in the ceremony at a five star hotel here, held a couple of hours after the seven podium finishers made their way out of the airport amid utter chaos. At the felicitation ceremony, they were presented mementos and shawls by the minister. Both the bronze-winning men's hockey team and fourth-place finishing women's team cut cakes after arriving at the hotel. "We all come from middle-class families and support of the families is essential," Chopra said after being felicitated by Thakur. While Chopra added the golden sheen to the campaign, the silver medals came from weightlifter Mirabai Chanu and wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya. "It feels great, I would like to thank the government, SAI and IOA for helping us during our quarantine time. They gave us all the support," said men's hockey captain Manpreet Singh. The bronze medals, apart from the men's hockey team, were claimed by boxer Lovlina Borgohain, shuttler P V Sindhu, and wrestler Bajrang Punia. "I am very happy to be back home. I knew India is very happy but after coming back here, to get this love first hand, it feels really nice. I would try to do my best for more such medals," Borgohain said. Sindhu and Chanu did not attend the ceremony as they had arrived earlier and are currently at their home bases. "I only tried to give my best," said Punia, who fought through his semifinals without any protective gear on his injured knee. Among those present on the occasion to felicitate the medal winners also included Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju, Secretary (Sports) Ravi Mittal and Director-General of Sports Authority of India Sandip Pradhan. "Tokyo 2020 was an Olympic Games of many firsts for India. The success of Team India at the Olympics is a reflection of how New India desires and aspires to dominate the world…even in sports," Thakur said. "The Olympic Games showed us that with self-discipline and dedication we can be champions. Team India excelled and inspired while Indians cheered and celebrated all around. "Truly sports is a great unifier as our athletes come from villages and cities, north to south, from east to west. Their journey is an incredible story of resilience and sporting excellence," he added. There were many firsts in India's campaign, including the biggest ever 128-member athlete contingent, seven Olympic Medals, first Olympic gold medal in an athletics event, two successive medals in consecutive Games by Sindhu, and a medal(bronze) by the Indian men's team in hockey after a gap of 41 years. Also, the women's hockey team achieved its best ever fourth place finish in the Games. "We will continue to support our sports persons and we endeavour to make India a sporting powerhouse," Thakur said. The minister also lauded some close finishes including the fourth place finish by golfer Aditi Ashok. Thakur's predecessor Rijiju praised the performances of all the athletes and reiterated that India will be a force to reckon with by the 2028 Olympics. "This is just the beginning because India's resurgence in sport is visible now and I am confident that by 2028 Olympics India will be a force to reckon with,” Rijiju mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lays-out-red-carpet-for-olympic-heroes-felicitated-in-grand-ceremony-by-government-1018000.html
09-08-2021||National||Pakistan made 33 infiltration attempts this year, none from China: Government||A total 33 infiltration attempts were made along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir till June this year but no case of infiltration was reported along the India-China Border, Parliament was told on Monday. Replying to a query in the Upper House, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt stated that 11 terrorists were killed along the Line of Control when they were trying to enter India territory and 20 were apprehended. Talking about the Indo-Bangladesh border, a total of 441 infiltration attempts were made till June this year. The minister also stated that 740 people were apprehended and one was killed. In addition, 11 infiltrators along the Indo-Nepal border have been apprehended this year till June. At the India-Myanmar border, post the military coup of February 1, 2021, a total of 8486 Myanmar nationals and refugees crossed over into India, out of which 5796 were pushed back and 2690 are still in India. Infiltrators apprehended by the forces at the borders are handed over to the concerned state police. On infiltration attempts along the India-China border, the minister pointed out that no case of infiltration has been reported this year. On August 6, there was another major breakthrough between India and China on the border dispute with both the countries withdrawing troops from friction Patrolling Point (PP) 17A in Gogra at the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh — the place where the border dispute erupted in May 2020. The Indian Army has stated that both the countries have ceased forward deployments in this area in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. "The disengagement process was carried out over two days i.e. 04 and 05 August 2021. The troops of both sides are now in their respective permanent bases," the Indian Army had said in a statement. The force said that the twelfth round of talks between the Corps Commanders of India and China were held on July 31, 2021 at Chushul Moldo Meeting Point in Eastern Ladakh. The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas. "As an outcome of the meeting, both sides agreed on disengagement in the area of Gogra," the Indian Army said. With disengagement reached between both the countries for Gogra, India will now take up other remaining friction areas like Hot Springs and the 900 square km Depsang plains. The build-up in Depsang was not considered part of the current standoff that started in May last year as escalation here took place in 2013. India has insisted during recent military commander meetings to resolve all issues across the Line of Actual Control. Till now, apart from 12 rounds of Corps Commanders-level talks, the two forces have also held 10 Major General level, 55 Brigadier-level talks and 1,450 calls over the hotlines.Earlier, the troops of the two Himalayan giants disengaged from both the banks of Pangong Tso in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-made-33-infiltration-attempts-this-year-none-from-china-government-1018012.html
09-08-2021||National||Over 8,400 Myanmarese nationals crossed over into India following February 1 coup: Govt||A total of 8,486 Myanmarese nationals crossed over into India following the February 1 military coup in Myanmar and 5,796 of them were pushed back, the government said on Monday. Replying to a question in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said 2,690 Myanmarese "nationals/refugees" are still in India. He provided the information while sharing details of infiltrations along India's borders in the first six months of the current year Myanmar's military seized control of the country in a coup on February 1 after detaining Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD). Since then, the country has been rocked by massive protests. Bhatt said 11 infiltrators were killed and 20 others were apprehended along the Indo-Pakistan border, adding 20 infiltration attempts were made up to June 30 this year along the frontier. No cases of infiltration have been reported at the India-China border, he added. The minister cited reports of the security forces and the Ministry of Home Affairs while sharing the details. Referring to the Indo-Myanmar border, Bhatt said following the coup, "8,486 Myanmar nationals/refugees crossed over into India, out of which 5796 were pushed back and 2690 are still in India." Bhatt said 441 infiltration attempts were reported and 740 infiltrators were apprehended during the period along the Indo-Bangladesh border, adding one infiltrator was killed. "In addition, 11 illegal infiltrators along Indo-Nepal border have been apprehended in this year (up to June 30. No cases of infiltration have been reported at the Indo-China border," he said. To a separate question, Bhatt said the current authorised staff strength of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is 33,329. "The government-sanctioned additional 420 posts of scientists to DRDO during April 2020," he said to a question on whether the government proposed to augment the manpower in the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-8400-myanmarese-nationals-crossed-over-into-india-following-february-1-coup-govt-1018013.html
09-08-2021||National||India asks rich countries to undertake immediate emission cuts||India on Monday asked rich countries to undertake immediate and deep emission cuts in order to decarbonise their economies to minimise the impacts of global warming. “Developed countries have usurped far more than their fair share of the global carbon budget. Reaching net zero alone is not enough, as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero that determine the temperature that is reached. This has been amply borne out in the new IPCC report,” Union Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said in a statement. The sixth assessment report titled Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science vindicates India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces at the moment, Yadav said. India’s cumulative and per capita current emissions are significantly low and far less than its fair share of the global carbon budget. The report notes that carbon dioxide has been and will continue to be the dominant cause of global warming under all greenhouse gas emissions scenarios. One of the consequences of such warming would be a change in the southwest monsoon – the lifeblood of the Indian economy. The report brings out that the monsoon rainfall is expected to intensify in all ranges of the projected scenarios. The intensity and frequency of heavy rainfall events are projected to be on the rise. There will be increased frequency and intensity of extreme events including heat waves and heavy rainfall. “While cutting down emissions is important so that we don’t accelerate climate change further, we need urgent action to assess and adapt to the heightened risk due to severe cyclones, floods, and heatwaves in the near future,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology at Pune and one of the IPCC lead authors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-rich-countries-to-undertake-immediate-emission-cuts-1018025.html
09-08-2021||National||IPCC report clarion call for developed nations to decarbonise economies: Bhupender Yadav||The IPCC report on climate change is a clarion call for the developed nations to immediately cut emissions and decarbonise their economies, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Monday. Welcoming the sixth assessment report (AR6) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the minister said India has taken numerous steps to tackle the problem of climate change and is on the path of decoupling its emissions from economic growth. "India welcomes the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Working Group 1 contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report 'Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science' released today by the IPCC. Several Indian Scientists have participated in the preparation of this report. "India under the visionary leadership of PM Narendra Modi ji has taken numerous steps to tackle the global problem of climate change and is well on the path of decoupling its emissions from economic growth. The IPCC report is proof of that," Yadav tweeted. The IPCC report, prepared by over 200 authors from 65 countries and approved by 195 countries, revealed that the Indian Ocean is warming at a higher rate than other oceans, with scientists warning that India will witness increased heat waves, rainfall and flooding, which will be the irreversible effects of climate change. "The Sixth Assessment Report 'Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science' was released today by IPCC. The report is a clarion call for the developed countries to undertake immediate, deep emission cuts and decarbonisation of their economies," the minister said. The environment ministry, in an official statement, said developed countries have usurped far more than their fair share of the global carbon budget. "Reaching net zero alone is not enough, as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero that determine the temperature that is reached. This has been amply borne out in the IPCC report. It vindicates India's position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today." the statement said. The report notes that carbon dioxide has been and will continue to be the dominant cause of global warming under all greenhouse gas emissions scenarios, it said. "India notes that climate change is impacting the South Asian Monsoons. The report brings out that the monsoon rainfall is expected to intensify in all ranges of the projected scenarios. Intensity and frequency of heavy rainfall events are projected to be on the rise. India notes that the rising temperature will lead to increased frequency and intensity of extreme events including heat waves and heavy rainfall. "India also notes that the GHG warming is assessed to be partially offset by aerosol cooling by almost 30 per cent," the ministry statement said. India's cumulative and per capita current emissions are significantly low and far less than its fair share of the global carbon budget, it said. The ministry said India has taken tremendous actions to tackle the problem of climate change like setting up of International Solar Alliance, Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, raising the domestic renewable energy target to 450 GW by 2030 and putting in place an ambitious National Hydrogen Mission and continuing efforts to decouple its emissions from economic growth. "India's actions to address global climate change are 2 degrees C compliant and rated highly by several independent agencies of the world," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipcc-report-clarion-call-for-developed-nations-to-decarbonise-economies-bhupender-yadav-1018027.html
09-08-2021||National||Centre announces nominations open for Padma Awards||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday announced that the online nominations and recommendations for the Padma Awards for 2022 have been opened till September 15. The recommendations for these civilian awards Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri are given every year and the recipients names are announced on the occasion of Republic Day. The government is committed to transform the Padma Awards into "People's Padma". "All citizens are therefore requested to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognized from amongst women, SC/STs, divyang persons and who are doing selfless service to society and make their nominations/recommendations," the Ministry said. The nominations and recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the Padma Portal, including a citation in narrative form in a maximum 800 words, clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements or service of the person recommended in his or her respective field or discipline. Further details in this regard are available under the heading 'Awards and Medals' on the website of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Instituted on January 2, 1954, the awards are given in three categories -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri. The awards seek to recognize achievements in all activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved. While the Padma Vibhushan is the highest civilian award after the Bharat Ratna, it is given for "exceptional and distinguished service in any field including service rendered by Government servants" including doctors and scientists. As of 2020, the award has been bestowed on 314 individuals, including 17 posthumously and 21 non-citizen recipients. The Padma Bhushan, the second highest award, is given for "distinguished service of a high order" and the award criteria include "service in any field including service rendered by government servants" including doctors and scientists. As of 2020, the award has been bestowed on 1270 individuals, including 24 posthumously and 97 non-citizen recipients. The Padma Shri is awarded to citizens of India in recognition of their distinguished contribution in various spheres of activity including the arts, education, industry, literature, science, sports, medicine, social service and public affairs. It has also been awarded to some distinguished individuals who were not citizens of India but did contribute in various ways to the country. As of 2020, 3123 people have received the award. The Padma Awards are conferred on the recommendations made by the Padma Awards Committee, which is constituted by the Prime Minister every year. The nomination process is open to the public. Even self-nomination can be made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-announces-nominations-open-for-padma-awards-1018035.html
09-08-2021||National||IMD forecasts widespread rains over many parts of north, northeast India for next 5 days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said fairly widespread to widespread rains are very likely over many parts of north and northeast India, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. It said a cyclonic circulation lies over eastern Uttar Pradesh and extends up to the mid-tropospheric levels. Under the influence of these systems, the IMD said, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over the northeast and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. It said under the influence of stronger southwesterly or southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal, the rainfall intensity is very likely to increase over these areas from Wednesday (August 11), resulting in isolated extremely heavy falls over Assam and Meghalaya during August 11-13. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Uttarakhand during the next five days and over Himachal Pradesh on August 12-13. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand during the next four-five days, the IMD said. It said isolated heavy falls over Jharkhand during August 10-13 and over the Gangetic West Bengal during August 11-13 are also very likely. The Met office forecast scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls over Madhya Pradesh and eastern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours with a significant reduction in intensity and distribution thereafter. "Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall very likely over Tamil Nadu and Kerala during next five days with isolated heavy falls over Tamil Nadu during next five days and over Kerala during next three days," it said. It forecast "subdued" rainfall over the remaining parts of the plains of northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, western Rajasthan) and most parts of peninsular India, including Maharashtra and Gujarat. According to the IMD, rain or thundershowers were observed at most places of Uttarakhand, Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh and at many places of Himachal Pradesh, eastern Uttar Pradesh, eastern Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on Monday. A few places over western Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, central Maharashtra, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep and isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, western Rajasthan, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Gujarat, Vidarbha, Konkan and Goa, Telangana, coastal Karnataka, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal also witnessed rain or thundershowers. The IMD said the eastern end of the monsoon trough continues to run close to the foothills of the Himalayas, while the western end runs north of its normal position. "The entire monsoon trough likely to shift close to foothills of the Himalayas during next 24-48 hours, causing weak monsoon spell over the country from August 10," it added. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 33.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, and a minimum temperature of 25.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, the IMD said. The national capital received a total of 15.4 mm rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am, according to the IMD's Safdarjung station. The Ayanagar and Ridge stations recorded heavier rainfall of about 27 mm and 30 mm respectively. The city is expected to witness strong surface winds on Tuesday. Sultry weather conditions prevailed at most places in Haryana and Punjab. Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 36 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 34.5 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 33.4 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana recorded a high of 34.5 degrees Celsius, while Patiala's maximum settled at 34.8 degrees Celsius, acording to the Met office. Two members of a family -- an old woman and a child -- were killed when the wall of an adjoining house collapsed on their hut due to rain in Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced a slew of measures to help people in areas affected by floods following heavy rains and formed a task force comprising 12 cabinet ministers to look after the relief work. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district on Monday on her way to Jhargram, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-forecasts-widespread-rains-over-many-parts-of-north-northeast-india-for-next-5-days-1018050.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) to observe Independence Day in a big way for first time||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has decided to celebrate India's Independence Day in a grand manner for the first time on August 15 next when the national Tricolour will be hoisted in every party office, a senior leader said on Sunday. The development took place more than seven decades after the undivided Communist Party of India (CPI) raised the slogan "Ye Azadi Jhutha Hain" (This freedom is false). The CPI(M) came into being following a split in the CPI in 1964. "It has been decided that the Tricolour would be hoisted at every party office on the occasion of 75th Independence day," CPI(M) Central Committee member Sujan Chakraborty said. Chakraborty, also a senior functionary of the party's West Bengal state committee, however, rejected the contention that the party is observing the day for the first time saying that it was celebrated earlier also in a different manner. "We usually observe the Independence Day by holding discussions on issues and dangers faced by the country by fascist forces, by communal forces. This time the day will be held in a bigger way. Seventy-fifth or 100th year don't come every time," he told PTI. The Tricolour will flutter along with the red flag of the party, which will be seen for the first time on August 15 atop CPI(M) offices, another party leader said. The decision to observe the day was made after the central committee of the CPI(M), which assumed the role of principal Left party in the country after the split in the undivided CPI, put its seal of approval to the proposal of the West Bengal committee at a virtual meeting in which state members attended the deliberations from here. The move came in the wake of the poor performance of the CPI(M) in the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 assembly polls in West Bengal, which was blamed by political observers as the party's growing disconnect with the electorate. The decision also assumes significance as the Marxist party had been accused of jettisoning nationalist values and being more sympathetic to its international counterparts in China, Cuba and Vietnam in the past. The party had been charged with being soft to China during the India-China War in 1962. The undivided CPI, led by patriarchs such as Jyoti Basu, Bhupesh Gupta and others had coined the slogan "Ye Azadi Jhutha Hain" after Independence, arguing that it will only help the capitalists but not the proletariat. During the 34-year rule of the CPI(M)-led Left Front in West Bengal, opposition parties charged it with organising protests over happenings in Cuba neglecting issues faced by the people of the state. The BJP, Congress and the Trinamool Congress observe Independence Day in a big way had previously alleged that the communist party is less national and more international in its approach and had no contribution to the freedom movement. The charge, however, had always been denied by the communists. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-to-observe-independence-day-in-a-big-way-for-first-time-1017696.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Switcheroo gone wrong? TMC turncoat Rajib Banerjee likely to be expelled from BJP||Former West Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee's expulsion from the BJP seems only to be a matter of time, party sources said, in wake of the rebel leader's meeting with Trinamool Congress's national General Secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, at the latter's South Kolkata office on Saturday evening. Rajib Banerjee, who switched from Trinamool Congress to join the BJP just before the Assembly polls, was cautioned twice for anti-party activities but that hardly made any effect. "He has been given two show-cause notices but he has not given an answer to even one of them even. So, it is expected that he is not willing to continue on with the party," a member of the BJP's disciplinary committee told IANS on condition of anonymity. "He continues to be a member of the BJP and he holds secret meetings with opposition party leaders. This is equivalent to anti-party activities. So, we are now determined to take a major decision, which will be announced within a week or two," the member said. So, before Banerjee can leave the saffron brigade, the party wants to expel him and accordingly, the details have been sent to the party high command in New Delhi. Now, the members of the disciplinary committee are just waiting for the green signal from them. Banerjee was a minister in the previous Trinamool government, but quit to join the BJP and contested on behalf of the saffron party from Domjur Assembly seat, where he was the MLA before, but lost. Soon after his defeat, he became a rebel and started making anti-party statements or avoiding party meetings. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/switcheroo-gone-wrong-tmc-turncoat-rajib-banerjee-likely-to-be-expelled-from-bjp-1017739.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Did LSTV, RSTV block Opposition protests from being broadcast?||As the government-Opposition logjam continues in the last leg of the Monsoon Session, parties critiquing the government over farm laws and the use of Pegasus have accused the Lok Sabha TV of not broadcasting their disruption. The Opposition parties have claimed on multiple occasions that the ruling Modi-Shah government has tried to block any voice of dissent and accused them of censoring proceedings. There are two channels — one which broadcasts proceedings inside the Parliament complex and the other which shows the proceedings to the general public. The former showed greater details of the opposition protest. The proceedings aired inside the complex are also shown on two giant TV screens inside the Lok Sabha chamber. "The LSTV transmission is as per the rules which say it should be a true reflection of what’s happening inside the House,” Manoj K Arora, Editor-in-Chief cum Chief Executive of LSTV told the daily. While LSTV is expected to provide an overall view, the focus has to shift to the Speaker or the Chair or the Prime Minister speaks when they speak, channel sources told the publication. On Thursday, the Lok Sabha TV showed glimpses of protests by the opposition members in the House. The video showed long shots of members raising slogans in the Well. However, the focus shifted as soon as the Chair spoke. During Question Hour, Opposition members were seen adjusting their placards on Pegasus and farm issues to come in the camera frame. Sources said the Opposition MPs tried to make sure that the posters were visible on television by positioning themselves at key areas in both houses. Earlier last week, TMC MP and leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien had alleged that the Opposition protests were not being shown on RS TV. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-lstv-rstv-block-opposition-protests-from-being-broadcast-1017762.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition to pause Parliament protest on Pegasus to support Bill on OBCs||Opposition parties will pause their protest on the Pegasus issue in Parliament during the passage of the Bill to amend the Constitution to restore powers of states to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs). This was decided at a meeting of floor leaders of 15 Opposition parties chaired by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge and attended by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK's T R Baalu, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav, NCP's Supriya Sule and Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut among others. The move to pause the ongoing protest on the floor of the House came as the government listed the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill for introduction in Lok Sabha on Monday. However, the Opposition will continue their protest against the government for not allowing a discussion on Pegasus though the Bill would see its passage without any hitch.   The leaders who attended the meeting felt that any obstruction of its passage would be used by the ruling BJP against them, especially against the backdrop of Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab among others early next year. Besides Congress, the parties which attended the meeting included DMK, Trinamool Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, AAP, CPI(M), CPI, National Conference, Muslim League, LJD, RSP and Kerala Congress. Leaders like N Tiruchi Siva, K Premachandran, Manoj K Jha, Jairam Ramesh, Elamaram Kareem, Ninoy Viswam and Bhagwant Mann. "Leaders of Opposition parties will support this bill and we want this bill being introduced today (Monday) to be passed immediately after a discussion on it. We will peacefully support this bill. This issue is in the interest of backward classes and the country," Kharge told reporters after the meeting. A senior Opposition Leader said that the Bill aims to give powers to the states and there was no reason to oppose the Bill. "It benefits lakhs and lakhs of people and we should not be seen as obstructing it. However, we are not forfeiting our demand for a discussion on Pegasus," the leader said. The Parliament has witnessed vociferous protests demanding debate on Pegasus since the Monsoon Session started on July 19 but the government has not budged from its position to not allow the discussion. In the past 14 sittings in three weeks till last Friday, Lok Sabha has passed 14 Bills in 1:15 hours while Rajya Sabha has passed 12 Bills in 4:29 hours. The Opposition has accused the government of rushing through Bills without proper discussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-to-pause-parliament-protest-on-pegasus-to-support-bill-on-obcs-1017774.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day amid protest by Opposition members||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day on Monday amid continuous protests by opposition members over Pegasus snooping controversy and other issues.  As the House reconvened at 2 pm after being adjourned four times before in the day, opposition members trooped into the Well.  Rama Devi, who was in the Chair, urged the members to go back to their seats and let the discussion on COVID-19 take place. As the protesting members were unwilling to relent, the House was adjourned for the day. When the House met for the day in the morning, Opposition members sought to raise various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and started shouting slogans following which the proceedings were adjourned till 11:30 am. When the Question Hour resumed at 11:30 am, Opposition members trooped into Well.  Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, asked members to go back to their seats. "Question Hour is a medium to discuss issues, please participate in this," Agrawal said. Soon, he adjourned the House till noon. When the House met again at noon, Agarwal, who was in the chair allowed papers related to different ministries to be tabled in the House. Then he allowed Aayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to introduce The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021 amidst strong opposition. TMC member Saugata Roy said he opposed the introduction of the Homeopathy bill as it would be detrimental to the Homeopathy profession. However, Sonowal defended the bill saying it is very important for the country and members should appreciate it. Congress leader Manish Tewari said the introduction of bills amidst opposition protests is violation of the Constitution. After admission of the two bills, Agarwal allowed Social Justice and Empowerment minister Virendra Kumar to introduce The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury strongly opposed the move and said that the entire opposition has been demanding discussion on the alleged snooping by Pegasus spyware but the government was ignoring the demand. Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Meghwal strongly objected it, saying the government was ready for discussion on all issues. As protests, continued, Agarwal adjourned the House till 12.30 pm. When the House met again, the House passed The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 amidst strong opposition protests. Both the bills were earlier passed by Rajya Sabha. The House also passed The Constitution (Schedule Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021 after a brief discussion amidst opposition protests. Soon, the chair adjourned the House till 2 pm. Earlier, Speaker Om Birla, on behalf of the House, paid tributes to those who had participated in the Quit India Movement. The members also stood in silence for a brief while as a mark of respect to those who took part in that movement. The country is celebrating the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement that was launched in 1942 under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi.  Birla also mentioned about India's performance at the just-concluded Olympic games at Tokyo and congratulated the medal winners. Members thumped their desks when the name of Neeraj Chopra, who won the gold medal in javelin throw at the Olympics, was mentioned. While noting that winning seven medals was the best ever Olympics performance by India, Birla exuded confidence that the performance would enthuse youngsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-protest-by-opposition-members-1017796.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Bill to allow states to make OBC lists introduced in LS||A bill that restores the right of the states to make their own lists of other backward classes was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill, that seeks to give powers to the state governments and union territories to make their own OBC lists, was introduced in the Lok Sabha by Social Justice Minister Virendra Singh. Opposition parties, who have stalled the proceedings in Parliament for the past three weeks, have decided to set aside their protests to support the Bill. An assurance to this effect was given by Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. The government move comes after the furore by political parties when the Supreme Court held the Constitution (102 Amendment) Act, 2018 took away the states' power to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. “The legislative intent at the time of passing the Constitution (102nd) Amendment Act in 2018 was that it deals with the Central list of the socially and economically backward classes,” Singh said in a statement explaining the bill. He said a question had arisen after the enactment of the Constitution (102nd) Amendment Act in 2018 as to whether the said amendments to the Constitution mandated for single central list of SEBCs specifying SEBCs of each state, thereby taking away the powers of the State to prepare and maintain a separate State list of SEBCs. “In order to adequately clarify that the state government and union territories are empowered to prepare and maintain their own state list/union territory list of SEBCs and with a view to maintain the federal structure of the country, there is a need to amend Articles 342 A and make consequential amendments in articles 338B and 366 of the Constitution,” Singh said. Parliament's Monsoon Session has witnessed relentless protests by a largely united Opposition which has been demanding discussion on Pegasus revelations of alleged snooping, the farmers' issues and price rise, which has prompted the government to push its legislative agenda amid din. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had unanimously set aside Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and had refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50 % on reservation to a larger bench. The apex Court, through a majority verdict on the interpretation of Articles 338B and 342A, ruled that states do not have the power to identify SEBCs. The apex Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 order, which prompted the government to bring a new Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bill-to-allow-states-to-make-obc-lists-introduced-in-ls-1017805.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah behind attacks on Abhishek, TMC activists in Tripura: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of orchestrating the attacks on her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and other TMC leaders in Tripura. Speaking to reporters after visiting the injured TMC leaders at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata, Mamata said that Shah was behind the incident as Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Deb would not dare to order such an attack. “Without Shah’s active involvement such attacks would not have been possible. The attacks took place in front of the Tripura Police at Shah’s behest. The Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Deb will not dare to order such an attack,” said Mamata. She further alleged that the car carrying TMC’s youth leaders Jaya Dutta, Debangshu Bhattcharya and Sudip Raha was not only pelted with stones and its windshield was smashed, but even shots were fired at it. The Chief Minister said while Raha sustained a serious head injury, Dutta got hit in the face with shrapnel during the attack. “ Even then they were denied medical treatment for 36 hours and not even given water to drink. The barbaric BJP regime in Tripura subjected them to inhuman treatment,” said Mamata. She also said that the BJP Government in Tripura issued instructions not to allow TMC leaders to book flight tickets or render helicopters and aircraft. The Chief Minister alleged that Abhishek’s life was in danger as every time he boards a flight five to six seats near his seat are booked to place goons near him. “Abhishek’s convoy was attacked on August 2 during his visit to Tripura. If his car was not bullet proof, his skull would have been smashed,” said Mamata. Accusing the BJP of running an anarchic rule in Tripura, Assam and Uttar Pradesh, Mamata said that earlier TMC delegations were prevented from meeting people affected by the NRC in Assam and family members of rape victim at Hathras in Uttaar Pradesh. “The BJP leaders give lectures on democracy in West Bengal but show their true colours in states where they are in power,” said Mamata. She also urged students to protest against the attack on TMC’s youth leaders in Tripura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-behind-attacks-on-abhishek-tmc-activists-in-tripura-mamata-1017809.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Let us take strides for a more inclusive Atmanirbhar Bharat: VP on Quit India anniversary||On the anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday urged people to rededicate themselves to eradicate social evils like casteism, communalism and gender discrimination, and take strides for a more inclusive and confident Atmanirbhar Bharat.  The Quit India Movement was launched in 1942 under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi and played a key role in India attaining freedom from the British rule five years later on August 15, 1947. On the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Naidu urged people to remember the countless sacrifices made by the brave sons and daughters of India who participated in the movement to free our motherland from colonial rule.  "Let us rededicate ourselves to eradicating poverty, illiteracy, inequality, corruption and social evils like casteism, communalism and gender discrimination from India," the vice president said on his official Twitter handle.  "Let us take strides together for a more inclusive and confident Atmanirbhar Bharat," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/let-us-take-strides-for-a-more-inclusive-atmanirbhar-bharat-vp-on-quit-india-anniversary-1017815.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Renaming Khel Ratna award not people's wish, but political game: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday claimed the Centre's decision to rename the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award after hockey legend Dhyan Chand was not the people's wish, but a "political game". An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana also asked what was Prime Minister Narendra Modi's contribution to cricket that a stadium (in Ahmedabad) was named after him. India's highest sporting honour Khel Ratna Award, which was named after former PM Rajiv Gandhi, was on Friday rechristened in the honour of hockey wizard Dhyan Chand, following the admirable performance of both men's and women's hockey teams in the Tokyo Olympics. Making the announcement, Prime Minister Modi said he had been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. On Monday, the editorial in Saamana said late prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi were victims of terror acts. There could be political differences with leaders like them, but their sacrifices towards the country's development cannot be mocked, it opined. "Changing the name of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award is not the people's wish, but a political game,” it claimed. "Major Dhyan Chand could have been honoured without insulting Rajiv Gandhi's sacrifice. But, the country has lost such tradition and culture. It would have made Dhyan Chand sad in heaven," the Sena said. It said just because the Modi government changed the name of the award does not mean earlier governments had forgotten Dhyan Chand. It is not a great honour for Dhyan Chand to use his name for the award by replacing it with the name of Rajiv Gandhi, who had made "supreme sacrifice for the country", the Sena said. "Removing Rajiv Gandhi's name (from the award) is political hatred," it claimed. The Marathi publication said the question raised by some BJP leaders about whether Rajiv Gandhi ever held a hockey stick in his hands was valid. "People are also asking what Narendra Modi has done for cricket that a stadium in Ahmedabad is named after him by replacing the (earlier) name of Sardar Patel,” it said. The same yardstick should have be applied while renaming a Delhi stadium (Feroz Shah Kotla) after (late BJP leader) Arun Jaitely. People are also asking these questions, the Sena said. The editorial also claimed that while the Modi government was celebrating India's wins at the just-concluded Olympic Games, it had cut down the sports budget by Rs 300 crore. When the Sahara Group withdrew sponsorship of the men's and women's hockey teams, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik accepted their guardianship, it stated. "Hence, the Odisha government's contribution is equally important in the (men's) hockey team's win (at the Olympics)," it added. When Khashaba Jadhav had won the first individual Olympic medal (bronze) for the country, why no one thought of setting up a 'Khel Ratna' award in his name? the Sena asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/renaming-khel-ratna-award-not-peoples-wish-but-political-game-shiv-sena-1017816.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Centre could withdraw new farm laws considering upcoming UP assembly polls: BJP leader||A senior Uttar Pradesh BJP leader claimed that the farm laws might be scrapped before the next state assembly polls, due early next year, keeping in view the resentment among the farmers. UP BJP provincial committee member and former party legislator Ram Iqbal Singh also supported the demand by the opposition leaders to investigate the Pegasus snooping allegations. ''The farmers are angry over the new farm laws....they are protesting against the BJP leaders, especially in western UP...I think that the centre may scrape the laws before the next assembly polls in the state,'' Singh told reporters in Ballia, about 400 kilometres from here, on Sunday night. He also lent support to the demand by the opposition parties to launch an investigation into the alleged Pegasus snooping of several politicians, journalists and others. ''Ours is a democratic country...the government should accept the opposition's demand....a huge amount of public money is wasted owing to disruptions in the Parliament,'' he added. Singh also contested the claims by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath that the state government had successfully tackled the second wave of Covid 19. ''The health infrastructure is lacking in the state....there was no oxygen in any hospital in Ballia during the second wave...Ventilators were also not there...many people lost their lives,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-could-withdraw-new-farm-laws-considering-upcoming-up-assembly-polls-bjp-leader-1017823.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Congress plans year-long programme for 75th Independence Day, hits out at BJP||Congress on Monday highlighted the role played by it in the freedom struggle as it announced a plan to organise a year-long celebration to commemorate 75 years of India's independence. The party announced its year-long plan programme, starting August 14 this year that will run till August 2022, a year when seven states (six of them ruled by BJP) will go to polls. The announcement came at a time when the ruling party raised its nationalistic pitch, making it a key electoral strategy, which the Congress has often found difficult to counter. The Congress' announcement coincided with its "Gaddi Chhodo" (quit the chair of power) campaign on the anniversary of Quit India Movement, in all 403 assembly seats in the BJP-ruled UP, which sends 80 Parliamentarians to Lok Sabha, crucial for any party to form a government in 2024. The statement issued by AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal said, "On the occasion of the nation entering the 75th year of Independence, Congress has decided to form committees in all states to organise a year-long celebrations." A meeting  of AICC general secretaries/In charge of states, departments and cells was held in this regard on Sunday, where it was decided to constitute a committee comprising senior leaders and party functionaries at every PCCs and DCCs to hold the event. The party has decided to hold special programmes on August 14 and August 15 including Swatantra Senani and Shaheed Samman Divas in all the districts of India. The party will organise a public event to honour and facilitate the freedom fighters, their families and martyrs' families on the evening of August 14. The event will be held at a place significant to or associated with the freedom struggle or freedom fighters. A Swatantrata March (Freedom March) will also be organised on August 15 in the morning. Congress committees will be taking out  ‘Swatantarta March’ in their respective blocks and district headquarters, followed by unfurling and saluting of the national flag, observing appropriate Covid protocols. The party has also lined up a media campaign highlighting events of the freedom movement. All Pradesh Congress Committees will prepare a two-minute video for a social media campaign highlighting the events of the freedom movement. The videos then will be circulated through various social media platforms. The Congress' statement sought to highlight how the party, led by Mahatma Gandhi and other leaders and workers, played a "stellar role" during the freedom struggle and how from ‘Satyagrah’ to ‘Salt March', from ‘Non-Cooperation Movement’ to ‘Quit India Movement’, it led the world’s biggest and longest ‘Non-Violence Movement’. "Freedom did not come easy. Along the journey, Congress party not only fought the British and its tyranny but also the inequities, inequalities and societal injustices," it said and sought to highlight "individuals and organisations, majority of whom then had sided with the British and opposed the freedom movement, continue to challenge the very foundation of our polity and democracy." Congress has often raised questions about the contribution of the BJP and the Janasangh in the freedom movement and has attacked them on the issue. "Undermining individual freedoms, perpetuating social injustice, subverting institutional autonomy, creating caste and religious divides and compromising the very fundamental of our Constitution and nationhood are their overt and covert agenda. Today, the onus lies upon each one of us to preserve and protect this freedom," the statement said as it took strong note of the "temporary suspension" of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account after he had put out a photo of family members of a dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. "The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and anti-women mindset and inherent prejudice of Modi government as also violation of freedom of expression by the Twitter India under the diktat of Modi government," the statement. Meanwhile, BJP has hit back at the Congress over the issue accusing Rahul Gandhi of "selectivism" by "not speaking" on similar incidents in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, while Twitter has denied having suspended Gandhi's account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-plans-year-long-programme-for-75th-independence-day-hits-out-at-bjp-1017828.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||BSP to support bill to enable states to make their own lists of OBCs: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Monday said her party will support the passage of a constitutional amendment bill that seeks to enable state governments to make their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs). "OBCs are an integral part of 'Bahujan Samaj' for whose interest and welfare, Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar had made the provision for Article 340 in the Constitution and had also resigned from the post of the country's first law minister as it was not implemented properly. Similarly, the BSP is also devoted wholeheartedly to these sections," Mayawati said in a tweet in hindi. "The BSP supports the Constitution amendment bill introduced in Parliament on Monday to identify and list OBCs by the state governments. But the Centre should do concrete work to fill the posts of OBCs vacant in government jobs," she added. Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumar introduced the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha. The bill aims to clarify provisions in the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Bill to restore the power of states to have their own lists of backward classes after identifying them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-to-support-bill-to-enable-states-to-make-their-own-lists-of-obcs-mayawati-1017851.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Adityanath govt cannot hide 'plight' of farmers by giving full page ads: Priyanka Gandhi||Attacking the Uttar Pradesh government, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said it cannot hide the "plight" of farmers by giving full page advertisements and asked what it had done about the "black agri laws". The Congress general secretary's attack came over a media report on a farmer allegedly committing suicide in Pichaura village under Kanpur Dehat after his crops were ruined due to floods in the village. "Farmers are the soul of this country. The UP government cannot hide the plight of the farmers by giving full page advertisements. Tell me what did you do -- With regard to stray cattle? Compensation for crop loss? Payment of sugarcane dues? About black agri laws? Regarding inflation and the price of electricity?" she said in a tweet in Hindi. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission. The Congress and several other Opposition parties are demanding a repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adityanath-govt-cannot-hide-plight-of-farmers-by-giving-full-page-ads-priyanka-gandhi-1017859.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) caps membership age of its Central Committee at 75 years||The CPI(M) top leadership will turn younger with the party deciding to put an age ceiling at 75 years for its Central Committee members. The decision was taken at a meeting of the CPI(M) Central Committee held between August 7 and 9 here and the proposal will now be placed before the Party Congress to be held in Kerala's Kannur next April. Unofficially, the party had earlier set 80 years as the age limit for central committee members. "A decision has been taken to relieve those who complete 75 years from the Central Committee, which is the highest decision making body of the party. Process has been set in motion," CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury told a press conference. The state committees have been given the freedom to set their own age ceiling. West Bengal's party leadership has adopted an age bar of 75 years for being a state committee member. It also does not allow any leader who crosses 60 years to be inducted into the state committee as a first-time member. Asked whether Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is the oldest in the Polit Bureau at 76 years, will be relieved from the party responsibilities, Yechury said there had been exemptions for some people earlier also. "The party will discuss how to deal with those holding positions like that of Chief Minister. In principle, the age ceiling is 75 years," Yechury said. In the 2018 Party Congress in Hyderabad, S Ramachandran Pillai, who had crossed 80 years, was retained in the Polit Bureau by relaxing the norms. CPI(M) sources said there was not much resistance to the idea of reducing the age ceiling as most of the leaders in the Central Committee felt that the leadership should reflect the age profile of people in the country. Of the 17 members in the Polit Bureau, 11 are above 70 years, which includes two who are above 80 years. While Pillai at 83 years is the oldest, Salim is the youngest at 64. Yechury is 68-years-old while former General Secretary Prakash Karat is 73 years and another Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat is 74 years. While reviewing the decisions of the 2015 Kolkata Plenum in a Central Committee meeting held in October 2019, the party had mulled over the proposal to put an age ceiling for its leaders in committees, especially at the central and state levels, while not completely benching the "experienced" ones. The Kolkata Plenum report had said that "ageing" of cadres is a "serious issue" and the CPI(M) was not able to attract whole-timers from students and youth while calling for a retirement policy and retirement benefits for the whole-timers worked out in each state. The Plenum report said, "Central and state committees should set out a criteria of average age of the committees at different levels. The other method is to ensure a quota for young cadres upto a certain age being inducted in the committees at the time of the conferences." The CPI(M)'s 'Review of 17th Lok Sabha Elections' report also referred to its inability to attract youth. The review said the CPI(M)'s appeal among the young "continues to be restricted" and points out that the "major way to reach this youth" has been through social media and modern technological communication tools. "Despite the record high unemployment levels, we are not able to draw youth into militant actions," it had said. The 2018 Hyderabad Party Congress report also gave an unimpressive story on the youth front as there was "no improvement" in the age exposition of party membership in states like Karnataka. It was decided to ensure more representation for youth below 31 years in states where their representation was less than 20 per cent of the total membership. "In fact, there is a decline in those below 31 years like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Odisha between 2015 and 2017," the report said. On a positive note, it said Kerala with the highest membership has relatively good youth representation with 23.45 per cent being below 31 years, which is an improvement over 22.7 per cent in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-caps-membership-age-of-its-central-committee-at-75-years-1017959.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Congress steps up attack on 'temporary suspension' of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account||From flash protest march to Parliament to Youth Congress' protest outside the Twitter office in Delhi, Congress on Monday raked up the issue of alleged "temporary suspension" of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account to accuse the government of trying to silence the Opposition voice against the rape and murder of a Dalit girl in the national capital. A meeting of top party functionaries at the AICC also discussed the issues and decided to scale up the protest as the party accused Twitter of adopting double standards and violating the freedom of expression under the diktat of the Modi government. But Twitter has denied having suspended Rahul Gandhi's account. While members of Delhi Mahila Congress led by its President Amrita Dhawan and Haryana Mahila Congress chief Sudha Bharadwaj took out a march to Parliament to "protest against the dictatorial means used by the BJP govt, the Youth Congress, led by its chief Srinivas BV held protest outside the office of Twitter India. Srinivas B V alleged that instead of giving justice to the family of the Dalit girl, the Modi government is "conspiring to suppress the voice demanding sympathy and justice by intimidating Twitter, or by blocking the account of Rahul Gandhi." He also said, "There is a big difference between Rahul Gandhi and Modi. Modi suppresses the people and Rahul makes them strong." The issue was also discussed on Sunday in a closed-door meeting of the general secretaries in charge and PCC Presidents. "The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and women mindset and inherent prejudice of the government and also a violation of freedom of expression by the Twitter India under the diktat of the government. Party leaders have decided to take up this matter at all levels," a statement by the AICC said. Stepping up the attack on Twitter, the AICC alleged, "the double standard of Twitter is too obvious as Statutory Commissions, BJP leaders and those holding Statutory Offices had put up similar pictures on Twitter on August 2 and 3, two days before Rahul’s visit." The party also latched on to the issue to create a Rahul Gandhi versus Narendra Modi narrative, something which it had always tried to avoid in the past. Seeking to project Rahul Gandhi as a target of the government for raising issues, the AICC in a statement said, "Instead of curtailing atrocities against Dalits across the country, the prime minister and the ruling government is suppressing the voice of leaders like Rahul Gandhi, who is in the forefront in fight for justice. It was resolved that we will continue the fight undeterred until securing justice for the family." Youth Congress National Media In-charge Rahul Rao said that Rahul Gandhi has always fought for the people and will continue to fight despite every petty act of power. "BJP can block the account by intimidating Twitter, but how will it stop the crores of people who are speaking on Twitter," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-steps-up-attack-on-temporary-suspension-of-rahul-gandhis-twitter-account-1017995.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||Parliament clears six Bills amid opposition protests||The Monsoon Session of Parliament saw some brisk passage of Bills as it entered the last lap amind protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping allegations. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed three Bills each amid protests in the lower house and an opposition walkout in the house of elders. The Rajya Sabha passed the Tribunals Reforms Bill that seeks to abolish nine appellate tribunals, including the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal, and refer matters before them to different courts. The opposition staged a walkout as the government brought the taxation bill and the Central Universities Amendment Bill through a supplementary agenda on Monday afternoon. In the Lok Sabha, the government pushed through three Bills despite the unrelenting Opposition protests over Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The Bills that were passed amid the din were --The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021, The Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021. The government also introduced two other Bills – The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021 amid accusations by the opposition Congress of “murdering democracy”. The opposition was back to its protests soon after the OBC Bill was introduced and forced repeated adjournments of the proceedings in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-clears-six-bills-amid-opposition-protests-1018004.html
09-08-2021||National Politics||AAP alleges corruption in UP Jal Jeevan Mission; BJP minister refutes charges||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday accused UP Minister for Jal Shakti Mahendra Singh of corruption in the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission, a charge refuted by the BJP minister. Addressing a press conference, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said he will raise the issue during the Zero Hour in Parliament. "Dr Mahendra Singh gave the contract of pipe supply worth thousands of crores to a company rejected in eight states, also got water supply at 40 percent higher rate than the standard supply tender," the AAP leader alleged. Mahendra Singh refuted the allegation and called them "absolutely baseless" “I want to, as the minister of Uttar Pradesh government, assert that the UP government has not given any tender for supply of pipes," the minister said at a press conference in Lucknow. "Any work in Uttar Pradesh is being done through Engineering Procurement and Construction Mode. And in the EPC, procurement and construction – both are included. "The UP government cannot force a company to purchase pipes from a certain company. UP is the first state to give a contract of 10 years for operation and maintenance," Mahendra Singh told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-alleges-corruption-in-up-jal-jeevan-mission-bjp-minister-refutes-charges-1018010.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Delta variant found in 80% samples in Delhi in last 3 months||At a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which devises Covid management policies for the capital, the health department shared that the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) has been detected in 83.3 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing in Delhi in July. In May and June, the variant was found in 81.7 per cent and 88.6 per cent of the samples, respectively.     In April, it was found in 53.9 per cent of the samples. The data also showed that the Delta variant has been found in 1,689 of the 5,752 samples from Delhi processed at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) so far. The Alpha variant ( B.1.1.7) has been detected in 947 samples. Both Alpha and Delta variants have been classified as "variants of concern" by the World Health Organisation. The Delta variant was identified in India in December 2020 and has subsequently been detected in over 95 countries. It was majorly behind the deadly second Covid wave that infected lakhs and killed thousands in the country. The Alpha variant was first detected in the UK last year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delta-variant-found-in-80-samples-in-delhi-in-last-3-months-1017697.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Inmates of drug rehab sexually assaulted in Dehradun||Inmates of a private de-addiction centre here were allegedly sexually assaulted and raped by its manager and subjected to inhuman treatment when they resisted. The director and the manager of the facility were arrested in connection with the case, police said. The matter came to light when four women inmates of the drug rehab locked the director, Vibha Singh, in her chamber and recounted their ordeal to the police on Friday, an official said. Vidyadutt Raturi, the manager of the rehab, allegedly raped the inmates for months after drugging them in collusion with the director. Inmates who objected used to be beaten up with sticks or made to sit on sharp edged stools or broken bricks for hours as a punishment, the official said. An FIR was lodged at the Clement Town police station in connection with the case and Singh was arrested. Raturi was arrested from a hotel on Rishikesh road on Monday, Clement Town police station SHO D S Rautela said. Raturi was on the run for the last few days and a search was on to nab him. He will now be produced in a local court, the official said. Three women inmates have complained of sexual assault while one has charged the manager with rape. Both Singh and Raturi had worked at other de-addiction centres in the past. "We are looking into their antecedents to see if they have a criminal record," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inmates-of-drug-rehab-sexually-assaulted-in-dehradun-1017807.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Search ops launched following info on suspicious movement in J&K's Samba||Amid heightened security measures ahead of Independence Day celebrations, security forces on Monday launched a cordon-and-search operation covering several villages in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district following information about suspicious movement of two people, officials said. A search operation is also going on in the forest belts of Thanamandi and Sunderbani in the border district of Rajouri and parts of nearby Poonch district, they said. The officials said joint parties of the police and the Army cordoned off the Maheshwar area of Samba along the Jammu-Pathankot highway after getting the information of suspected movement in Katli and Guwal villages in the early hours of the day. A cordon was laid around the Maheshwar area and a search operation is underway, they said, adding that nothing objectionable has been found so far. On Friday, the security forces recovered two pistols, five magazines, 122 rounds and a silencer in a joint operation in Sarthian village of Rajpura in the district. The officials said a massive search operation entered the fourth day in the forest belt of Thanamandi in Rajouri district, where two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in an encounter by the security forces last week. The operation was continuing in remote Pangai and adjoining villages, but there was no fresh contact with the suspected terrorists, they said. The operation was launched in the Thanamandi area on Friday, following information about the presence of three to four terrorists. The officials said security forces are also combing the forests near the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani and Nowshera areas of the district. Four terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in Sunderbani and Nowshera when the Army foiled their infiltration bid in July. Two soldiers also laid down their lives in the encounters. Security has been beefed up across Jammu ahead of the Independence Day in view of a spurt in drone activities from across the border to smuggle weapons and narcotics, besides the bombing of the Indian Air Force (IAF) station Jammu on June 27. Last week, Additional Director General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh chaired a high-level meeting to discuss the overall security scenario with focus on the Independence day functions on August 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-ops-launched-following-info-on-suspicious-movement-in-jks-samba-1017808.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Mufti slams Centre for NIA raids against Jamaat-e-Islami, says it has scored ‘self-goal’||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday described the NIA raids against Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) in Jammu and Kashmir as a “self-goal” for the Centre, saying instead of fighting an ideology with a better idea, the government was crushing contrarian thought with an iron fist. “NIA raids on Jamaat is emblematic of GOI (Government of India) waging a war against its so-called 'integral part'. Instead of fighting an ideology with a better idea it is crushing contrarian thought with an iron fist,” Mufti wrote on Twitter. She said such “oppressive measures” may seem to work temporarily, but in the long run it will prove to be “counter-productive”. NIA raids on Jamaat is emblematic of GOI waging a war against its so called ‘integral part’. Instead of fighting an ideology with a better idea it is crushing contrarian thought with an iron fist. “The gulf between J&K and rest of the country widens with every passing day. It is a self-goal,” she said. The NIA on Sunday carried out multiple raids against Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) linked members across Jammu and Kashmir, over two years after the religious group was banned by the Centre under anti-terror laws. The joint raids by the NIA along with the police and CRPF were conducted at 56 locations in all the 10 districts of Kashmir and four districts of Jammu province -- Ramban, Kishtwar, Doda and Rajouri -- in a case related to the terror funding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mufti-slams-centre-for-nia-raids-against-jamaat-e-islami-says-it-has-scored-self-goal-1017825.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||24 arrested for drug abuse and illicit liquor trade in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday said a drug peddler and 23 bootleggers were arrested under a special drive, “Ek Yudh Nashe Ke Virudh”, in Reasi district in the past 24 hours. Over 4,000 litres of 'Lahan' (raw liquor) were destroyed, while some heroin, 105 litres of hooch and 106 bottles of illicit distilled liquor seized during the drive spearheaded by Senior Superintendent of Police, Reasi, Shailender Singh, a police spokesman said. He said 23 new cases have been registered under relevant sections of the law at different police stations against the arrested accused. The spokesman identified the arrested drug peddler as Pawan Singh, a resident of Sherpur and said he was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The arrested bootleggers included four persons who were trying to smuggle liquor to the Katra town, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, he said. In the last 12 weeks, Reasi police has registered 114 cases against 143 offenders in the district, the spokesman said, appealing to the youth to stay away from drugs and liquor for a healthy life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/24-arrested-for-drug-abuse-and-illicit-liquor-trade-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1017833.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Four Naxals surrender in Bijapur, Dantewada||Four Naxals, including a couple, surrendered on Monday in Bijapur and Dantewada districts of Chhattisgarh, police said. Naxal "commander" Raju Kaaram (24) and his wife Sunita (21), an area committee member of the outlawed outfit, with cash rewards of Rs 8 lakh each on their heads, laid down arms in Bijapur district, an official said. "The two were active in the Kalahandi-Kandhamal-Booudh-Nayagarh division of Odisha and Telangana state committees of the CPI (Maoist). Raju was part of the movement since 2013 and was tasked with guarding central committee member Narsimha Reddy alias Jampanna in Odisha," he said. "He later was part of the Telangana Area Committee of the Naxals and eventually became commander of its protection group in the central regional bureau. He was carrying a self-loading rifle. Sunita, who was active since 2014, surrendered with an Insas rifle," he added. Two Naxals surrendered in Dantewada as part of the police's 'Lon Varratu' campaign under which ultras are being asked to surrender and join the mainstream. An official said Badegudra jan-militia commander Lakhendra Kunjam (28), with a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, and militia member Bhima Markam (27) surrendered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-four-naxals-surrender-in-bijapur-dantewada-1017852.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Farmers' Jantar Mantar stir to end on August 9; protests to continue at Delhi borders||The anti-farm law protesters will culminate their demonstration at the Jantar Mantar on Monday evening after passing a 'no confidence motion' against the Centre and not seek permission from Delhi Police to extend the stir here any further, an office bearer of a participant peasants' union said. The 'Kisan Sansad' called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, at Jantar Mantar near Parliament will also call for the resignation of the Narendra Modi government over not repealing the contentious farm laws. However, the protests against the BJP-led Centre, which started nearly nine months ago, shall continue at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a part of the SKM, said “The farmers' unions through their 'Kisan Sansad' will pass a 'no confidence motion' for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation. This government no longer deserves the trust of the people, including the farmers, and has no right to continue in power,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. The Delhi Police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site. A senior police officer said, "Today is the last day of the protest by farmers at Jantar Mantar here. As per permission given, they held their protest peacefully for all these days and will leave Jantar Mantar after their protest this (Monday) evening." The protestors, otherwise, have been camping at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three farm laws introduced last year. “On this very day (August 9) several years ago, Indians had called for the British to quit India, today we are calling for the BJP to leave (the seat of) power,” Malik said, referring to the landmark 1942 episode of the national freedom movement. “We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the 'no confidence motion' against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met,” he added. In parliamentary parlance, a government can be in power only as long as it commands a mandate in Lok Sabha. In the event of a no-confidence motion against it, the government has to prove its majority in the directly-elected house. The 'Kisan Sansad', a symbolic body created by the demonstrators at the Jantar Mantar under the banner of the SKM, was held to protest against the Centre over the contentious laws amid the ongoing monsoon session of parliament. Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops.   However, the government, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-jantar-mantar-stir-to-end-on-august-9-protests-to-continue-at-delhi-borders-1017868.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Communal slogans raised in protest in Delhi, police register case||A video of a group of people raising communal slogans during a protest organised by a former BJP spokesperson in New Delhi's Jantar Mantar, barely two kilometres away from Parliament, triggered a controversy prompting Delhi Police to register a case in connection with the issue. The incident took place during the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan under the leadership of lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. Police said they had not granted permission for the protest citing Covid-19 situation but the organisers went ahead with their programme. The protest was organised demanding repealing of 222 British-era laws. "We have received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is in progress," a Delhi Police spokesperson said. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, said denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans during the protest. She said they have seen the video but have no idea who they are. Upadhyay also denied any involvement in the incident and said that he has submitted a complaint with police urging it to examine the video which went viral. "If the video is authentic, then strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it. I have no idea who they are. I have never seen them, never met them and neither called them there. Till the time I was there, they were not seen there. If the video is fake, then a propaganda is being circulated to defame Bharart Jodo Andolan," Upadhyay said. Anmol Pritam, a journalist of an online channel 'National Dastak', was also threatened by some of the protesters, who wanted him to chant 'Jai Sri Ram'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/communal-slogans-raised-in-protest-in-delhi-police-register-case-1017898.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Man gets wife gang-raped after she fails to meet dowry demands||A young woman, who was allegedly raped by her brother-in-law and his friend, was told by her husband that this would 'continue' if she did not get a dowry of an SUV and Rs five lakh. The woman, 27, has filed a complaint at the Rajabpur police station and 12 members of her husband's family have been booked for gang rape, cruelty to woman, unnatural offences and voluntarily causing a woman to miscarry under the IPC and sections of the Dowry Prevention Act. "I got married three years ago. My parents had given a lot as dowry. After a few months, my husband and his family demanded Rs 5 lakh in cash and a luxury car. When I refused to press my father for dowry, they started torturing me," the woman said. She further wrote in her complaint that "When I got pregnant, they forced me to have an abortion. They started beating me up. My husband forced me into unnatural offences. When I moved to my parents' house, he persuaded me to come back and I agreed." She alleged that last week, she was raped by her brother-in-law and his friend and when she informed her husband of the incident, he said that this would continue if she did not get the SUV and Rs five lakh. She then left for her parents' home. Amroha Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Pratap Singh said, "We registered a case on the basis of the complaint. The accused are yet to be arrested."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-wife-gang-raped-after-she-fails-to-meet-dowry-demands-1017906.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||BJP sarpanch, wife shot dead by militants in Anantnag||Militants Monday shot dead a BJP sarpanch and his wife in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The ultras fired on Ghulam Rasool Dar, also the Kulgam district president of the BJP's Kisan Morcha, and his wife in Anantnag town in south Kashmir, a police official said. He said the two were rushed to a hospital where they succumbed to their injuries. Dar, a resident of Kulgam's Redwani, was a sarpanch affiliated with the BJP. He had unsuccessfully contested the last year's District Development Council elections. Dar was currently living in a rented accommodation in Anantnag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-sarpanch-wife-shot-dead-by-militants-in-anantnag-1017916.html
09-08-2021||North and Central||Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind petitions Home Minister Shah on Jantar Mantar row||Amid the row over raising of inflammatory slogans at Jantar Mantar during an event, the President of Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, Maulana Mahmood Madani, on Monday wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah and Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana seeking strict action against the perpetrators. A JUH delegation also called on the Joint Commissioner of Police and DCP New Delhi Range. In a press statement, the JUH alleged that inflammatory anti-Muslim slogans were raised at Jantar Mantar on Sunday during a march against “Colonial-era laws in the country”.  "The rally called by Supreme Court Lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay turned into an event of hate slogans raised against the Muslim community," it alleged. A delegation led by Maulana Hakeemuddin Qasmi, General Secretary, Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, also called on Jaspal Singh, Joint Police Commissioner, New Delhi Range and Deepak Yadav, DCP at his makeshift camp at Jantar Mantar and handed over to them a copy of the said letter. The letter reads that the hate sloganeering video is being circulated and shared by a large number of people on social media platforms. "It has hurt the Muslims and peace-loving people across all communities. I would like to request you to kindly instruct concerned officers at the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi Police to take stern actions against the culprits who are found involved in this. I am apprehensive about the situation developing in Delhi. Law and order of Delhi is being put at risk by extremist groups once again and a situation like the 2020 Delhi riots may recur if such elements are not punished, " the JUH said in the letter. The letter also mentioned the statement of the newly appointed Commissioner of Police, Asthana, who said that communal harmony and fairness will be his top priority.  During a meeting with the Joint Commissioner of Police and DCP at Jantar Mantar, the JUH delegation shared similar views and expressed hope that the police would bring culprits to justice. "The Joint Commissioner assured the delegation that stern action would be taken with due process. He said that all aspects of the video were being reviewed and an FIR had been registered against such persons," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamiat-ulama-i-hind-petitions-home-minister-shah-on-jantar-mantar-row-1018006.html
09-08-2021||Opinion||A memorable Olympics, but for the right reasons?||The kaleidoscopic stands of Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium — a disordered mosaic of white and green and reddish-brown seats — were designed to evoke the sun-dappled floor of a Japanese forest. Over the past three weeks, though, they have had another, useful effect: Squint your eyes, blur them just so, and it almost appears as if spectators are arrayed around the sweeping structure, as if the 68,000-seat stadium is not essentially empty, as if these are a normal Olympic Games. Of course, they were not. On Sunday night in Tokyo, a stripped-down closing ceremony in Japan’s sprawling national stadium will bring these extraordinary Games to an end, concluding an Olympics that, in some sense, felt like an illusion — at times convincing and fully welcome, at others jarringly off-key. Pushing forth in a pandemic, these Games were meant to be, as International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said last year, “the light at the end of this dark tunnel the whole world is going through.” Yet they were often claustrophobic, cut off from society, with capacious venues across Tokyo repurposed into cloistered safe houses. They were, in this way, paradoxical, uncanny and hard to wholly comprehend. They were a feat of organizational planning and execution, even amid arguments about whether they should be happening in the first place. They were stubbornly called Tokyo 2020, a retrograde name that reminded everyone of the meandering path traveled to this point. They were a made-for-television spectacle, stage-managed at times to the point of absurdity. For athletes, these were an Olympics of survival, of resilience, of getting by and sometimes, in the end, being OK with falling short of a target. Yet even among medalists, there were feelings of ambivalence about being here, about enduring the alienating circumstances of one of the oddest Olympics in history. “I can’t wait to get home,” American sprinter Allyson Felix said after winning a bronze medal Friday to become the most decorated female track athlete in Olympic history. “I’m counting the days. There are so few now.” The coronavirus pandemic forced athletes to travel and perform here without the presence of friends or family, to say nothing of fans. They spent their time largely confined to their rooms, specially arranged buses and sports venues. Although the lasting effects of the Olympics on Japan will be determined only in the weeks to come, early signs showed that the health protocols — the effort to cut off thousands of visitors from Tokyo residents — seemed to work, at least in the short term. At a news conference Friday, Bach reported that 571,000 screening tests had been performed at the Olympics, returning a positivity rate of just 0.02%. But the path to that point, the means of establishing what an IOC spokesperson called a “parallel world” inside the Games, has had an unmistakably estranging impact. In the Olympic bubble, the competition sites — 38 in all — became eerie ghost ships. A surplus of volunteers staffed stations that saw no foot traffic. Dance troupes performed in front of empty stands. Stadium announcers excitedly revved up nonexistent crowds. Events felt as if they could have been taking place almost anywhere — a sports hall in Stockholm, a convention center in Kansas City, a gymnasium in Dubai — so few were the distinguishing markers of place.  “If it had not been for the pandemic, this would go right up near the top of the best organized Olympics,” said Olympic historian David Wallechinsky, who was attending his 19th Games. The Olympics as a whole seemed like an oyster shell without a pearl. The hollow feeling, on one hand, resulted from a relative deficit of once-in-a-generation standout performances in the most closely followed sports, and the handful of crowning achievements lacked the roar of a crowd. Superstar athletes wilted under the city’s punishing sun, and established champions failed to live up to their own high standards. Throughout the Games, the motto “Citius, Altius, Fortius” — faster, higher, stronger — did not carry its old currency. Vulnerability, self-awareness and imperfection emerged as equally prominent themes. American Simone Biles, perhaps the most hyped Olympian before the Games, removed herself from early competition after developing the twisties — a gymnast’s version of the yips — before returning to claim a bronze medal. Japan's Naomi Osaka, who had lit the cauldron at the opening ceremony, exited in straight sets in the third round of the women’s tennis tournament. Serbia's Novak Djokovic, the top men’s player, lost his bronze medal match. Even American Caeleb Dressel, the swimmer who won five gold medals, lamented the strain of training an extra year — an unnatural cycle that his coach had referred to as a “five-year quadrennial” — and the stress of making it through these Olympics. “Some parts were extremely enjoyable,” Dressel said of his two weeks in Tokyo. “I would say the majority of them were not.” Still, smaller, quieter moments glimmered through. The camaraderie and celebrations of Gianmarco Tamberi of Italy and Mutaz Essa Barshim of Qatar, who decided, when offered, to share a gold medal in the high jump, charmed international viewers. So, too, did stories such as that of Hidilyn Diaz, a weightlifter who claimed the first-ever gold medal for the Philippines, and Tamyra Mensah-Stock, whose sobbing interview after becoming the second U.S. woman to win gold in wrestling had a moment on social media. Laurel Hubbard, a weightlifter from New Zealand, became the first transgender woman to compete at the Olympics, while nonbinary athletes whose identity does not fit neatly into long-standing gender categorizations also participated. One, Canadian soccer player Quinn, won a gold medal. Something resembling the Olympic spirit was, unexpectedly, often most easily observed in the newest sports, some of which were maligned as overly kooky when they were announced. At the sport climbing wall, competitors huddled to examine and discuss the configuration of holds on the walls, trading notes on how best to attack the challenges. At the skateboard park, rivals hugged and consoled Misugu Okamoto, 15, of Japan, who had cried after falling in the finals, lifting her onto their shoulders until she laughed. Asked about the moment by reporters, she cried again. “I’m grateful,” Okamoto said. Not too far away, the Olympic Fan Park, a sprawling festival ground for ticket-holders, sat dormant behind a padlocked fence, a sea of unused tables and attractions. Tokyoites found little keyhole glances of the Games. They glimpsed them on a train platform overlooking the BMX course, atop an overpass with a view of the sport climbing wall, from the side of the road as the cycling race whooshed by. Modest crowds also gathered every night on a footbridge near Tokyo Bay, stopping and posing and taking pictures in front of the Olympic torch, even as security guards and volunteers halfheartedly asked them to keep moving. These were forgivable delinquencies, it seemed, for fans denied any other access to the Games. The mood was subdued but light. “For some people who are paying attention, even enjoying watching it on television, it’s been gripping, I guess,” Koichi Nakano, a professor of political science at Sophia University in Japan, said of the Tokyo Olympics. “On the other hand, a large number of Japanese people are still terrified of the number of infections, which are going up, and the government’s inability to take action, at least in part because of the Olympics.” Political controversies simmered — these were the Olympics, after all — but never quite detonated. Perhaps it was the IOC’s deliberate pace on adjudicating any number of episodes — a Belorussian sprinter seeking political asylum; a podium demonstration from American shot-putter Raven Saunders; two Chinese cyclists who wore pins depicting the silhouette of Mao Zedong — that kept each one from overtaking the narrative around the grounds. Over the three weeks, questions about China, which will host the Winter Games early next year, when the pandemic is almost certain to still be raging, loomed large: To what extent would the IOC and the athletes engage with issues of human rights in the country, such as the mass detention of Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities? Did the restrictions on personal freedoms in Tokyo, enforced in the name of public health, augur more stringent rules in Beijing? Bach refused to take any questions about China at his final news conference Friday. The thing that will stand out from these Games, then, will be their strangeness, the way the established Olympic norms became juxtaposed with cutting reminders of these extraordinary times. Wallechinsky, the historian, attended his first Games in 1960, in Rome. On Friday night, he was debating whether to attend the closing ceremony, as he normally does. It would be a shadow of a normal ceremony, with many athletes, in the interest of public safety, already home. What would be the point? He said he would rather remember the national stadium the way he observed it during one of the track and field competitions last week, when a small group of competitors had gathered in the prismatically colored stands, close enough to cheer for their teammates and friends. The scene touched Wallechinsky, he said. He could let the harsh reality of these Games wash away, if only for a moment. “It felt a little bit like the Olympics,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-memorable-olympics-but-for-the-right-reasons-1017703.html
09-08-2021||Opinion||China wary Australia's sharp India turn||The recent visit of former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott to India during the first week of August in a different avatar, as a Special Envoy on Trade of his successor Scott Morrison underscores the country's seriousness to take forward ties under a plan. Abbott's August 2-6 sojourn was aimed to nudge New Delhi on the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) stalled since he stepped down from office in 2015 without fulfilling his goal of formalising a pact with India. Since then, much has changed in the quality of the India-Australia bilateral engagement, upgrading ties to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership that encompasses areas outside the narrow interpretation of things military. India now awaits scheduling the first 2+2 meeting between the foreign and defence ministers, which would complete a similar arrangement with the other two members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, Japan and the United States. Besides democratic values, both sides share a vision on the Indo-Pacific, the emerging geopolitical construct with a liberal shade of economic partnerships built into the structure. After decades of less engagement, the India-Australia relationship moved into a transformational course during the last 15-odd years, acquiring more significant momentum in the past few years. The scope of ties now expands to acquire depth in agriculture, critical minerals, energy education and science and technology. Economic cooperation and trade and investments remain areas of particular focus. The accent during Abbott's visit can be gauged from the discussions the former prime minister held with ministers of commerce, coal and mines, energy, power, NITI Aayog and finance, signing off with a call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The nature of discussions centred on how both countries can further strengthen bilateral trade, investment, and economic cooperation, which can assist India and Australia in addressing challenges as the world prepares for a post-pandemic new order. While India is seeking to expand its manufacturing capacity to take forward the Atmanirbhar Bharat vision, it also dovetails into the plan to attract global manufacturers seeking to exit China as part of an alternate supply chain that countries are keen to develop. With NITI Aayog, the special trade envoy discussed emerging technologies, critical minerals, and India's Productivity Linked Incentive scheme. On his return from India, Abbott wrote in the Monday edition of "The Australian", "The pandemic has put up in flashing neon lights the extent to which the world has become dependent on Chinese imports, including in critical supply chains, that can be turned on and off like a tap. But the answer to almost every question about China is India. Although currently not as rich as China, as a democracy under the rule of law, and as the world's second-largest producer of steel and pharmaceuticals, and with its own version of Silicon Valley, India is perfectly placed to substitute for China in global supply chains."  The Abbott government signed a Free Trade Agreement with China in 2015 but now feels the decision did not deliver on its objective as China became an economic powerhouse and is now acquiring military sinews.  With the global economy and trade facing a downturn following the outbreak of the worldwide health pandemic, the bilateral trade between the two countries during 2020 stood at $24.4 billion, down from $29 billion during 2017-18, with India now ranked as the 7th largest trade partner and 6th largest export market. Indian imports include coal, copper ore and concentrate, gold, vegetables, lentils, fruits, nuts, and wool. After India pulled out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and its inability to be a member of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation, for many countries, an agreement like CECA is the route to expand bilateral trade and investment with one of the largest markets world. In his new role, Abbott also serves as an advisor to the United Kingdom Board of Trade as both countries embark upon a path to strengthen trade deals with India. Amid reports back home whether the former PM could also be discussing the pending UK-India FTA, the Australian Guardian quoted a spokesperson of Canberra's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) that Abbot signed a conflict of interest declaration ahead of the trip to New Delhi. While announcing the visit Trade, Tourism and Investment Minister Dan Tehan said the Australian government partly supported it and the former PM would not be remunerated for his work. Ahead of it, Australian High Commissioner Barry O'Farrell characterised Abbott's visit as a commitment to strengthen the economic relationship, deepen trade and investment links with India and take "our economic relationship to the next level" with emphasis on building secure and resilient supply chains. Australia visualises that India would require goods and services over the next two decades that it can offer. These could be in areas like agriculture, education, skill training and health, a sector that assumes immense importance as Covid19 showed how even developed countries were struggling with inadequate infrastructure as waves swept through. The projection includes India emerging as the third-largest economy globally in less than a decade, despite the blip suffered during 2020. The basis for Australia's interest in developing trade and economic ties with India lies in the India Economic Strategy. This 500-page document charts a roadmap to navigate the relationship from "potential to delivery" by 2035. Prepared by former DFAT Secretary Peter Varghese, the IES has identified three-pillar strategies: economic, geo-politics and people, ten sectors where Australia has a competitive edge with education as a flagship sector. It is one of the largest services sector exports, recording $6 billion with a little over 1.15 lakh Indian students studying in Australia. The other sectors, broken down into three lead sectors, are agribusiness, resources and tourism and six promising sectors, energy, health, financial services, infrastructure, sport, sciences and security. The relationship is on course to move away from the traditional description of India and Australia sharing "Cricket, Curry and Commonwealth." (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-wary-australias-sharp-india-turn-1017819.html
09-08-2021||Opinion||RBI's taper and tantrums||If quantitative easing (QE) comes, can taper and tantrums be far behind? Percy Bysshe Shelley's enduring lines, albeit paraphrased, resonated with the Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das' statement after the monetary policy review meeting on Friday. Following the global financial crisis of 2008, the central banks of developed countries pumped in liquidity in the system at various points by purchasing assets during a period of stress to revive economic growth. This policy is popularly known as quantitative easing (QE). But such policies could not continue for long, so central banks have to slow down the pace – or taper the large-scale asset buying.  So, when in 2013, the US Fed formally said that tapering will start, the shockwaves hit many developing countries, including India, as investors began to pull out. The taper tantrum of the US Fed in 2013 is mainly responsible for India's currency crisis at that time (fragile macroeconomic parameters accentuated the magnitude of the situation). Indian QE Back home, in April this year, the Reserve Bank of India started India's version of quantitative easing (QE) by introducing government securities acquisition programme (G-SAP) – to pump in liquidity by buying government bonds so that interest rates stay benign. QE is introduced when the central bank has no room for rate cuts, so liquidity is infused to keep interest rates low. After five months of the G-SAP announcement, the economic growth prospects started to look brighter, albeit durability remains uncertain. April was when the country was fighting with the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which prompted many states to announce lockdowns – a situation that prompted the G-SAP. As a result of the bond-buying, coupled with muted credit growth of the banking system and slow government spending, the banking system currently has excess liquidity of around Rs 10 lakh crore at this point. At the same time, retail inflation stayed above the central bank's tolerance zone of 6 per cent in May and June. Normalcy returning While the RBI's priority was to boost growth since the onset of the pandemic, and while it continues to remain a priority, there is an acknowledgement by the monetary policy committee (MPC) that such a situation of excess liquidity needs to be addressed. In the policy review, the central bank announced that it would double the amount of liquidity it mops up through the variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auctions from Rs 2 lakh crore to Rs 4 lakh crore by the end of September. "These enhanced VRRR auctions should not be misread as a reversal of the accommodative policy stance," RBI governor Das said, almost in the same breath after announcing the liquidity mop on Friday. "The RBI governor stated that this should not be interpreted as policy normalisation, but we and the markets disagree," analysts at Nomura said in a report. Observing the MPC of the RBI faces a trade-off between growth and inflation and has prioritised growth, the report said, "We believe that the liquidity manoeuvres suggest, at the very least, that the RBI is uncomfortable with the large amount of floating liquidity. As such, allowing bond yields to gradually rise and more VRRR issuance are a first step towards liquidity (and policy) normalisation, in our view." Tantrum woes There is a reason why the Indian central bank is worried about its taper tantrums. The demonetisation exercise, announced in November 2016, resulted in the banking system getting flooded with liquidity as Indians queued up in bank branches to deposit their Rs 1000 and Rs 500 currency notes. Around 87 per cent of the existing currencies by value were rendered invalid by the demonetisation exercise. The objective of demonetisation was to eliminate black money. It was expected that unaccounted money would not be returned. But as it was evident later on, the demonetised currencies came back into the system. The excess liquidity started to evaporate when the RBI began a gradual withdrawal of liquidity in 2017. This resulted in a liquidity shortage by the middle of 2018. According to bankers, the end of easy money started hurting the non-banking financial companies (NBFC), and IL&FS became the first casualty as the shadow bank started defaulting. The liquidity crisis then went on to engulf the entire NBFC sector, barring a few. The RBI is worried, and rightly so, about the fallout of a liquidity crisis to the real sector, at a time when there is no surety the nascent growth revival would be sustained amid a threat of a third wave of the pandemic, central bank watchers said. "RBI continues to highlight that any pre-emptive tightening can kill the nascent and hesitant recovery that is taking shape," said Indranil Pan, Chief Economist of Yes Bank. "In cognisance with an extremely uncertain growth climate, we think that the RBI will maintain its accommodative policy and not move on any form of tightening – be it on the rates side or the liquidity side – till the end of the current financial year," Pan said. Rate hike: Sooner than later This normalisation indication by RBI, though not being admitted, signals that the interest rate from here onward will not go down any longer. Interest rates have bottomed out; it is a matter of time before it starts inching up. Before the Indian central bank hikes the repo rate – the policy rate – it is likely that the reverse repo rate (the rate RBI offers to banks for parking money) will be increased. A repo rate increase would follow. Commenting that the six-member MPC decision to maintain status quo on interest rate was along expected lines, Anagha Deodhar, Chief Economist, ICICI Securities, said "…the VRRR decision and one committee member voting against accommodative stance were early signs of normalisation. It upped the inflation forecast for FY22 to 5.7 per cent, a tad higher than our expectation and retained the growth forecast at 9.5 per cent." "We expect the normalisation to continue with the RBI hiking reverse repo rate in two steps starting early next year," she added. The ultra-easy money policy – characterised by low-interest rates and excessively high liquidity – will end sooner than later. The beginning of the end has just started. (The writer is a journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rbis-taper-and-tantrums-1017869.html
09-08-2021||South||HC asks Kerala government what steps it has taken to reduce crowds outside vaccine centres||What steps have been taken to reduce overcrowding at vaccination centres, the Kerala High Court has asked the state government. The query was posed to the state by a bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and JusticeShaji P Chaly during hearing of a PIL initiated by the court on its own. "Steps taken to reduce crowding at Covid centres should also be explained with supporting documents," the bench directed. The PIL was initiated by the court based on news reports of crowding outside vaccination centres in the state. The state government has been directed to submit the steps taken by it before the next date of hearing on August 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-asks-kerala-government-what-steps-it-has-taken-to-reduce-crowds-outside-vaccine-centres-1017767.html
09-08-2021||South||No religion preaches narrow mindedness, says HC||No religion preaches narrow-mindedness or hurting others, the Madras High Court observed on Monday. Passing strictures against a lawyer for filing a PIL petition seeking to restrain Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin from presiding over the advisory panel of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, unless he takes a pledge before a Hindu God that he would profess the Hindu religion, the court dismissed the plea. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu also debarred the petitioner from filing any PILs for five years. There is a stipulation in the HR&CE department rules saying all its employees and officials should take an oath before a Hindu God that he would profess Hindu religion before assuming office, the petitioner claimed. A dismayed bench observed that prejudice and vendetta has to be shed when it comes to practising a religion. India was a secular country and even the Constitution permits taking an oath in the name of God or the Constitution, the bench pointed out. "No religion preaches narrow mindedness or to hurt others," the judges said, adding, the sentiments expressed by the petitioner litigant cannot be appreciated or tolerated. "It is an utterly mischievous petition, extremely in bad taste. A prejudice is involved in the prayer," the bench said when the PIL from advocate S Sridharan came up for hearing Monday. It also debarred him from filing any PIL petition for five years without the permission of the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-religion-preaches-narrow-mindedness-says-hc-1017827.html
09-08-2021||South||Love is not a form of authority to endanger life: Kerala CM Vijayan||Everyone has the right to decide on how to live and with whom to live and love is not a form of authority to endanger life, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. He was responding to a submission in the state Assembly with regard to a case in which a spurned lover stabbed to death a 21-year old woman in June this year. Vijayan's reply came on a submission by IUML Perinthalmanna legislator Najeeb Kanthapuram who sought compensation for Malappuram native Balachandran, who lost his daughter Drishya, killed by Manjeri native Vineesh on June17. Kanthapuram also sought compensation for Balachandran, whose shop was allegedly burnt down by the accused. Vijayan said police have registered a separate case for burning down the shop and recorded a statement that Balachandran suffered a loss to the tune of Rs 50 lakh and that the Perinthalmanna Public Works department is assessing the estimated loss. "On June 17, Manjeri native Vineesh had barged into the house of the victim and stabbed her to death. He also injured her sister. The culprit was arrested on the same day itself. He had confessed to the crime saying he did so because the victim rejected his advances," Vijayan said. The chief minister said brutal acts like this cannot be justified by any means in a civilised society and they should be strongly opposedas in the cases of honour killings. "Everyone has the right to decide on how to live and with whom to live and no one can bypass this right to impose their will on others. Love is not any form of authority to endanger life. We must take all necessary steps to counter the tendencies to commit murder when a relationship is supposed to be formed with mutual consent," Vijayn told the Assembly. The 21-year old law student was stabbed to death on June17 morning by Vineesh who had also injured her sister too. The woman died on the spot and her 13-year old sister, who tried to intervene when the accused attacked, was seriously injured. Though he tried to flee the scene in an autorickshaw later, local people caught him and handed over to police. He had alsoset ablaze a shop owned by Balachandran, the victim's father, in Perinthalmanna, on June 16 night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/love-is-not-a-form-of-authority-to-endanger-life-kerala-cm-vijayan-1017831.html
09-08-2021||South||Telangana High Court Judge Justice Keshava Rao passes away||A sitting Judge of Telangana High Court died at a private hospital here in the early hours of Monday, official and hospital sources said. Justice P Keshava Rao (60), who was admitted to the hospital a week ago was undergoing treatment for brain tumour and other ailments, they said. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao mourned the death of Justice Keshava Rao, a release from CMO said. The Chief Minister recalled the legal services rendered by Justice Keshava Rao to the poor as a Judge. He conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family. The Chief Minister directed the officials to conduct the last rites of the judge with full state honours. Work in the High Court and Subordinate Courts in Telangana remained suspended for Monday on account ofthe death of Justice Keshava Rao. Justice Keshava Rao secured a Law degree from Kakatiya University in 1986 and enrolled as a Member on the rolls of Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh in April 1986. He practised in various branches of law which include Constitutional, Civil, Criminal and Election matters. He represented the undivided Andhra Pradesh as a Government Pleader. In March 2010, he was appointed as Special Standing Counsel for CBI (Special Public Prosecutor) and continued on the post till April 2016. He was elevated to the Bench as a Judge of the High Court of Judicature for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh and had assumed charge in September 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-high-court-judge-justice-keshava-rao-passes-away-1017843.html
09-08-2021||South||Aged, widows, destitutes to get aid through banks: Minister||The increased monthly assistance for the aged, widows, destitute women and transgenders would be deposited in their bank accounts and they can collect the amount from Tuesday. Announcing this here on Monday, Agriculture and Social Welfare Minister of Puducherry C Djeacoumar said the Chief Minister N Rangasamy had on the day of assuming office in June promised the enhanced amount. They were getting Rs 1,500 till now and would get Rs 500 more every month. The Minister said 1,54,047 people would be benefited by the gesture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aged-widows-destitutes-to-get-aid-through-banks-minister-1017883.html
09-08-2021||South||Malayalam actress Saranya dies at 35||Popular Malayalam actress Saranya Sasi died at a private here on Monday, sources close to her said. The 35-year-old actress was diagnosed with brain tumour years ago and underwent surgical procedure several times as part of the treatment. When she faced a severe financial crisis, Saranya's friends and well-wishers had raised funds for her treatment. While she was undergoing treatment for tumour, she contracted Covid-19 in May this year. She recovered from the virus infection but her health condition worsened due to related complications. Hailing from Pazhayangadi in Kannur district, she had acted in a few Malayalam movies like 'Chacko Randaman' and 'Chotta Mumbai' and was a popular TV actress in the state. Condoling the death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the actress fought the disease confidently. Hailing her commitment towards society, Vijayan recalled that the actress had set aside an amount from her medical expenses for the people when the state was hit by floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-actress-saranya-dies-at-35-1017969.html
09-08-2021||South||PTR roots for 'once in a generation' reforms to set right Tamil Nadu finances||Tamil Nadu’s fiscal situation is in “dire circumstances” substantially due to “structural flaws in governance” which have been not been rectified in a “timely manner”, Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Monday releasing the much-awaited White Paper on the state’s finances.  The White Paper, one of the poll promises of the DMK, projected the overall outstanding debt of the state at Rs 5.7 lakh crore as of March 31, 2022, which means the burden on every citizen in the state is around Rs 70,000. If one adds the debt that the transport corporations and electricity department have accumulated over the years, the burden is pegged to be at Rs 1.10 lakh for every citizen, according to the white paper.   ‘Lack of political will and administrative skill’ Thiaga Rajan, a former investment banker who worked with some of the top global financial institutions, attributed a “lack of political will and administrative skill” as the reason for Tamil Nadu turning into a deficit state in the past seven years from being revenue-surplus or revenue-neutral.  Explaining the broad contours of the 112-page report in a press conference that lasted for 2.5 hours, Thiaga Rajan pushed for fundamental, structural and profound reforms to break the “vicious cycle” of increasing debt and costs.  He exuded the confidence that the DMK government will “reverse the wrongs” of the past seven years in “five years”, maintaining that Tamil Nadu was a “rich state” with huge assets. He did not rule out asset sales to generate more revenue, while he advocated for urgent reforms to plug the leakages in the current system. Acknowledging that things were fine to an extent as long as J Jayalalithaa was in “complete control” of administration, the report laid much of the blame for the financial mismanagement on later part of the 2011-2016 AIADMK administration and the EPS-OPS regime from 2017-2021.  From a revenue surplus state to a revenue deficit state Out of 7 years from 2006 to 2013, Tamil Nadu registered net revenue surplus for five years and revenue deficit became a recurring phenomenon since 2013, Thiaga Rajan said, adding that the state’s finances plunged into an all-time low even before the word Covid-19 came into existence.  “No other state’s finances have gone down so much in the country like in Tamil Nadu…the revenue deficit of the state for 2020-2021 fiscal stands at Rs 61,320 crore which is 3.16 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) which is more than the entire normally permissible fiscal deficit,” he said, adding that this leaves the state in an “unsustainable fiscal situation”.  Principal opposition AIADMK termed the white paper as “one with full of lies”, while former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami there was nothing surprising in the DMK releasing such a document. AIADMK’s ally PMK asked the Finance Minister to come out with pragmatic ideas to generate more revenue for the state. Batting for revision in property and road taxes Pointing out that property tax and road tax have not been revised for a long time in the state, the Finance Minister suggested that increasing revenue by effecting a hike was one of the solutions to get out of the financial crisis.  In the same breath, he also suggested that the hike may not be immediate as he said the revised Budget he will present to the Tamil Nadu Assembly on August 13 will show the path for the much-needed reforms.  “Take from the few and give to the many in a fairway. You should see where we take and where we give. Our commitment to the upliftment of poor and social justice remains undiluted,” he said, pushing his case for taxing the rich more in order to uplift more people who are still at the lower strata of the society.   In yet another strong hint that a hike in property and other taxes can be expected in the long-term if not immediately, Thiaga Rajan opposed the idea known as “zero tax.” “If the government does not tax the right amount of tax from the right people, where will it generate revenue. Zero Tax is a bad idea,” he added.  ‘White Paper will not come in the way of fulfilling poll promises’ The Minister also asserted that the DMK dispensation will not cite the White Paper as an excuse to run away from implementing poll promises.  “This report is not an attempt to create a rationale for diluting or abandoning the commitments the Chief Minister has made to the people. We stand by our commitments,” Thiaga Rajan said. He also added that now was the time for effecting “once in a generation reforms” many of which should have been undertaken years ago by “any responsible government.” On more than one occasion during the long presentation, Thiaga Rajan said a uniform property tax for those living in bungalows and in colonies is not the right policy while flagging his concerns over universalisation of cash subsidies. He pointed out that many well-to-do people who have also received Rs 4,000  He said TANGEDCO loses Rs 2.36 per power unit that is consumed, while the accumulated debt of the power and transport sector put together stand at around Rs 2 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ptr-roots-for-once-in-a-generation-reforms-to-set-right-tamil-nadu-finances-1018003.html
09-08-2021||State||In Covid-19 vaccine milestone, Karnataka covers 50% of target population with first dose||As important as this milestone may be, the data also appears to show that the state may not wrap up its vaccination programme by the end of this year as hoped. It took Karnataka roughly six and a half months to achieve this milestone. Additionally, the state is taking 2-4 days to increase the first dose coverage by one percentage point. Another problem is the poor second dose coverage, which stands at a mere 14.34 per cent of the adult population. Officials said this is due to ongoing problems: limited vaccine supplies and a degree of vaccine hesitancy. As of Sunday, the state had administered a total of 3.29 crore doses. Out of these, 2.57 crore have been first doses. While target population figures for the state are inexact, an authoritative data source cites an adult target population of 5.11 crore, translating to 50.03 per cent coverage.  The best-performing district has been Bengaluru Urban, which has inoculated 78 per cent of its official target population of 91 lakh adults with at least one dose. “By closing the reach of first dose vaccinations to nearly 80 per cent of the population, we feel we are in a good place,” said BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. He added that pockets of vaccine hesitancy have been a challenge. “Even in western countries, the coverage ranges between 80 per cent and 85 per cent because of hesitancy. We are trying to solve our problems by raising awareness.” Gupta also expressed optimism that the city’s second dose coverage can be boosted to 40 per cent-50 per cent by the end of September. It is currently at 21.05 per cent. At the bottom end of the pyramid is Kalaburagi district which has the worst coverage of both first and second dose in the state. Only 36 per cent of the target population of 19 lakh have received first dose coverage and 9 per cent second dose. “Except for the last two days when we have had a surplus of 10,000 doses, vaccine availability has been limited. We are generally using up about 80 per cent of what we are getting daily,” said Dr Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed, District Health Officer. Dr Ganajalkhed added that vaccine hesitancy has also increased in rural areas. “People in rural areas have become busy with agricultural activities,” he said. A government official stressed that Karnataka is still lobbying the Centre for more doses. “We received 10 lakh doses sometime ago and we have been told that another 63 lakh doses are coming. This allowed us to increase the number of daily doses, but the CM has asked the Centre to supply 1 crore doses. We are awaiting the Centre’s response,” the official said. A scale of the usage is indicated by the fact that the state administered 76.2 lakh doses in total in July, plus 26.1 lakh doses in just the first eight days of August, as per official data.  In Bengaluru Urban, Gupta said that “we are not yet in a position where there are no vaccine takers for the number of doses we are getting.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-covid-19-vaccine-milestone-karnataka-covers-50-of-target-population-with-first-dose-1017700.html
09-08-2021||State||Karnataka's heritage: High on Wi-Fi, low on toilets||Karnataka, a state which boasts a rich historical and cultural heritage, has 506 monuments under the jurisdiction of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) but less than 15% of them have basic infrastructure facilities like drinking water and toilets. In terms of the number of monuments under central protection, Karnataka is next only to Uttar Pradesh (743) and fares better than other states in one category: the highest number of monuments (22) with Wi-Fi facility in the country. However, lack of basic amenities overshadows the technological advancement. Of the 506 monuments, only 53 have toilets, 69 have drinking water, 100 have benches to sit and less than half (249) have signages providing information about the place. As many as 160 of them are yet to get an approach road. ASI Superintending Archaeologist Shivakant Bajpai said providing basic infrastructure at monuments was a continuous process. "We are getting cooperation from the state government in this regard. More monuments will get the facilities," he said. An expert, who has worked with the government on conservation projects, said the ASI doesn't trust the state Archaeology Department. "Compared with the ASI, the state department has a long way to go in terms of developing expertise or even professionalism. Despite a history that can be traced to 200 years, the department has been brought under the tourism department," she said. An official, however, noted that the ASI works on a shoestring budget even as the requirement for funds grows. The state government has to pitch in for providing infrastructure, leaving the ASI to focus on conservation and protection.  Data shows that the ASI's three circles in Karnataka have spent between Rs 21 crore and a maximum of Rs 28.55 crore annually in the last five years for conservation and protection of monuments in the state. The expert noted that the ASI, which collects entry fees at 12 monuments, has limited revenue and the state tourism department, which has better access to funds than the ASI, should invest in amenities. "Not all ASI monuments may necessarily need toilets. Many monuments are just a single temple in a town or village — for example, the Doddagaddavalli temple or the Hulikere Kalyani (Hassan district). In such cases, it should be the tourism department that provides amenities somewhere in the vicinity. Give money to the panchayat specifically for this purpose and ensure that the facility doesn't affect the safety or aesthetics of the monument," she added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-heritage-high-on-wi-fi-low-on-toilets-1017701.html
09-08-2021||State||Free training for Dakshina Kannada police aspirants||Mangaluru City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar has initiated a novel programme of imparting training to aspirants who wish to join the police department. A one-month free crash course will be imparted to those interested. The Commissioner said that very few people from Dakshina Kannada district join police force. There are few officers and personnel from the district in City Police Commissionerate and DK police jurisdiction. A team of PSIs, who were recruited recently to the police force, and personnel from the department will impart the training. The first preference will be given to aspirants from the district. Later, aspirants from Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Uttara Kannada districts will be considered for the training, Kumar said. Those who wish to take part in the crash course should furnish their address, along with proof of physical test passed by them for PSI or constable post in any unit. The aspirants should also mandatorily furnish an RT-PCR negative certificate, the commissioner added. Kumar said that it is a 30-day crash course. Arrangements have been made for both male and female aspirants. In the first batch, 100 aspirants will be trained. Separate arrangements have been made for lodging, food of women and men aspirants. The aspirants have to mandatorily stay at the facilities arranged in Mangaluru, the commissioner said. The course will be held from 8 am to 8 pm. The study materials should be purchased by the aspirants. Those interested can register for the workshop at the registration desk set up at police commissioner’s office in Mangaluru from August 9 by furnishing all the required documents, he added. Kumar said that the management of St Aloysius College in the city has arranged the classrooms, facilities to stay and library for those who will take part in the training.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-training-for-dakshina-kannada-police-aspirants-1017765.html
09-08-2021||State||Student ends life over fear of NEET exam||Fearing that he may not perform well in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical courses, an 18-year old student reportedly ended life by hanging himself at Chandragutti village in the taluk on Sunday.  According to police, the deceased is identified as K Chinmay, son of Krishna Rao. He had passed the second PU in distinction. He had a wish to pursue engineering course. He also appeared for NEET last year. But he did not get a good rank. So, he was preparing for the exam slated to be held in September this year. Fearing that he may not do well this time too, he took the extreme step. Sorab police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/student-ends-life-over-fear-of-neet-exam-1017986.html
09-08-2021||State||Covid-19 in Karnataka: 1,186 new cases, 24 deaths reported||Karnataka has reported 1,186 new cases of Covid-19 and 24 deaths, taking the total number of the infected to 29,19,711 and the fatalities to 36,817 till date, the Department of Health said on Monday. The day saw 1,776 getting discharged and the number of recoveries so far is 28,59,552, the department said. Out of 1,186 new cases reported today, 296 were from Bengaluru Urban which saw 410 getting discharged and one dying of the infection. The number of active cases was 23,316. While the test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 0.89 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.02 per cent. Out of the 24 deaths, three each were from Dakshina Kannada, Kolar and Udupi, and two each from Dharwad, Hassan, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada. Among the districts with the new cases, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 296, Dakshina Kannada 273, Kodagi 83, Mysuru 82 and Udupi 81. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, too, with 12,30,782 followed by Mysuru 1,74,010 and Tumakuru 1,18,325. In the list of those discharged, Bengaluru Urban was again on top with 12,06,488 followed by Mysuru 1,70,366 and Tumakuru 1,16,349. Cumulatively, 3,99,78,515 samples have been tested so far. Out of these, 1,32,192 were tested today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-in-karnataka-1186-new-cases-24-deaths-reported-1017990.html
09-08-2021||State||Senior citizens Act: No appeal before high court||The High Court has held that the right of appeal, arising out of provisions under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2002, lies before the appellate authority and not before the High Court. The court said that if common appellate authority is not approached it results in a situation of one set of aggrieved persons preferring appeal before the appellate authority while the other approaches the High Court. The petitioner possessed a property by way of a gift deed executed in her favour in 2017. The mother-in-law of the petitioner filed an application for maintenance under the Act. The Assistant Commissioner of Hosapete in Ballari district in March 2020 not only set aside the gift deed, but also directed that the property be re-registered jointly in the names of the petitioner and her mother-in-law. The petitioner moved the High Court challenging this order, citing Section 16 of the Act which stipulates that only parents or the senior citizen can maintain an appeal before the appellate. Justice H T Narendra Prasad said that a combined reading of sections 15 and 16 reveals that nowhere in section 15 it is mentioned that appeal against the order of the tribunal is confined to a senior citizen or a parent. The court said that it is a case of an accidental omission and not a conscious exclusion. The court interpreted that the right of appeal under section 16 (1) of the Act is conferred on both sides. The court always has a power to read down a statutory provision to save a statute from being held ultra vires. However, it is not permissible to add something to the statute or to subtract something from the statute while reading down the provision, the court said, citing a Supreme Court judgment. The court disposed of the petition with liberty to the petitioner to file an appeal before the appellate authority. The authority has been directed to dispose of the appeal not later than three months from the date of receipt of certified copy of the order. “The Revenue Secretary, Government of Karnataka, is directed to communicate this order to all the Maintenance Tribunals and Appellate Tribunals,” the court said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/senior-citizens-act-no-appeal-before-high-court-1018049.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai to visit border districts with more Covid cases||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said he has decided to visit all the border districts of the state that have more Covid-19 cases and review the situation there in the days to come. "I will be traveling in Mysuru district today. I will have a discussion with officials on the Covid situation there. In the same way I have decided to visit all the border districts, where there are more Covid cases," he said. Speaking to reporters here ahead of his trip to Mysuru, Bommai said he will also visit Chamundeshwari temple and Suttur Mutt, a prominent Lingayat seminary in the region. Concerned over the spread of the virus from the neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, the Karnataka government has announced weekend curfew in all districts bordering the two states. Those districts that are bordering Maharashtra where weekend curfew is being imposed are- Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi-, similarly those districts bordering Kerala are- Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagara. The Chief Minister who had reviewed the Covid situation on Friday had announced certain containment measures according to which the government had advanced the night curfew across the state by an hour, from 9 PM till 5 AM everyday, instead of 10 PM to 5 AM earlier. He has also deputed Ministers to each district in the state, and has asked them to visit and personally monitor the situation there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-visit-border-districts-with-more-covid-cases-1017770.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC 2021 results to be announced today at 3:00 pm||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) will announce the results of the recently-held SSLC ( class 10) examination today at around 3:00 pm. All the students will receive result on their registered mobile numbers. Besides, the KSEEB will also announce results on www.sslc.karnataka.gov.in. As many as 8.76 lakh students had registered for the examinations which were conducted for only two days with Multiple Choice Questions for the first time due to the pandemic situation. The new minister for Primary and Secondary Education BC Nagesh will announce the results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-2021-results-to-be-announced-today-at-300-pm-1017824.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tamil Nadu govt should not do politics over Mekedatu: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the detailed project report of the Mekedatu project is ready and argued that the Tamil Nadu government should "not do politics" over the matter. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, the Chief Minister said, "Many political parties in TN have come to power in the name of River Cauvery water issue and such politics still continued there." Bommai added that he will visit Delhi again to discuss the matter.  "I have convinced Anand Singh, who was not happy with the portfolio allotted to him. I will speak to him again," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tamil-nadu-govt-should-not-do-politics-over-mekedatu-cm-bommai-1017829.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No difference in BJP over new Cabinet, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that there is no difference among the party leaders in connection with the Cabinet expansion. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said he will speak to KR MLA S A Ramadass, who was denied a minister post. The ministers and the MLAs are cooperative and they work for the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-difference-in-bjp-over-new-cabinet-says-cm-bommai-1017839.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to ask Centre to revise compensation under NDRF||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa promised that state government would submit a proposal to the Centre seeking amendment to National Disaster Response Fund so that those who are affected by natural calamities would get just compensation. He was speaking at a meeting convened to review the damage caused by rains and measures to be taken to tackle third wave of Covid-19, here on Monday. He said the loss due to rain has been estimated at Rs 4.19 crore in the district and four persons have died in rain related incidents. District administration has provided compensation of Rs 5 lakh to bereaved families. As many as 27 livestock died, 126 houses were damaged completely, 478 houses were damaged severely, 532 houses were damaged partially and 76 cattle sheds were damaged. Agriculture crops on 1,174 hectares of land were damaged. As per guidelines of National Disaster Response Fund, Rs 1.43 crore has to be given to the victims in the form of compensation which is inadequate. So, the state government would submit a proposal to the Centre to amend it so that victims would get remunerative compensation. He directed the authorities concerned to take steps to ensure that those who lost their houses or whose houses are partially damaged must be accommodated in gruel centres till they get alternate accommodation. A proposal would be submitted to the government to ensure that they get monthly rent. There are some hurdles related to title deeds to issue compensation to those lost their houses. He would convene a meeting of all elected representatives of the district to discuss the issue. He said agriculture crops on 7,541 hectares of land was lost in the district. Of it, paddy was grown on 4,086 hectares of land, maize on 773 hectares of land, and ginger on 911 hectares of land. Besides, 199 km main roads, 441 km district roads, 148 km city roads, 210 bridges and 211 transformers, 2,033 electric poles were damaged. Around 328 tanks were damaged and minor repair works can be taken up under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. He directed the officials concerned to conduct the survey of tanks which were damaged. MLAs H Halappa, K B Ashok Naik, MLCs Ayanur Manjunath, R Prasanna Kumar S Rudre Gouda, City Corporation Mayor Sunita Annappa, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer M L Vyshali, Superintendent of Police B  M Laxmi Prasad, Additional Deputy Commissioner Nagendra Honnalli and district-level officials of various departments were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-ask-centre-to-revise-compensation-under-ndrf-1017855.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No confusion on Karnataka cabinet expansion and portfolios, everything will be resolved: Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said there is no confusion regarding cabinet expansion and portfolio allocation and that he would talk to all those who have issues and will resolve it. Amid simmering discontent within the party with several Ministerial aspirants not making it to the cabinet and some of those who have made it, being unhappy over the portfolios allocated to them, the Chief Minister pointed out that the cabinet exercise has been carried in a "special circumstance". "There are no confusions (regarding portfolio allocation)...Anand Singh (disgruntled Minister) had come yesterday, I have spoken to him, I have told him several matters, he is satisfied. I will call him in a couple of days and speak to him once again. There is no confusion in any way," Bommai said. To a question on "native" BJP leaders like S A Ramadas from the district being unhappy over not being part of the Ministry, he said, "He is a good friend, I was in touch with him during the cabinet process. I will talk to him. He too is aware of several matters and how it (cabinet exercise) was done." "As a senior politician he has understood that the cabinet expansion has taken place is a special circumstance. I will speak to him, everything will be resolved," he added. The Chief Minister had last week expanded his new cabinet, by inducting 29 Ministers and had allocated portfolios to them on Saturday. At least two Ministers- Anand Singh and M T B Nagaraj- have openly expressed displeasure about their portfolios, while there are several legislators who are sulking on not being inducted into the cabinet. Meanwhile, Bommai said he has accepted his predecessor B S Yediyurappa's request to withdraw the government's order granting him Cabinet-rank minister status. "I have accepted it, he (Yediyurappa) has sent a letter yesterday. He has said that he doesn't want a position equivalent to a Cabinet Minister. We have accepted it and will provide him facilities that should be given to immediate past chief ministers," he said. The government on Saturday had issued an order providing Yediyurappa all facilities on par with Cabinet-rank ministers and had said that it will be applicable until Bommai is in office as the Chief Minister. Expressing confidence about getting approval for the Detailed Project Report (DPR) on Mekedatu project across river Cauvery, the Chief Minister in response to a question said he will be visiting Delhi to discuss the project with the union Minister concerned and inform about the facts and Supreme Court orders. He said he will also hold a meeting with the state's legal team along with Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol regarding the legal steps to be taken to exercise the state's right over excess water in the Cauvery basin. "We have already submitted the DPR to the central government, to the Central Water Commission (CWC) and they have said that they will give approval to it soon. There are certain process, once that is completed I'm confident about getting the approval," he said, adding that state will take all the necessary steps to start the project. "They always continue to play politics on the issue, but it should be kept in mind that the river is for the benefit of the people and farmers and not for politics," he added. Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu is against the project and is of the opinion that it is against its interests. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-confusion-on-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-and-portfolios-everything-will-be-resolved-basavaraj-bommai-1017858.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC 2021 exam results announced: State sees record pass percentage||The Karnataka state government on Monday announced the results of recently held SSLC (class 10) examination. 99.9 per cent students have cleared the exams, according to Primary and Secondary Education minister BC Nagesh. Close to about 8 lakh students had registered for the exams. The pass percentage is the highest in the history of the SSLC Board, according to the officials.  According to the minister, a total of 1,28,931 students have secured A+ grade, followed by 2,50,317 students securing A grade and another 2,87,694 students obtaining B Grade. Similarly about 1,13,610 students have secured C grade in the examination. A total of 157 students have scored 625 out of 625 marks.  Of the 8 lakh students, only one girl student has failed as she was absent for the exam, according to the minister. Further, about 9 per cent of students who secured 'C' grade have been granted grace marks and promoted to the next class.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-2021-exam-results-announced-state-sees-record-pass-percentage-1017861.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Do we remain silent even if our women are raped: Karnataka minister Eshwarappa||Karnataka Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday lashed out: "Do we have to be silent even if our women are raped? Our cows are stolen and killed, and our youth assaulted and killed -- you want us to remain silent?" "BJP representatives are there from gram panchayat level to the Prime Minister's office. Those days of sitting quiet no matter what happened to us are gone. It is not possible to remain silent even after someone is killed," Eshwarappa stated. Addressing a meeting of party workers in Shivamogga on Sunday Eshwarappa said: "We won't bother to interfere in anyone's business." "If we are troubled, we won't sit silent even if Lord Brahma (Hindu god) advises us," he underlined. "Earlier, RSS and BJP top leaders asked us to be quiet and not to respond even if BJP party workers are targetted. "No one even cared, even when Indian soldiers were being killed, but now it is ordered to inflict 10 times the damage received to those who kill our soldiers," he maintained. Eshwarappa gave a clarion call to party workers to retaliate properly. He defended all his statements and said, he is committed to all his statements issued earlier. "What's wrong in those statements, we can't keep quiet if our women, cows and party workers are attacked and targeted. There is nothing wrong with it," he quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/do-we-remain-silent-even-if-our-women-are-raped-karnataka-minister-eshwarappa-1017897.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Home Minister neutral on K S Eshwarappa's 'hit back' remark||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra was on Monday non-committal on action against Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa for his 'inflammatory' remarks at BJP party workers meeting in Shivamogga. "Eshwarappa is a senior leader. I will check with him about the context in which he was making such remarks," Jnanendra said.  Jnanendra said that he would speak to Eshwarappa about the issue. On whether a common man would be spared for making such remarks, the minister attempted to make light of the situation by telling reporters to "ask Eshwarappa as he meets the media frequently". Speaking at the BJP workers meeting in Shivamogga, Eshwarappa had said that RSS used to ask its workers to "be calm at all costs" in the past, even if they were attacked. "Then, it was to be calm at all costs. Today, it is face (them) with the same stick. Hit them back with the same weapon and take two for one," the minister had said. Jnanendra and Eshwarappa both belong to the Shivamogga district. Both are BJP leaders with an RSS background. 'Will stick to my words' Speaking to reporters in Shivamogga on Monday, Eshwarappa justified his remarks. He said that those were the words of party leaders and he repeated them in the party's executive committee meeting and not at any public gathering. "In the past, our leaders used to tell us to be calm at any cost as we had no strength in the country. But today, our strength is visible across the country, from gram panchayat to Lok Sabha. So, now, our leaders are saying workers to hit with the same stick only if they are attacked. There is nothing controversial about it," he said.  Coming down heavily on the media, Eshwarappa said that some TV news channels had reported that Eshwarappa made controversial remarks. "But, it is far from truth. I have the highest regard for the freedom of the press. Does media want our workers to remain silent even when they are attacked? We can't any longer," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-minister-neutral-on-k-s-eshwarappas-hit-back-remark-1017964.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||C C Patil tells officials to get Karnataka HC stay on removing 7,000 trees vacated||Karnataka Public Works Minister C C Patil on Monday directed officials to get a High Court stay vacated on removing 7,000 trees to take up road works around Bengaluru.  Patil said this at his first review meeting of the public works department.  According to a statement, Patil noted that the High Court had stayed the cutting of 7,000 trees for various road-widening projects of the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd (KRDCL) in connection with a public interest litigation. He asked officials to get the stay vacated and ensure completion of works wherever land was available.  Earlier this year, the High Court stayed the cutting of trees while looking into the KRDCL’s claim that the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act will not apply to the road-widening projects on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The Public Works Department has an allocation of Rs 10,256 crore in the 2021-22 financial year. At the review meeting, Patil was informed that the department’s outlay had not increased commensurately with the state’s budget whose size has gone up year-on-year. The minister asked for five-year data on this.  Patil also stressed that no-objection certificates should be issued only after ascertaining the quality of works that are completed.  Further, Patil directed officials to ensure smooth vehicular movement by time-bound completion of restoration of roads and bridges that have sustained damages due to heavy rainfall in the past three years. He asked officials to use available funds for this.  All school buildings being constructed by the department should be standardised across the state, Patil told officials, according to the statement.  ‘Treat MLAs with respect’ During the review meeting, Patil asked officials to treat legislators and elected representatives with respect. Priority should be given to implement works proposed by them, Patil said, according to the statement. He also sought expediting works approved by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/c-c-patil-tells-officials-to-get-karnataka-hc-stay-on-removing-7000-trees-vacated-1018001.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid spike: Karnataka asks Indian Railways to test Kerala, Maharashtra passengers||The state government has urged the Railways to ensure passengers from Kerala and Maharashtra are tested before they board trains to Bengaluru. “The Chief Secretary has spoken to railway officials. We have placed a demand of conducting compulsory Covid tests to railway passengers. They have not responded yet,” Bommai said. Acknowledging the challenges of testing thousands of passengers arriving in any train at a go, he said that the Karnataka government has suggested Railways to ensure that passengers are tested before they head towards Karnataka. The CM said that the government was taking the threat of a third wave seriously. “Based on the number of cases, we will take more measures,” he said, adding that the first two waves entered the state from Maharashtra and Kerala. He was speaking to reporters after meeting former Union Minister S M Krishna in Bengaluru. “My confidence has received a boost after this meeting. We recalled many of Krishna’s decisions during his tenure,” Bommai said. Krishna said that he was aware of Bommai’s efficiency since his days as MLC. “He comes from a political heritage. I am confident that he will lead the state very efficiently,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-spike-karnataka-asks-indian-railways-to-test-kerala-maharashtra-passengers-1018044.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All students, but one, pass SSLC exams||The results of the SSLC exams were announced on Monday and 99.99% of students have cleared the exams. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B C Nagesh released the results and congratulated the passouts. Last year, Karnataka recorded an overall pass percentage of 71.80. Even though the government had announced that all students will be promoted, one student was declared unsuccessful, after complaints of malpractice and subsequently being debarred from writing the examination. Over eight lakh students had appeared for the examination that was held on two days. The papers had only multiple-choice questions this year. Nagesh said, “We must congratulate and appreciate all the students who have appeared for the exams despite the pandemic situation. The provisional marks cards of the students will be made available to students from Tuesday, through their respective schools.” As per the officials, a total of 157 students secured 625 out of 625 marks. Last year, only six students had scored out of out marks. A total of 289 students scored 623 marks out of 625 marks, followed by two students scoring 622 marks and another 449 students securing 621 marks. Out of the 157 students who secured out of out marks, 125 students were from private unaided schools, followed by 19 from government and 13 from private aided schools.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-students-but-one-pass-sslc-exams-1018045.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on offline classes for primary grades by August-end||The state government will take a call on resuming physical classes for lower grades by month-end. Though the experts and members of Technical Advisory Committee for Covid-19 were in favour of resuming offline classes for primary grades, the state government has put it on hold considering the parents’ feelings and difficulties in maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour among students. S R Umashankar, principal secretary, department of primary and secondary education, said, “There is a strong opinion of experts to reopen schools for primary grades considering their immunity level. But, considering the risk involved in transportation and maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour, it has been decided not to openright now.” Even the private unaided school managements have met the primary and secondary education minister and requested to resume offline classes for primary grades. However, the government has decided to convene another round of meeting by the end of this month to discuss reopening of physical classes for primary grades.  “In case if there is a delay in reopening of offline classes for primary level, we will think of introducing Vidyagama and other programmes to reach the children,” added Umashankar. Meanwhile, for the grades 9, 10, 11 and 12, the offline classes will reopen from August 23 as per the schedule announced by the chief minister recently. At the border districts, the discretionary power to resume classes is left to the district administration considering the situation. The standard operating procedure (SoP) for the same will be issued by the department in a day or two. “There will be both online and offline options open for students, but attendance is compulsory,” said the principal secretary. 100% vaccination for staff The department of primary and secondary education has taken necessary measures to ensure 100% vaccination for teaching and non-teaching staff by August 23. Umashankar explained that the government will vaccinate teaching and non-teaching staff on priority basis. As per the data available from the department, so far, 84% of the teaching and non-teaching staff (both government and private) have received at least first dose while 19% have got both the doses. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-offline-classes-for-primary-grades-by-august-end-1018046.html
09-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai, minister to hold review meeting of home department||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra will hold a joint review meeting of the Home department on Tuesday, to discuss various demands for strengthening the police department. Jnanendra, who held his first meeting with senior police officials as Home Minister, said that the focus was to address any flaws in policing and to ensure peace and harmony in the society. "We haven't talked about any individual cases today. Only discussion was regarding the department budget and tech tools required for policing," he said. To a question on vacancies in the department, he said that the number of vacant posts was now down to 16,000. Vacant sub-inspector posts are being filled and recruitment is on, Jnanendra said. On alleged illegal activity by foreign nationals, the minister lauded the efforts of the Bengaluru city police and said that only preliminary discussion was held about the issue.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-minister-to-hold-review-meeting-of-home-department-1018051.html
09-08-2021||West||8 killed in Gujarat as crane rams into asleep family||Eight persons were killed while two sustained injuries after a modified crane ran over them while they were asleep in their roadside hut in Amreli district in the wee hours of Monday. Police said that prima facie the reason behind the accident was the driver falling asleep on the wheel. District Superintendent of Police Nirlipt Rai told DH that a modified crane crashed into a hut on the right side of the road, about 300 meters before the railway crossing in Barda village in the Savarkundla rural police station area, leading to the death of eight persons. The incident occurred between 2:30 and 3 am. Among the dead was an eight-year-old girl, Puja Sakhla, her 13-year-old sister Sukan, their father Hemraj,37, and mother Lakshmi, 30. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to the affected family and ordered the district collector for an immediate investigation into the accident. Locals said that the victims were all daily wage earners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-killed-in-gujarat-as-crane-rams-into-asleep-family-1017753.html
09-08-2021||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 curbs relaxed for shops, restaurants in Nagpur||The Nagpur civic body has allowed shops and establishments, including malls, to operate till 8 pm on all days with effect from Monday, as against the previous order of operating till 8 pm on weekdays and till 3 pm on Saturday and Sunday. Restaurants in Maharashtra are now allowed to remain open with 50 per cent capacity for dining till 10 pm on all days, Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Radhakrishnan B said in an order issued on Sunday. However, cinema halls, multiplexes, religious places and swimming pools will remain closed, said the order. Social, cultural, political gatherings and marriage functions are allowed with 50 per cent capacity of the venue or 50 people, whichever is less, till 8 pm on all days, while funerals are restricted to maximum 20 people. Salons, beauty centres and wellness centres are allowed to open till 8 pm on all days, while e-commerce services and items are regularised. Coaching classes and competitive exam trainings are allowed till 8 pm on all days with 50 per cent capacity, the civic body said in the order. It also said the inter-district travel, either by private cars, taxis or buses, has been regularised, except if going to a 'level-5' area, as per the state government's classification based on Covid-19 positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy, in which case an e-pass would be required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-curbs-relaxed-for-shops-restaurants-in-nagpur-1017784.html
09-08-2021||West||Gujarat govt to open 5 medical colleges in tribal areas: CM||The Gujarat government has given its approval for opening five new medical colleges in tribal areas of the state, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Monday, on the occasion of the International Day of the World's Indigenous People. In his address, Rupani also said his government will spend Rs 1,00,000 crore under the 'Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojna-2' during the next five years for the welfare of tribals. Rupani also performed a virtual ground-breaking ceremony for the main campus of the 'Birsa Munda Tribal University', which will come up near Rajpipla town in the tribal-dominated Narmada district of Gujarat. "My government has approved the setting up of five new medical colleges in tribal areas of the state. Birsa Munda struggled for the uplift of tribals. It is a matter of great pride that a university in his name is coming up here. This university, coming up at a cost of Rs 400 crore, will help tribal youths in building their careers," he said addressing a gathering here. Rupani was speaking while celebrating the 'World Tribal Day', as part of the nine-day events to mark his completion of five years as CM. Rupani became the chief minister of Gujarat on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly polls. The Birsa Munda Tribal University came into existence in 2017 and started its academic activities from a college in Rajpipla the same year. The main campus, which will come up at a cost of around Rs 400 crore on 39 acre land, will also have hostels to accommodate 500 boys and girls, a sports complex, auditorium, laboratories, research centres and staff quarters. The university would offer graduation, post-graduation and even doctoral courses in arts, commerce, science, traditional art and skill, and herbal medicine. In his address, Rupani said his government will spend Rs 1,00,000 crore under the 'Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojna-2' during the next five years. The Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojna for the welfare and development of tribals was started by Narendra Modi in 2007 when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. "Our PM (Modi) had introduced the Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojna (VKY) when he was the chief minister to bring tribals into the mainstream. All the 52 tribal-dominated talukas of Gujarat were deprived of development under the previous Congress rule in Gujarat," Rupani said. He further said Rs 90,000 crore has been spent on various developmental works in those tribal areas under the scheme till now. The money was spent on education, health, infrastructure, agriculture and irrigation-related projects in tribal areas of the state, he said. "In the previous budget, we had announced the launch of the second edition of VKY. We have planned to spend Rs 1,00,000 crore under the VKY-2 during the next five years for the welfare of tribals in Gujarat," said Rupani. On the occasion, the CM virtually inaugurated tribal-centric projects worth Rs 487 crore and performed a virtual ground breaking ceremony for projects amounting to Rs 1,222 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-open-5-medical-colleges-in-tribal-areas-cm-1017853.html
09-08-2021||West||Notorious Goa gangster Anwar Shaikh hacked to death in Haveri; murder video goes viral||A video of a dreaded gangster Anwar Shaikh alias Tiger — who had nearly two dozen criminal cases against him — being hacked to death by unknown persons at Havanur village in Karnataka's Haveri district, has now gone viral on social media. Anwar Shaikh, who originally hails from Haveri, but was living in Margao town in South Goa had a wide range of criminal cases including murder, assault, rape, extortion filed against him in various police stations across Goa. In the 1:08 minute video Shaikh, who is wielding a gun is seen being hacked brutally to death with a machete and an axe by a group of persons on a public road in Haveri. A senior Goa Police official said that the Haveri District police had contacted them in connection with the murder investigation.  Earlier in February this year, Shaikh had been brutally assaulted in a gangwar in South Goa. Last year, a 'music' video featuring Shaikh shot at the high security Central Jail at Colvale in North Goa district had also gone viral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/notorious-goa-gangster-anwar-shaikh-hacked-to-death-in-haveri-murder-video-goes-viral-1017911.html
09-08-2021||West||Girl kills mom with karate belt, tries to pass it off as suicide||In a shocking incident, a 15-year-old Navi Mumbai girl, who passed her SSC exams last week, strangled her 40-year-old mother to death with a karate belt after a tiff over her studies, police said on Monday. The incident occurred on July 30 with the girl allegedly trying to pass it off as a suicide, but the autopsy report confirmed it to be murder, investigating officer of Rabale Police Station, Assistant Police Inspector Dinesh Patil, said. "There was an argument at home with the mother coaxing her daughter, who just cleared her SSC exams, to study well and take up a medical course, but the girl resented it and resorted to the extreme measure," Patil told IANS. The girl even attempted to lodge a police complaint against her mother last month, but the police summoned her parents, including her father who is a senior engineer with a private company, and counselled them. On July 30, there was brawl at home over studies when the girl pushed her mother who fell on the floor and received serious trauma injuries, said another IO Avinash Mahajan. Later, in a fit of rage, the girl allegedly choked her injured mother with a karate belt and dragged her body onto the bed, though it is not known if her 7-year-old younger brother was at home or not. She then sent out a message from her mother's mobile to her maternal uncle, claiming her mother locked herself inside the bedroom, ostensibly to pass off the crime as a suicide. After a week of investigations and trying to win over the girl's confidence, a woman constable finally managed to get her to confess to the crime. "The girl has admitted to the crime after a heated quarrel when she was in anger on July 30. Even the post-mortem report has confirmed that the cause of death was due to strangulation and the head injuries," Patil said. The girl has been detained and will be produced before a Juvenile Board soon for further legal procedures, the police said, as the case revelations stunned the people of Navi Mumbai and around.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/girl-kills-mom-with-karate-belt-tries-to-pass-it-off-as-suicide-1018008.html
